25-10-2021||News||Hutong Cat | The India standoff is now a part of China’s nationalist toolkit||Beijing: The 13th round of Sino-India military talks held earlier this month to continue disengaging troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh ended in detachment instead.
25-10-2021||Delhi||Enforce norms to avoid crowding in markets: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Monday said that it expects the authorities to enforce their guidelines and standard operating procedures to avoid overcrowding in the marketplaces in wake of the festive season.A bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, while hearing a plea it initiated on the overcrowding and flouting of Covid-19 norms in marketplaces, said that it does not want to see penalties being collected from people for violating Covid-19 norms. Instead, it wants the authorities to manage the crowd properly.“We expect from the respondents (Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police) that these guidelines, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Covid-appropriate behaviour, and controlling of the crowd at market places are executed by them scrupulously in this festive season.”“All the steps mentioned by the authorities in their respective status reports must be taken and a further status report must be filed by them before the next date of hearing on November 30,” the court said, adding that strict compliance is required.The bench also noted that in the status reports filed with the court, the authorities mentioned the steps taken by them on Covid-appropriate behaviour and how to control the crowd at marketplaces as well as how to engage volunteers for implementation of guidelines and sanitisation of public utilities.Appearing for the Delhi government, its counsel said that they issued appropriate guidelines timely and also shut down markets where protocols were not being followed properly. To this, the court said the authorities should ensure that these guidelines are strictly complied with.The Centre, represented by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, also said that they filed a status report on the directions to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.The high court, in June, had initiated proceedings on its own after taking note of certain photographs sent to one of its judges on WhatsApp by an AIIMS doctor showing scant regard for Covid-19 protocols by street vendors in markets.The court had observed that such breaches would only hasten the third wave of the pandemic, “which cannot be permitted at all”, adding that if this behaviour of flouting Covid-19 norms continues, “we will be in great trouble”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/enforce-norms-to-avoid-crowding-in-markets-delhi-hc-101635186552407.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||No space to walk in Connaught Place, agencies show London dreams: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Monday observed that the authorities intend to make the national capital akin to London even though there is no space for people to walk in Connaught Place due to street vendors and hawkers.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, while hearing a bunch of pleas challenging the Street Vendors Act, 2014 said that it would look into the matter and hear arguments before passing an order.The Act says that the Town Vending Committee shall conduct a survey of all existing street vendors within its jurisdiction and a subsequent survey shall be carried out, at least once in every five years.“We talk about making it (Delhi) London, but how will we do that? You can’t even walk in Connaught Place as there are vendors occupying the space; it has become a business…”“We will look into the challenge to the Street Vendors Act, 2014. We are willing to take the bull by the horns. If we find the Act to be alright, we will give a go-ahead; if we find shortcomings, we will give suggestions. We are not against street-hawking,” the bench said.Expressing its displeasure on the encroachment by vendors in the Nehru Place market, the court said that the area has become like a slum.“In Nehru Place, people can’t even walk as street vendors have made it their permanent place of business. We had to take suo motu cognizance of an incident of fire at Nehru Place.Condition of Nehru place market is like a slum. The need is to decide the number of vendors permissible in a particular area...” the court said.It, however, added that street vendors belong to the lower strata of the society and the court is in no way against the vendors. It said that there should be a balance among the rights of hawkers, those who rent shops, and people who shop at markets.“We all have grown up buying from street hawkers….We still go to kirana (grocery) shops, street food vendors for our day-to-day needs. We don’t go to malls for that. Nobody is against street hawkers…We just want the city to not be unreasonably crowded due to them,” the court observed.Senior advocate Collin Gonsalves, for the impleaders, said that even though the Street Vendors Act, 2014 is a good legislation, it is not being implemented rightly. He contended that the vendors are not issued Identity cards. He also said that a survey of the street vendors to be conducted under the Act of 2014 has not been done and the regulations of the Town Vending Committee are not properly followed. Meanwhile, the bench also sought the response of the New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) on a plea by the National Hawkers’ Federation. The hawkers’ body sought that they be heard when the court considers a plea by New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA) seeking the removal of vendors in the Connaught Place area.On October 11, the court had directed the removal of the vendors without license and asked to put display boards in different parts of CP and Connaught circus.The court said that the municipal body is doing “mere paper exercise” as the situation on ground is not changing and hawkers keep squatting illegally. The court said that the authorities are not actively pursuing the matter and not monitoring the movement of the unauthorized vendors. The plea by the hawkers said that NDTA has given misleading information to the court which is affecting their rights.The court fixed four days for hearing the matter: October 30, November 18, November 23 and December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-space-to-walk-in-connaught-place-agencies-show-london-dreams-delhi-hc-101635186550863.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Have taken steps to upgrade security at seven district courts in Delhi, HC told||The Delhi Police on Monday informed the Delhi high court that it has taken various steps to upgrade the security at seven district courts in the national Capital. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, counsel for Delhi Police, submitted the information toa bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, adding that a security audit has been conducted and more metal detectors have been set up in the trial courts..The bench was hearing a plea it initiated after a shootout took place in a courtroom at Rohini court complex on September 24. The shootout claimed three lives, including that of gangster Jeetender Gogi.Gogi was killed by two men dressed as lawyers, suspected to be members of a rival gang, who, in turn, were killed by the police.Video footage of the incident showed policemen rushing in and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207.During a hearing on October 4, ASG Sharma said that substantive steps were taken to enhance security in court complexes, and a specialised unit of the Delhi Police took over security at the seven district courts in the national Capital.On Monday, ASG Sharma informed the bench that the courts were provided with more infrastructure and manpower. He said that there are currently 2,300 CCTV cameras on the seven district court premises and 800 more are required. He added that 85 doorframe metal detectors and 125 hand-held detectors have also been installed. The court asked ASG Sharma to file an affidavit detailing the fresh steps taken so that they can be incorporated in the court’s final order. During the hearing, the Saket Court Bar Association, through advocate KC Mittal submitted its suggestions highlighting the need for a common proximity card/ smart card for advocates to be issued by an independent agency. They would be used to gain entry to the high court/district courts.It said centralised RFID tags for cars and other vehicles of lawyers could be issued by the office of the district judge concerned, which would be functional for the high court as well as all the district courts.The matter will now be heard on November 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/have-taken-steps-to-upgrade-security-at-seven-district-courts-in-delhi-hc-told-101635186549007.html
25-10-2021||Other||Another member of inter-state ATM fraud gang held in Ludhiana||Jamalpur police has nabbed the sixth member of an inter-state ATM fraud gang.The accused was identified as Rakesh Chaudhary of Ashok Vihar, Tajpur Road. The police had earlier arrested Naveen Kumar, Rakesh Kumar of Bhamian Kalan, Surinder Bansal of Tibba Road, Ajay Kumar of Jassian Road and Rocky of Moti Nagar on October 22.The gang members who are yet to be arrested include, Pawan Kumar of Tibba Road, Hemant Sachdeva of Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar and Paramjit Singh of Dera Bassi.During questioning, the police found that the accused had made their relatives and friends open saving accounts in different banks and had kept their debit cards to make transactions.They used to withdraw money through specially designed hooks which they would attach to the money dispensing tray of ATMs. When the cash was dispensed, they used to switch off the power supply to the ATM and withdraw the bills.They used to give 10 to 20% share of the money acquired to the card owners.Inspector Kuwant Singh Malhi, SHO at police station Jamalpur, stated that the accused are already facing trial in four cases lodged against them in Ludhiana, Mohali, Chandigarh and Baroda in Gujarat.According to the SHO, the gang was committing bank frauds for the past 10 years by taking advantage of chinks in the system. They were active in Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and various cities of Punjab, including Ludhiana.A total of 41 credit and debit cards were recovered from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-member-of-inter-state-atm-fraud-gang-held-in-ludhiana-101635186489017.html
25-10-2021||Other||Man shoots self in Lucknow||Lucknow: A 39-year-old BJP worker, who also worked in a private telecommunications firm, allegedly committed suicide on Monday morning in his flat in a housing complex under Sushant Golf City police station limit, police said. A suicide note from his room has been recovered in which the deceased mentioned marital feud with his wife as the reason for taking the extreme step, said a police official. “The deceased had a long-running marital dispute with his wife. The wife lived separately with their child,” said investigating officer (IO) of the case Jang Bahadur Singh. According to police, the incident occurred at around 9:30 in the morning. A friend of the deceased, who was sleeping in his flat in the same apartment, heard a gunshot. He came out of his room and rushed to the deceased room and saw the man lying dead, and called the police. “A bullet injury was found near the neck of the deceased. A gun and a mobile phone were found near the body,” reads a press statement issued by the police. The deceased, a resident of Gorakhpur district, was also a local BJP functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shoots-self-in-lucknow-101635186369044.html
25-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana AAP unit slams state government for tardy paddy procurement||The district unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has slammed the state government over its alleged failure in procuring the crops timely and alleged that the farmers are facing a harrowing time due to the same.The AAP leaders, who visited the grain market on Gill Road on Monday, rued that the farmers have been waiting for the procurement of their crop for over 15 days but, both the state and union governments have turned a blind eye towards the issue.They alleged that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is befooling the public by making fake promises in front of the cameras and has failed to resolve the farmers’ issues at ground level.AAP district president Suresh Goyal said that the farmers are already at loggerheads with the union government over the three farm laws, and the recent rainfall in the state has added to their misery. A farmer at the grain market allegedly told them that the paddy crop is being purchased at lesser rates.AAP leaders Daljit Grewal (Bhola) and Kulwant Sidhu said that it seems like the union and state government are harassing the farmers but AAP will continue supporting them at every level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-aap-unit-slams-state-government-for-tardy-paddy-procurement-101635186250714.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Drunk man held for ramming another car, rash driving in Jama Masjid area||Tension gripped Jama Masjid area in the Walled City on Sunday night after a 20-year-old man, who was allegedly in an inebriated condition, rashly drove his car through a busy lane in a bid to escape the area after hitting another car outside Kasturba Hospital, police said. Some of the pedestrians had a narrow escape as they jumped out of the way of the rashly driven car. Scores of people then chased and stopped the car, overpowered its driver, damaged his vehicle and handed him and his fellow occupant over to the police.The errant car driver was identified as Pratik Tiwari, a resident of Mayur Vihar in east Delhi. His friend was with him in the car when the accident took place, police said. They were going towards an eatery to have dinner when their WagonR car hit a Santro that was coming out of the hospital gate, police said, quoting the two suspects. Some locals raised slogans in the neighbourhood soon after Tiwari was caught, but senior police officers clarified that there was no communal angle to the incident.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Chauhan said around midnight, the police received information regarding an accident and a crowd near Gate Number-1 of Jama Masjid. The police found a grey WagonR there, in a damaged condition. It was found that the car had hit another vehicle and when the errant driver tried to escape, the tyre of his vehicle burst.Taking advantage of that, locals rushed to the spot and caught him and his co-passenger and handed them over to police. During medical examination, it was found that both the men were under the influence of alcohol at the time of accident, the police said.“The driver of the offending vehicle was arrested and a case has been registered against him under sections 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life of personal safely of others) of the Indian Penal Code,” the DCP said, adding that legal action will be taken against people who were involved in damaging his car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhidrunk-man-held-for-ramming-another-car-rash-driving-in-jama-masjid-area-101635186130255.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai high-rise fire: Sprinklers’ location was changed, suspect officials, developer||The Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB), which is investigating the level-4 fire at the 60-storeyed Avighna Park, on Monday said that certain illegal alterations – including changing the location of water sprinklers for firefighting – have likely been made on the 19th-floor apartment, which might have helped the blaze spread further to the other floors. Hemant Parab, MFB’s chief fire officer, said, “We are still investigating, but it looks like several illegal alterations were made inside the flat, including changing the location of the sprinklers. We will have to verify with the actual plan [of the building] and also question the flat owner. The process is on, but primarily, some illegal alterations have been noticed.”The developer of the high-rise also alleged on Monday that the location of the sprinklers inside the 19th-floor flat, where the fire broke out, was changed and the water supply was shut.Nishant Agarwal, managing director, Avighna Group, in a statement issued on Monday, said, “All equipment and pumps were fully functional and were the key factor in bringing the fire under control at the earliest.However, there seems to be non-compliance and violations by the flat owner in executing internal work. Our facility team has received many emails from the owner of the flat, asking us to approve various changes, which we have not permitted. The flat owner had specifically asked us [for] approval to relocate the sprinklers. This being a gross violation, we have not permitted the same. However, during site review on Sunday, 24 October 2021, prima facie, it appears to us that the flat owner has gone ahead and done these changes regardless (sic).”Agarwal added, “It is evident that the location of the sprinklers has been changed. It seems that he has used a third-party contractor to do this work without our knowledge. In order to carry out this work, he seems to have shut the water supply to the sprinklers on his own, and [that] could possibly be the reason why the automatic response sprinklers did not activate when the fire broke out, as claimed by the owner. In the instant case, it seems that the flat owner has violated and ignored the guidelines issued by us and has executed unauthorised changes within the flat premises (sic).”Rohit Rathod, the owner of the flat on the 19th floor, was not available for comment despite repeated attempts. The building is being managed by the developer currently, as the process of handing it over to the society has not been completed yet.Meanwhile, a meeting was held between the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and MFB, wherein it was decided to take up regular inspection of high-rises to check fire compliance and come up with ways to ensure that more citizens become more fire-safety conscious.A 30-year-old security guard had lost his life after the fire broke out at the Currey Road high-rise on October 22, while dozens of residents were rescued safely from the building.MFB had said that the primary cause behind the incident is a short circuit, owing to which the furniture on the 19th floor of the B-wing had caught fire. However, the exact cause will be known after a thorough investigation, said MFB officials.BMC and MFB had allowed all the residents, except those on the 19th floor, to move back to their flats. The power supply to both the wings of the building was also restored on Saturday.MFB to get 24 fire bikesFor quick response and easy access in congested areas, MFB is set to get fire bikes for firefighting. In a first, BMC will procure 24 fire bikes that will be inducted in MFB’s fleet. A proposal of ₹3.15 crore, which includes procurement, assembling, maintenance and operation of fire bikes for five years will be tabled in standing committee for approval on Wednesday. The fire bikes will cost ₹2.76 crore. MFB will spend ₹28.32 lakh on services for five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-high-rise-fire-sprinklers-location-was-changed-suspect-officials-developer-101635185709987.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Gopal Rai announces anti-cracker campaign from October 27 in Delhi||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday announced the launch of an anti-firecracker campaign, ‘Patake Nahi, Diye Jalao’, from October 27, and said teams have been formed to ensure on-ground implementation of the cracker ban in each of the 15 police districts in the Capital.The minister said citizens can also report the illegal sale of firecrackers or bursting of firecrackers in any part of Delhi by calling 112. “If someone does not comply with the cracker ban, then the police and SDMs (sub-divisional magistrates) will act as per the IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) and section 5/9B of the Explosives Act against them. Those selling, hoarding or bursting firecrackers can all be penalized under these sections and acts,” said Rai, adding that the offences entail a jail term up to three years.The minister said in addition to the 15 central teams consisting five to seven members each, a dedicated team of two people will be present at each of the 157 police stations across Delhi to identify and deal with the sale or bursting of firecrackers.“The campaign has two parts -- one, preventing people from bursting crackers and two, for the police and SDMs to collaborate with RWAs to encourage people to celebrate Diwali by lighting diyas instead,” said Rai.He said that SDMs have been asked to conduct awareness meetings on October 28 and 29 with RWAs, market organisations and NGOs over the impact of firecrackers on health and air pollution.Asking for diyas to be associated with Diwali instead of firecrackers, Rai said brands publishing advertisements around the festival should avoid the usage of firecrackers in their visuals this time around.“The Delhi government appeals to all the people of Delhi. Please celebrate Diwali using diyas and not crackers. Diwali is celebrated by lighting diyas and crackers only contribute to pollution. Stubble burning incidents go on a steep rise around Diwali. When their pollution mixes with the pollution of firecrackers, it can prove fatal for our senior citizens and children. No matter how much the officers enforce the norms, we cannot win this battle unless and until everyone contributes towards this fight,” said Rai.Earlier during the day, the environment minister joined the Delhi government’s ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign at the Barakhamba road crossing, asking people to switch off vehicles at red lights to help reduce air pollution in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gopal-rai-announces-anti-cracker-campaign-from-october-27-in-delhi-101635185708835.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi BJP leader Manoj Tiwari to hold special vaccination drive for Chhath Puja||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Manoj Tiwari on Monday announced a special vaccination drive for people who will perform Chhath Puja next month. Meanwhile, the BJP, which governs all the three municipal corporations, has also asked its councillors to start cleaning the ghats and make necessary arrangements at places where the puja is usually organised.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will take a call on Chhath Puja celebrations in the Capital on October 27.Tiwari said, “The Chhath Puja special vaccination drive will be inaugurated by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday at Burari. To begin with, 10,000 people will be vaccinated. We want people to celebrate the festival after taking all the necessary precautions against Covid-19.” A private organisation has been roped in for the vaccination drive, Tiwari said.Tiwari, who is the BJP’s Purvanchal face in the Capital, has been advocating for Chhath Puja in the city ever since DDMA banned public celebrations of the puja while allowing Dussehra, Ramlila and Durga Puja celebrations in the Capital.Earlier this month, Tiwari met with puja committees and held rath yatra in areas with a large presence of the Purvanchali community to galvanise support.“Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal supported the ban initially. Following protests by the BJP and the people, the CM wrote a letter (to Delhi lieutenant governor requesting the celebrations be allowed) to take credit. But we don’t want to politicise the festival,” said Tiwari, who is the former chief of the Delhi BJP.With municipal elections in the Capital scheduled next year, all political parties are trying to woo the Purvanchali community, which constitutes 30-35% of voters in Delhi, according to government data. While there are several communities in the city, the Purvanchali community has emerged as a dominant force in electoral politics. While the community was dominant in just a few pockets in west Delhi in the early 1990s, today it plays a decisive role in 25-30 assembly seats, including Kirari, Burari, Karawal Nagar, Ghonda, Sangam Vihar, Nangloi Jat, Badli, and in parliamentary constituencies such as West Delhi, East Delhi, North East Delhi, North West Delhi, and South Delhi, according to several political analysts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-leader-manoj-tiwari-to-hold-special-vaccination-drive-for-chhath-puja-101635185589372.html
25-10-2021||Dehradun||3 die at Uttarakhand’s Rudrapur after inhaling poisonous gas at effluent treatment plant||Three people died and another fell ill after inhaling poisonous gas at a common effluent treatment plant (CETP) in the industrial estate of Rudrapur in US Nagar district of Uttarakhand on Monday evening.The three deceased and the other person who is receiving treatment in hospital, were staff of the plant where they were working at the time of the incident, police said.“Prima facie, the three died after inhaling ammonia and methane gas in the plant as claimed by the other staff,” Inspector Umesh Malik, station house officer of Pantnagar police station said.The plant is located in Sector-7 of the industrial estate in Rudrapur where the waste water released by factories is treated before being released. It is operated by Hyderabad-based Ramky infrastructure Pvt Ltd on the basis of a build-operate-transfer model.Malik said that the deceased were identified as Harpal, 40, helper and a resident of Bareilly, plant head and a resident of Hyderabad Ramanji Mainkala, 45, and marketing executive and resident of Azamgarh-- Avdesh, 35.“On Monday at around 4.00 pm, Harpal had entered an underground tank to repair a motor when he fell deep inside it after inhaling poisonous gas. He then raised an alarm on which Mainkala and Avdesh too rushed to help him. However, they too inhaled the gas and fell unconscious,” Malik said.The police officer further informed that, Vijendra, a driver in the plant, saw the two falling into the tank and rushed there to help them after raising an alarm.“He tied a rope around his waist and got down into the tank to save the three. However, he too inhaled the gas and fell unconscious. Luckily, the other employees who had reached there by that time, pulled him up using the rope he was tied to, and rushed him to a nearby hospital where he is undergoing treatment,” said Malik adding the local police after reaching the spot with state disaster response force (SDRF) pulled out the remaining three but they had died by then.As news of the accident spread, officials of the State industrial Development Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited (SIDCUL) of Rudrapur also reached the plant.“I rushed to the spot and informed the local police as well as SDRF which then fished out the bodies from the tank and sent them for post-mortem examination,” said Kamal Kishore Kafaltiya, regional manager SIDCUL, Rudrapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/3-die-at-uttarakhand-s-rudrapur-after-inhaling-poisonous-gas-at-effluent-treatment-plant-101635185288800.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||BJP demands CBI probe into Sail’s allegations; ruling parties bat for SIT||A day after a key witness in the cruise drug bust case, Prabhakar Sail, levelled allegations against NCB sleuths, ruling parties have demanded for a high-level inquiry, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has asked for a CBI inquiry into the claims, saying the ruling parties were behind the retraction of the witness. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday lauded the “bravery” of Sail and demanded security as he is a key witness in the case. The Sena leader also demanded a probe by a special investigation team (SIT) on the recent developments, stating it was a conspiracy to defame Maharashtra by BJP and central agencies “under the garb of nationalism”. Sail, on Sunday alleged that he was made to sign on blank papers as panch (witness) on the night the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) official conducted a raid at the International Cruise Terminal, Green Gate,on October 2 and arrested Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha. Sail, 40, claimed that he used to work as a bodyguard of KP Gosavi, one of the nine witnesses in the case. “He is a key witness in this case and the home department must provide him security. I have spoken to home minister Dilip Walse-Patil. The witness has brought to light this conspiracy by one political party with the help of a few officials to defame Maharashtra. Prabhakar Sail has done a great service to the country and the state. Therefore, the state must provide him security and I am confident it will be provided.” In the backdrop of the developments and demand of the probe by the Maharashtra police, Walse Patil held a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Walse Patil said that Sail has been given police protection after his request. “I will speak to Malik about his allegations after he is back in Mumbai. I am not aware about the allegations. There is no formal complaint lodged by Sail to begin any investigation into it,” he said. According to officials from the home department, Walse Patil discussed the new turn in the cruise drug-bust case with the CM. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and water resource minister Jayant Patil said that appropriate steps will be taken (by state government)in this entire episode. “The revelations related to the Sameer Wankhede’s certificates, allegations levelled against him by Prabhakar Sail are very serious. Nawab Malik has produced all the required documents to corroborate the claims. It appears that Wankhede used his (forged) birth certificate to get the benefits of backward class quota in service. I think after the use of CBI, enforcement directorate, Income Tax failed to destabilise the government, they are using UCB to defame Mumbai, Maharashtra and the film industry here. There will appropriate steps taken in this,” he said. Referring to a video, Sanjay Raut said that the entire case is also about money laundering. “Sam D’Souza is the biggest money-laundering player of Mumbai and the country. He launders money for political leaders, IAS-IPS officers. It’s a big game which has just started. The facts which came to light are shocking. Under the pretext of nationalism, some people are extorting money, lodging fake cases,” Raut said. The Sena chief spokesperson added that the “thread” of case will go “right up to Delhi”. “The things that have come to light are startling and it is now seen what under the garb of nationalism by political parties, administration and central agencies. I think there should be a SIT probe on this matter,” he said. Reacting to the letter by NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede to “ensure that no precipitate legal action is carried out” against him by “unknown persons” with “ulterior motives” to frame him, Raut said, “If he’s not done anything then he need not worry.” BJP has hit back raising questions over the intention of the leaders from the ruling parties and has demanded a CBI probe in the entire episode of Sail’s retraction from his earlier stand. BJP has hit back at the ruling parties questioning as to who is behind the rebuttal of witness Prabhakar Sail. “It needs to come to the light that who is behind Sail’s statement and in which hotel the statement of Sail recorded? Shielding the drug mafia is the real intention behind it? Is Sail being threatened to become part of the extortion ring of ruling party? The entire episode needs to be investigated by CBI to check all these links. His mobile locations and call records need to be check to find out who were in the contact of the witness for last 22 days. We firmly believe that the truth will prevail,” said BJP leader Ram Kadam. BJP leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya said that the NCB and its officer Wankhede are being targeted to divert the attention from the corruption cases against state government ministers. “There are 23 cases of corruption worth Rs25,000 crore by the ministers and leaders from the ruling parties in the state. By propping up things related to Aryan Khan, the ruling parties are trying to divert the attention of the people from corruption cases. The top leaders of the ruling parties have seen the action coming straight them in these cases and hence the non-issues are being blown up,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-demands-cbi-probe-into-sail-s-allegations-ruling-parties-bat-for-sit-101635184990557.html
25-10-2021||Other||Sixth Pay Commission: Ludhiana residents suffer as ministerial staff’s strike continues||Residents were a harried lot on Monday as the ministerial staff union continued its strike against the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission.Many complained of delays in the issuance of sale deeds and vehicle registration. A few residents even had to return dejected, as there was no one to address their grievances. Among them was a 90- year- old blind woman whose son had disowned her and asked her to leave the house.The woman, who identified herself as Krishna Devi, is currently living at a shelter outside her house in Ayali village.She said that she had visited the DC office to seek redressal of her grievances but, no staff employee was available due to the strike, and she was asked to visit again next week.“It rained heavily on Saturday evening. It was difficult for us to spend the night in the shelter amid rain and dipping temperature,” said Surinder Kaur, her daughter, who had accompanied her to the DC office.While DC Varinder Kumar Sharma was unavailable for comments, Kewal Krishan Kalra, sarpanch of the village, said Krishna Devi’s son had abandoned her due to some property dispute.“Krishan Devi wants to keep her daughter Surinder in the house but, her son and other family members are against it. The family alleged that Surinder’s son is facing drug peddling charges, and his presence in the village could lead them to trouble,” said the sarpanch.The Punjab State Ministerial Staff Union (PSMSU) had extended its strike till October 24 for not accepting the demands of the employees, making amendments in the 6th Pay Commission, and restoring the old pension scheme.The staff employees sat on a dharna outside the treasury office and raised slogans against the government.Amit Arora, a senior member of the PSMSU, said they had met the committee of IAS officers formed by the government.“The committee officials had assured us that our demands will be put before the committee of ministers. But nothing such was done,” he said.Sunil Kumar, finance secretary of the union, said, “We will not withdraw our struggle without getting the 6th Pay Commission report amended.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sixth-pay-commission-ludhiana-residents-suffer-as-ministerial-staff-s-strike-continues-101635184988989.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||NBRI experts to begin research on cannabis plant for medicinal use||Council Of Scientific And Industrial Research–National Botanical Research Institute (CSIR–NBRI), Lucknow, will carry out research on cannabis plant for its medicinal and industrial use. Director, CSIR-NBRI, prof SK Barik made this announcement during the 68 annual day event of the institute held online on Monday. After CSIR-Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP), NBRI will be the second institute to begin research on cannabis plant.Prof KP Gopinathan, honorary professor, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, was the chief guest of the annual day function and delivered a lecture on “Hanging by the Silk Thread”.The institute’s annual report 2020-21 was released by the dignitaries. Prof Barik presented the annual progress report and briefed about some of the major achievements made by the institute during the period reported.As per the experts, the institute discovered eight new plant species to science and 26 plant species as new geographic records to India. The institute also developed a range of herbal hand sanitisers and herbal mask stress reducer besides the three other herbal products. These herbal products are floor mop (turmeric leaf essential oil based), herbal formulation and traditional “Kadha”. The institute worked on a total 132 research developmental projects on different aspect of plant science.Professor Gopinathan elucidated the silk producing silk worm and also briefed about how insects and worms are important as the most diverse organisms and provide an excellent example to understand the diversity in evolutionary system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nbri-experts-to-begin-research-on-cannabis-plant-for-medicinal-use-101635184929246.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 889 new Covid-19 infections||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 889 Covid-19 cases, its lowest single-day caseload in 511 days (841 infections were reported on May 5). The test positivity rate in the state, too, has dropped significantly during this period to 1.05%, from 12.82% on May 5 last year. However, the caseload is also low because of the fewer tests in 24 hours owing to the weekend. Less number of people are tested on weekends, while the turnaround time of the test reports also widens, resulting in a relative rise in cases on Tuesday onwards. Only 84,460 tests were done in the past 24 hours. On May 5, 2020, 6,561 tests were done at a positivity rate of 12.82%. The state tally of Covid-19 reached 6,603,850 on Monday.Dr Rahul Pandit, intensive care specialist at Fortis Hospital and member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, attributed two reasons for the fall in numbers. “The number of cases is definitely decreasing. In addition, we always get less cases on Monday as fewer tests are conducted on Sundays. The factual indication is the numbers from Wednesday onwards,” said Dr Pandit.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, attributed the decreasing numbers to vaccination. “The mass vaccinations taking place in Maharashtra have been effective in containing the virus. The vaccine has been able to blunt the effects of the virus significantly,” said Dr Mandot.Maharashtra on Monday recorded 12 deaths, bringing the toll to 140,028. Pune is leading with 19,576 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 16,220 and Thane with 11,419. Mumbai’s tally of new cases is 263, along with seven deaths, thus bringing its toll to 16,220.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 23,184. Pune tops with 6,923 patients, followed by Mumbai with 4,979 active patients and Thane with 3,431.Similar to state and Mumbai’s Covid-19 figures, the figures in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), too, has seen a marked decrease, according to the state government’s figures on Monday. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has recorded 23 cases on Monday, the lowest after April 13, 2020, when the city recorded 23 infections. This means the cases have stooped to a new 18-month-low. In August though, the daily cases had come down to 28 cases, but 23 is the lowest since the second wave. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on the other hand saw zero cases on Monday, as per the state’s figures. However, as per Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli civic body figures, these cities recorded 39 and 29 infections respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-889-new-covid-19-infections-101635184810102.html
25-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana DEO to conduct probe into illegal construction at school||The director, Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan Authority, Punjab, has directed the district education officer, elementary, to conduct a probe into the alleged illegal construction of three classrooms at Government Primary School, Sukhdev Nagar, and submit a report by October 28.The inquiry was marked following the complaints of Darshan Singh Kang, in-charge, RTI Wing, Anti-Corruption Front (registered), Samrala, who had accused the school authorities of embezzlement.Kang had accused the school authorities of making unsafe rooms for the students. He even blamed the school authorities for committing fraud amounting to lakhs in connivance with senior education officials.He alleged that the education department had unlawfully released a grant of ₹24 lakh for the construction of the classrooms in the school, which is built on the land owned by GLADA.He further alleged that the school head, along with a senior teacher, to commit financial fraud, had decreased the size of the classrooms.Kang stated that while there should be at least four windows in a classroom as per the state guidelines, the authorities have constructed only two in each of them. He also said the authorities constructed fewer pillars and beams than the number set by the state.Darshan, in his complaint, stated that one JE Jagjit Singh visited the school to probe the matter but didn’t take any action against the school authorities.Taking note of the complaint, the complaint cell of director, Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan Authority, Punjab, has sought a detailed report from Jaswinder Kaur, DEO, elementary.Kang criticised the move and stated, “The inquiry has been marked to the DEO, elementary. She was the first officer to be informed about the fraud, and she didn’t even take any action then. Senior officials are shielding the school authorities. It is useless to mark the inquiry to Kaur.”Aman Deep Singh, head, GPS, Sukhdev Nagar, stated that he is unaware of any such inquiry against the school. Jaswinder Kaur, DEO, elementary, claimed that she will conduct a transparent probe into the matter and take necessary action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-deo-to-conduct-probe-into-illegal-construction-at-school-101635184808727.html
25-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: Nitish says for us Bihar is family, for others family everything||Ahead of the Bihar by-election in two constituencies, chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday that he is “busy serving people” of the state and will not comment on the probable outcome of the polls.When asked if he is confident of the National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) victory in the polls, Kumar said voters are the masters and they would take the final decision, adding that while for him, Bihar is one family, for others, their own family is everything.“Public is the master, they can decide whatever they want…For us, [the] entire Bihar is one family. For others, their own family is everything,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.
25-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj police launch awareness drive to combat drug and alcohol menace||PRAYAGRAJ: After helping the poor and weaker sections of the society, and launching a drive to reunite lost and missing people with their families; Prayagraj police are now raising awareness among villagers against consumption of hooch and staying away from other addictions. Policemen are approaching villagers in trans-Yamuna area of Prayagraj, infamous for illegal hooch trade, and convincing them not to make and consume hooch as it would not only affect their health but also ruin their families. On the instructions of senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj, Sarvshrestha Tripathi, who has started the ‘Pahal’ initiative, cops under their jurisdictions have launched a drive under which licensed ‘bhang’ shops are being checked to stop the sale of marijuana and illegal liquor. In a recent campaign against hooch, a team of Ghoorpur police reached Beekar and Kanjasa village on the banks of river Yamuna. Villagers were at first scared of the police presence assuming it to be a raid for arresting bootleggers. However, they were surprised when policemen assembled them at an open space and listed the harmful effects of hooch consumption. The cops said, not only hooch affects their vital organs but also triggers family disputes which results in women reaching police stations to lodge complaints against their husbands. Moreover, the policemen also cautioned the villagers to stay away from locally manufactured hooch and addiction of liquor, marijuana, bhang etc. Besides, policemen have also launched a rigorous drive in the district against marijuana and other narcotics which are often sold at licensed ‘bhang’ shops illegally. Policemen under their jurisdictions are carrying out regular checking drives at ‘bhang’ shops and also keeping an eye near these shops as drug peddlers have often been found active around these places. The SSP said, “The continuous drive against hooch, marijuana and other addictions will definitely bring about a change. Regular checking drives are being carried out against their sale across the district, and action is being taken against those involved in it. Moreover, awareness drives are being conducted among villagers in rural areas, especially, in those villages which are infamous for hooch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-police-launch-awareness-drive-to-combat-drug-and-alcohol-menace-101635184688759.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Untraceable for 5 months, Maharashtra govt starts process of declaring Param Bir Singh an ‘absconder’||The Maharashtra home department on Monday initiated the process of declaring former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh as an “absconder.”In a communication to the Intelligence Bureau, the department said the IPS officer was untraceable. The state department has also sought legal opinion on the process of announcing Singh as an absconder.The development came a week after the state government informed the Bombay high court that it was unwilling to continue with its earlier statement of not taking any coercive action against Singh, including his arrest.Earlier this month, the home department officials told Hindustan Times the state government had begun the procedure for suspending Singh, but wanted to make the case “fool-proof by giving reasoning that stands the legal scrutiny”.Singh is wanted in an investigation into a money laundering case where he has levelled allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze. He is also wanted in the bomb scare case outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiren, following which he was removed from the top post in March.The last time Singh had responded to a summon was on April 7 before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to record his statement in both the cases. He had last attended office on May 4 and went on leave the next day citing medical reasons.Since then, Singh’s whereabouts have been unknown to the Maharashtra government, Mumbai Police and probe agencies.In July, a lookout notice was issued against him and investigating agencies have said that Singh fleeing India could be a reason behind his continued absence in the country. An official had earlier told news agency ANI that the former Mumbai Police chief either left India before the lookout notice was issued or by using a forged passport.Last week, a Maharashtra crime investigation department (CID) team visited many known addresses of Singh, including his family home in Chandigarh. Another Mumbai Police team visited the former cop’s private residence in Vile Parle. They have also reportedly sent several emails to Singh’s known accounts but those have not been responded to either.An IPS officer said on condition of anonymity that Singh’s last known location was Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-govt-starts-process-to-declare-ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-absconder-101635183668921.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination: Uttar Pradesh first state to administer both doses to over 3 cr people||Uttar Pradesh on Monday become the first state in the country to have administered both doses of Covid vaccine to over 3 crore people. “UP under the guidance of Respected PM Shri @narendramodi ji is the first state in the country to have provided protective shield of both the doses of covid vaccine to more than 3 crore citizens. This achievement is dedicated to the aware citizens and committed health workers,” tweeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath from the handle @myogiadityanath. Asking all to take the jab, the CM further wrote, “All must get vaccine of victory.”According to the data from the health department updated at 5 pm, 3,015,6,201 people in Uttar Pradesh have got their second dose of Covid vaccine. Covid vaccination started in the state on January 16 this year and till now a total 12,65,88,911 doses, including 96432710 first dose, have been administered. It is over 20% of its population eligible to get the Covid vaccine dose.Also, maximum 7,52,55,737 doses have been administered in the state to the beneficiaries aged between 18 and 45 years, while 3,25,64,457 doses have been given to eligible people between 45 and 60 years of age and 1,87,68,717 doses have been administered to those above 60 years.Lucknow is the leading district in UP as a total of 44,42,799 Covid vaccine doses have been administered here followed by Prayagraj with a total 34,69,729 doses and Ghaziabad 32,23,170 doses till Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vaccination-uttar-pradesh-first-state-to-administer-both-doses-to-over-3-cr-people-101635184089112.html
25-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad traders in fix over cracker licence delay||With less than 10 days left for Diwali, the traders dealing in green crackers in Ghaziabad are in a fix over the delay in getting licences for selling such firecrackers. The district administration officials said that they are waiting for directions from the Uttar Pradesh government. Members of the retail cracker association, Ghaziabad, said that the traders have made a huge investment in green crackers this year. “We are pursuing the district administration for issuance of trading licenses. But the officials have not replied to us so far. There are hardly 10 days left for Diwali, and if there is further delay, our business will suffer. This is because it takes another three-four days to get required no-objection certificates from different departments,” said Ashutosh Gupta, president of the association. The officials of the Ghaziabad administration said they are not accepting any application for now. “We are waiting for the directions of the state government and will act accordingly. For now, no licence is given for the sale of crackers,” said Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate (city). Meanwhile, manufacturers from Farrukhnagar/Asalatpur near Loni said that most of them have suffered severe losses in the past two years. “Many traders and manufacturers had to shut shops due to ban on crackers by the Supreme Court in 2018. Despite facing odds, they are still waiting for trading licences this year. I had shut my manufacturing unit and opened up a shop in Delhi to earn livelihood. Since it is my family business, I am waiting if the district administration starts issuing licences for sale of green crackers,” said Asif Ali, a manufacturer from Farrukhnagar. In Noida, the administration officials said that any issuance of licence will be taken up by the police department after the commissionerate system was put in place. When asked, Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional DCP, Noida, said, “There has been no discussion on the matter of issuance of licences to firecracker vendors as yet.” While taking note of high levels of air pollution, The Supreme Court, in 2018, had encouraged the community bursting of crackers within fixed timings on Diwali and festival days. It also held that only green crackers and improved crackers with reduced emissions will be allowed to be manufactured and sold. Recently, the sub-committee constituted by the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR directed the agencies concerned to strictly enforce the orders of the Supreme Court regarding firecrackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-traders-in-fix-over-cracker-licence-delay-101635183608775.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in Haryana hold protest over short supply of DAP fertiliser||A group of farmers owing allegiance to Bharatiya Kisan Union on Monday held a protest at Hansi near Hisar against alleged inadequate supply of di-ammonium phosphate fertiliser, as farmers were seen waiting in long queues in couple of Haryana districts to get the DAP. Farmers held a protest at Hansi, with one of the protesters sitting on an indefinite fast over alleged shortage of the DAP. "There is a shortage of DAP. If adequate supply is not ensured at the earliest, our protest will continue like this," a protesting farmer told reporters at Hansi. He said due to “shortage” of DAP fertiliser amid Rabi season, farmers have to wait for hours daily in front of offices of cooperative societies and outlets of private dealers to get the fertiliser. In Charkhi Dadri and Shahabad in Kurukshetra, long queues were witnessed on Monday as farmers waited for hours to purchase the fertiliser. There were reports that farmers also blocked a road on Mahendergarh-Rewari route for a brief period to protest inadequate availability of the fertiliser. Some farmers had allegedly forcibly taken away over 100 bags of DAP fertilisers lying outside a shop of a private dealer in Mahendergarh district's Ateli town a few days ago.Opposition parties have alleged that farmers are running from pillar to post as there is a shortage of DAP. In a couple of districts including Charkhi Dadri, the fertiliser was being distributed to farmers from police stations under strict watch of the cops. The state government has maintained that there is no shortage of the fertiliser. Last week, Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal had claimed that there is no shortage of DAP fertiliser in the state and added that black marketeers are trying to project an artificial shortage. Earlier on Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar held a meeting to review the availability and demand of DAP. Khattar had said that although DAP fertilizer available in the market this year is 1,100 metric tons more in quantity than last year, yet in view of the demand of farmers, he spoke to Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya over phone on Sunday and urged the central minister for six additional (train) rakes of the fertilisers and the Centre has agreed to it, an official statement had said. Chief Minister Khattar had asserted that there will be no shortage of DAP fertilisers in the state. Directions had also been given by the chief minister to take strict action on the borders of the state to keep check on black marketing of DAP fertilisers from Haryana to other states, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-in-haryana-hold-protest-over-short-supply-of-dap-fertiliser-101635182936602.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Sensing defeat in Uttar Pradesh, BJP on project-launch spree: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday claimed that the BJP government was laying foundation stones and inaugurating a large number of projects as it had sensed a defeat in the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Akhilesh’s statement came soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh and blamed the previous government in the state for “ignoring” basic medical needs of the people of the Purvanchal region while “filling the coffers” of their families.Akhilesh attacked the BJP government at the press conference he held at the party’s state headquarters soon after several leaders from various political parties joined the SP.“Today they are opening new medical colleges. But they had left the people on their own to die. People were dying in droves during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. The entire health system in UP had collapsed under this government. For four-and-a-half years, this government cultivated lies (jhooth ke phool),” the SP president alleged.“Even this opening of medical colleges is a sort of a lie. They are opening new medical colleges but have drastically cut the budgets of the existing medical colleges in the state. Even the medical university they made in the name of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was functioning from the ninth floor of Ram Manohar Lohia Institute (Lucknow) and not getting funds,” he further alleged.“Why medical colleges in Saharanpur, Budaun, Agra, Kanpur, Jaunpur, Firozabad, Jhansi, Banda, Azamgarh and even King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, are not getting funds,” he asked.When reporters asked him to respond to CM Yogi Adityanath’s announcement to distribute tablets to students, Yadav said, “What was he doing for over four and a half years?” Akhilesh once again claimed that the Purvanchal Expressway and the recently inaugurated Kushinagar airport were also given by his regime.“They (BJP leaders and PM) were not there to inaugurate the airport. They are here to survey it. They might sell it in the days to come. They are selling everything including railways, airports, etc,” he alleged.
25-10-2021||Lucknow||UP’s first Zika virus case: Centre rushes team to Kanpur||The Centre on Monday rushed a multi-disciplinary team of specialists to Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur where the state’s first known case of the Zika virus disease was reported.The Union health ministry’s team of specialists would coordinate with the city and state level health officials in Kanpur. District magistrate Vishakh G Iyer said a team from the state headquarters was stationed in Kanpur and the one from the Centre would join on Tuesday.A 57-year-old Indian Air Force (IAF) warrant officer tested positive for the Zika virus in Kanpur on Saturday and his condition is now said to be stable. The samples of 22 people who came in contact with him were negative.The high-level team, comprising an entomologist, public health specialists and gynaecologist drawn from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, National Centre for Disease Control and RML Hospital, New Delhi, shall work closely with the state health department and take a stock of the situation on the ground.Kanpur’s chief medical officer (CMO) Nepal Singh said the team would review the Centre’s action plan for Zika management that has been implemented and it would suggest necessary interventions needed to check the spread of the virus.“They have specialists who have a better insight about how to contain any spread. We have implemented the SOP in letter and spirit and if there are technical gaps, the team will point out and we will address them,” CMO said.The IAF officer who tested positive was suffering from fever for many days before he was shifted to the Air Force hospital. His blood samples were sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune on October 20 and test results confirmed he was positive for the Zika virus.“All the 22 samples of his family members, relatives and friends sent to King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, have tested negative,” Singh said.Caused by a virus transmitted primarily by Aedes mosquitoes, which bite during the day, symptoms of this disease are mild fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or a headache.Kerala was the first state to have reported a case of Zika virus in a pregnant woman on July 8, following which a high alert was issued in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-first-zika-virus-case-centre-rushes-team-to-kanpur-101635183188677.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Mastermind of solvers’ gang arrested by police in Lucknow||Five people, including the mastermind of a solvers’ gang, were arrested by Lucknow’s Ashiana police on Monday, police officials said. The arrests came after 13 members of the gang were held by police on Saturday.The solvers’ gang used fake documents to seat solvers in place of candidates in various government entrance exams. The gang charged lakhs from the candidates depending on the kind of competitive exam.Confirming the arrest, DK Thakur, commissioner of police, Lucknow, said, “We have busted a solvers’ gang that was active in various parts of the state. Over a dozen of its members were held on Saturday while the mastermind and his other accomplices were arrested on Monday.”The mastermind was identified as Sunil Kumar. A resident of Prayagraj, Sunil runs a coaching centre. Awdesh Kumar, Rajendra Kumar Patel, Girjesh Patel and Devikinanadan, all residents of Prayagraj were also arrested by the police.According to the police Sunil lured students appearing in competitive exams to hire solvers to guarantee success in exams. He used to charge several lakhs from the students. Once the deal was done, he used to take 30% of the fixed money and prepare fake documents for the solver. Awdesh and Rajendra helped Sunil arrange solvers and prepare their fake documents. The police team recovered a large number of fake documents from the possession of the accused.The gang also took the solvers to the exam locations. The gang used to pay 25 to 30% of the total fixed money to the solver.The police have lodged an FIR of fraud (420 IPC) and criminal conspiracy (120B IPC) against the accused. The arrested accused were sent to jail on Monday evening. “Our investigation in the gang activities will continue in coming days, to identify other solvers and people linked with the gang.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mastermind-of-solvers-gang-arrested-by-police-in-lucknow-101635183128490.html
25-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 3 booked for ‘misbehaving’ with int’l shooter Seema Tomar||Police booked three unidentified men on Saturday for allegedly “misbehaving” with a 39-year-old international shooter over parking issues inside her housing complex in Greater Noida on October 9 this year, officials said on Monday.The complainant, Seema Tomar who shot to fame when she won the ISSF World Cup silver in the trap event in 2010, is the daughter of Prakashi Tomar, popularly known as ‘Shooter Dadi’, one of the oldest sharpshooters in the world. Seema is a native of Baghpat district in Uttar Pradesh.Tomar, who works as a senior clerk in Army cantonment in New Delhi, lives at the Trident Embassy residential society in Greater Noida West. At 2:15pm on October 9, when Tomar returned to her housing complex from work, she saw a car parked at her reserved parking area.“I asked the security guard to call the car owner and vacate the parking space. Three persons -- the car owner and two other men -- came and refused to remove the vehicle from there. This led to an argument, and they started abusing me. When I took out my cellphone to record the incident, one of them tried to snatch it away from me... Meanwhile, some of the residents reached the spot and helped me,” Tomar said, adding that the trio even threatened her with consequences.“I have been an international shooter for the past 17 years... I am surprised that the suspects abused me, and even tried to attack me inside my housing complex. I called the police, and filed a complaint in the matter,” she said, adding that there was, however, a delay in filing the complaint.I had to visit the police station three times before the officials registered a case in the matter on Saturday, Tomar said. “The registration process of FIRs needs to be smooth and timely.”A case has been registered against the three suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 352 (assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation) at the Bisrakh police station on Saturday, said the station house officer (SHO), Anita Chauhan.“The complainant had not met me in person, and it seems that she had filed the case at the local police check post. A sub-inspector had reached the spot after getting information about the incident. We registered the FIR as soon as we received the complaint, and an investigating officer has been designated to probe the matter,” Chauhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-3-booked-for-misbehaving-with-int-l-shooter-seema-tomar-101635182828593.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||IIT Kanpur announces 10 scholarships for JEE Advanced top 100 rankers||Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, (IITK) on Monday announced a special scholarship programme for students who are placed within top 100 All India ranking (AIR) of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced 2021.In a tweet, director, IITK, Prof Abhay Karandikar said, “IIT Kanpur is delighted to announce the ‘Bright Minds Scholarships’ programme. These are ten prestigious and highly sought-after academic scholarships for students within the top 100 AIR in JEE Advanced 2021.”“The scholarships would be awarded to the selected students who have been admitted for BTech/BS programme for the 2021-22 academic year. The scholarship will ensure that not a single meritorious student should have their education limited due to financial constraints. Each of the eligible students would be entitled to an annual scholarship of ₹3 lakh, which would cover their expenses during the UG programme,” he said.“With unique benefits, scholarships are a visible and coveted form of prestige available to the students during their formal education and attach a certain level of distinction and recognition to their career. We hope that the scholarships will attract the best of students,” he added.“An undergraduate student at IITK typically spends ₹12 lakh through 4-year BTech /BS programme. A student scholarship provides a meaningful way to extend support towards the cost of education that includes tuition fees, boarding and lodging, books and supplies, health insurance, transport etc,” IITK director said.About the scholarship *Scholarship winners will get entire waiver of their courses including hostel, books and miscellaneous expenses*Scholarship is supported by alumni and other donors*First-of-its-kind initiative towards encouraging and rewarding academic excellence||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iit-kanpur-announces-10-scholarships-for-jee-advanced-top-100-rankers-101635182708234.html
25-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body begins survey to find illegal parking lots||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has started a survey of parking areas across the city to identify any illegal parking lot, officials said on Monday. The move comes after the state urban development department issued directions to all the local bodies and municipal corporations to stop such parking lots from operating, else officials concerned would be suspended. The corporation officials said that they are operating 24 parking lots across the city and they have not received any complaint this month so far about an illegal parking lot being operated in the city. “Apart from these 24 parking lots, we are trying to come up with parking spaces at 15 other locations. There was an illegal parking lot at Apsara border, which was shut down last month. To find out any such instance, we have deployed our officials for a survey who will submit a report soon,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. Tanwar “Further, we are also trying to come up with temporary parking lots ahead of the festival season,” he added. In its letter issued on October 11, the state urban development department said it received complaints that local bodies were illegally charging parking fees in different areas. The letter also said that through the department’s previous communication on August 25, it had directed to shut all illegal parking lots and also those operating on footpaths. In Ghaziabad city, auto-rickshaw drivers last month complained to the corporation that they had to shell out at least ₹20 per trip to unauthorised persons. “Near Apsara border, some people used to show us fee slips, saying that they were from the municipal corporation. From every auto driver, they used to take ₹20 as parking fee. We last month gave a complaint to the corporation. The corporation officials took action and the illegal parking was shut down,” said Dilshad Ahmad, a member of the Ghaziabad Auto-rickshaw Chalak Sangh. “We also want more parking lots for our autos otherwise they have no option but to stand roadsides where traffic police issues challans. The list of authorised parking lots should also be made online for transparency,” he added. Meanwhile, Rajendra Tyagi, a councillor from Raj Nagar and an activist, said that illegal parking lots are operating in different areas which the corporation has allegedly failed to rein in. “There are several illegal parking lots which are operating outside hospitals and malls. If the corporation takes up a detailed survey, they will come to know about such parking lots,” Tyagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-body-begins-survey-to-find-illegal-parking-lots-101635182588489.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||BSP demands quick disbursal of Covid death ex gratia||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said on Monday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s decision to provide monetary compensation to the families of each person who died of Covid, was a much delayed one. “This decision should have come much earlier,” Mayawati, a four-term UP chief minister, tweeted on Monday, two days after the state’s revenue department released detailed guidelines regarding the ₹50,000 ex gratia to each of the kin of 22,898 Covid dead in Uttar Pradesh (UP). “This is a much-delayed decision, and this help should have been provided much earlier. Now, the monetary help should be provided at the earliest. This is what the BSP seeks,” Mayawati tweeted. To avail ex gratia, it would be mandatory to get “death due to Covid-19” listed in the death certificate. A Covid-19 death ascertaining committee (CDAC) comprising the additional district magistrate, chief medical officer, additional chief medical officer, principal or head of the department of medicine in medical college and a subject expert would be set up at the district level. This committee would ascertain the cause of death and testify the same. All applications received at the office of the district magistrates would have to be uploaded on the relief commissioner’s website rahat.up.nic.in after which, on completion of all the necessary formalities, the ex-gratia would be electronically transferred to the account of the kin of the Covid victim. To avail ex gratia, an application in the prescribed format, along with a death certificate stating Covid as the cause of death, would have to be made before the district magistrates who would be required to set up a cell to receive such applications. Government employees, who died due to Covid, while on panchayat duty and whose kin are eligible for ₹30 lakh ex gratia as well as such employees who succumbed while on Covid duty and whose kin are eligible for ₹50 lakh ex-gratia are exempted from the ₹50,000 ex gratia as per order. The BJP government at the centre has already decided ₹50,000 ex gratia to the next of kin of those who succumbed due to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-demands-quick-disbursal-of-covid-death-ex-gratia-101635182353385.html
25-10-2021||Other||No flights to Nanded, Rome from Amritsar starting Oct 29||Amritsar Air India has suspended operations on two of its major routes from the holy city, the thrice-a-week direct flight to Nanded and the once-a-week Delhi-Amritsar-Rome route, from Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in its winter schedule that will be in force from October 29, 2021 to March 26, 2022. The bookings of these two flights are not available on the website of the airline. Airport director VK Seth said, “The booking of Amritsar-Nanded flight is not available in the winter schedule of Air India. I have called up officials of Air India. We will work to ensure that the suspension is cancelled.”On the Rome flight, he added, “The Amritsar-Rome flight was not a scheduled flight. It was a special flight being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission. Under this mission, we got permission for a limited number of flights. The approved number of flights might have been completed.”Pilgrims and flyers, however, are upset at the decision of the airline. Global Convener of Fly Amritsar Initiative Sameep Singh Gumtala said he had already drawn the attention of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur to the issue. He added he had requested them to approach Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia to ensure the routes remain operational.Gumtala added, “The Nanded-Amritsar direct flight, which connected the two important Sikh Temporal seats is a popular route. Suspending it is a major setback to the international and domestic connectivity of airport. Air India, just before privatisation, appears to have pulled the plug altogether on the route.”“Nanded is also an important pilgrimage destination for the Sikh community. With the direct flight, we completed this journey in just two-and-half hours, but the suspension will cause grave inconvenience to the devotees. It has been in operation for over three years and fulfilled a long-standing demand of pilgrims, non-resident Indians and tourists,” he added.Yogesh Kamra, secretary, Amritsar Vikas Manch (NGO), said. “With the winter season approaching, when thousands of Punjabi NRIs spend winter time in Punjab, the cancellation of this route is very disappointing for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-flights-to-nanded-rome-from-amritsar-starting-oct-29-101635182108592.html
25-10-2021||Gurugram||Dengue: MCG to carry out fogging under residents’ supervision||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) decided to carry out fogging and larviciding operations in the presence of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and local ward councillors, following complaints of poor preventive actions by the civic body.A senior MCG official, who attended a meeting held in this regard on Monday, said, “We had received complaints from various RWAs, councillors and residents that workers had not carried out fogging or anti-larvae activities in various areas despite stating otherwise. Hence, to ensure there is greater accountability, it was decided that such operations should now be conducted in the presence of RWAs and local councillors.”The MCG’s meeting at its Sector 34 office on Monday was aimed at strategising plans to curb the spread of dengue cases, under the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme.The city has seen a surge in dengue cases this month. On October 6, the first time that the district administration issued a dengue and malaria bulletin, the city’s dengue count stood at 83, which has rapidly increased to 217 as of Monday, when five fresh cases were reported. The tally is also a six-year high, as reported by HT on Monday.The MCG started its citywide fogging drive on October 20, before which it was only acting on complaints received from residents.As per the agenda list of the meeting, a copy of which is with HT, the MCG has deputed 156 workers for fogging and anti-larvae operations. Of the 156, 39 are multi-purpose health workers (MPHW) and 117 are multi-task workers (MTW).In the meeting, officials said that 19 MPHWs and 57 MTWs, each, would be assigned to carry out the activities in two shifts, from 9am to 5pm and from noon to 8pm. The MCG has set a target of covering 54 RWAs per day.“Including RWAs will not only increase accountability, but also ensure fogging and anti-larvae operations are carried out properly. RWAs have local knowledge of mosquito breeding spots as well as areas with stagnant water, which will further help MCG eradicate and reduce mosquito-borne diseases,” Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC), an umbrella body of RWAs in the city, said.For carrying out fogging drives, the MCG has 35 handheld fogging machines and 10 vehicle-mounted fogging machines. Besides these, they also have 43 hand-held machines for spraying anti-larval solutions and 43 three-wheelers for carrying out the drives.“During the meeting, workers were directed to add black oil (mosquito larvicidal oil) to stagnant water or water bodies for anti-larvae purposes. The oil will be procured from the health department’s malaria office,” a second MCG official, who also attended the meeting, said.In the meeting officials also disclosed that so far, the MCG carried out fogging activities at 212 locations in August, 197 in September, and 309 this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dengue-mcg-to-carry-out-fogging-under-residents-supervision-101635182054856.html
25-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram crime: T20 betting racket busted in DLF Phase-1||Cracking down on cricket betting rackets in the city, the crime branch of Gurugram arrested four people from DLF Phase-1 on Saturday night for allegedly facilitating bets on matches of the ongoing T20 Cricket World Cup since October 17.According to the police, the suspects are repeat offenders and were allegedly running a huge network across north India from Gurugram. The suspects were identified as Luxman Singh (53), Satpal Singh (36), Pardeep Singh (31) and Neeraj Kumar (31), all from Delhi. They were allegedly working together for the past four years.Luxman was earlier arrested by Palam Vihar and Sector 65 police, in unrelated incidents, and was out on bail since July, the police said. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Luxman is the kingpin of the gang and is linked to other bookies in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), where the cricket tournament is taking place. “They rented a two-bedroom floor in Block E of DLF Phase-1 and set up the laptops in a room, where operators were receiving calls,” he said.Sangwan said that the bookies used software that connected over 500 people to the digital scoreboard for placing bets. “We are conducting an investigation and cyber teams are tracking all people who were in touch with them and were involved in betting from different cities,” he said.The police estimate that the gang had placed bets up to ₹3 crore so far and were set to receive bets amounting to ₹6 crore for the India-Pakistan match, but were caught.Explaining the betting process, the police said that the betting system comprises a main bookie, two sub-bookies and punters. Each stakeholder has a fixed commission based on the match.This year, the police have arrested 16 bookies so far, while over 64 groups of bookies were busted last year. The police said that the suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Public Gambling Act. The bookmakers were on the police radar since last year after they were arrested from Palam Vihar and Sector 65 in two separate instances.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that such operations mushroom during cricket tournaments. “The bookies earlier operated out of Delhi, but for the past three years, they have shifted their base to Gurugram and are mostly operating out of residential areas to escape police attention,” he said.The police recovered 45 mobile phones, five laptops and two 60-inch television sets, which were used to telecast the matches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-crime-t20-betting-racket-busted-in-dlf-phase1-101635182053633.html
25-10-2021||Gurugram||March 2022 deadline for delimitation survey of wards||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has set a March 2022 deadline to complete a delimitation survey of its wards, to cover all areas under its jurisdiction before next year’s civic polls. MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja issued directions in this regard to officials during a meeting at the MCG’s Sector 34 office on Monday. Officials privy to the matter said that the process to hire a private agency to carry out the survey will start this week, and that it will assess the need for an increase, as the MCG added 16 villages and areas located near the Dwarka Expressway and Manesar border under its ambit last December. The MCG has 35 wards at present.“As per the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, I have directed officials to start the process of ward delimitation. The survey will be carried out on the basis of the actual population falling within the MCG limits. For this, the process of hiring a private agency has been started. The survey has to be completed latest by March 2022 so that the survey report can be sent to the Haryana government the following month for perusal,” Ahuja said.The meeting was attended by officials of the MCG’s town planning branch and administrative wing. MCG officials privy to the matter said that in the survey, data on caste, blocks and maps will be detailed following a door-to-door assessment. Officials have been assigned duties for monitoring the same. According to a senior MCG official who attended the meeting, the delimitation process will be initiated well in advance so that there is no delay in conducting the MCG elections next year. “The municipal councillors have just around a year left on their tenure. The delimitation of wards was a major crisis back in 2016, due to which municipal elections had to be deferred for nearly 17 months. Hence, to avoid a repeat of a similar scenario, preparations are being made in advance. It is likely the total number of municipal wards would be increased to 37-38, taking the latest population figures in mind,” the official cited above said.The MCG elections in 2016 were deferred as there was a difference in the 2011 census and an MCG survey of the city’s population. The census figures pegged the city’s population around 0.9 million while the MCG pegged it at 1.15 million.In March 2016, the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB) notified an order stating that as per the Haryana Municipal Corporation Delimitation of Wards Rules, cities with a population between 0.8 to 1 million can have 32 municipal wards. However, since its inception, the MCG has been operating with 35 civic wards.An ad-hoc committee of the Haryana government later found the city’s population to be above 1 million and the MCG elections finally took place in September 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/march-2022-deadline-for-delimitation-survey-of-wards-101635182050097.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow gets its own IPL team||It’s official. Lucknow has its own Indian Premier League (IPL) team as the Sanjiv Goenka-led RPSG group on Monday won the bid for “Lucknow Team” at approximately ₹7000 crore (over 932 million USD), while private equity firm CVC Capital (also referred to as Irelia) got Ahmedabad at nearly ₹5200 crore (over 692 million USD). It is learnt that the RPSG group also owned the Rising Pune Supergiant team that played two seasons (2016 and 2017) when Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals were banned. It is also the owner of Indian Super League (ISL) franchise ATK Mohun Bagan.In December last, Hindustan Times had reported about the prospect of the Uttar Pradesh state capital getting its own Indian Premier League team under the headline “Lucknow’s IPL team a possibility in 2021” on the front page.There were anxious moments since Monday morning as Lucknowites waited with bated breath even before the start of the IPL Governing Council meeting in Dubai.Both Lucknow and Ahmedabad were considered the favourites in terms of their stadium capacity as well as facilities. Lucknow’s Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium is one of the best stadiums in the world with a top-class drainage system and seating capacity of 55,000. The Narendra Modi Stadium in Motera, Ahmedabad, has a seating capacity of more than 100,000. The other cities in the fray were Indore, Guwahati, Cuttack, Dharamsala and Pune.“It is good to be back in the IPL and I am delighted,” RPSG owner Sanjiv Goenka was quoted as saying soon after the BCCI’s announcement.“It is an initial step. We now have to build a good team and perform,” he said.Udai Sinha, managing director of Ekana Sportz City, which owns the Ekana Stadium, expressed happiness over the Ekana stadium getting the hosting rights for IPL matches.“It’s a great honour for us that RPSG Group has chosen the Lucknow stadium as their home ground for the IPL team. I was waiting for this to happen ever since this stadium came into existence in 2018,” said Sinha on the phone from Dubai.“I am thankful to BCCI vice-president and UP Cricket Association director Rajeev Shukla for his support to the stadium in getting the hosting rights of the IPL matches,” he said.“I was quite sure about this as BCCI secretary Jay Shah, in his only visit to the stadium early this year, had praised the facilities. The stadium already has the ICC status for both Test and other formats of the game,” he said, adding, “It’s like a dream come true for Lucknowites as they always kept asking for an IPL team.”Former India cricketer Gyanendra Pandey, too, hailed the RPSG Group for choosing Lucknow as the venue for its IPL team.“We did see IPL matches for two seasons at the Green Park Stadium when Gujarat Lions had opted for it and now, we will see the magic of “fatafat” cricket in Lucknow also,” he said.The 2022 edition will not be the first time the IPL will comprise 10 teams. That already happened a decade ago. It has been confirmed that the tournament format will follow the 2011 model, which scrapped the simple home-and-away format, and included a total of 74 matches (instead of the current number of 60). In the 2011 edition, the 10 teams were split into two loose groups, and the tournament comprised 70 league matches and four playoff games, with all the teams ranked in one composite league table. During the league phase, every team played the same number of league matches, which was 14.Each team played the other four in their group both home and away (eight matches), four of the teams in the other group once each (four matches, either home or away), and the remaining team in the other group twice, both home and away.A random draw decided the composition of the groups as well as who played whom across the groups once and twice.The last time more than eight teams played in the IPL was in 2013, when nine teams took part and played a total of 76 matches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-gets-its-own-ipl-team-101635182048534.html
25-10-2021||Other||Punjab Cong MLA gets one-year jail for obstructing train in 2015||Jalandhar The court of chief judicial magistrate, Jalandhar, Amit Kumar Garg, on Monday sentenced Jalandhar Central Congress MLA Rajinder Beri to jail for a year for obstructing a train in 2015. Beri has also been fined ₹2,000, the non-payment of which will lead to additional jail time of one month. The detailed order is yet to be uploaded on the website. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) had filed a complaint in the Jalandhar court on November 4, 2019, after more than four years of the incident. Beri was released on the bail by then special railway magistrate, Rahul Kumar and this will continue, as his bail will continue. In February 2020, the court framed charges against Beri under Section 174 of the Railway Act (obstructing the running of train) to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. According to the prosecution Beri, along with co-accused, had sat in the middle of the railway tracks on May 2, 2015, in protest against the then state and the Central governments at the Dakoha railway crossing over the issue of runaway inflation, as a result of which train number 15707 (Amarpali Express) had to be detained at the Chiheru (CEU) railway station in 2015. In July 2021, Beri filed a plea under Section 468 of the CrPC for for dismissal of the present complaint by RPF. He contented that the complaint has been filed before the magistrate after more than four-and-a-half years and drew attention of the court towards limitations on taking cognizance for an offence under Section 174 of the Railways Act. The special railways public prosecutor, however, contented that the present application is liable to be dismissed only on the ground that this court being criminal court has no power to recall its own order. The court said that the notice of accusation had already been served upon the accused on February 18, 2020 and at that stage no such objection was taken by the accused. Once the cognisance has been taken, it is not open to the criminal court to recall its own order. “Undoubtedly, the legal proposition raised by learned counsel for the accused is correct, but the proceedings of the present case cannot be thrown out at this stage on the ground of limitation and the said ground is well available with the accused at the time of final adjudication of the matter,” added the court in its order. It added that since this court cannot recall its own order, the present application stands dismissed with no orders as to costs.“I will appeal before the district and sessions judge in the matter as I have full faith in the judicial system,” Beri said, adding that he had protested for the people and would continue to fight for the common man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cong-mla-gets-one-year-jail-for-obstructing-train-in-2015-101635181328409.html
25-10-2021||Ranchi||No ration card needed to get widow pension in Jharkhand, says CM Soren||Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday said possessing a ration card will not be mandatory for availing widow pension in Jharkhand. He said this while inaugurating schemes worth ₹34.58 crore and laying the foundation stone for several projects in Godda district. "There will be no need for a ration card for getting widow pension now. Helpless widows will be provided pension by the government," he said addressing a function at Rajabhitta stadium at Godda, a statement issued by the state government said. The chief minister inaugurated several schemes in the district and laid the foundation stones for projects to be built at a cost of ₹26.18 crore, the statement said. Soren also distributed appointment letters to eligible persons on compassionate grounds and distributed house keys and letters to the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Assets worth ₹6.5 crore were distributed among beneficiaries of different projects. A power sub-station was also inaugurated in Godda while the foundation stone for lift irrigation facilities was laid in the villages displaced for Sundar Dam. Ten school buildings are also being built, the chief minister said adding, eight ambulances are being made available at the district level for health care. He said the government is committed to the all-around development of people through various schemes including Chief Minister Employment Generation Scheme, ‘Phulo Jhano Yojana’, and ‘Mukhyamantri Pashudhan Yojana’. The chief minister said that the government is celebrating this year as the year of appointment. Manuals are being prepared by various departments so that vacant posts in all departments can be filled as soon as possible, Soren said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/no-ration-card-needed-to-get-widow-pension-in-jharkhand-says-cm-soren-101635179939829.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal gets bail in two cases related to electoral offences||The special MP/MLA court (Sultanpur district) on Monday granted bail to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in two cases related to electoral offences allegedly committed in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.Granting bail, special judge (MP/MLA court) PK Jayant exempted Arvind Kejriwal from personal appearance before the court in further hearings of the cases. The court fixed November 3 as the next date of hearing in the cases. Advocate Madan Singh, who represents the Delhi chief minister in court, said FIRs were lodged against Arvind Kejriwal in two cases lodged against him and other Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders at Gauriganj and Musafir Khana police stations in Amethi district of Uttar Pradesh during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The FIRs had been lodged against Arvind Kejriwal after he had allegedly given a provocative speech and violated the model code of conduct while campaigning for party candidate Kumar Vishwas. Kumar Vishwas was the AAP candidate from Amethi in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Along with Kejriwal, Kumar Vishwas, Harikrishna, Rakesh Tiwari, Ajay Singh and Bablu Tiwari were also booked in those two cases.Arvind Kejriwal, who had been given exemption from the appearance before the court after moving the Supreme Court earlier against the FIRs lodged against him, appeared on his own before the court as a responsible citizen, Singh added.“As a responsible citizen to get the matter proceeded at the earliest, he appeared before the court willingly. He applied for bail, which was granted to him. The court fixed November 3 as the next date of hearing,” he said.Various sections under which the FIRs had been lodged included section 125 of the Representation of People’s Act for promoting communal harmony, assembling unlawfully (section 143 of IPC), obstructing public servants from discharging their duty (section 186 IPC), wrongfully restraining them (section 341), and assaulting them to deter them from doing their duty (section 353 of IPC) besides others.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-gets-bail-in-two-cases-related-to-electoral-offences-101635181148488.html
25-10-2021||Pune||Afghan students may get ICCR scholarships on sympathetic grounds||PUNE: Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Rajya Sabha MP and president of the Council for Indian Cultural Relations, on Monday said that they are considering on sympathetic grounds to grant scholarships to Afghan students in India planning to take admission to new academic courses. He was at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) for a programme after which he interacted with the media.“In case of Afghan students who are here in India and have completed their studies, their visa extension is a matter which can be addressed only by the union home ministry and we cannot comment on it. But in case of those students who are planning to take admission to a new academic programme or course, we are thinking of giving them ICCR scholarships on sympathetic grounds,” Sahasrabuddhe said.“Afghan students will get admission on the basis of merit and if they get admission, we are certainly thinking of granting them scholarships. Once they secure admission, we will consider them even though they have not come through proper channel. We receive names from the embassy for granting scholarships and this year as a special case, we need to take the decision here itself for Afghan students who have already come to India and are finishing their earlier courses,” he said.There are more than 4,000 Afghan students studying in various universities and colleges in Pune but more than 70% have returned to their homeland in the past one year. The Afghanistan Students’ Association in Pune is coordinating with the Indian- government, embassy and universities regarding student-related issues and visa extension for a majority of Afghan students.Before the press interaction, Sahasrabuddhe spoke about implementation of the new educational policy (2020) at the prize ceremony of the university-level open essay competition.“In terms of education, the country needed a new policy to come out of its colonial mentality and carry the fragrance of its own soil. This fundamental change has been adopted in the new education policy and emphasis has been placed on mother-tongue education. Language is related to our beliefs and worries, hence the emphasis in the policy on mother-tongue education. This policy has been formulated by including Swadeshi, Swabhasha, Swabhav and Swadharma,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/afghan-students-may-get-iccr-scholarships-on-sympathetic-grounds-101635180848323.html
25-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 179 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 179 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection, on Monday. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million out of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,925 deaths reported and 6,923 are active cases.Pune rural reported 76 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 364,741 and the death toll stood at 6,875 as two more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 57 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 520,357 and the death toll stood at 9,198.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 46 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 268,321 and the toll stood at 3,503.Pune district also saw 42,103 vaccinations on Monday as per the Co-Win dashboard and in total 11,928,785. Out of which 7,773, 514 are first doses and 4,155, 271 are second doses. A total of 687 sites saw vaccination out of which 510 were government centres and 177 were private centres.On Monday, the state also reported that the lowest daily cases count since the first Covid-19 wave peaked in September 2020.The state reported 889 new cases and 12 deaths due to the infection.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “The state saw its lowest daily cases count since the first Covid-19 wave. Also, 14 districts in the state reported zero new cases on Monday and 12 districts reported new cases in single digit.”“12 deaths were reported from the districts of Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Ratnagiri,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-179-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-101635180608246.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains to run at full capacity from Thursday||After nearly 19 months, local train services will run at full capacity, from the current 95%, from Thursday. The Central Railway (CR) will operate 1,774 local train services on the Central Railway (CR) and 1,367 on the Western Railway (WR) as opposed to the current 1,702 and 1,304 trains on CR and WR, respectively. “In June, railways began suburban services for essential service categories as identified by the state government and approved by the ministry of railways. The categories of commuters who were allowed by the state government and approved by the ministry of railways were subsequently extended in August 2021 and in the recent weeks,” said a statement from the CR and WR. On an average, in August, September and in the beginning of October, nearly 2.5 million passengers travelled by suburban local trains on the CR. Currently, the number is up to 3 million. On the WR, nearly 2.5 million passengers are travelling by local trains as opposed to nearly 2 million in August, September and start of October. On Monday, nearly 3.2 million passengers travelled by local trains on the CR and 2.7 million passengers travelled by local trains on the WR. Local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers from August 15. Fully vaccinated people can get a universal pass and a monthly railway pass for local train travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-to-run-at-full-capacity-from-thursday-101635180008159.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||BHU has progressed towards excellence: PM Modi in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said one of the major achievements of Kashi (Varanasi) in the last few years is that the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) has progressed towards excellence in the world.At present, from health to technology, unprecedented facilities are being created in BHU, said PM Modi after inaugurating several schemes in Varanasi. PM Modi also said the facilities developed in BHU will help the students. For instance, the hostel facility developed for the women students will help realise the dream of BHU founder Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya, he said. Referring to infrastructure development in Varanasi, he said there used to be traffic jams due to the absence of a ring road in Varanasi and local people had got accustomed to waiting for the jams to end. Construction of the ring road has ended this problem and traffic movement will get momentum till Prayagraj, Lucknow, and Bihar, he said. Even people who go to Vindhyachal (in Mirzapur) for darshan of Maa Vindhayavasini and those who go to Bhadohi will be benefitted by it, he said. Stating that work is being done for the cleanliness of the Ganga, he said eight drains have been tapped in Ramnagar and a sewage treatment plant is working there.He also said the Varuna was losing its existence earlier due to neglect but now clean water was flowing into this river. Pathway railings are installed on both sides of the river, he added.A packaging centre and a perishable cargo centre have been set up in Varanasi and the facility will be useful for the farmers of Kashi and Purvanchal, he said.PM Modi inaugurated a bio gas-CNG plant built in Shahanshahpur in Varanasi. Besides biogas, farmers will get organic fertiliser from the plant, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bhu-has-progressed-towards-excellence-pm-modi-in-varanasi-101635179588244.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra home department begins process to declare Param Bir Singh absconding||The state home department has proposed to declare former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh an absconder. The home department has informed the Intelligence Bureau that the IPS officer is no more traceable and also sought the central agency’s help to search him. According to the officials in the home department, the legal process of declaring Singh an absconder has begun. The department has sought legal opinion to make the proposal foolproof by complying with the legal formalities. The state has already proposed to suspend the officer after he went untraceable since May this year. The home department has also initiated departmental inquiry against him for the lapses in the Antilia explosives scare case. “We have informed the IB that the former CP of Mumbai is no more traceable and he has not reported to work for more than three months. While seeking their help, we have also initiated the process of declaring him absconding. We are taking legal opinion for it,” said a senior official from the department. Singh has been untraceable since May after he went on leave for health reasons. The officer was sent multiple letters to his Chandigarh home and emails enquiring about his whereabouts. The communication has gone unanswered. Last month, home minister Dilip Walse Patil had said that they were looking into the provisions under All India Services (conduct) Rules to take action against the IPS officer. The Thane police issued lookout notices against him in July. He has repeatedly failed to appear before the Chandiwal commission constituted by the state government to probe the allegations of corruption by him against former home minister Anil Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-department-begins-process-to-declare-param-bir-singh-absconding-101635179108080.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||ED attaches assets worth ₹6.84 cr of ex-Bhagalpur ADM||The Enforcement Directorate has attached properties worth over ₹6.84 crore in connection with a money-laundering probe linked to an alleged disproportionate assets case against a former additional district magistrate of Bihar’s Bhagalpur and her family, officials said Monday.A provisional order has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) attaching 15 plots, a flat worth over ₹1.53 crore, deposits of ₹5,05,02,511 kept in 42 bank accounts and “surrender value” of 12 different insurance policies worth ₹26,00,123.39 of Jayshree Thakur and her family members, the ED said in a statement.The ED case of money laundering is based on a 2013 FIR of Bihar Police against Thakur and her family members for “acquiring disproportionate assets amounting to ₹13,98,38,213 through corrupt and illegal means, by abusing her position as a public servant”.The ED said its investigation found that “during the period 12.01.1987 to 30.06.2013, Jayshree Thakur while being posted and functioning in different capacities and different posts under Bihar government, amassed disproportionate assets of ₹13,98,38,213 through corrupt practices and misuse of her official capacity”.The disproportionate assets were amassed in the form of “movable and immovable properties in her name as well as in the name of her husband Rajesh Kumar Chaudhary, son Rishikesh Chaudhary and daughter Rajshree Chaudhary”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ed-attaches-assets-worth-6-84-cr-of-ex-bhagalpur-adm-101635178808429.html
25-10-2021||Other||Driving testing track to be set up in 17 districts||PATNA The state transport department has identified land in 17 districts to set up driving testing tracks, officials said on Monday.Transport minister Sheela Kumari said the establishment of driving testing tracks is aimed at reducing road accidents as driving licence will be issued only to competent drivers.Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said construction of tracks would begin soon. “Land has been identified in 17 districts for establishing driving testing tracks. The department has given administrative clearance to estimate budgets proposed by each district between ₹50 lakh and ₹75 lakh. Several districts have already started bidding process for selecting agency for construction work.”Agarwal also instructed senior officials to monitor the project and submit progress report to district transport offices.“Senior transport officials, district magistrates, engineers and agencies will work in tandem for speedy completion of the project”, he said. Agarwal said a large number of road accidents occurred due to incompetency of drivers. The testing tracks will modify driving test method and enable transport inspectors to thoroughly examine driving skills of applicants before issuing them permanent licence.A senior transport official said, “The tracks will have various types of tracks, ramps and turns to check essential driving skills within standard time duration. The testing tracks are likely to be completed by next year.”As per the department, driving testing tracks are being established in Sitamarhi, Motihari, Kishangnj, Madhubani, Purnea, Nalanda, Katihar, Kaimur, Saran, Banka, Bettiah, Bhagalpur, Bhojpur, Darbhanga, Jehanabad, Nawada and Madhepura.Transport department has already established one automated driving tracks each in Aurangabad and Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/driving-testing-track-to-be-set-up-in-17-districts-101635178209387.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC polls 2022: Survey on expectations, performance of corporators on cards||Mumbai Vikas Samiti (MVS) – a body of experts comprising urban and civic planners, including architects – will be preparing a citizens’ expectation survey for the upcoming civic polls in February 2022. MVS plans to give the outcome of this study to all the candidates who will be contesting the civic polls. Along with the expectations, the survey will also focus on how satisfied the citizens are from their sitting corporators’ work.AV Shenoy, a member of MVS, said, “We had conducted a similar survey in 2017. The survey will include details about how satisfied citizens are from their current corporators and what are their expectations from the new corporators, who will be elected in the next few months.”Shenoy added, “We plan to complete the survey by November and will take help from non-governmental organisations (NGO). After completing the survey, we will make the report public and also share it with the sitting corporators. The survey will be conducted physically or via online platform, depending on how the NGOs helping us are willing to go ahead with it.”The current tenure of the sitting corporators will come to an end by February, and starting March, newly elected members will take up charge. The election for the new tenure is expected to take place in February 2022, depending on the Covid-19 situation. The corporation has strength of 227 seats, of which Shiv Sena has 97, followed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (83), Congress (29), Nationalist Congress Party (8), Samajwadi Party (6), All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (2) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena with one seat.Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has already kicked off preparations for the polls. The civic body has started the process of verification for the delimitation of the boundaries of the 24 administrative wards. Following this, BMC will submit the list to the state election commission for suggestions and objections. It is also expected to increase the number of polling booths this year in view of the pandemic to ensure social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-polls-2022-survey-on-expectations-performance-of-corporators-on-cards-101635177848316.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane district completes 80 lakh vaccination against Covid||Thane district has completed 80 lakh vaccine doses on Sunday. Among these, 53.76 lakh or 70% have been vaccinated with at least the first dose and 26.30 lakh or 34% have been fully vaccinated.Meanwhile, among the 18-45 years age group, 26.81% have been fully vaccinated and 75% have received at least the first dose. Thane district continues to have around 19.53% of eligible population who have not received even the first dose of vaccine. Moreover, from the overall eligible population, 73% have to take the second jab. Thane district’s vaccine target population is 99,42,407.“We have initiated special drives in remote parts of rural areas and for students in urban areas of the district. On Friday and Saturday, we vaccinated more than 40,000 and 51,000 vaccinations, respectively, across the district. We are still working towards getting as many vaccinated as possible and reaching out to corners of the district,” said Dr Manish Renge, district health officer, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-completes-80-lakh-vaccination-doses-against-covid-101635176891500.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan cruise drugs raid case: NDPS court rejects NCB’s plea for restraint amid Sail’s allegations||A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Monday rejected the plea filed by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), seeking orders to not allow anyone to take cognisance of the purported affidavit of Prabhakar Sail, a panch witness in the cruise ship drug bust case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan has been arrested along with others, or initiate any action on the basis of the affidavit without prior permission of the special court. The court observed that such blanket orders cannot be passed. Sail alleged he was made to sign on blank papers as pancha (witness) on the night the NCB raided the International Cruise Terminal, Green Gate, on October 2 and arrested Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha. Sail, 40, claimed he used to work as a bodyguard of KP Gosavi, one of the nine witnesses in the case. Sail, in a notarised affidavit, alleged that he overheard a conversation between Gosavi and another person, wherein they were discussing about an amount of ₹25 crore, of which they had to pay ₹8 crore to a senior official in the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). In his affidavit, Sail claimed that he collected two bags containing ₹50 lakh each and gave them to Gosavi. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik, too, has made extortion allegations against Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of NCB. Wankhede has denied all allegations. Citing the recent events, the NCB moved the special NDPS court. The agency’s counsel, advocate Advait Sethna, urged the court to take up the plea for urgent hearing. “Sail’s affidavit is already forwarded to Delhi office of the NCB for further legal action,” said Sethna. In the affidavit filed before the special court along with the plea, Wankhede claimed the allegations “are not only false but misleading, mischievous and maligning”. “I have been personally targeted especially by a known political figure for reasons best known to him. The only justification that I can fathom is that one Sameer Khan, a relative of the political honcho was arrested in a NDPS case in accordance with law and later enlarged on bail by this court. From that time there are series of personal vendetta targeted at me and my family members who are victims of such defamatory attacks and false, frivolous and vexatious allegations,” stated Wankhede’s affidavit. “I was threatened to be arrested and to be dispelled from my service. There is a lurking threat of arrest as it does not suit some vested interest just for conducting and honest and impartial investigation. I am ready to face all that is in law to establish my innocence. In this case highly influential people are involved so I request the court to pass appropriate orders to preserve and protect the sanctity of a fair and unbiased investigation, which not to be interfered in any manner,” it added. Wankhede, who was present for mentioning of the plea, stepped in the witness box and informed the special judge Vaibhav Patil that his personal details, details about his family members were being made public. “In my entire career I haven’t done anything wrong and I am ready to face any enquiry,” said the officer. “They are targeting my family, my deceased mother and father. Today, they have also posted some photographs,” said Wankhede. “They are threatening officers, panch witnesses and their family members. In this regard, a panch has already filed a complaint,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-cruise-drugs-raid-case-ndps-court-rejects-ncb-s-plea-for-restraint-amid-sail-s-allegations-101635176347697.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Kejriwal performs ‘aarti’ on banks of Saryu in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal performed ‘aarti’ on the banks of river Saryu amid the chanting of hymns in poll-bound UP’s Ayodhya on Monday.After the prayers, he sought blessings from seers and was given a yellow robe by them. Mahant Dharam Das had organised the event for the Delhi CM, who shared a video of the ‘aarti’ on Twitter. Addressing a gathering after the aarti, Kejriwal began his speech with the chant of ‘Jai Shri Ram’. “I am fortunate to be in Ayodhya and seek blessings from Maa Saryu for the prosperity of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and the rest of the country,” he said. “The country is facing pandemic, but the situation has been under some control over the last few days. With blessings of Maa Saryu and Lord Ram, soon we will be free from this pandemic,” said Kejriwal. “Our country should have achieved much more, but it is facing several problems. I pray to lord Ram to make ‘Bharat Varsh’ the number one country. Together, 130 crore people of this country, can make this possible,” said Kejriwal. “I am much younger to many people present here. But with my experience of running the Delhi government over the past five years, I can assure that 130 crore people this country together can make this happen, if they work like a family,” he added. Kejriwal reached Lucknow on Monday morning and left for Sultanpur, from where he reached Ayodhya on a two-day visit. Sanjay Singh, AAP’s UP incharge and Rajya Sabha MP, was accompanying the Delhi chief minister. Kejriwal will stay in Ayodhya on Monday night. According to Vaibhav Maheshwari, AAP state spokesperson, the Delhi CM will pay obeisance to Ram Lalla at Ram Janmabhoomi and Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi temple on Tuesday. On Kejriwal’s visit to Ayodhya, BJP MLA from Ayodhya Sadar assembly constituency, Ved Prakash Gupta, said: “AAP was opposing Ram temple. They wanted a university instead of the mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi.” “Now, in Ayodhya, they are talking about lord Ram. Delhi riots have exposed the AAP. They have no political base in Uttar Pradesh,” said Gupta. Meanwhile, the Kejriwal-led AAP announced that it would contest the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh due to be held next year. The party informed that it would contest all 403 Assembly seats in the 2022 Assembly elections.The party formally kicked off its poll campaign in September this year with its senior leaders Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh offering prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi and Hanumangarhi shrine in the temple town of Ayodhya.The party had also taken out a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Ayodhya from the 18th-century mausoleum of Nawab Shujaudaulah to the Gandhi Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kejriwal-performs-aarti-on-banks-of-saryu-in-ayodhya-101635176052404.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane police constables save biker from falling on busy road||Along with manning the heavy peak hour traffic congestion, solving crime and patrolling the city, the Thane city police are busy saving lives of people. In one such incident, police officials of Kongaon in Bhiwandi saved a biker who suffered sudden seizures while riding.The biker was about to fall off the bike on a major highway but constables, Pandit Rathod and Rajendra Dhumal, who were behind him saw him tilting to one side and realised something was wrong and rushed to drag him off the bike.The biker, a 19-year-old resident of Vikhroli (name withheld to protect identity) was on his way to a water park with 20 of his friends on October 19 at 9.15am. Near the Pimplas Railway Bridge, he suffered seizure and rammed onto a divider. His bike turned left and he was almost about to hit the ground. But the two constables in a police van behind the bike stopped and rushed in time to hold him before he completely slipped off his bike.Dhumal said, “We were on VIP escort duty on October 19 near Anand Nagar area of Pimplas Bridge. I saw this boy on a bike. His body was shaking and he was about to lose control of his bike. I realised that something was wrong. So Rathod and I took the car to one side. He dashed the divider and almost fell off on the road, hit his head on the other side when I held him and stopped him from skidding. The road is always full of heavy vehicles and therefore my main concern was to stop him before he hit any big vehicle.“People didn’t realise what happened to him but through his behaviour and unconsciousness, I realised it was a seizure. I stopped everyone from giving water to him and took him to the nearby hospital. Till then, I held his face in the fresh air. He felt fine after he was taken to the hospital and was discharged within two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-police-constables-save-biker-from-falling-on-busy-road-101635176050863.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Dip in number of local train commuters caught without masks in October: Railways||With a rise in the number of passengers travelling on suburban local trains after easing of coronavirus restrictions, the count of citizens travelling without facial masks seems to have decreased on central and western railways.In October, 1,395 passengers were fined on the Western Railway (WR) network for travelling without masks, as opposed to 1,606 travellers fined in September and 1,816 commuters penalised in August. WR has recovered fines worth ₹1.64 lakh from people travelling without masks in October.On the Central Railway (CR) network, 240 passengers were fined in October for travelling without masks and ₹48,000 was collectively recovered from them. From January to September, 2,342 passengers have been fined on the route for the offence. “There has been a decline in the number of people found travelling without facial masks. There has also been a dip in those travelling on fake essential workers’ identity cards. We conduct surprise checks on both the railway networks as well inside local train premises,” said a senior railway official. The Maharashtra government had authorised the Government Railway Police (GRP) to collect fines from passengers travelling onboard local trains and at railway stations without masks.The fine amount is ₹200 and is charged on the basis of a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) notification on fines to be levied on citizens for not wearing masks and spitting.Passenger associations are, however, unsure if the number of commuters without masks has declined and have asked the railways to increase checking inside its premises.“There are images of passengers travelling without facial masks inside local train compartments. The railways and BMC should conduct stringent checks as the number of passengers [without masks] is on the rise,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.As the Maharashtra government eased coronavirus restrictions, schools, colleges and places of worship were allowed to reopen in Mumbai. The city’s suburban railway network also witnessed a rise in the number of passengers.Both the zonal railways are contemplating on redemption of local train services in 100% capacity. At present, local train services are operational at 95% capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dip-in-number-of-local-train-commuters-caught-without-masks-in-october-railways-101635176047761.html
25-10-2021||Pune||PMC to survey accident-prone flyovers, bridges to take corrective action||PUNE: Following a series of accidents along the Narhe stretch of the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to conduct a survey of all accident-prone bridges and flyovers on the national highway and accordingly take corrective steps wherever possible while also submitting a report to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI).However, priority will be given to the Navale bridge, civic officials said on Monday, days after four persons died in two mishaps along the 3.5 km Narhe stretch that has claimed as many as 56 lives in the past eight years. Nearly half of the 56 deaths were caused by human error where drivers did not follow traffic rules while the remaining half were caused by faulty design of the flyover, steep slope, lack of rumblers and wrongly created punctures on service roads, according to the local police.During the PMC’s general body meeting on Monday, elected members discussed the spate of accidents at Narhe. Congress appointed corporator Ajit Darekar first raised the issue in the general body meeting and said that corrective steps need to be taken. “The Navale Bridge at Narhe has become a dangerous spot and till date, nearly 56 people have died in accidents along this bridge. The civic administration should take cognisance of the accidents and take measures to curtail them,” Darekar said. Thereafter, elected members across parties joined the discussion. Many claimed that flaws in the flyover design and construction are causing accidents and that the accident-prone spots should be studied and corrective measures taken. Representatives from Warje, Bavdhan, Kondhwa, Katraj, Parvati and the peth areas, too, shared their observations about flyovers and bridges in their areas and held the traffic planning department responsible for the raft of accidents. The corporators pointed out that the commuters’ woes are also due to lack of coordination between the local authority and the state government’s public works’ department. The elected members demanded that an audit of accident-prone bridges and flyovers be carried out so as to take corrective measures to curb future accidents and save commuters’ lives. They demanded that a report on the lacunae be submitted to the union and state government for the future course of action.After the discussion, mayor Murlidhar Mohol ordered the administration to conduct a survey of bridges and flyovers. “The administration will have to undertake visits to flyovers and bridges and carry out detailed studies. A report of accident-prone spots will be tabled in a couple of days. A copy of the report will be sent to the union government as well as the state government. The blind spots and other problems will be identified and resolved as early as possible,” Mohol said. On Friday night, a tanker first rammed into an SUV car and then into a tempo and container truck at Narhe, causing a major accident in which two persons died and two others were injured. According to the Pune traffic police and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) however, a majority of these accidents are caused by human error where commuters are violating traffic rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-survey-accident-prone-flyovers-bridges-to-take-corrective-action-101635175867713.html
25-10-2021||Pune||Yerwada jail inmates’ Diwali exhibition expected to net ₹12-15 lakh; open till November 2||PUNE In its 10th year, the Yerwada Central Jail inmates’ Diwali exhibition, inaugurated on Monday, is expected to add ₹12-15 lakh to the ocean of deficit of ₹13-14 crore in the industrial output of the state prison department for the financial year of 2020-21.The exhibition was put up by the inmates with reduced funds as a result of funds being used for the Covid-19 pandemic.The past year, owing to Covid-19 restrictions and trade restrictions, the industrial output was ₹9.4 crore as against ₹24.8 crore in 2019-2020. The year before this also witnessed industrial output of ₹23.09 crore.The ADG also announced that they have an order worth ₹1 crore from a district hospital for furniture. These orders will help the industrial output from the jail and helping provide more work for inmates which will translate into daily wages for them.When asked about the effect of the lockdown and number of people working to make these products, Atulchandra Kulkarni, additional director general (ADG) of Police for Prisons in Maharashtra said, “For now we do not have many skilled workers with the emergency parole and Covid-19 situation. We first have to ask inmates for their interest and then train them. Not everything they make reaches the market so they have to be trained until their products are worth selling. That takes up a lot of time. Around 2,000 inmates must be involved in putting up the exhibition this time.”Various forms of industries are operational using inmates’ workforce in seven major jails including Yerawada, Nagpur, Amravati, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Nashik, and Thane.The shop also provides products to government organisations including hospitals, government student hostels, rescue homes, universities, products like stationary required for election procedure, stationary for the High Court, police department, and social welfare department.There are at least a dozen types of factories that are in operation - iron products, masonry, sewing, painting, paper production, shoe-making, baking, washing center, and spare parts assembly. While these are functional in most of the seven jails, there are jail-wise specialties.Ganpati idols are made in the Nashik jail, while LED lights are produced in Amravati and a foundry exists in Kolhapur, which also makes the famous boondi laddoo for the well-known Mahlakshmi temple in Kolhapur. Meanwhile, the men’s jail in Yerawada specialises in wiring for Mahindra’s Bolero SUV, and the women’s cell produces locksets for TVS vehicles.With handloom and power loom-produced clothes like bedsheets, shirts, kurtas, napkins, other products like lanterns, lamps, footwear, earrings, Paithani sarees, furniture-like sofa sets, home temples, shoestand, key-holder, watch-holder, along with cakes, and biscuits are for sale. The exhibition, which drew a notable crowd on the first day itself, will be on till November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/yerwada-jail-inmates-diwali-exhibition-expected-to-net-12-15-lakh-open-till-november-2-101635174067582.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at Taloja MIDC in Navi Mumbai||A major fire broke out at a chemical storage unit at Taloja MIDC on Monday around noon. Even as no one was injured, the fire brigade officials took around two hours to douse the fire.According to the fire brigade officials, a large number of chemical drums were stored on an open plot at Rehman Nagar in the MIDC area by a private company. Around 12.56 pm, some of those drums caught fire and it spread in the entire unit in no time.“Five fire tenders from Taloja and Kalamboli were rushed to the spot. The exact reason behind the accident has not yet been understood,” said a fire brigade official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-taloja-midc-in-navi-mumbai-101635173948148.html
25-10-2021||Other||Punjab transfers four IPS, three PPS officers||Four IPS, three PPS transferred Chandigarh The Punjab government, on Monday, transferred four IPS and three PPS officers. According to the orders, BL Meena has now been posted as DIG-cum-joint director, MRS PPA Phillaur, relieving Gurpreet Singh Toor. Toor will now be DIG Admin CPO Punjab and in additional DIG IRB at Patiala. Inderbir Singh, DIG Ferozepur, will also hold the charge of DIG, technical support services in Chandigarh, whereas Deepak Hilori has been posted as AIG, PAP-1 at Jalandhar. Opinderjit Singh Ghuman will now be AIG, counter-intelligence, at Jalandhar relieving SSP Kapurthala Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh from this additional charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-transfers-four-ips-three-pps-officers-101635173647514.html
25-10-2021||Pune||500 Royald Enfield owners fined for ‘altering’ silencers on the bikes||The Pune traffic police have taken action against 500 owners of the Royal Enfield brand of motorcycle, for altering the “silencers” on the bikes. Fines have been levied against the offenders.The action has been taken as the bikes emerged back on the roads after Covid lockdown in Pune was eased earlier this month. Action has been taken under Section 119 and 190 (2) of the Motor Vehicle Act, pertaining to unauthorised modifications to the vehicle, often causing a nuisance to the public.DCP (Traffic) Rahul Srirame said, “We took action against 500 such bikes with modified silencers, but during the lockdown period, no action was taken.”DCP Srirame further added that according to the Motor Vehicle Act, any non-authorised modification to a two-wheeler is illegal. “We will carry out special drives against all types of two- wheelers with loud silencers and police action will be taken against the accused violating the traffic and RTO rules,” he said.The traffic branch in 2018 had conducted a special drive against modified silencers and took action against around 200 Royal Enfield motorbikes in a day. Kondhwa resident Mallesh Naidu said, “We are seeing a number of youngsters moving in groups riding motorcycles which fire a loud noise which is extremely dangerous for senior citizens and pregnant women.”Kothrud resident Harish Gosavi said, “The loud silencers are disturbing the neighbourhood and causing anxiety issues. The police must take action against the nuisance makers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/500-royald-enfield-owners-fined-for-altering-silencers-on-the-bikes-101635173347490.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Purvanchal will emergeas a medical hub: Modi||LUCKNOW Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took pot shots at the previous government in Uttar Pradesh for “ignoring basic medical needs of the people of the Purvanchal region while filling coffers of their families,” and asserted that the region, which became infamous for deaths due to encephalitis, would now emerge as a medical hub under BJP rule. Addressing a public meeting at the BSA ground in Siddharthnagar after inaugurating nine medical colleges in UP virtually from here, the prime minister said the BJP’s priority was to provide basic facilities to the poor.Built at a cost of ₹2,329 crore, the medical colleges inaugurated were located in Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur districts. Modi attacked the previous UPA government at the centre and the Samajwadi Party government in UP, alleging that both neglected eastern UP (Purvanchal region).“Mere announcements of the establishment of dispensaries were made. For years, the building was not constructed, and if the building was constructed, the equipment was not installed. There was a crisis of doctors and paramedical staff,” he said.In an apparent attack on the SP government, which ruled the state before the BJP came to power in 2017, he said: “Their cycle of corruption ran 24 hours. There was corruption in medicine and ambulance procurement as well as in appointments. They had the priority of earning for themselves and filling the coffers of their families while for us the priority is to extend basic facilities to the poor.”“In 2014, the people gave me an opportunity to serve them. To change the prevailing scenario, my government worked day and night. Measures were taken to improve the health services of the country,” emphasised the PM.Modi said the previous government in UP did not cooperate with the central government and indulged in politics over development projects. “For the first time in UP’s history, nine medical colleges have been inaugurated in a single day. Why such events did not take place earlier. The reason is they lacked political commitment and priorities,” he added.These nine medical colleges with 2,500 beds were ready to serve the people of Purvanchal region and had also created job opportunities for more than 5,000 doctors/paramedics. They will also pave way for medical education for youths, he said.The prime minister said before Independence and also later no importance was given to basic health facilities and people from towns and villages had to rush to cities to avail medical facilities and noted that “dimagi bukhar” (Acute Encephalitis Syndrome) use to grip the region every year, but there was lack of adequate medical facilities in the area. “The double engine government has worked honestly to ensure that better health services reach the poor. We have launched the new health policy in the country to ensure that the poor get treatment and lives can be saved. Under Ayushman Bharat scheme, 90 lakh people have got free treatment in UP. The treatment of cancer, dialysis and heart disease has also become affordable,” said Modi.“The previous government constructed only six medical colleges, whereas under the Yogi Adityanath government, 16 new medical colleges have started and work is in progress on 30 medical colleges. The AIIMS at Rae Bareli and Gorakhpur are a bonus for UP,” he said. Before 2014, the number of medical seats in India was less than 90,000 but in the last seven years 7,000 new seats were added. Till 2017, UP had 1,900 seats, but under the double engine government more than 1,900 seats had been increased, he added. “This is the mantra of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas, sabka prayas.’ When people are healthy and have opportunities, they will contribute to the development of the country, said the Prime Minister.With more medical colleges coming up, India will have more doctors in the next 10-12 years than it has had in the past over 70 years since Independence, said Modi while addressing the launch function of PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi.The nine new medical colleges had been named after noted personalities of the region and in some cases prominent politicians. The Siddarthnagar medical college had been named after Madhav Prasad Tripathi, a Jansangh leader, who served as the first BJP president of the state after its formation in 1980. In Deoria, the medical college was named after Maharshi Devraha Baba (a noted saint), Ghazipur medical college after Maharshi Vishwamitra, Mirzapur medical college after Maa Vindhyavasini, a manifestation of Goddess Durga, Pratapgarh medical college after Dr Sonelal Patel (founder of BJP ally Apna Dal), Etah medical college after Virangna Avanti Bai Lodhi and Fatehpur college after Jodha Singh Ataiya Thakur Dariyav Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/purvanchal-will-emergeas-a-medical-hub-modi-101635172928734.html
25-10-2021||Other||PMC’s special drive to vaccinate students, college staff; 674 get Covid jab on first day||PUNE On Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) began a special vaccination drive for students in city colleges, and also for teaching and non-teaching staff. Colleges in the district were allowed to reopen on October 12. Only those aged above 18 years and who eligible for the vaccine can get the jab on the college premises.Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer said, “Colleges have to simply submit an application of request and give us the number of students eligible to get the vaccines and the date when they would like to have the drive. This special vaccination drive is being conducted under Mission Yuva Swastha and irrespective of the residence of the student or staff, anyone from any corner of the country will get the jab. We are constantly getting requests from various colleges regarding the vaccination drive and as of now, we expect to continue this drive till November 2.” On Monday, the PMC vaccinated 674 persons, men and women, including first and second doses on a total of seven college campuses in the city. Of these, 495 got their first dose and 179 got their second dose. Of the 674, 617 were aged 18-45 years, 44 were 45-59 years and four were above 60 years. With surplus stock in hand and no takers for the vaccine at the vaccination centres, the civic body is now aiming to cover a larger number of people irrespective of whether or not they are residents of Pune city and is making it more accessible for people to get the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcs-special-drive-to-vaccinate-students-college-staff-674-get-covid-jab-on-first-day-101635172147567.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Now, NCB witness Kiran Gosavi says will surrender soon, cops have no info yet||Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in in the drugs-on-cruise case, and against whom his former aide and another witness has levelled extortion charges, said on Monday evening that he would soon surrender outside Maharashtra and everything would become clear.However,  police said they were still searching for Gosavi and would share information once they had any.In news ever since clicking a selfie with Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in the agency’s custody, Gosavi, also a private detective, said he was being threatened and receiving calls over the star son’s arrest in the drugs case.Prabhakar Sail, who claimed to be a former driver/bodyguard of Gosavi, has claimed ₹25 crore was demanded by an NCB official and others, including the private detective, to let off Aryan.False allegations. They fabricated stories&are changing directions(of probe). It's I who was being threatened that I led to his(Aryan Khan's)arrest,I received phone calls. I'm surrendering in half an hr outside Maharashtra.Everything will be clear: NCB witness Kiran Gosavi to ANIHe said he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone, after Aryan was brought to the NCB office following the October 3 raid on the Goa-bound cruise ship about a demand of ₹25 crore and "to settle at ₹18 crore as they have to give ₹8 crore to Sameer Wankhede (the zonal director of NCB)”.Also read | Aryan Khan case: NCB replies to 'extortion' allegation, Nawab Malik says SIT should probeSpeaking to news agency ANI, Gosavi said, “False allegations. They fabricated stories and are changing directions (of the probe). It was I who was being threatened that I led to his (Aryan Khan's) arrest. I received phone calls. I'm surrendering in half an hour outside Maharashtra. Everything will be clear.”Meanwhile, Satish Govekar, ACP Faraskhana division of the Pune Police, said a case had been registered and one of the two accused had been arrested, while search was on for the other, Gosavi.A case registered with Faraskhana PS. Out of 2 accused in the case, we've arrested one accused. There's news about accused Kiran Gosavi in media, we're still searching for him &as and when we get more info we'll share with you: Satish Govekar, ACP Faraskhana division, Pune Police pic.twitter.com/Joz4jiP5q2“A case was registered with Faraskhana PS. Out of two accused in the case, we have arrested one accused. There's news about accused Kiran Gosavi in the media, we're still searching for him. As and when we get more information, we will share with you,” he said, adding that details about his location cannot be disclosed.“Our teams are still investigating the matter and we don't have any information about his surrender yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/now-ncb-witness-kiran-gosavi-says-will-surrender-soon-cops-have-no-info-yet-101635171615689.html
25-10-2021||Pune||Class 11 admissions extended till October 30; 40,349 seats vacant in Pune||PUNE The state education department has once again extended the deadline for the Class 11 online admission process, this time till October 30.Seven rounds of the first-come first-served (FCFS) section of the admission process were completed on Tuesday. After completion of the earlier three regular rounds, one special round and all seven rounds of the FCFS, still, 40,349 seats are vacant in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.A total of 72,976 students have been admitted to 317 colleges in the Pune region.As per a circular issued by the department on Tuesday, the FCFS special round has been extended till 8 pm, October 30. All students who have not yet registered and want to take the admission still can register, apply and get admission. In this special round, even the ATKT (after term, keep term) and students with any passing percentage in Class 10, can completethe admission process.For this academic year a total of 90,125 students registered for the Class 11 admissions. Despite a high passing percentage for Class 10 this year, 99.95 per cent, student registration has been low for admissions. A total 113,325 FJYJC seats were available. A high number of seats will remain vacant this year. “There are students who want to either cancel their admission or students who have not yet completed their admission process due to various reasons. So it was decided to extend the admission period till October 30 with a special FCFS round. Also those students have passed under the ATKT category with one subject remainig, even they can take admission,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-11-admissions-extended-till-october-30-40-349-seats-vacant-in-pune-101635171727216.html
25-10-2021||Other||SGPC to promote frontline Covid-19 warriors at its hospitals||Amritsar The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has resolved to give a special promotion to employees, who worked as front-line Covid-19 warriors during the pandemic in wards of its two hospitals, run under the Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Health Sciences and Research. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur told a press conference on Monday that hospital administrations have been asked to prepare lists of employees who rendered services during the Covid-19 pandemic, after due verification. All such employees will be given a special promotion each.“A grand religious conference of Sikh Missionary Colleges is being held at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in Sri Darbar Sahib (Golden Temple) complex in the memory of martyrs of the Gurdwara Reform Movement. As many as 56 Sikh Missionary Colleges would be participating in it,” she said, adding that Sikh Missionary Colleges will also be made allies in this campaign. She added that in view of the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the Dharam Prachar Committee is organising an Amrit Sanchar Campaign on a large scale. She also strongly condemned the exclusion of Punjabi language from the main subjects by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-to-promote-frontline-covid-19-warriors-at-its-hospitals-101635170887294.html
25-10-2021||Pune||Private bus fares from Pune up by at least 30% ahead of Diwali travel||PUNE If you are planning to travel during the Diwali festival this year, know that it will cost you. Private tourist bus fares have increase by 30 per cent ahread of the festive season. Rising fuel prices have been blamed for increase in ticket fares.The Maharashtra Transport Vehicle Owners and Drivers Association will increase fares from October 21 till November 10. A large number of Pune residents travel back to their hometowns for Diwali, but these plans are usually made at the last minute and most rely on private tourists buses to travel.“The private tourist bus transport industry is suffering a financial crisis for the last 18 months due to the Covid pandemic. Now the diesel prices has gone above ₹100. To recover losses and the increased diesel rates, we have decided to increase fares by 30 per cent for the Diwali festive period, starting October 21, till November 10,” said Baba Shinde, state president of the association.“This year we will add more starting and pick-up points all over the city. The main starting points for private buses is Sangamwadi and the Transport Nagari in Nigdi. Now we have decided to also include Katraj chowk, Hadapsar Gadital, and Kharadi chowk. As Swargate chowk is packed with ST buses during the night, Laxmi Narayan theatre is the pickup point for passengers. Fares are also increased during the season because on the return journey, buses come back empty as more passengers are going of Pune,” he added.As per information released by the association, for Pune to Ahmedabad the ticket has been increased from ₹1,200 to ₹4,000; for Nagpur from ₹1,200 to ₹2,500; for Indore from ₹1,600 to ₹2,600; for Goa from ₹1,300 to ₹3,000; and for Hyderabad from ₹1,300 to ₹3,000.Passengers are not impressed. Ashish Mantri who hails from Nagpur but works in Pune, said, “As our leaves are not fixed we have to travel at the last moment to our hometown with no other option but by private tourists buses. Both ST and private buses take the same time, 12-14 hours to Nagpur. We are ready to pay more for tickets, but the buses should be maintained well and be quick.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-bus-fares-from-pune-up-by-at-least-30-ahead-of-diwali-travel-101635170767036.html
25-10-2021||Indore||In a first, six found infected with AY.4 variant of coronavirus in Indore||Amid the receding daily Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, health officials in the state said six persons have been found infected with the AY.4 variant of the coronavirus, several news agencies reported.“As per the report received from the Delhi-based National Center for Disease Control (NCDC), six persons were found infected with the AY.4 variant of coronavirus. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing along with other infected persons in September,” news agency PTI quoted BS Saithya, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), as saying.He added the AY.4 variant has been detected for the first time since the advent of the pandemic.Also read | India reports 14,306 fresh Covid cases; Kerala highest contributorFurther, the official said the six infected persons were fully vaccinated against the virus, adding that they have all recovered after receiving proper treatment.More than 50 people, who had come in close contact with those infected with the new variant, were tested and found to be healthy, Saitya said.While there are concerns about the transmissibility of the variant, Dr Anitha Mutha, head of the Indore-based Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, said the variant is new and there is not much information about the severity of the disease caused by it.Meanwhile, the number of daily new infections of Covid-19 continued to show a declinintrend in the state. On Sunday, the state had reported nine new infections and no fresh related deaths. With this, the total confirmed infections in the state rose to 7,92,749, while the death toll remained at 10,523, a state health department bulletin showed.With 85 active cases, it is also one among the few states in the country, where the active caseload is less than 100. Also, 6,85,63,154 doses of vaccines against the virus have so far been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/in-a-first-six-found-infected-with-ay-4-variant-of-coronavirus-in-indore-101635170385306.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Nine new medical colleges a tribute to those who died prematurely: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the inauguration of nine new medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a genuine tribute to all those who died prematurely because of lack of medical facilities since independence.The new facilities will check deaths by providing medical quality medical care and the new medical colleges will also inspire youngsters to become doctors and serve the society, Yogi Adityanath said.He was addressing a public meeting at BSA Ground in Siddharthnagar on the occasion of the opening of nine medical colleges simultaneously by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Uttar Pradesh government was committed to providing quality health facilities in the backward regions of the state that remained neglected post- independence, he said.The chief minister said under the leadership of PM Modi, the country has emerged as a model for other countries by developing two vaccines in a short span and vaccinating more than 100 crore people, while several developed countries are battling the Covid pandemic.The people of UP were earlier denied the basic health amenities even after seven decades of independence due to neglect by previous governments leading to the premature death of people, he said.“Today, the scenario is changing fast in the medical field with measures taken by PM. The impact of PM’s plan is visible in the state. Today, nine newly constructed medical colleges have been inaugurated by PM,” he said.Before 1947, there were only three-four medical colleges in UP despite the fact that today’s Uttarakhand was part of the state, he noted.“Between 1947 -2016, there were 12 medical colleges in the state. Now, 30 medical colleges are coming up in UP with assistance of the central government, of which seven have started in 2019, nine are opening today while the construction of 14 medical colleges is on,” he said.PM Modi has also provided employment and distributed free ration to people, apart from offering free vaccination during the Covid pandemic, the chief minister said.His vision of “One District-One Medical College” was fast becoming a reality, he added.Under PM’s guidance, unprecedented work was done to fight the pandemic and save lives and livelihood of people, he said, adding that ICUs have been opened in hospitals in every district of the state.Earlier, a large number of deaths were reported in Siddharthnagar due to encephalitis . With improved health infrastructure, cleanliness, construction of toilets, supply of pure drinking water, establishment of paediatric ICUs, as well as encephalitis treatment centre, 95% of deaths due to encephalitis have been controlled, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nine-new-medical-colleges-a-tribute-to-those-who-died-prematurely-yogi-adityanath-101635170526877.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai coastal road-sea link interchange in violation of clearances: Fisherfolk||The representatives of Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Vyavsay Sahakari Society (WKNVSS) on Monday wrote to the Maharashtra chief minister, environment minister and officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), alleging violations of the coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance granted in 2017 to the coastal road project. The allegation has been made specifically against a proposed interchange to connect the coastal road with the Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL), for which the construction is to start this month. HT had reported on October 17 that Cleveland Bunder, an artisanal fishing port in Worli Koliwada, may face permanent closure due to this interchange, as it will cut off fishing boats from accessing open seas. BMC plans to construct two connecting bridges between the south-end of BWSL and the north end of the coastal road, which the fisherfolk said will severely constrict the only navigational route available to boats as they commute to their customary fishing grounds. BMC recently began preparing to construct this segment of the controversial infra project, prompting nearly 200 boats from across the Worli fishing zone to block a temporary jetty at the coastal road construction site on October 14. In Monday’s letter, a copy of which is with HT, the fisherfolk wrote, “One of the specific conditions of the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) clearance dated January 4, 2017, was as follows: ‘BMC to ensure that no fishing activity is hampered during construction and operation phase of the project’. Thereafter the final CRZ clearance dated May 11, 2017, was granted by the MoEFCC (Union environment ministry), subject to the following specific condition: ‘Bridges with navigable spans will be provided by the project proponent as committed, so that there are no obstructions to fishing boats’.” The fisherfolk pointed out that their request for a navigable span (of at least 200 metres, as opposed to the proposed distance of 60 metres) under the interchange has been raised formally on multiple occasions since 2016. The assistant commissioner of fisheries has also written to both BMC and the fisheries commissioner in April 2017 and December 2018, respectively, pointing out to the fisherfolk’s concerns over possible closure of their only navigation route out to sea. Subsequently, in January 2019, the assistant commissioner of fisheries also wrote to fisheries commissioner saying that the department’s no objection certification (NOC) for the project should be re-examined in light of this predicament. In a parallel development, the Akhil Maharashtra Machimaar Kruti Samiti (AMMKS), a state-wide fishworkers’ collective, which has pledged their support to Worli Koliwada’s fisherfolk, also took up this issue with the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The latter had in March 2017 provided a no objection certificate (NOC) for the coastal road project to BMC, which is subject to compliance with 14 statutory conditions. “In the 14th condition, MSRDC clearly wrote that if fisherfolk are obstructed from doing their business, and if fisherfolk recorded any objections, it will be considered as violating the terms of the NOC,” said Devendra Tandel, president, AMMKS. “These matters are very serious in nature and MSRDC needs to seek an explanation from BMC. It is humbly requested that your NOC for the project be immediately revoked as BMC has violated its 14th condition,” Tandel wrote in his letter, dated October 20. Both WKNVSS and AMMKS have also pointed out to authorities that the coastal road project has been subject to important design changes that were not part of its original detailed project report (DPR). For example, additional land reclamation of 21 hectares for a protective sea wall was included after finalisation of DPR and cleared by statutory bodies long after construction work began.“If these design changes were made during the execution of the project, why is it not possible to change the design of the interchange to ensure safe passage of our boats,” WKNVSS wrote in Monday’s letter. Shweta Wagh, architect and researcher, who has been closely monitoring the impact of coastal road on fishing communities, emphasised that even the design of the original design of BWSL was changed to accommodate a navigation route for fisherfolk leaving from Bathery Jetty, another fish landing centre close to Cleveland Bunder. “If it has been done in the past, there is no reason it cannot be done again,” she said.Officials in BMC’s coastal road department did not responds to requests for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-coastal-road-sea-link-interchange-in-violation-of-clearances-fisherfolk-101635169807116.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Palghar petrol pump owner employs two tribal women; will also fund their education||A 45-year-old Palghar petrol pump owner has employed two tribal women from Patilpada in his bunker. The owner, Manish Pimple, will also fund their further education. The women had to give up their education owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. This is the first such bunker in Palghar district where tribal women have been employed.Pimple, a resident of Maswan, has been running Priya Petrol Pump in Palghar for the past two decades. “I got to know that Dipali Tumbada, 18, and Priti Jadhav, 20, lost out on their education since March 2020 owing to the financial crisis from the Covid-19 pandemic. The parents of the women are farm labourers and make a living by working in paddy field in Maswan and the nearby areas. The women were also working in the fields after losing out on their education,” said Pimple. The petrol pump owner then approached Hindustan Petroleum Company Limited (HPCL) as he runs their franchisee. “After I shared my idea of helping the women, they told me to go ahead and hire the women,” said Pimple.The women were given a month’s training at the bunker on how to start the fuel pump, fill the correct quantity, filling air in vehicles as well as fire-fighting training to avoid mishaps. “The women were very eager to undergo the training, and after a month, they were employed at my station in September. They get a monthly stipend of ₹6,000 each and we bear the expenses of their uniforms. This is the first bunker in Palghar district where tribal women have been employed, with a hope of making a difference in the society,” said Pimple.He said the customers were surprised to see the women welcome them with a ‘Namaste’ and a smile. Pimple added Tumbada and Patil want to be enrolled for Arts degree at Yeshwantrao Open University, Nashik, from the next academic year.“I want the women want to have a secure career. I will take care of their education and help them achieve their goals. They can continue working at my bunker along with their studies. Dipali has cleared Class 12 from a Palghar college while Priti has studied till Class 10 from Maswan government school. If one day the two become a collector or Class-1 officers, I’ll consider it to be my small contribution to the society. Just because the two women had to leave their education due to the pandemic, they should not lose out on an opportunity to have a good future,” said Pimple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/palghar-petrol-pump-owner-employs-two-tribal-women-will-also-fund-their-education-101635169627417.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||New ABAP president backs BJP, wants Yogi as Uttar Pradesh chief minister again||Soon after being elected as the new president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), Mahant Ravindra Puri of Niranjani Akhara has made it clear that the ABAP would put all its weight behind the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in ensuring that the party wins the next assembly election, too, and Yogi Adityanath is again appointed as the Uttar Pradesh chief minister.“Jo (political party) Ram ke sath hai, akhara parishad uske sath hai (The one who is with Ram, Akhada Parishad is with him),” said Puri.He added, “Agar sanatan ko bachana hai, to Yogi ko dobara lana hai (If Sanatan is to be saved, then Yogi has to be brought back).”Speaking on the executive body constituted by one of the factions of ABAP in a meeting at Haridwar, the new ABAP president said, “That is a farzi (fake) executive body made at Haridwar because when the general secretary had already scheduled a meeting of ABAP for October 25, here at Prayagraj, why was another meeting held?” he said.He added, “This is a common practice in the parishad that in case of untimely death of the president, the member of the same akhada becomes the president”.“We want to make UP Uttam Pradesh and we seers would ensure that BJP wins elections in UP, Uttarakhand and at the Centre,” he said.“With the support of all the Akhadas, I have become the president. We also have a majority on the basis of numbers. Other than this, no election is valid. I will complete the unfinished work of Mahant Narendra Giri,” he added.ABAP general secretary Mahant Hari Giri, said, “The new president has been elected according to the rules, laws and traditions of ABAP and those who did not come due to any reason, it is expected that they will attend the next meeting scheduled for November 25.”Mahant Resham Singh of Nirmal Akhara said, “The court has recognised me as the president of Nirmal Akhada and apart from me, those who have gone to any meeting from Nirmal Akhada do not have any validity and if necessary, legal action will be taken against such people.”Representatives of the Nirmal Akhara had supported the second faction of ABAP, which held a meeting at Haridwar early this month.Shrimant Someshvaranand of Agni Akhara said, “The election conducted in Haridwar is arbitrary and against tradition. We reject that choice. If necessary, legal action will be taken against them.”However, Mahant Rajendra Das, general secretary of ABAP’s second faction, said, “The election to the Akhada Parishad was held on October 21. The seers of all the Akhadas have got representation in the meeting and the election conducted in Shree Niranjani Akhara, Prayagraj (on Monday) is illegal and has no recognition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-abap-president-backs-bjp-wants-yogi-as-uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-again-101635168306838.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan drugs case: NCB orders internal inquiry into Sail’s allegations||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday ordered an internal inquiry into claims by Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the cruise ship drugs raid involving Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, that he overheard his employer, KP Gosvai, speak on the phone about extorting ₹25 crore to settle the case, and that an amount of ₹8 crore was supposedly to be paid to a senior NCB official.An NCB statement put out within hours of the allegations surfacing on social media on Sunday rebutted the allegations. On Monday, NCB officials said a three-member panel led by the agency’s chief vigilance officer and deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh will inquire into the allegations.Prabhakar Sail, who claimed to have worked as a bodyguard of KP Gosavi who was seen with federal drugs enforcement agency officials at the October 3 raid on a cruise ship, also said in a notarised affidavit that he was forced to sign blank papers on that night.Gosavi, one of the witnesses in the case, could not be contacted for his comments. He is on the run and the Mumbai police, which have issued a lookout notice on him.Sail allegedly heard Gosavi and another person discussing an amount of ₹25 crore, out of which ₹8 crore was supposedly to be paid to a senior NCB official, he said in a notarised affidavit. Sail said he overheard Gosavi talking to someone by the name of Sam D’Souza on the phone after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the October 3 raid. Gosavi suggested that a demand of ₹25 crore be made which could be negotiated to ₹18 crore, as they “have to give ₹eight crore to Sameer Wankhede”, the zonal director of NCB.Wankhede has repeatedly rejected the charge since Sunday when the allegations first emerged. On Sunday, he told reporters that “we will give a befitting reply” to the allegations, and wrote to Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale to request that no precipitate legal action is carried out with ulterior motives to frame him. NCB sleuths on October 2 conducted searches at the International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate in Mumbai and apprehended several individuals set to board Cordelia cruise leaving for a holiday cruise to Goa, including Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha for possession and consumption of banned drugs. The agency officials also searched rooms of some of the guests on board the cruise ship and seized multiple drugs in small quantities. Subsequently, the agency has arrested 12 more persons in connection with the drug seizures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-ncb-orders-internal-inquiry-into-sail-s-allegations-101635168006803.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Drunk man driving SUV crashes against tempo in Delhi; 1 killed, 3 injured||A 25-year-old drunk man driving home in an SUV after watching the India-Pakistan cricket match at a hotel allegedly hit a tempo in southeast Delhi's Kalkaji, killing its driver and injuring three people, including a 15-year-old boy, police said on Monday.The sports utility vehicle (SUV) driver, Aaditya Khurana, was apprehended on the spot on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday in front of the Triton hospital at Outer Ring Road and later arrested, a senior police officer said.The tempo driver, Radhey Shyam (35), received serious head injuries. He was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre where he was declared dead, police said.According to them, the incident occurred on the stretch between Nehru Place to Okhla carriageway. The tempo was on way to deliver a consignment of festival related-items to a shop when it was allegedly hit by the SUV from behind, police said."The impact was such that the tempo's cabin got detached from its chassis, severely injuring the driver and another person seated in the cabin."Two persons, who were at the back of the tempo, were also injured," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) Esha Pandey.Information about the incident was received around 1.50 am on Monday. While the diver was declared dead at the trauma centre, the rest are undergoing treatment at the facility and are out of danger, she said.The injured have been identified as Pankaj (21) from Kalkaji, Pankaj (15), of Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district and Neeraj Aggarwal (36), a resident of west Delhi's Bakkarwala.The tempo driver hailed from Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district and was living in outer Delhi's Nangloi area.According to a police officer, Khurana was found to be under the influence of alcohol during the time of the incident. He was returning from a hotel after watching the India-Pakistan T20 cricket world cup match with his friends on Sunday night, the officer said."We have registered a case against the accused driver under section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of other) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder)," Pandey said.Khurana, a resident of Freinds Colony, was employed in the marketing sector but is unemployed now. He was preparing for competitive exams while his father is a cloth merchant in Chandni Chowk, police said. PTI AMP NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/drunk-man-driving-suv-crashes-against-tempo-in-delhi-1-killed-3-injured-101635166554077.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||NDPS court disposes of NCB plea against interference in Aryan Khan case||A special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Monday disposed of an application of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to pass directions against interference in the drugs-on-cruise case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is an accused.The court said as the case was already before the Bombay High Court in the form of bail applications of accused, including that of Aryan, the agency should move the HC for proper directions in this regard.The high court is scheduled to hear the bail pleas filed by Aryan (23) and his co-accused in the drugs case Munmun Dhamecha on Tuesday.Aryan Khan drugs case: Sameer Wankhede denies allegations, ready to face probeThe court also said it cannot pass a blanket order barring courts from taking cognizance of an affidavit of an independent witness, Prabhakar Sail, who has levelled allegations of extortion attempt by NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede and others on the Bollywood star.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government on Monday provided police protection to Sail. Home minister Dilip Walse Patil said the same was done as sought by the witness.Earlier in the day, the NCB and Wankhede filed two separate affidavits before the special court against the allegations. The anti-drugs agency and Wankhede had urged the court to pass an order saying no court should take cognizance of the affidavit prepared by the independent witness, Prabhakar Sail.Also read | Ananya Panday not appearing today, has sought more time, says NCBAs per the NCB and its zonal director, the allegations made by Sail were only an attempt to create hurdles and scuttle the investigation into the case. The central agency had also sought the court to pass appropriate orders to ensure there is no tampering with the evidence or investigation in the case.Special judge VV Patil, designated to hear cases related to the NDPS Act, disposed of the affidavits, saying such blanket orders cannot be passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ndps-court-disposes-of-ncb-plea-against-interference-in-aryan-khan-case-101635167202541.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||₹100-cr black income detected, ₹23-cr unaccounted cash seized by I-T dept during raid in Nashik||The Income Tax Department has detected unaccounted for monetary assets worth ₹100 crore and seized cash to the tune of ₹23.45 crore after a raid on a Nashik-based real estate aggregator, the finance ministry said on Monday.“The Income Tax Department carried out a search and seizure operation on October 21 in the case of a person engaged in the real estate business, primarily operating as a land aggregator in Nashik, Maharashtra,” the finance ministry said, adding that the evidence gathered are being examined.According to the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), most of the people involved were engaged in wholesale trading of onions and other cash crops in the Pimpalgaon Baswant region of Maharashtra.The CBDT added that the “incriminating” evidence seized by the I-T department included records of large amounts of cash transactions made by the traders for investments in properties, land agreements, notarised documents. Bank lockers were also found during the search operation and have been sealed and put under prohibitory orders."The main persons who had invested their unaccounted for income towards purchase of large patches of land, were also searched," the CBDT said in a statement. Further investigations are in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rs-100-cr-black-income-detected-rs-23-cr-unaccounted-cash-seized-by-i-t-dept-during-raid-in-nashik-101635165295564.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP contesting on core issue of development: HP CM Jai Ram Thakur||The stakes are high for chief minister Jai Ram Thakur as the Mandi Lok Sabha and three assembly byelections on October 30 are being seen as a test of his popularity with Himachal Pradesh heading for elections next year. Despite issues such as unemployment and inflation besides infighting in the BJP, the CM is confident of the party continuing its winning run in the byelections, too. Excerpts: What is your government’s biggest achievement in the past four years? The BJP government has worked for the all-around development of the state in accordance with the mantra of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Despite two years of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has ensured that the pace of progress is unhindered and development projects worth ₹4,200 crore have been inaugurated. We conceptualised the global investors’ meet in 2019 to reestablish Himachal Pradesh as a favoured investment destination We targeted an investment of ₹96,456 crore but the pandemic hit our plans. The BJP says you’re a double engine government but the opposition says it has failed. The opposition has always been critical and this may be its perception but the fact is the other way round. The Centre has been considerate towards the developmental demands of Himachal Pradesh. Projects worth crores sanctioned by it for the state are testimony to this. Do you see the elections as a litmus test? Will the outcome be a test of your popularity? There is no doubt that every election is crucial. Ultimately, the thing that matters is people’s verdict. We won the 2019 byelections, municipal corporation elections, panchayat elections and now we will win these byelections, too. There was infighting in the BJP over ticket allocation. Chetan Bragta rebelled, while former legislator Govind Ram, ex-MP Kripal Parmar refused to campaign. Indiscipline in the party won’t be tolerated. The high command has taken a serious view. After the bypolls, the party will gear up for the assembly elections. The party is preparing a report and those involved in indiscipline will be taken to task. The Congress has accused the BJP of deflecting attention from the core issues of rising prices, unemployment and corruption. The Congress is a leaderless, issueless and directionless party whose base is eroding. Everyone wants to be its supreme leader. The BJP is contesting these elections on the core issue of development. Unemployment is a global issue. Inflation is not happening for the first time. Covid has impacted world economies. The central and state governments are trying to bail out people from this situation. Our government is giving relief to the common man whether it’s through the public distribution system or subsidised ration. The Union health ministry has warned eight states, including Himachal Pradesh, of a Covid-19 surge due to rallies, festivals and reopening of schools. How is the government dealing with this situation? The state government is aware of the situation and taking preventive and safety measures. People are being motivated to adhere to the safety protocol. We have been holding smaller gatherings. Besides, we have achieved 100% target of vaccinating people above 18 years with the first dose and aiming at full vaccination by November-end. I seek a feedback from the health department on the Covid situation daily. There have been talks of a change in leadership in the state. Do you see yourself as completing the five-year term? This is a hypothetical question. It is a wish of a handful of people who want me to go but that won’t happen. The BJP government will be re-elected in 2022 as well. The people have given a massive mandate to the BJP in the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda and home minister Amit Shah have reposed full faith in me.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-contesting-on-core-issue-of-development-hp-cm-jai-ram-thakur-101635166206814.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Oases of wit and humour in the desert of banking||When I landed in the desert of a banking job after flying for a while on the wings of literary aspirations, I felt a bit parched and suffocated. As the official correspondence was dominated by clichéd expressions and hackneyed phrases, providing little scope for giving vent to one’s flair for writing or witty self-expression, I resigned myself to the dreary banking life and routine officialese. But during my long career, I did come across, though not very often, some pen-pushers who used their pungent wit or humorous turn of phrase wherever they could find an occasion. A few juicy instances still stand out in memory even after 12 years of retirement. Once, during my posting at the zonal office of the bank, I dealt with the sanctions for expenditures incurred by the branches. Those days, we did not usually give permission for the use of taxi for carrying cash from one branch to another and insisted that the ordinary bus be used instead. But a branch manager pleaded his case with such a witty metaphor that I could not help but allow him the use of a taxi. He had written, “The buses are so crowded that it’s difficult to keep one’s body and soul together not to speak of the gun and the cash box by the guard.” In another instance, we received a request for permission to purchase furniture and fixtures for a newly opened branch and also for its manager’s residence. It included the requisition for six ceiling fans and four pedestal fans. As happens in most zonal offices, such requests are not acceded to in the first instance. Thus, a routine query was mailed to the branch, “Please specify where these fans will be used.” We wanted to ascertain how many of these fans would be used in the branch premises and how many at the manager’s residence. But the manager wrote back, perhaps with his tongue discreetly in his cheek, “Sir, the ceiling fans will be used on ceilings and the pedestal ones on pedestals.” Simple and harmless enough but laced with caustic wit! Sometimes, senior executives are also caught off guard. They become a butt of a joke and cause an amusing repartee. Once, a note for payment of gratuity and terminal benefits of an employee of the bank was put up for sanction before the chief general manager. The case was that of a deceased employee, but the CGM, taking it for a routine retirement case, wrote a remark in red ink as to why such claims are not processed at least six months in advance. The officer down the ladder could not digest the remark and wrote back, apparently in an attempt to clear the misunderstanding, “Sir, we would have prepared the papers in advance, but the employee failed to provide us with the intimation of his premature death well in time.” I don’t know whether this reply reached the CGM’s table or not, but whoever read it on the way could not suppress a smile. My most treasured piece in this context is an unusual compliment paid to me by my boss. Noticing my aptitude for detecting grammatical or syntactical slips and correcting them, he used to send to me various drafts for approval before finalizing them. Once when I spotted yet another glaring but not so easily noticeable mistake in the draft, he wrote on the margin, “Mr Parmar, these days you are doing better than VVS Laxman!” It took me some time to realise what he actually meant. VVS Laxman had the reputation of being one of the best slip fielders in the Indian cricket team those days. parmar.ranbir@gmail.com The writer is a Shimla-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oases-of-wit-and-humour-in-the-desert-of-banking-101635165006448.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||All-party meeting in Punjab demands Centre to roll back notification extending BSF’s jurisdiction||An all-party meeting in Chandigarh to discuss the Centre’s decision to extend the Border Security Force’s (BSF) jurisdiction in the border states, has unanimously passed a resolution that the notification should be rolled back by the Union government.The parties also decided to call on a session of the state assembly, if the Centre sticks with its decision, news agency ANI reported, citing Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi.“All parties unanimously passed a resolution that this notification be rolled back (by Central Govt). If the government does not do it, parties decided that a session of Vidhan Sabha be called over this,” ANI quoted CM Channi as saying after the all-party meeting."As this is a matter related to Punjab and Punjabis, and because law and order is a state subject and it's like a raid on our rights in the federal structure, all political parties in Punjab will come together in the fight to make Centre withdraw the notification,” he also said.Also read | Mamata says Centre's BSF move meant to hurt federal structure, borders peacefulBriefing on his government’s plan of action against the extension of BSF’s jurisdiction, Channi said that the Punjab assembly would be convened in the next 10 or 15 days and a resolution against the notification would be passed. He also said that a resolution against the three contentious farm laws would also be passed during the session.The chief minister said that the state government would approach the Supreme Court regarding the matter. “Political parties will hold agitations against the extension of BSF jurisdiction in Punjab. We will also approach the Supreme Court seeking justice in this matter,” he added.Earlier on Monday, leaders from various political parties such as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) attended the meeting in Punjab convened by Channi. However, the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) boycotted the meeting saying that there was no conflict between the BSF and the state police, ANI had reported.Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu also said that public order was the responsibility of the state government and accused the Centre of weakening the country’s federal structure. In a series of tweets, he also said that the Centre was creating a “state within a state.”Centre is weakening country’s federal structure, by creating “a State within a State” BSF means Border Security Force, What is definition of border ? 50 Kms ?? Public order, which connotes public peace & safety is primarily the responsibility of State Govt (Entry 1, State list).“Centre is weakening country’s federal structure, by creating “a State within a State” BSF means Border Security Force, What is definition of border ? 50 Kms ?? Public order, which connotes public peace & safety is primarily the responsibility of State Govt (Entry 1, State list),” he tweeted.He further alleged that in West Bengal, another border state, the BSF “violated” the constitutional provision of the country in the “name of security and there is a possibility that instances of torture, false cases, arbitrary detention and illegal arrests would happen in Punjab too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/allparty-meeting-in-punjab-demands-centre-to-roll-back-notification-extending-bsf-s-jurisdiction-101635163139231.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||2015 ‘bir’ theft case: Production warrant issued to ‘arrest’ Ram Rahim||Over a year after jailed Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was named accused in a case connected with the Bargari sacrilege, a Faridkot court on Monday issued a production warrant against him for October 29.Punjab police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases on Monday moved an application in the court of judicial magistrate Tarjani seeking a production warrant of Ram Rahim for his ‘arrest’ in a case of sacrilege wherein a ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of Faridkot district on June 1, 2015.SIT-led by inspector general of police Surinder Pal Singh Parmar has said in its plea filed in the court of the judicial magistrate that the statement of a witness Pardeep Kumar and the evidence came forward in the investigation conducted by SIT is enough for the arrest of the Ram Rahim in the case of theft of a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. “The production warrant of Ram Rahim, who is currently lodged in Sunaria jail at Rohtak, is required so he can be produced in the court and formally arrested in the case,” the plea reads. Judicial magistrate Tarjani directed the SIT to produce Ram Rahim in the court before or on October 29. In July 2020, after the arrest of seven dera followers in a case pertaining to the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala in 2015, the SIT, led by former inspector general of police Ranbir Singh Khatra, had named Ram Rahim and the dera’s three national committee members—Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri— as accused. The ‘bir’ was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the ‘bir’ were found scattered in front of a gurdwara in the adjoining Bargari village, which had caused outrage across the state and the death of two Sikh protesters in police firing. The SIT in its chargesheet had claimed that it was Ram Rahim who had ordered the sacrilege after a Sikh preacher had insulted his followers. “Some dera followers arrested in connection with the sacrilege case revealed that Mohinderpal Singh Bittu, who was killed in a Nabha jail in 2019, told them that the sacrilege was executed at the behest of the dera chief. During a diwan (religious congregation) on March 22, 2015, Harjinder Singh Manjhi, a Sikh preacher, asked some dera followers to remove their lockets or leave. Bittu raised the issue with Bareta, Kler and Dhuri, who saw it as an act of sacrilege and decided to take revenge. The sacrilege conspiracy was hatched thereafter,” the SIT chargesheet says.  SIT probing police firing failed to quiz Ram Rahim In April 2019, the SIT probing the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases had also secured orders from a Faridkot court to question Ram Rahim. However, the Sunaria jail authorities refused to let the team meet the dera head saying that permission had not been taken from the deputy commissioner. In June 2019, the SIT finally got permission from the Haryana government for questioning the dera head in jail. However, the SIT-led by retired inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh never went to question Ram Rahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-bir-theft-case-sit-seeks-production-warrant-to-arrest-ram-rahim-101635164526314.html
25-10-2021||Jaipur||Petrol pumps in 8 Rajasthan districts on indefinite strike to demand lower VAT||JAIPUR: Nearly 1,500 petrol pumps in eight districts of Rajasthan close to the state’s borders with Haryana and Punjab on Monday went on an indefinite strike on Monday to demand that the state government reduce the 6 percentage point increase in value-added tax (VAT) on diesel during the Covid-19 pandemic starting March 2020.The petrol pump dealers have also sought a ban on the sale of illegally sourced and smuggled diesel from neighbouring states, base oil or paraffin in form of biodiesel in the division, one-state-one-price for fuel, lower VAT rate on the lines of Punjab and Haryana, and reduction in the storage limit for farmers from 2,500 litres to 1,000 litres.Because of the levies, petrol and diesel are sold in Sri Ganganagar, the state’s northernmost district, for ₹120 per litre and diesel at ₹108 per litre, said chairman, steering committee of Rajasthan Petroleum Dealer Association, Rajendra Singh Bhati.“Our protest will continue till our demands are met,” he said. Bhati said over 1,500 petrol pumps in eight districts, Bikaner, Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Churu, Pali, Barmer, Jalore and Jhunjhunu, remained closed on Monday. Besides, some pumps in two districts, Nagaur and Jaisalmer, also participated in the strike.He said these eight districts generate revenue of ₹32 crore per day for the state. Bhati said petrol pump owners lost out due to the high taxes because of smuggling from Punjab and Haryana, where state taxes are much lower. “Several pumps in these eight districts had to shut because of drop in sales,” he claimed. As a result of the levies and transportation charges, petrol and diesel in Churu on Monday were priced at ₹116.80 per litre and ₹107.88 per litre respectively, as compared to ₹108.45 per litre (petrol) and ₹98.36 per litre (diesel) in Punjab’s Bathinda, and ₹109.26 (petrol) and ₹98.05 (diesel) in Haryana’s Sirsa.Bhati said the existing limit allowing people to store up to 2,500 litres of diesel for farming was being abused, and used to smuggle the fuel from neighbouring states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/petrol-pumps-in-8-rajasthan-districts-on-indefinite-strike-to-demand-lower-vat-101635163926545.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||A need for designing better closures for eye drops bottles||Ophthalmic solutions or eye drops are probably one of the most fast moving pharmaceutical products. You buy them to treat a variety of viral and bacterial eye infections, irritations, allergies and dry eyes. They are also used for treating eye injuries, before testing your eyes and before and after eye surgery. However, consumer complaints indicate that the quality as well as the design of closures used in containers of eye drops and even ear drops leave much to be desired. In fact, flawed closures have raised issues of safety and also economy of use, thereby calling for urgent intervention by the drug control authorities.The container closure system, including the seal , the outer cap and the solution dispensing nozzle, play an extremely important role in maintaining the sterility of the solution within and preventing their contamination during use. So a good quality closure system not only has to ensure these, but also regulate the volume of the eye drops dispensed to prevent wastage and also ensure ease of use. It’s extremely important to ensure that the closures meet all these requirements.Most of these closure systems consist of a cap covering the dispenser unit, with an attached seal ring or ‘tamper-evident’ seal at the bottom. When you first unscrew the cap, you automatically break the seal, thereby separating the ring from the cap. Sometimes this ring may break and fall off on its own. But most of the time , you have to remove the cap and then the ring, put the cap back and apply adequate torque, so that the spike underneath the cap pierces the dropper tip and makes a small hole through which the liquid comes out in drops.Consumer complaints reveal that the biggest problem with this closure is the poor quality of the piercing mechanism. Sometimes either the barb is not sharp or long enough to pierce the nozzle or there is some cap tube misalignment that prevents the spike from making an aperture, thereby denying access to the medicine. What makes matters worse is the refusal of chemists to change such bottles on the ground that the consumer has broken the seal. What they fail to understand is that such bottles are defective and need to be replaced and the defect reported to the drug company and the regulator.A consumer recently told me that in desperation, he tried to pierce a hole by heating a needle and plunging it into the tip of the nozzle. However, to his horror, the plastic melted from the heat and he was not sure if that had contaminated the solution- so he had to throw away the bottle. A defect such as this is a safety hazard, if the consumer is forced to pierce a hole, thereby contaminating the solution. This problem, from all accounts, exists in bottles that have closures without seals too.Even where the spike works and makes an aperture in the nozzle, consumers say that they often have to use considerable force to twist and turn the cap and succeed only after several attempts. Considering that many senior citizens use several of these solutions following a cataract operation and may not have very strong or dexterous fingers, this is a very serious flaw and needs to be rectified. In fact the closure system needs to be simplified to ensure breaking of the ‘tamper evident’ seal and opening of the nozzle in one simple easy step.Consumers also report on the variations in the way the dispenser releases the medication. While with some bottles, the drops fall in quick succession, wasting medication, and in some others, it is so slow that by the time it drops, you would have blinked and closed your eyes. The volume is also often much more than the eye can hold. Given the steep price of these medications, the drug control authority really needs to ensure that the bottle, the nozzle design and the size of the aperture ensure proper control over the volume as well as the speed of dispensation.In fact, several studies around the world have focused on the need to reduce the drop volume of the medication, so as to bring down the cost, particularly for those on long term medication, such as glaucoma patients. A study on the topic published in the Journal of Advanced Pharmaceutical Technology and Research in 2011 ( Shiva Kumar et al) for example, concluded that “a drop size greater than 25 μL (microliter) will cause wastage of the medication and unnecessary expenses to the patient. Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that the maximal tear film concentration can be achieved with a drop of 20 μL. While increasing the eye drop’s size beyond this does not increase efficacy, reducing the eye drop’s size will decrease wastage.”It’s time the drug regulator looked closely at these issues and ensured better quality of closures to ensure safety, efficacy and economy of use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-need-for-designing-better-closures-for-eye-drops-bottles-101635161705678.html
25-10-2021||Kolkata||‘Prepare to reopen schools, colleges from Nov 16’: Banerjee tells officials||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday asked officials to prepare for the reopening of schools and colleges from November 16. “Let schools and colleges reopen from November 16. Make arrangements so that all institutions are sanitised before that,” Banerjee told chief secretary H K Dwivedi at a meeting in Siliguri during her five-day North Bengal tour. Banerjee said educational institutes will reopen for students from class 9 onwards. The rest will remain closed for now. Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das welcomed the decision. “I do not think virtual education can replace physical classes.”Educational institutions in Bengal have been closed for around 18 months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Banerjee had earlier said they will reopen after the Durga Puja but did not announce a date. On Monday, she said the reopening should take place after Jagatdhatri Puja on November 13.Kunal Sarkar, a doctor, said education has suffered a lot because of the prolonged closure of schools and colleges. “This was necessary. However, people of the state, who showed little regard for health protocols during Durga Puja festivities, must act responsibly.”The final examinations of the West Bengal government’s secondary and higher secondary boards were held in June. The syllabi were reduced by over 30% and qualifying examinations for both tests were done away with.Ranjana Roychaudhury, the headteacher of Manimala High School in Asansol, said the safety of students would be ensured if classes for are held on alternate days. “Mentally we are ready to reopen the school. We have around 900 students. To avoid crowding, it would be better if the classes for various sections are held on alternate days. This is a suggestion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/prepare-to-reopen-schools-colleges-from-nov-16-banerjee-tells-officials-101635160628342.html
25-10-2021||Pune||Countdown to PMC polls: Traffic, lack of parking, poor water supply are Shivajinagar’s major woes||PUNE Around five decades ago when the city was largely limited to the peth areas, it used to boast two clean rivers passing through Shivajinagar. With rapid urbanisation and the city’s inability to prevent sewage from entering the Mutha and the Mula rivers at their confluence in Sangamwadi, the Mula-Mutha today is essentially a “nullah”.Welcome to Shivajinagar – an area that covers Ghole road, Aundh and the Kasba peth ward offices of the PMC. Deccan, Prabhat road, Erandwane, and the University road are also part of the Sivajinagar area. The commercial development of these areas has seen traffic and a lack of parking become major civic challenges.For other areas like and Aundh, where the population is largely the IT workforce, given its proximity to the Hinjewadi IT Park, frequent power cuts and water scarcity is a problem. According to Anup Shitole, a 38-year-old IT professional, the traffic at Savitraibai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk has been a mess even when there was no flyover, after its construction and now when it has been demolished. “After demolishing the flyover at University chowk, we believed that traffic will be smooth, but it is not happening. In fact it has only worsened,” said Shitole, a resident of the area. The main reason for a delay in the construction of the flyover is the proposed Metro work between Shivajinagar and Hinjewadi that passes through the same stretch. Multilevel flyover at SPPU chowk The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), which is executing the Metro project on this stretch, has already prepared a design for a multilevel flyover at SPPU chowk on Ganeshkhind road and submitted it to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The PMRDA has demanded that PMC should share some cost of this flyover, though it is getting built along a Metro line. The flyover was demolished last year during the national lockdown with the promise of a new one to come up immediately. The slow pace of the Metro rail project between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar may now further delay the flyover. Residents from several areas under Shivajinagar will be beneficiaries of two other Metro lines – Swargate-Nigdi and Kothrud-Ramwadi. These two lines also pass through Shivajinagar, where a multi-modal hub is coming up and work has been expedited. Maha-Metro plans to operationalise two stretches on these two lines by the end of this year. Parking has been a major issue in this area, that has seen drastic commercialisation with banks and restaurants coming up in various areas in the past decade. Bylanes provide the parking which in turns causes an inconvenience to those residing there. Sanjay Upsani, working with automobile firm and a resident of Deep Bungalow chowk said, “Traffic is the main issue here for which neither PMC nor the police have done anything. With so many youngsters flocking around on bikes and cars, the problem has intensified.” The area has some prominent educational institutions like Fergusson College, BMCC, SPPU and the Agriculture college, besides the Pune courts, MSTRC bus stop and a railway station. Due to this, the constant inflow of people coming from other parts of city is high, which often results in traffic chaos. Even as wards under Shivajinagar are the heart of the city, there is a mix of new and old areas, with water shortages also an issue. With water coming in at low pressure, many have installed pumps to draw more water from the pipelines. According to locals, areas like Model Colony, FC road, Gokhale nagar and Bopodi have been facing water problems. Even though municipal commissioner’s official residence is in Model Colony, it has also been facing a water problem. The water issueOn the political front, all 12 corporators representing various wards under Shivajinagar are from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). These corporators have accepted that water scarcity in the heart of the city is acute. However, the 24x7 water scheme is being cited as the solution. Citizens don’t agree. “I live in Model Colony and water shortage is almost a daily problem here. I am doubtful about claims being made that post implementation of 24x7 water scheme, the issue will be resolved,” said Omkar Natu, 32 year old management executive working with a bank. Besides the areas mentioned above, Bopodi, Khadki, the old Mumbai-Pune highway, Wakadewadi, Patil estate, Shivajjinagar and Deccan also fall under this constituency. Most of these areas have seen some widened footpaths and better roads. Snehal Shah, 27-year-old medical professional said, “JM and FC roads are really good for pedestrians. At the same time there is an issue of encroachments. Also the e-toilets installed by PMC are not functioning.” All the credit, all the blameCredit for all projects implemented in various parts of Shivajinagar goes to the BJP, as does the blame for failed projects. Opposition parties claim that apart from the Metro, the BJP have nothing substantial to show. NCP leader Nilesh Nikam said, “Despite having clear mandate, BJP has failed to deliver. Some of the busiest roads fall under Shivajinagar, but in the name of ‘smart’ roads, PMC has actually reduced the carriageway leading to traffic jams.” Congress leader Datta Bahirat, who a runner-up in the assembly elections, said, “Check the budget for each member and work carried out by them. We plan to publish a report card very soon.” The BJP MLA and PMC corporator from the area Siddharth Shirole hits back: “During last five years, we ensured that all the mega projects have been fast tracked. All the land required for the metro project is getting handed over. Work on Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar Metro will start on the ground by December. A consultant has been appointed for the Balbharati-Paud road project.”Shirole points to JM road, FC road, SB road, and Aundh road, all developed as “smart roads” and claims these roads are now major attraction in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/countdown-to-pmc-polls-traffic-lack-of-parking-poor-water-supply-are-shivajinagar-s-major-woes-101635160267543.html
25-10-2021||Pune||Monday Musings:Narendra Dabholkar murder case now at trial stage; justice for rationalist in sight?||Every year since 2013, a group of people—mostly activists – gather near the Balgandharva auditorium in Pune during the third week of August, demanding justice for rationalist Narendra Dabholkar. This year was no exception, except there were two groups with the same cause. They gathered on different days holding placards seeking justice to the rationalist. Like every year, Dabholkar’s friends gathered here to rededicate themselves to carrying forward his work and strengthening the movement.Dabholkar, the genial doctor, social activist, rationalist, writer and editor, was the face of the anti-superstition movement in Maharashtra for more than two decades. As the Dabholkar case has now reached the stage of the trial in Pune court, his supporters and all those who believe in the cause he took up can find a partial solace. After all, the investigation into his murder has on previous occasions meandered, while moving at snail’s pace. Earlier this month, the prosecution submitted a list of 32 witnesses for examination during the trial before the special court which has posted the matter for October 29 for a much-awaited trial.The yearly scene at Ramji Shinde bridge near Balgandharva, the place where Dabholkar was shot dead by two unidentified gunmen on August 20, 2013, may not be reminiscent of protests during the criminal trial at Los Angeles County Superior Court involving OJ Simpson but the two cases have something in similar if not everything.On the evening of June 12, 1994, former National Football League player Simpson’s ex-wife Nicole Browne Simpson and her friend Ron Goldman were found stabbed to death. The subsequent arrest of Simpson and the trial afterwards turned the case into black versus white, shown effectively through the crime television series – American crime story – on Netflix. Simpson’s lawyers used his arrest and hearing as “another instance of implicating”, dividing opinion among America’s black and white communities.Back home, the arrests of right-wing outfit Sanatan Sanstha members in the anti-superstition crusader’s murder hasn’t pleased many left-leaning activists as the case has completed eight years recently. They believe the real mastermind of the Dabholkar murder is still at large and the probe agency has been delaying the arrest of the kingpin. On the other hand, Hindutva organisations including Sanatan Sanstha has refuted their role in the killing saying they are being targeted by the government – the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which arrested these men comes under the Centre which is controlled by the rightwing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) under Narendra Modi since 2014.So far, CBI has arrested eight people, including two alleged shooters Sachin Andure and Sharad Kalaskar. The central probe agency, however, had to change its theory about shooters, who according to CBI’s earlier chargesheet were Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar.Most of these arrests, which came after pressure from the high court, may have helped move the case in court, but those working in the field of anti-superstition aren’t convinced about the progress. After Dabholkar, three other rationalists – Govind Pansare, MM Kalburgi, Gauri Lankesh – were similarly shot dead. Multiple agencies grappled with Dabholkar’s case: the Pune Police formed 30 teams, the crime branch first arrested two men, who were then let off, before finally, the CBI took over in May 2014.All this while, the movement against superstition has received larger attention after Dabholkar’s murder. From less than 2,000 workers, mainly from Maharashtra, a few years ago, Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS), the organisation Dabholkar founded in the late 1980s, now has over 6,000 registered members from across the country spreading his message of scientific temper.However, it also saw schism as cracks developed between members of the Dabholkar family and those running MANS, which he co-founded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-narendra-dabholkar-murder-case-now-at-trial-stage-justice-for-rationalist-in-sight-101635158765993.html
25-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls happening because Nitish govt didn't provide treatment to his MLAs: Tejashwi Yadav||Ahead of By-polls in Bihar, Leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Monday slammed Chief Minister and JD-U President Nitish Kumar over "poor health facilities" in Bihar and alleged that the need to conduct by-polls has arisen because Kumar could not provide proper medical treatment to the MLAs of his own party.Speaking to reporters here today, the RJD leader said, "In the NITI Aayog report, Bihar is the worst-performing state in Health. These by-elections are happening because CM Nitish Kumar's government didn't provide treatment even to their MLAs. So on what basis will Nitish Kumar ask for votes from the public."The RJD leader further alleged that both the MLAs died because of the bad medical facilities in the state.He said, "By-elections are being held in both the places because of bad arrangements of the government during the COVID period. Because of that, all those people were admitted to the private hospital. Mevalal Choudhary died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Patna and Shashi Bhushan Hazari went to Delhi for treatment."The Election Commission of India, earlier on September 28, announced by-polls for three parliamentary and 30 assembly seats across 15 states and Union territories (UTs) in the country. Voting for the By-elections in Kusheshwar Asthan (SC) and Tarapur assembly constituencies in Bihar will take place on October 30, while the counting of votes and announcement of results will be on November 2.The Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan seats had fallen vacant following the death of sitting MLAs Mewalal Choudhary and Shashibhushan Hazari, respectively.Claiming that people have lost faith in the current Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar, Tejashwi further expressed confidence that RJD candidates will win from both seats."In the last election, the NDA government promised to give 19 lakh jobs to people. How many people got jobs? So on what basis will Nitish Kumar ask for votes from the public? We have visited each and every village and panchayat of the district and people are worried, they have lost faith in the state government. We have full faith that people are with us and RJD candidates will win from both Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur," he added.The RJD leader further alleged that Nitish Kumar is running the state for the past 15 years, yet there is no development in Bihar, adding that people in the state are complaining about the inflation and bad conditions of roads."He is running the state for the last 15 years but there is no development in the state. People showed faith in Nitish Kumar but today people are worried now. They are complaining about the inflation and bad condition of roads," said the RJD leader.He also challenged Nitish Kumar to take a road trip in all the three blocks of Kusheshwarsthan."I challenge Nitish Kumar to take road trip in all the three blocks of Kusheshwarsthan. We do not say that one should not campaign by helicopter. Due to lack of time, people campaign through helicopter, but being a chief minister he should visit villages to see the developments," he added.Voting for the by-polls will take place from 6 am to 7.30 pm on October 30.Meanwhile, the Election Commission had banned the dissemination of opinion and exit polls results before the 48-hours period till the polling ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-happening-because-nitish-govt-didn-t-provide-treatment-to-his-mlas-tejashwi-yadav-101635155120847.html
25-10-2021||Kolkata||Schools, colleges in West Bengal to reopen from Nov 16, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced that schools and colleges in the state will reopen for physical classes from November 16. As of now, only tstudents of classes 9 to 12 can attend schools.The West Bengal government had in September hinted that it might allow schools and colleges to reopen in the state after the festive season, provided the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) don't see a spurt.Educational institutes across the state remained shut for in-campus classes since the nationwide lockdown was announced in March 2020, to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in India.The West Bengal, meanwhile, asked all the state government-run and aided schools to prepare for the reopening next month. According to reports, the secondary and higher secondary schools have been asked to wrap up the process of repairing and sanitising the classrooms by the end of October.ALSO READ | West Bengal to vaccinate college, university students before reopening educational institutionsThe announcement comes ahead of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) announcing the dates for offline semester board examinations in November. However, daily cases of Covid-19 have been witnessing a steady rise since the past one week, after Durga Puja ended, with the state administration bringing back containment zones to check the spread of the virus.On Sunday, Kolkata reported 273 single-day Covid-19 cases, the highest spike among other districts in the state while North 24 Parganas registered 146 cases. Overall, West Bengal logged 974 new cases on Saturday and 989 infections on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/schools-colleges-in-west-bengal-to-reopen-from-nov-15-says-mamata-banerjee-101635152283779.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||After Nawab Malik’s latest tweet attack, Sameer Wankhede lists names of family||Under attack from Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) official Sameer Wankhede on Monday issued a press release saying the charges levelled against him are “defamatory in nature and unnecessary invasion of my family privacy.” Wankhede is investigating the cruise drugs seizure case, in which Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is one of the accused.Wankhede’s release came after Nawab Malik shared what looked like the NCB official's birth certificate on Twitter earlier in the day and seemed to suggest that the NCB zonal director has used forged documents.Wankhede, a 2008 batch Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer, said he belongs to "a composite, multi-religious and secular family in true Indian tradition and I am proud of my heritage”. “In this context, I would like to express that my father Sh. Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede retired as Senior Police Inspector of State Excise Department, Pune on 30.06.2007. My father is a Hindu and my mother Late Mrs. Zaheeda was a Muslim,” he said.Also read | Aryan Khan case: Being targeted because of my dead mother, says Sameer WankhedeThe NCB zonal director in Mumbai also listed both his marriages in the press release. “Further, I married Dr. Shabana Qureshi in 2006 in a civil marriage ceremony under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. Both of as divorced mutually through Civil Court under the Special Marriage Act in the year 2016. Later in the year 2017, I married Shrimati Kranti Dinanath Redkar,” he added.“The publishing of my personal documents on Twitter is defamatory in nature and unnecessary invasion of my family privacy. It is intended to malign me, my family, my father and my late mother,” Wankhede said in the release.Also read | 'Aryan has a future ahead, should be …’: Union minister's advice for Shah Rukh“The series of acts of Hon'ble Minister over the past few days have put me and my family under tremendous mental and emotional pressure. I am pained by the nature of personal, defamatory and slanderous attacks by Hon'ble Minister without any justification,” he added.Wankhede also approached a special court in Mumbai against allegations of extortion levelled against them in the cruise drugs seizure case. Wankhede in his affidavit refuted the allegations levelled against him and claimed he was under a "lurking threat of arrest as it does not suit some vested interests for conducting an honest and impartial investigation".Wankhede also claimed that he was being personally targeted by a well-known political figure and the only reason he can fathom is that the NCB arrested "this person's son-in-law Sameer Khan". Sameer Khan is the son-in-law of Nawab Malik.On Sunday, the NCB official also wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue.Also read | NCB replies to 'extortion' allegation, Nawab Malik says SIT should probeWankhede, without naming anyone, claimed that the threat of jail and dismissal have been issued against him publically by highly respectable public functionaries.An NCB team led by Wankhede earlier this month allegedly seized drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following which Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3. He is currently lodged in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai. His bail application is likely to be heard by the Bombay High Court on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-nawab-malik-s-latest-tweet-attack-sameer-wankhede-lists-names-of-family-101635152967021.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmiri students allegedly attacked at Punjab college post-Ind Vs Pak T20 WC||Two groups of students of a private engineering college in Sangrur clashed after India lost to Pakistan in a cricket match on Sunday night. According to the college management and police, the students involved in the clash belonged to Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. However, a video of the incident was widely shared on social media in which it was alleged that Kashmiri students were beaten up. Also read: Singhu border lynching: NCSC says Punjab govt abdicated responsibilityThe police said that it was a scuffle between two groups of students who were watching the T-20 cricket match and the scuffle broke out after India lost. The video showed that pro-Pakistan slogans were raised before the clash. “All students are friends but they got into a scuffle last night. The matter has been resolved amicably,” said senior superintendent of police Swapan Sharma. Bhai Gurdas Institute of Engineering and Technology director Tanuja Srivastava said that the two groups of students started raising slogans after the match and it led to a clash. However, the boys’ hostel warden pacified them. “There is no injury to any student and all students are safe. There are 50 students from Kashmir and 30 students from UP and Bihar in the college. Initially, the clash took place between three to four students whose rooms are adjacent to each other but later around 40 of them gathered there,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scuffle-between-kashmiri-up-bihar-students-at-punjab-college-after-india-pak-cricket-match-101635153725561.html
25-10-2021||Noida||UP cops booked for extortion, illegally keeping 3 men at police station||Four unnamed Uttar Pradesh Police personnel are among six people booked for extortion and illegally keeping three Noida-based men at a police station in Ghaziabad where one of them was allegedly forced to sign two bank cheques of ₹5 lakh each, officials said.The accused policemen are posted in Ghaziabad while the FIR has been lodged at the Phase 3 police station in Noida over the October 23 incident, the officials said.The 50-year-old complainant Leelu said some time back he had taken money on loan from Bahlolpur village-resident Rajendra Yadav and returned the amount to him.“On Saturday morning, Yadav, his son Amit and four policemen showed up at my residence in Noida Sector 68's village Garhi Chaukhandi. Me, my brother and my nephew were forcefully picked up from our residence by them and taken to Indirapuram police station,” Leelu alleged.“At the police station, I was forced to sign two cheques of ₹5 lakh each of my bank account in a branch located in Nirman Vihar in Delhi. It was only after handing over the cheques to them that we could manage to leave the police station,” he alleged.Leelu along with his brother and his nephew approached the Noida Police after being “released” from the Indirapuram police station in Ghaziabad to lodge a complaint, an official said.“On the basis of the complaint, an FIR was lodged at the Phase 3 police station against Rajendra Yadav, his son Amit and four unidentified police personnel,” a Noida police spokesperson said.The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 342 (wrongful confinement) and 384 (extortion), the police said, adding the matter is being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-cops-booked-for-extortion-illegally-keeping-3-men-at-police-station-101635150972914.html
25-10-2021||Jaipur||Stalker kills woman in Rajasthan||A 22-year-old stalker allegedly killed a woman with a sharp-edged weapon and then clung onto her body lying in a pool of blood at Thanwala in Rajasthan’s Jalore district on Sunday.Police said the accused had been stalking the woman, a mother of two whose husband works in Maharashtra, for some time and was pressuring her to get into a relationship with him. When she spurned him, he allegedly murdered her, they added.Niranjan Pratap Singh, a local police officer, said the accused was arrested on Monday and was being produced in a local court. He added the 32-year-old woman’s post-mortem has been conducted and her body was handed over to her family. Singh said the victim and the accused belong to the same village.Singh cited the complaint of the woman’s brother-in-law and added the accused came to a site where the woman was working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and started shouting: “I would not leave you alive.” He then started hitting the woman continuously with the sharp-edged weapon. The villagers informed the police and separated the accused from the body. Police said the man was unconscious and taken to a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/stalker-kills-woman-in-rajasthan-101635147908360.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Winter arrives early in Himachal: Sub-zero temperatures in Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur||Winter has arrived earlier than usual in Himachal Pradesh with Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts experiencing sub-zero temperatures after Sunday’s snowfall. Though the sky cleared on Monday, Keylong recorded a low of minus 5 degrees Celsius and Kalpa 0.6 degree after heavy snowfall a day before. The snowfall brought life to a standstill in the tribal regions of Lahaul-Spiti and Pangi in Chamba district. More than 50 roads were blocked due to snowfall in the region. Gondla got 15cm snow, Hansa and Khadrala 5cm each and Keylong 3cm.Also read: After alleged attack, Omar asks Punjab CM to reassure Kashmiri studentsThe Manali-Leh highway was also closed for traffic beyond Darcha due to snowfall on the mountain passes, while the Gramphu-Kaza national highway was blocked at Kunzum Pass. More than 300 people from Zanskar in Kargil district are stranded at various places, including Manali and Kullu, due to the snowfall at Shinkula Pass. The local administration has made arrangements for their stay and food. The stranded people are mostly pilgrims on their way to pay obeisance at Trilokinath Temple. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar has cautioned people to avoid travelling to snowbound areas until the situation improves. Superintendent of police Manav Verma said all vehicles except heavy vehicles will be allowed to enter Lahaul as the weather has cleared. “Traffic towards Leh will not be allowed as roads are closed,” he said. Apple growers worried as harvest was onPower supply has also been snapped in some areas. The snowfall has left apple growers worried. Plucking of the fruit has been stopped due to the weather but there are reports of damage to apple trees in some areas. Keylong, the administrative centre of Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest in the state recording a low of minus 5 degrees Celsius followed by 0.6 degree Celsius in Kalpa. Shimla cold at 6.4 degrees, Manali 5 degrees State capital Shimla recorded a low of 6.4 degrees and the tourist resort of Manali 5 degrees Celsius. Kufri shivered at 2.9 degrees, Dalhousie 6.1, Palampur 9.2 degrees and Dharamshala 10.2 degrees. Shimla meteorological centre director Surender Paul said the minimum temperatures were 3-4 degrees below normal and maximum temperatures dip 7-8 degrees since Sunday. Rajgarh gets maximum rain Meanwhile, Rajgarh was the wettest recording 77mm rain. Kasauli received 68 mm rain, Naina Devi 52mm, Amb 43mm, Dharampur and Solan 34mm each, Tissa 32mm, Renuka 30mm, Baldwara 27mm and Manali 24mm. The MeT department has forecast dry weather till October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/winter-arrives-early-in-himachal-sub-zero-temperatures-in-lahaul-spiti-kinnaur-101635147905858.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan drugs case: Being targeted because of my dead mother, says Sameer Wankhede||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who is leading an investigation into the drugs bust case involving Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, said on Monday he was being targeted and is ready for a probe himself.“My family, including my sister and deceased mother, are being targeted,” Sameer Wankhede told the judge in the special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Acts, according to news agency ANI.The news agency also reported that two affidavits have been filed in the case—one by the NCB and another by Wankhede.Bar And Bench also reported that the central agency and Sameer Wankhede have moved the Mumbai sessions court seeking directions to prevent attempts to create hurdles and scuttle the ongoing investigation. The NCB has said that there should be no tampering with evidence or the investigation.Also read | 'Aryan has a future ahead, should be …’: Union minister's advice for Shah RukhWankhede's counsel told the court that personal allegations are being made against the official and his family members. "Why are there allegations against my family members? Is it because of my supervisory position? Is it only to divert me and make me fail in court," he asked."I am open for any kind of investigation or inquiry. I have 15 years of record. But such allegations only to target my personal life and work is not done," he said.On Sunday, an independent witness in the cruise drugs case claimed that ₹25 crore was demanded by an NCB official and others, including absconding witness KP Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan. Prabhakar Sail said that he overheard Gosavi telling someone called Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of ₹25 crore after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the October 2 raid and "to settle at ₹18 crore as they have “to give RS 8 crore to Sameer Wankhede”. He also claimed NCB officials asked him to sign nine to ten blank papers.However, a senior NCB official denied the allegations as "completely false and malicious".Also watch | Aryan Khan's new video, claim by witness Gosavi's 'ex-aide' spark new storm
25-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka logs 388 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5 more deaths||Karnataka reported 388 new Covid-19 cases, 586 recoveries and five deaths on Sunday, said the state's health department.The total cases in the state climbed to 29,85,986 including 8,711 active cases.With new recoveries in the state, the total recoveries touched 29,39,239.The death toll in the state is 38,007. Karnataka's case fatality rate stands at 1.28 per cent and the positivity rate on Sunday was recorded to be 0.32 per cent.Of the five deaths reported on Sunday, four were from Bengaluru Urban and one was from Tumakuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-logs-388-fresh-covid-19-cases-5-more-deaths-101635135486099.html
25-10-2021||Kolkata||Containment zones back in Bengal as Covid-19 cases shoot up after Durga puja||With the daily count of Covid-19 cases shooting up in West Bengal once again after the festive season, the state administration has started re-introducing containment zones to check the spread of the virus and prevent a possible third wave. Containment zones have already come up in Howrah and North 24 Parganas, the districts with the highest number of daily cases after Kolkata. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation is likely to decide on the matter on Monday. Barely 10 days have gone since the Durga puja, the biggest festival in the state, ended in West Bengal and the daily count of Covid-19 cases is again hovering around the 1000-mark, after a gap of more than three months. “While 974 new cases were detected in the state on Saturday, on Sunday, the number shot up further to 989. Such a high number of cases was last detected in July this year when the second wave was on the decline,” said a senior health department official. The positivity rate has been steadily going up in the state as well. While the positivity rate on September 24 was 1.7% it shot up to 2.1% on October 10. On Sunday, it was 2.3%. Even though the puja started on October 11, the festivity and shopping started much before. “Under such circumstances, the state government and district administrations have decided to bring in the containment zones. The night curfew, from 11 pm to 5 am, which was lifted during the puja, has been imposed again,” said a senior government official. Already 56 containment zones have been declared in North 24 Parganas. In Howrah, 14 such zones have been introduced. On Sunday, while Kolkata reported 273 new cases, the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases among other districts in the state, North 24 Parganas registered 146 cases. Howrah registered 83 cases. South 24 Parganas, which shares its borders with Kolkata, recorded 74 cases while Hooghly reported 89 cases. Health experts have been blaming the rise in Covid-19 cases on the huge gatherings during the Durga puja and rampant violations of safety norms. “During the puja days there were huge gatherings outside pandals and people from Kolkata and outskirts hit the streets in thousands. Covid-19 protocols were rampantly violated,” said Dr Manas Gumta, general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors in the state. Experts earlier warned that at least two weeks following the Durga puja would be crucial to check the spread of the virus and prevent a possible third wave. “Covid-19 safety protocols were rampantly flouted during the festive season. Many were not wearing masks, leaving aside social distancing and sanitizing. Two weeks following the puja would be very crucial,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, member of the expert committee that was set up in 2020 to advise chief minister Mamata Banerjee on pandemic-related matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/containment-zones-back-in-west-bengal-as-covid-19-cases-shoot-up-after-durga-puja-101635136265530.html
25-10-2021||Kolkata||'Don't keep mask hanging from chin': Mamata amid recent spike in Covid cases||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has appealed to the people of the state to follow all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related safety protocols after the recent spike in the number of infections since the start of the festive season.Chief minister Banerjee requested people to wear the mask properly, covering the nose to prevent being infected."Please wear the mask properly. The number of Covid cases registered a spike after Durga Puja. Hence, you must follow the Covid safety precautions, do not keep the mask hanging from your chin," she said at a meeting on Sunday.Ahead of the upcoming festivities in West Bengal--Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhat Puja--Banerjee also urged people to observe all virus safety norms.The daily Covid-19 tally in West Bengal crossed the 900-mark for a second consecutive day on Sunday as 989 cases were reported, which pushed the state's caseload to 1,586,455. On Saturday, 974 people were detected as Covid-19 positive while 846 cases were reported on Friday.The number of deaths in Bengal is nearing the 20,000-mark while 1,559,518 patients have been recovered so far. The active cases are also on a high at 7,882.Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and Hooghly are some of the worst-hit areas in the state.During the Durga Puja festival which ended on October 15, people in large numbers were seen visiting pandals which experts said might have contributed to the recent surge in infections.A total of 18,928,189 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far. On the vaccination front, authorities have administered 71,803,863 doses to beneficiaries of which 52,173,222 have received the first dose and the remaining 19,630,641 are fully inoculated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/dont-keep-mask-hanging-from-chin-mamata-amid-recent-spike-in-covid-cases-101635131872281.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s death toll breaches 140k mark, amid dip in Covid fatalities||Even as Covid-19 deaths are on a steady decline, Maharashtra’s death toll breached the 140,000 mark, with its tally touching 140,016 on Sunday. Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 1,410 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths, official data showed.The first wave which started on March 9, 2020, and went up to February 9, saw 2,048,802 cases and 51,360 deaths. Against it, the second wave which continues has logged 88,656 deaths. Although fewer deaths and new cases have been reported in the past 24 days of October, the fatality rate has been high at 1.86%, as the number of deaths recorded during this period is 949 with 50,966 new cases. In contrast, the fatality rate in September for the first 24 days was 1.68 %, with 87,033 new cases and 1,463 deaths. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “A fatality rate of less than 2% indicates the virus is under control. In addition, we have been able to control the death rate as our focus is on critical cases. Even in case of new patients, we isolate and arrange instant medication.” Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said the death rate could have been much lower had the authorities been cautious after the first wave.“The authorities just dismantled the temporary infrastructure they had readied in the first wave and acted as if Covid-19 has disappeared. They should have used the period before the second wave to beef up the entire health infrastructure in anticipation of the second wave. The history of pandemics has shown there will be multiple waves, but all this was ignored,” said Shaikh. He even blamed the citizens, saying they took part in large gatherings after October last year and hardly wore a mask. Mumbai saw 400 new cases with six deaths. The case tally is 754,507 and the death toll is 16,213. A total of 130,732 tests were done on Sunday, while the number of recoveries was 1,520. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 23,894, while the total number of deaths has now reached 140,016.There are currently 23,894 active patients across the state, wherein Pune tops with 7,210 patients, followed by Mumbai with 5,075 active patients and Thane with 3,295.The death toll has now reached 140,016, with Pune leading with 19,574 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 16,213 and Thane with 11,418.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-dip-in-covid-19-fatalities-maharashtra-s-death-toll-breaches-140k-mark-101635132545772.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||'Aryan Khan has a future ahead, should be …’: Union minister’s advice for Shah Rukh Khan||Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale has advised Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan to send his son Aryan Khan, who has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case, to a rehabilitation centre."It is not good to take drugs at a young age. Aryan Khan has a future ahead. I advise Shah Rukh Khan to send Aryan Khan to a de-addiction rehabilitation centre associated with the ministry," Athawale told ANI on Sunday.“He should be there for one to two months instead of keeping him in jail. There are a lot of such centres across the country. In one to two months, he will be cured of drug addiction,” he added.Also read | Witness in Aryan case levels extortion charge, NCB deniesThe Union minister also said that a new law should be formulated under which the accused should not be sent to jail.Also Watch | 'Bomb of 25 crore...': Aryan Khan's new video, claim by witness Gosavi's 'ex-aide' spark new stormUnion minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale has advised Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan to send his son Aryan Khan, who has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case, to a rehabilitation centre."It is not good to take drugs at a young age. Aryan Khan has a future ahead. I advise Shah Rukh Khan to send Aryan Khan to a de-addiction rehabilitation centre associated with the ministry," Athawale told ANI on Sunday.“He should be there for one to two months instead of keeping him in jail. There are a lot of such centres across the country. In one to two months, he will be cured of drug addiction,” he added.Also read | Witness in Aryan case levels extortion charge, NCB deniesThe Union minister also said that a new law should be formulated under which the accused should not be sent to jail.|#+|Athawale also praised the NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede for his investigation into the cruise drugs case. “The court has received a bail petition at least five to six times but was rejected. This shows that NCB has full approval and it is wrong to say that his arrest is unlawful," he said.Also read | Don't imprison small-time drug offenders, ministry suggests change in NDPS ActAryan Khan and some others were arrested by the NCB on October 3, a day after a team led by Sameer Wankhede busted an alleged drugs party on the cruise ship which was on its way to Goa. So far, 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, have been arrested in the case.Athawale also criticised Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik over his allegations against Wankhede that the NCB official extorted money from people from the film industry in Maldives and Dubai. "Nawab Malik is attempting character assassination of Sameer Wankhede. I request Nawab Malik to not falsely accuse someone.""During Covid, the entire (film) industry was in the Maldives... The officer and his family were also there. Sameer Wankhede has to explain about his visit to Dubai and Maldives. We are sure that this 'ugahi' (extortion) happened in Maldives and Dubai. I will give you photos soon," the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader told reporters.NCB’s deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain has denied the allegations against Wankhede and said that there was no application from the agency's zonal director for going to Dubai.Also read | 'Put a bomb of ₹25 cr': What KP Gosavi's ex-aide 'exposed' on Aryan Khan case"Sameer Wankhede, IRS joined NCB on loan basis on August 31, 2020 and after this, he has not submitted any application for Ex-lndia leave to Dubai. As per the approval of Competent Authority, the officer has availed Ex-lndia leave along with his family to Maldives,” the agency said in a statement.On Sunday, Wankhede wrote to the Mumbai Police commissioner requesting him to "ensure that no precipitate legal action is carried out to frame me with ulterior motives."Notably, Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested on January 13 this year by the NCB in connection with a drug case. Sameer Khan was granted bail on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/-aryan-khan-has-a-future-ahead-should-be-union-minister-s-advice-for-shah-rukh-khan-101635122990817.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||From today, Maharashtra to start special vaccination drive for college students||From Monday, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra will begin a special vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for college students between the ages of 18-25. Teachers and other staff members will also be given the jab under the drive, which will continue till November 2.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, while announcing the special inoculation drive on October 21, said that vaccination, especially among the youth, is the need of the hour as they have to travel the most. Tope added that those universities and colleges which perform well in this inoculation drive will be rewarded.Colleges in Maharashtra reopened on October 20 amid an improvement in the overall pandemic situation. However, the state government said that all colleges and universities should still offer online classes for those students who are unable to attend physical classes.There are nearly four million college students across Maharashtra, including all those pursuing higher education, technical education, medical studies or are enrolled in non-affiliated and private colleges. Earlier, the state government planned to register the details of all such students and their vaccination status and accordingly plan the drive in their colleges.Authorities in Maharashtra have administered 95,165,513 vaccine doses so far of which 65,519,863 beneficiaries have received the first dose while the remaining 29,645,650 are fully vaccinated against Covid-19.Meanwhile, the state's caseload on Sunday climbed to 6,602,961 after 1,410 new cases of Covid-19 were registered in the last 24 hours. More than 1,500 patients recovered and 18 died due to the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths to 6,435,439 and 140,016 respectively. There are currently 23,894 active patients across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/from-today-maharashtra-to-start-special-vaccination-drive-for-college-students-101635120130976.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cruise drugs case: Ananya Pandey summoned by NCB again today||Bollywood actor Ananya Pandey has been summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday for the third round of questioning in connection with the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case. Ananya was questioned by the agency on Friday for over four hours.Last Thursday, Ananya was questioned for more than two hours by the NCB in the drugs-on-cruise case after her name allegedly cropped up in WhatsApp chats during the agency's probe in the case in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and others have been arrested. An official speaking on condition of anonymity told Hindustan Times that Ananya maintained that she has never used any narcotics and the chats with Aryan Khan were in a light vein.On Wednesday, the NCB raided Ananya's house in Mumbai's Bandra before sending her a summon to appear before it later in the day to record her statement. The NCB officials seized her laptop and mobile phone during the raid. The actor then reached the NCB office along with her actor father Chunkey Pandey at around 4pm.Aryan Khan was arrested following a raid on a cruise ship anchored at the International Cruise Terminal in Mumbai on October 2. The cruise ship was on its way to Goa when NCB searched the guests and arrested Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and others.Last Wednesday, a special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act denied bail to Aryan, saying there was prima facie evidence that he was indulging in “illicit drug activities” on a regular basis, and could commit a similar offence if released.Aryan is presently lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road central prison. His father Shah Rukh Khan met him at the prison last Thursday, the first time since his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cruise-drugs-case-ananya-pandey-summoned-by-ncb-again-today-101635119530742.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir, Sidhu slug it out over village land auction in Mohali||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday hit out at former health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for “facilitating forcible takeover of prime village land in Mohali for construction of a private hospital”.Participating in a dharna in Barri village, along with senior party leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, Badal said shamlat lands in Punjab were under capture of the Congress government.He said it was shocking that the government was planning to lease prime land worth ₹90 crore for 33 years at ₹1 lakh per year. “I have learnt that the entire gram sabha is against the move. The sarpanch even showed me a video in which Balbir Sidhu is seen pressuring the villagers to facilitate establishment of the hospital,” he said. On the other hand, Sidhu said SAD only wanted to make headlines in newspapers ahead of the Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit on October 26-27, and scare investors away.The former health minister said the land in Barri village was being leased for a world-class health facility. “But Akali leaders are blatantly betraying the interests of Punjab and Punjabis. Chandumajra has incited villagers against the land lease on flimsy grounds and now he had misled Badal to oppose the open bid slated on Monday, only to fulfil his narrow political interests and personal ambitions,” Sidhu said.Sidhu appealed to the chief minister, panchayat department and district officers to go ahead with the open bid scheduled on Monday, keeping in view the interests of the state and to convey the right message to investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-sidhu-slug-it-out-over-village-land-auction-in-mohali-101635111492238.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gharuan village set to get nagar panchayat status||Punjab chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday announced development grant of ₹68 crore for 35 villages of Kharar block in Chamkaur Sahib constituency.Besides, the CM also announced the upgrade of the historic Gharuan village as a nagar panchayat. The CM also disbursed cheques for ₹14 crore to the panchayats of these villages while sanctioning ₹54 crore more. Starting the fourth day of his Chamkaur Sahib constituency tour from Gharuan village falling in Kharar block of Mohali, Channi distributed cheques to panchayats of 35 villages during different functions. Addressing the gathering at Gharuan, the CM said that in view of the historical importance of the village, it would be upgraded to the status of a nagar panchayat so as to ensure unhindered progress, which will also prove beneficial to the nearby villages. Announcing ₹3.25 crorefor the renovation of sacred sarovar in the village, Channi said all efforts would be made to beautify and develop it as a tourist spot. The village residents thanked the CM for the project. Speaking at Garanga village, Channi said the state government had unveiled a special scheme for waiving the electricity bill arrears of consumers, up to 2 KW load and the process of waiver had been started. Appealing to the people to drive maximum benefit from the scheme, Channi said till now, arrears worth ₹77.37 crore of 96,911 consumers had been waived in the state. Channi also handed over bill waiver certificate of ₹2,26,890 to Atma Singh of Cholta Khurd. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gharuan-village-set-to-get-nagar-panchayat-status-101635111491040.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||At 27.2mm, Chandigarh records rainiest October day in 10 years||City residents woke up to a rainy morning on Sunday, which also ended up being the rainiest October day in over 10 years as clouds brought 27.2mm showers.Having received 34mm rain already, October this year has also become the wettest since 2013, when 40.2mm rain was recorded in the entire month.The 34mm precipitation is also 70% excess than the average of 19.9mm expected till October 24. This, after September recorded 175.5mm rain, a surplus of 19% and the highest since 2018. Speaking about this, IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “The Western Disturbance (WD) was weak on Saturday, but strengthened between Saturday night and Sunday. It was able to receive a good amount of moisture from the Arabian Sea.”Mercury drops to all-time lowest in OctoberFollowing the rain, the maximum temperature plunged from 31.1°C on Saturday to 19.3°C on Sunday, 12 degrees below normal and the lowest ever in October, as per IMD officials.“According to IMD data in Chandigarh, the maximum temperature hasn’t gone below 20°C in the city in October, ever since measurements were recorded,” they said.With this, Chandigarh also became colder than Solan in Himachal Pradesh, where the day temperature was 20°C, and was close to the 18.8°C temperature in Dharamshala.“Due to the WD active in the region, the cloud cover blocked the sunlight. Also, there was fresh snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, which brought cold winds to the city, causing the temperature to drop,” said Singh, adding that the WD is likely to cross the city by Monday, which will bring back clear skies.With this, the maximum temperature is expected to jump by at least 6-7 degrees and rise further in the coming days.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature dropped from 19.6 °C on Saturday to 16.2°C on Sunday. Interestingly, the maximum temperature on Sunday was lower than the minimum temperature on Saturday.Over the next three days, highs and lows of 27°C and 16°C are expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-27-2mm-chandigarh-records-rainiest-october-day-in-10-years-101635111489963.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Despite PPCB order, GMADA fails to check pollution of N-choe in Mohali||Despite the directions of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority has failed to check the discharge of industrial effluents into N-choe in Chappar Chiri, Mohali.Following a show-cause notice to GMADA under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, the officials concerned had gone in for a personal hearing before PPCB on August 24.There, GMADA officials and the district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) were told to survey the area and submit within 10 days details of projects that were not connected with the sewerage system or sewerage treatment plant (STP), or had no other legalised disposal arrangements.They were also directed to initiate necessary legal action against illegal disposals into the natural choe. But nothing has been done, proceedings of PPCB stated.PPCB superintending engineer Paramjeet Singh said as the officials failed to comply with the board’s directions, they will now write to the higher authorities of GMADA to initiate action against the officials concerned and propose a penalty.GMADA’s chief engineer Davinder Singh said, “I am not aware of the issue, but will look into it and seek a report from the officials concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-ppcb-order-gmada-fails-to-check-pollution-of-n-choe-in-mohali-101635111488139.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area’s dengue cases shoot up to 193||As many as 193 fresh dengue infections were reported in the tricity on Sunday, a 31% jump from the 147 cases on Saturday.Mohali was the biggest contributor to the spike with 135 cases, while 34 and 24 people were found infected in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively.Worst-affected by the outbreak, Mohali has already confirmed 2,116 dengue cases, whereas Chandigarh’s tally stands at 615 and Panchkula’s at 446. Struggling to control the rise in infections, Mohali has also lost 21 residents to the viral infection. As many as three people have died in Chandigarh. Panchkula has reported no death till now.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur reiterated that maximum dengue cases in the district were surfacing in the urban areas of Phases 3B1, 4 and 5, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Kurali. Among the total deaths, 12 were reported from these areas, she added. Majority of confirmed cases in Chandigarh are coming from Daria, Manimajra and Bapu Dham Colony, besides Sectors 46 and 56.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-s-dengue-cases-shoot-up-to-193-101635111486818.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali cigarette seller refuses to loan matchbox to duo, son stabbed to death||Two men stabbed a 20-year-old youth to death after his father refused to give them a matchbox on loan in Sector 82 on Saturday evening.The accused, Bhupinder Singh, of Dhan Singh village, Bathinda, and Rinku, of Jagatpura village, Mohali, have been arrested.The victim, Prince Kumar, hailed from Chhapra in Bihar, and currently lived with his family in Kambala village, Kharar.“Prince had a juice stall in Sector 82 and his father, Mukhtiar Singh, sells cigarettes nearby. On Saturday, both accused approached Mukhtiar to borrow a matchbox, but he refused as they already owed him ₹500. This led to heated arguments, when Prince rushed to his father’s aid,” said Bhagwant Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sohana police station.“The duo left, but returned soon after from their workshop nearby and stabbed Prince in the abdomen several times. He was rushed to a private hospital in Sohana, where he was declared brought dead,” the SHO added.The accused have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.They were produced before a court that sent them to three-day police remand. The victim’s body was handed over to the family after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-cigarette-seller-refuses-to-loan-matchbox-to-duo-son-stabbed-to-death-101635111485768.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Seeking help, conwoman drives off with Ambala man’s car||An act of kindness cost an Ambala resident dear after a woman drove off with his car on the pretext of visiting her ailing mother in Balongi on Sunday.The victim, Mandeep Singh, a resident of Ambala, told the police that his friend Ram Kalan had told him to visit Zirakpur to hand over some money to a person. When he called the phone number given by Kalan, a woman, identifying herself as Arshpreet Kaur of Nangal, answered the call and asked him to come to a hotel in Balongi. Mandeep said when he reached the spot, the woman took the money and told him that she needed his car urgently to visit her mother, who was admitted at a nearby hospital. Considering her plight, he allowed her to take his Maruti Suzuki Swift car. But she didn’t return by the promised time and her phone was also switched off.Realising he had been cheated, Mandeep approached the Balongi police station, where a case under Section 379 (theft), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. Police have launched a manhunt to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seeking-help-conwoman-drives-off-with-ambala-man-s-car-101635111484647.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dakshin Marg most dangerous road in Chandigarh for third straight year||For the third year in a row, Dakshin Marg continues to be the most dangerous road in the city, according to the Road Safety in Chandigarh 2020 report released by the traffic police.As per the reports’ findings, the number of fatalities halved between 2019 and 2020, and the number of black spots also went down from 14 to four.However, all four of these spots are situated on Dakshin Marg, one after the other on National Highway-5, going from Tribune Chowk towards Zirakpur, and covering a length of around 5km.Starting from the Sectors 25/38 light point in the west, Dakshin Marg traverses the whole width of the city, before ending at the road connecting to the Zirakpur-Ambala highway.The Union ministry of road transport and highways defines black spots as a road stretch of about 500m where either five road crashes, involving fatalities and grievous injuries, or 10 fatalities took place during the last three years. Among these four black spots, Tribune Chowk was the most dangerous with seven fatal accidents.The other three – Airport light point, Poultry Farm Chowk and Hallomajra light point – saw six fatal accidents each. All these four points were also among the 14 black spots identified in Chandigarh in 2019.Punjab traffic adviser Navdeep Asija, whose team also worked on this report, said, “Data shows that the Sector 32 GMCH Chowk, on the same stretch of Dakshin Marg, has continued to remain without fatal accidents, but the four intersections after it are all black spots. This is because of the presence of speed tables on this intersection, which forces vehicles to stop. Rather than looking at flashy solutions, like the Tribune flyover, which will lead to further problems, simple traffic control mechanisms like this are needed to control traffic at Tribune Chowk.” According to a recent daily traffic flow study by the administration, as many as 1,43,170 vehicles, including 1,35,805 passenger car units, ply via Tribune Chowk over 16 hours.Six vulnerable stretches also identifiedThe traffic police also identified six vulnerable stretches in the city, which don’t meet the criteria for black spots, but still have seen numerous accidents, both fatal and non-fatal. Most of these were earlier black spots.Among these, three spots – the Sector 46/47-48/49 light point, Transport light point and Railway Station light point, had 10 crashes each, including a total of 10 fatalities.As many as nine accidents took place at the Kalagram and Sector 25/38 light point, with loss of nine lives, while six crashes were reported at the Sector 16/23 small roundabout, where four people died.Speaking about this, member of National Road Safety Council, Kamaljeet Singh Soi said, “Vulnerable spots are also important as commuters are at risk of accidents here. The authorities must conduct studies to prevent these areas from turning into black spots.”Meanwhile, the traffic police have increased deployment around black spots to manage the traffic in a better manner.Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic) Manisha Choudhary said, “The road accident analysis cell of the Children’s Traffic Park visits every accident spot to find out why the mishaps happened and suggests corrective action. Night nakas are also set up in accident-prone areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dakshin-marg-most-dangerous-road-in-chandigarh-for-third-straight-year-101635111483473.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||2 die in Kashmir after vehicle gets stuck in the snow||Two people were killed after the vehicle they were travelling was stranded in the snow on Sinthan Pass in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Sunday.The victims, Imtiyaz Ahmad and Dawood Majeed, were a driver and conductor of a vegetable vehicle. Two others were rescued from the area and are being treated for hypothermia and shock, officials said. Anantnag deputy commissioner Piyush Singla said a rescue operation was launched by the administration, police, army and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) during the night. “Two vehicles and four people were stuck on the pass. We tried to rescue them during the day, but were unable to establish contact. Had we halted the operation for the night, none of the four would have survived. “There was heavy snowfall and we pushed men and machinery, including excavators and a JCB, to clear the road. We also took the help of the army. The teams were finally able to reach them around 5am,” he said.On Saturday, three persons, who were putting up in tents at Awantipora, died after a soil embankment collapsed due to heavy rainfall in Pulwama district. The three belonged to nomad community from Jammu’s Rajouri district.Weather improves after record rainfallA day after the region received record rainfall and the season’s first snow, the weather cleared on Sunday. While traffic was not allowed to ply on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway, stranded vehicles were allowed to move once the blockades were cleared. “The road will open for traffic on Monday, if weather stays pleasant,” an official of the traffic control room said. The weather office said the spell brought record rainfall in many parts of the region.The Srinagar observatory of the meteorological department recorded a cumulative rainfall of 66mm on Friday and Saturday. “The previous extreme rainfall record for the month of October in Srinagar was 65.4mm in 1966,” said deputy director MeT Mukhtar Ahmad. The mountainous resort of Pahalgam received 111mm rainfall against 6. 2mm record in October, 1982.In Jammu, Katra recorded 124.5mm rain breaking the record of 92.2mm rain in October, 2000.J&K director meteorological department Sonam Lotus said that the weather outlook for the next 10 days is mainly dry. “Light rain or snow may take place at isolated places on November 1 and 2,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-die-in-kashmir-after-vehicle-gets-stuck-in-the-snow-101635109502938.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: 21-year-old man killed, two sisters injured in Lehra mishap||A 21-year-old man was killed while his two sisters sustained injuries when the motorcycle they were travelling on collided with a truck in Lehra town of the district on Sunday.The deceased was identified as Satgur Singh of Bhattlan village in Mansa district. The trio was on its way to Dirba to buy medicine. Satgur’s sisters Sonu Rani and Aman Kaur are undergoing treatment at a local government hospital.Lehra police station chief Vijay Kumar said the accident took place near railway over bridge. The police will record statements of Satgur’s relatives and a case will be registered against the truck driver, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-21-year-old-man-killed-two-sisters-injured-in-lehra-mishap-101635109262957.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tributes paid to Lakhimpur victims as ashes reach Punjab||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha paid respect to those killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident when the ‘Asthi Kalash Yatra’ reached Handiaya town on Sunday. “Four farmers along with a journalist sacrificed their lives in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Their mortal remains will be immersed in Hussainiwala. The Asthi Kalash Yatra, after covering other parts of the country, arrived at Mansa on Saturday. It will move towards Hussainiwala via Bathinda and Kotkapura,” said Manjit Singh Dhaner, a senior leader of BKU (Ekta-Dakaunda).Farmers to hold protest at DC offices on November 26Following a call of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, farmer unions will hold protests at district headquarters and tehsils on the completion of 11 months of struggle against three farm laws on the capital’s border on November 26 across Punjab.“Farmers will organise a massive protest in front of Barnala district administration complex demanding repeal of black laws and arrest of MoS Ajay Mishra,” said BKU Dakaunda leaders.In Sangrur, Kirti Kisan Union state committee member Bhupinder Singh Longowal said farmers will hold protests at district and block levels to oppose the three agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tributes-paid-to-lakhimpur-victims-as-ashes-reach-punjab-101635109082534.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two of family among four killed in head-on collision in Patiala||Two members of a family were among four persons killed in a head-on collision between two cars on Nabha-Bhadson road on Sunday.Two of the dead were identified as Harvinder Singh, 26, and Jatinder Kumar, 40, of Matorda village of Nabha subdivision. They were travelling in their Maruti Swift car towards Bhadson. The other deceased were Gurbhachan Kaur, 75, and her great grandson Udayviraj Singh, 8. The family was on its way to Nabha from Panchkula when their car collided with Maruti Swift. Investigating officer Amrik Singh said three persons died on the spot, while Udayviraj succumbed to injuries at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh. Two more persons have sustained multiple injuries and are currently undergoing treatment at PGIMER.The police said the accident took place when one of the cars lost control due to heavy rainfall and rammed into the other near Lubana village. The bodies will be handed over to aggrieved families following autopsy, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-of-family-among-four-killed-in-head-on-collision-in-patiala-101635108842550.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab college librarians decry delinking of pay scales||The Punjab College Librarians’ Association (PCLA) has decried delinking of the pay scales of librarians from University Grants Commission (UGC) by the state government.Association president Barjinder Pal Dhiman said the department of higher education had advertised 67 posts of college librarians along with 1,091 vacancies for assistant professors in government colleges, for which minimum pay of ₹56,100 was prescribed. “However, on Saturday, the department issued a corrigendum and downgraded the minimum pay of college librarians to ₹47,600 without any logic. For both of these posts, UGC-NET in the subject concerned has been prescribed as the minimum educational qualification for recruitment,” he added. He said that college librarians enjoyed complete pay parity with assistant professors.He further said that delinking of the pay scales of both these categories from UGC and further downgrading the minimum admissible pay of college librarians was not justifiable. The association urged the Punjab government to restore the pay scales.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-college-librarians-decry-delinking-of-pay-scales-101635108662366.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda man booked for fraudulently getting divorce to remarry||The Division Number 5 police booked a Bathinda resident for furnishing false information and concealing the facts from the court to divorce his wife. The accused did not update the court about the new address of his wife following which she did not get the summons sent by the courts and the court pronounced ex-parte divorce. The accused had also solemnised marriage with another woman.The accused has been identified as Ram Gopal of Maur Mandi of Bathinda.The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Sonia Bansal, 37, of Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana. In her complaint, the woman stated that she had married the accused in 2009. Following strained relations, she had started living in a rented accommodation in Moti Nagar and had filed a case of domestic violence in court against her husband and in-laws. The court had ordered her husband to pay half of the house rent to her.She added that in 2016 she had moved to a new location in Sector 32, Chandigarh road. Meanwhile, her husband had filed a divorce case in the court, but he concealed her new address from the court. The court sent a summons to her on her old address, which she never received. Eventually, the court pronounced ex-parte divorce on October 3, 2019. After she came to know about it, she filed a complaint against him.ASI Sukhpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 177 (Furnishing false information), 182 (False information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person), 193 (false evidence), 209 (Dishonestly making false claim in court), 465 (forgery), 471 (Using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 494 (Marrying again during lifetime of husband or wife) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-man-booked-for-fraudulently-getting-divorce-to-remarry-101635108602338.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 200 bullets found buried on Sahnewal school campus||Panic gripped Pawa village after a worker found 200 bullets buried on the campus of a government school while digging the land for making a recharge pit. The Sahnewal Police lodged an FIR against unidentified persons and initiated an investigation.The bullets are foreign made. The police suspect that they had come with scrap imported from bay countries. The bullets were found by MGNREGA worker Harmel Singh of Raiyan village, who informed the contractor, Gurmukh Singh, who further sounded the police.Gurmukh Singh said the construction of toilets at Government High School, Pawa, was on. While digging to make a recharge pit, labourers noticed a sack. When they opened it, they found 200 rusty bullets in it.Sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh, SHO, Sahnewal police station, said it appeared the bullets were buried here three or more years ago.He added that a case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-200-bullets-found-buried-on-sahnewal-school-campus-101635108542917.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Illegally stored firecrackers seized, one arrested||Taking action against illegal storage of firecrackers, the police arrested a grocer who had stored crackers illegally in a hall on the first floor of his shop in Ranjit Nagar on Saturday. It is the second such incident in two days when the police have busted illegal godowns of firecrackers in the city.The accused has been identified as Arpit Mittal, 32, of Ranjit Nagar.ASI Kapil Kumar, in-charge, Sherpur police post, said the police received the information that the accused had stored a cache of firecrackers in the hall above his grocery shop.The police conducted a raid and recovered firecrackers. During the investigation, the accused told the police that he had bought firecrackers from Dhuri for sale. However, he has no licence to sell or store firecrackers.A case under Sections 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 286 (Negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) of the IPC has been registered against the accused.On Friday, the Daba police had arrested Jasdeep Singh of Satguru Nagar who had converted his house into a godown to store firecrackers illegally.Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezhian has already imposed a ban on storing firecrackers in residential areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-illegally-stored-firecrackers-seized-one-arrested-101635108482488.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 18-year-old dies in road mishap, two friends suffer injuries||An 18-year-old youth was killed while his two friends suffered injuries after an over-speeding vehicle hit their motorcycle near the Dugri Canal Bridge on Saturday. They were returning home after attending a marriage function.The Dugri police lodged an FIR against the driver of an unidentified vehicle and initiated an investigation.The deceased has been identified as 18-year-old Naresh Kumar, while the injured have been identified as Amandeep, 26, and Pawan Kumar, 20. At the time of the incident, Pawan was riding the bike while Amandeep and Naresh were pillion riders.ASI Balwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said while returning from the marriage function, the three friends were on their way to Pawan’s residence to drop him at his house. When they were crossing the Dugri Bridge, a vehicle hit them from the rear following which they fell on the road. The impact of the collision was such that Naresh died on the spot while his friends suffered severe injuries.The passers-by informed the police after which the police rushed the injured to the hospital. The doctors referred Amandeep to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, while Pawan was discharged from the hospital after administering treatment.The ASI said a case under Sections 279, 337, 338, 427 and 304-A of the IPC had been registered against the unidentified driver of the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-18-year-old-dies-in-road-mishap-two-friends-suffer-injuries-101635108424348.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: News portal owner booked for hurting religious sentiments||SBS Nagar police on Sunday booked the owner of a news portal for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of Valmiki community. Dinesh Suri, who runs a portal named PB-32 Nawanshahr, has been accused of insulting ‘Bhagwan Valmiki’ during his coverage of a religious function in SBS Nagar on October 22. Complainant Vicky Gill had lodged his complaint with SBS Nagar SSP Kanwardeep Kaur, who directed SP (investigation) Wazir Singh Khaira to conduct an inquiry in the matter. Khaira found the allegations prima facie to be true and recommended registration of an FIR in the matter. The case has been registered under Section 295-A of the Indian Penal Code at the Rahon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-news-portal-owner-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-101635108422396.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Kidnapping accused gets passport; role of police under scanner||Facing trial in a case of kidnapping, assault and hurting religious sentiments, a woman managed to get her passport without informing the court and concealing the information of the case lodged against him. After the victim pursued the matter, the Dehlon police lodged an FIR against her.With the development, the Dehlon police also came under the scanner for giving a clean chit to the woman in the passport verification. The district attorney (legal) has recommended departmental action against ASI Major Singh for issuing a report in favour of the woman.The accused has been identified as Jasvir Kaur of Sarinh village. The FIR had been lodged following a statement of Malkit Singh of the same village, who is an NRI. He had filed a complaint to the director-general of police (DGP) on October 24, 2020, following which an inquiry was marked. After one year of investigation, the police lodged an FIR under Sections 177 (Furnishing false information), 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC and Section 12 of the Passport Act against the woman.Malkit Singh alleged that the woman along with her aides had assaulted him in 2016. He lodged an FIR under Sections 341, 323, 342, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC against six persons on June 22, 2016. After investigation, the police had added Sections 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs.) and 365 (Kidnapping or abduction with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) of the IPC in the FIR. The case is under trial in court.Malkit Singh added that he had come to know that the woman had managed to get a passport issued on May 31, 2018, without the permission of the court. Moreover, she had concealed the fact about the FIR lodged against her. The police officials had issued a report in her favour without mentioning the details of the FIR.ASI Narinder Pal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a hunt was on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-kidnapping-accused-gets-passport-role-of-police-under-scanner-101635108302377.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana: Empanelled hospitals won’t refuse treatment, says Soni||Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni, who was in Ludhiana on Sunday to resolve the issues being faced by private hospitals which had stopped elective surgeries covered under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (SSBY), said the empanelled facilities will not refuse treatment to beneficiaries.Soni held a meeting with the state body of Indian Medical Association and SBI insurance and amicably resolved all the issues between them. He reiterated that 15 lakh households of Punjab will be brought under the ambit of SSBY while addressing a press conference at the Circuit House here. The deputy CM, who also holds the health portfolio, said all issues regarding pending payment and other anomalies have been sorted. He said the insurance company would pay ₹30 crore to the hospitals in next two days besides clearing remaining payments soon.Soni also said that a grievance committee would also be constituted comprising officials from health department, insurance company and representatives of IMA’s state body.He appealed to the hospitals not to refuse treatment to beneficiaries in any situation and added the state government was committed to providing best health services to the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-empanelled-hospitals-won-t-refuse-treatment-says-soni-101635108122378.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||As trains get back on track, Ludhiana sees a rise in railway deaths||With 200 of the total 228 trains starting or passing through Ludhiana railway station getting back on track amid the easing of Covid restrictions, the number of deaths on tracks, especially suicides, is also beginning to see a rise in Ludhiana. As per the data provided by railway officials, as many as 190 persons have lost their lives on railway tracks in Ludhiana till October 20 this year. Last year, when passenger trains were suspended owing to the pandemic outbreak, the figure stood at 169. According to officials most of these accidents happened with goods trains that were operational amid Covid. In 2019, the number of deaths on tracks was 348, which is more than double the figure recorded in 2020. In all three years, the maximum deaths were caused by railway accidents (see box). In 2019, the second common cause was natural deaths. In 2020 and 2021, suicides accounted for the second common reason for deaths on tracks. While in 2020, the number of railway suicides stood at 35, the mark has already been breached this year in just 10 months. In January this year, a single suicide was reported on the railway tracks in Ludhiana while in February, the figure shot up to eight and later went down to three in March. As normalcy was restored in April, the month recorded four deaths by suicide, followed by two in May, four in June, six in July, nine in August, three in September and five in the first 20 days of October. With regards to railway accidents, Ludhiana has seen a total of 124 deaths till October 20, most of it occurring when people were crossing the tracks. Inspector Jaskaran Singh, Government Railway Police, Ludhiana, said that most of the railway accident victims are migrant labourers. “These migrants work in factories near the station and sometimes relieve themselves on the tracks, which puts them at risk of being run over by a train. Other than this, people tend to cross the tracks with earphones plugged in, which also lead to accidents. Now most of the trains are electrical and don’t make noise like the diesel ones which used to ply earlier. With earphones plugged in, most are not able to hear the sound of the train and end up losing their lives while crossing the tracks,” said Jaskaran. Another senior official said that the number of suicides has also increased due to the immense mental strain brought about by the pandemic. “A lot of people are losing their jobs and facing financial difficulties. This pushes them over the edge and compels them to take the extreme step,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-trains-get-back-on-track-ludhiana-sees-a-rise-in-railway-deaths-101635108002531.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Leopard stuck in mesh rescued in Punjab’s Pathankot||Punjab forest and wildlife department successfully rescued a leopard which was stuck in a mesh in Dorang Koti village near Dhar Kalan of Pathankot.“We got information around 11am on Saturday that a leopard was wandering in the fields near the village. We dispatched our team to confirm if it really was a leopard. After it was confirmed, we constituted three teams for the rescue operation,” said Rajesh Mahajan, divisional forest officer, wildlife. “Another team of the forest department, which specialises in firing tranquilising shots, was called. The weather was not favourable and the rescue operation continued till 5.30pm, when the animal was caught with the help of a rope,” he added. Mahajan said the leopard was taken to a safe place and wire wrapped around its foot was removed. “Luckily, it did not sustain any injury and was sound and healthy. The 8ft long leopard was fully grown. Veterinary doctors who carried out its check-up certified it as fit for release in the natural habitat. On the direction of Rama Kant Mishra, principal chief conservator of forest, we released it in the same habitat from where it came,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/leopard-stuck-in-mesh-rescued-in-punjab-s-pathankot-101635107822661.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||63 dengue cases surface in Ludhiana||As many as 63 dengue cases were reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the total count of infections to 759 this year. The number of suspected cases stands at 2,308.The district had on Saturday recorded the year’s biggest single-day spike with 65 infections. For the last five days, the district has been consistently recording more than 50 cases a day. However, there is some respite on the Covid front as no new infection of the virus was detected on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/63-dengue-cases-surface-in-ludhiana-101635107102357.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Hundreds gather at Kipps market to catch Indo-Pak face-off on giant screen||Hundreds of Ludhiana residents thronged the Kipps market in Sarabha Nagar on Sunday evening to watch the high-voltage India-Pakistan T-20 World Cup face-off on the 50x20-ft wide screen installed by the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) under the Smart City Mission. It proved to be a perfect Karva Chauth outing for residents as the match started just an hour before the expected time of moon sighting. Special arrangements were made for women to break their fast as special stalls were installed in the market.The MC had also made special seating arrangements for the public. Tight security was in place during the telecast, however, Covid protocols went for a toss as residents were seen violating distancing norms. There was no visible provision for hand sanitisers either.The market, however, was completely decked up with tri-colour balloons and special lighting. Swings had also been set for children. Many got their face painted with the colours of the Indian flag, from a free stall installed at the entrance. The enthusiasm among the crowd was hard to miss. As India lost both its openers early, the roaring crowd went completely silent. The vigour was restored after Captain Virat Kohli along with batsman Surya Kumar Yadav followed by Rishabh Pant did some power hitting and steadied the Indian batting line up.As fans waived the national flags high in the air, the huge DJ system installed at the side of the screen played patriotic songs and charged the crowd as the slogans of “Vande Matram” and “Bharat Mata ki Jai” rocked the market. Blazing performances by bhangra artistes also boosted the mood of the crowd who joined in and danced to the beats of the dhol. With every power shot, fire crackers and rockets lit up the skies. The restaurants in the market were packed and a huge rush was witnessed at a few food stalls installed in the open.Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal cheered team India along with the crowd. Ludhiana DC Varinder Sharma said, “It is wonderful to see people enjoying with their families and this is what we aimed at. An Indian-Pakistan match is always full of excitement and people watching it together on big screen made it even special.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-hundreds-gather-at-kipps-market-to-catch-indo-pak-face-off-on-giant-screen-101635106923064.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 19 fresh Covid cases||The Covid case count in Himachal rose to 2,22,588 on Sunday, after 19 more people tested positive. The death toll climbed to 3,719 after one more patient succumbed to the infection. Among the fresh cases,16 were reported from Kangra, two from Bilaspur and one from Mandi. The active case tally dropped to 1,493, while recoveries reached 2,17,360 after 104 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with the case count reaching 50,177, followed by Mandi where 31,467 people have tested positive so far and Shimla with 27,449 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-19-fresh-covid-cases-101635106561574.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala police arrest two men for selling pregnancy termination kits||The Ambala police have arrested a medical practitioner and pharmacist for allegedly selling illegal pregnancy termination kits. The accused have been identified as Ashraf, 45, of Saharanpur and Ravi, 29, of Kala Amb.Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said that he had received a tip-off about Ashraf, who is selling and prescribing the kits to pregnant women. Following this, a team of three doctors led by Dr Balwinder Kaur, deputy civil surgeon, was constituted to plant a decoy patient.Dr Kaur said that on October 14, the decoy patient met Ashaf, who asked her to come on October 23. “We went again and she was given the kit manufactured containing five tablets,” she said.Following this, Ashraf was arrested, who disclosed that he got the kit from Ravi, who was also nabbed.The duo was booked at Naraingarh police station and presented before a court, that sent them to judicial custody||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-police-arrest-two-men-for-selling-pregnancy-termination-kits-101635106202506.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Heartbreak for cricket fans in Chandigarh as Pak thrash India in T20 World Cup tie||For hardcore cricket fan Prakriti Malhotra, Pakistan’s win over India in the ICC T20 World Cup in Dubai on Sunday night came as a heartbreak. The thumping 10-wicket win brought the spotlight on the Pakistan team as they won a World Cup match against India for the first time ever. Before this game, India had never lost to their arch-rivals in either ODI or T20 World Cup games.The loss dampened the festivities in the tricity as cricket fans were left disappointed.“I was really excited about the India-Pakistan game and decided to watch it with my family at home. I was fasting also during India’s batting, but I was hopeful that India would post over 170 runs. Although the wicket was not easy to play, 151 runs were not enough for a determined Pakistan team. I now want India to win all other World Cup matches and reach the final. I am a bit thrilled due to Karva Chauth festivities, but India’s loss spoiled my mood,” said 27-year-old Prakriti, a Panchkula-based entrepreneur. India posted 151 runs batting first with captain Virat Kohli making the highest 57 runs. Pakistan chased the target in 17.5 overs.India’s top order was rocked by Pakistan pacer Shaheen Shah Afridi, who claimed three wickets to put pressure on Indian batsmen. The lanky bowler took wickets of Rohit Sharma, KL Rahul and Kohli.“Pakistan came with a positive frame of mind and their bowlers bowled well. I was hoping to end my Sunday on a happy note and if India had won, it would have been an ideal start for them. All credit goes to the Pakistan team for putting up a disciplined show. This win would have lifted the spirits of cricket fans in Pakistan,” said a cricket fan, Pankaj Verma, 37. Last month, the New Zealand team called off their limited-overs tour citing security concerns while touring Pakistan. The decision had left the Pakistan cricket fraternity unimpressed.A lot of fans thronged local restaurants on Sunday evening to watch the much-anticipated match on big screens.“I made plans with my friends to watch the game on a big screen. I have come from Noida to be with my friends over Diwali. This India-Pakistan game was on my mind for a long time. I wish India had won the game and we would have gone back home smiling. As cricket fans, we are not used to seeing India lose to Pakistan in events like the World Cup. The memories of India beating Pakistan in the 2007 T20 World Cup in South Africa are still so fresh in my mind. This loss is going to hurt,” felt Varun Abbi, 39, who with a group of friends watched the game in a Sector 7 restaurant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heartbreak-for-cricket-fans-in-chandigarh-as-pak-thrash-india-in-t20-world-cup-tie-101635106092224.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Straight from the heart of home bakers||Home bakers in Lucknow are dishing out delectable goodies to make festival of lights all fun and colourful. From edible hand painted aces to poker chips, cracker box, customized chocolates, cake jars and other hampers, the creative lot have come up with an array of options. The market is flooded with sweets and bakery options by small as well as big commercial establishments but many are opting for the variety being offered by these young bakers. “Gifting sweets and cookies are a passé. When I get something like that,I just pass it on. So, this time, I chose to try a hamper from a young home baker. One, it was to support her passion and creativity, second the amount of hard work that she is infusing in is simply commendable. So, I got a hand-decorated customized box which consists candles, nuts, cake jar and assorted chocolates,” says Vishwas Yadav, a businessman. Monika Chandra has been a hobby baker since 2014 but it was from last year that she introduced creative gift hampers modelled on items relevant to Diwali. “At M’s Kitchen we call them ‘patakhe jo mum mein phute’. Inspired by my friend in Pune I came up with chocolate diyas, hand-painted rasmalai flavoured aces, poker chips in different chocolate flavour and a range of patakas like anar, sutli bomb, pistol, chakri, ladi bomb and rockets in different taste and they look same like original crackers,” she says. Youngster Aarushi Sehgal has prepared hampers containing flavoured nuts, tea cakes, assorted chocolates and candles. “The Cakewalk hampers can be customised as per buyer’s preference. Since these are for festival, we prepare them fresh and everything is eggless,” she adds. Home chef and baker Ehab Beg says, “During festival season our clients expect us to give them something innovative and different. So, we prepared customized hampers as per their need and since it’s for limited clients we are able to put all our heart, soul and creativity into it and give them truly aood stuff.” At Bhavya’s Amazin Glazin too gift hampers are a big draw which includes browines, cupcakes, tea cakers, chocolates, cookies, juices and cake jars. “These young bakers, some of them still a student, are doing very well for themselves. They are very creative and passionate about their hobbies which surely will become their career someday. I know many of my friends who just order from home bakers and chefs which ensure them personalised service, good quality and fulfillment,” says Anupriya Agarwal, an entrepreneur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/straight-from-the-heart-of-home-bakers-101635106022877.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: City escape in city’s heart||Consisting of sloped mounds, parts of the landscape resemble the sandy Chambal valley ravines that were infamous for sheltering dacoits. But here the crests and troughs of earth are carpeted with trimmed grass. And these are currently sheltering a handful of law-abiding citizens. A man is sitting still. Three folks are playing hide and seek, with a woman in blindfold. A couple is whispering into each other’s ears.Around them, an endless procession of speeding bikes, cars, autos and red DTC buses.Many years ago this used to be a smoggy square dreaded by commuters for its hour-long jams. Today, this is an island of utmost peace.It’s 6 pm in Rajiv Gandhi Setu. Opened in 2003, you might be knowing it more informally as the AIIMS flyover. (The place was featured four years back on this space but it has drastically evolved, for better, and necessities a re-appraisal). The two gardens tucked at the traffic circle’s heart exude a weekend getaway’s serenity. Only by lying flat on the grass will you be able to absorb the place’s transformative character. This evening, the rush hour sound has the calmness of lilting music — the shriek of an occasional car horn intrudes into the melody as politely as an orchestral cymbal. If you close your eyes, you feel you are swaying with this sound. Open them and you see the sky above.The serenity feels unusually intense because it is conjoined to the frantic life rushing about the circle. And since AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital are just beyond the gardens, the cool October air is frequently echoing with the wail of ambulance sirens, reminding every attentive ear of life’s frailty.The two gardens themselves have changed over the course of their brief lives. A decorative fountain has come up in one, which usually remains dry, and idlers sit on its waterless steps like audience in an amphitheatre. The sapling that was planted in a corner here years ago has matured into a giant leafy tree under which crowds gather on sunny afternoons. One more object of beauty is a narrow lane lined on both sides with flower-heavy frangipani trees.The other noticeable new sight is of the recently erected multistories across one end of the traffic circle. Built to house senior government officers, their twinkling balconies inadvertently advertise the great scope of sarkari privilege to us tax-paying citizens lounging in the gardens. In the twilight, as the sky darkens, the shiniest thing in the horizon becomes the signage of AIIMS, lit in the color of blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-city-escape-in-city-s-heart-101635105827017.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Government does not believe in buying peace in Jammu and Kashmir: L-G Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha Sunday warned those who incite people to trigger violence, saying the government does not believe in “buying peace” but is firm on ensuring peace on the ground.Sinha made these remarks at a public rally with Union home minister Amit Shah who is on his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir after the repeal of Article 370 in August 2019. Sinha said Kashmiri migrants faced “grave problems” and his administration launched an online portal to address them. “We received 6,000 complaints and out of which 2,000 have been resolved and rest will be resolved too.” He said some people are making “unholy attempts to incite emotions among of the people of Kashmir to trigger violence”.“I want to tell them that they should know whose government is there in Delhi and who India’s home minister is,” he said, warning the trouble-mongers, “The government does not believe in buying peace, but it believes in firm implementation of peace on the ground in J&K.” The LG said the government will defend peace and ensure the life of people in Jammu and Kashmir is safeguarded.“We want to assure you -- the way the Union home minister conveyed to us in the security meeting -- I want to reassure you that it is our prime duty and responsibility to safeguard the life and properties of 1.25 crore people of this UT, particularly those belonging to the minority community,” he said. The LG also mentioned the killings of 11 civilian in the valley in October alone. Five of those killed were labourers from Bihar, while three, including two teachers, belonged to minority communities in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/government-does-not-believe-in-buying-peace-in-jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-manoj-sinha-101635105842260.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mehbooba slams CDS Rawat’s remarks on curbs in Kashmir||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday charged that “repression” was the Centre’s only method to deal with the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.Reacting to the remarks by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat warning of further curbs in Kashmir to tackle the recent violence, Mehbooba also said his statement “contradicts” the official narrative that all is well in the valley.“Even after turning Kashmir into an open air prison, Bipin Rawat’s statement comes as no surprise because repression is GOIs only method to deal with the situation in J&K. It also contradicts their official narrative that all is well here,” she alleged on Twitter.While delivering the first Ravi Kant Singh Memorial Lecture in Assam on Saturday, Rawat said the freedom of movement that people in and Kashmir were starting to enjoy in recent times may be disrupted due to the current situation and urged for people’s cooperation in tackling the situation.The PDP chief wondered what more measures were left to be implemented after “stringent, harsh & repressive measures” like “mass arrests”, suspension of internet at will, and setting up new security bunkers.“After taking such stringent, harsh & repressive measures like mass arrests, suspension of internet at will, frisking people (not sparing even kids), seizing bikes plus two wheelers & setting up new security bunkers all over what is left to do?” the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehbooba-slams-cds-rawat-s-remarks-on-curbs-in-kashmir-101635105423804.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Proposal for 21-acre dairy complex approved by Haryana government||The Haryana government has approved the Ambala Sadar municipal council’s proposal to develop a dairy complex spread across 21 acres at Brahmin Majra village.The complex will have a capacity to house approximately 5,000 cattle, that will be shifted from at least 300 dairies under the council limits, officials said.Sandeep Solanki, executive officer of MC Sadar Zone, said that the project will be carried out at a cost of ₹5.06 crore and the process to register the site under MC’s name will begin this week.It has been a long pending demand of locals to shift the dairies out of the residential areas, as most of them don’t have facilities to dispose animal waste, which flow into sewer lines and choke large drains.However, the project has already been delayed for over a decade, primarily due to unavailability of land. Now, the upcoming complex will help improve hygiene in the region, as all the dairies will come under one roof. The village panchayat has also passed a resolution on this.Home and health minister Anil Vij, who represents the Cantonment constituency in the state assembly, said that this modern dairy complex will have a veterinary hospital for free treatment of animals, a biogas plant, fodder store and pond. “The budget has been approved and a long pending demand of the residents will be fulfilled,” the minister said.Scall-scale dairy owners in city left anxiousAs the Ambala municipal corporation ramps up the process to shift cattle from almost 250 dairies under city limits to Kanwala or Katholi dairy complexes, the owners of small-scale farms have been left anxious.Megha Ishu Goyal, councillor from ward number 9, said that such farmers have no way out as they don’t have any other employment option and cannot afford to shift. “They were not allotted plots at the complex in 2004 and MC have warned many of them for operating illegally. The civic body should look into the matter or allot plots to them in other areas,” she said.Kicking-off seizure of animals of from dairies that were not allotted any space, an MC team gave notices to four owners on Saturday with a two-day warning, Mandeep Singh, sanitary inspector (city zone), said.MC commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said that according to a 2004 survey, the dairies were allotted land in the two complexes. “No re-survey can be done and those left can’t operate under MC limits,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-proposal-for-21-acre-dairy-complex-approved-by-haryana-government-101635105422311.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Wall of government school collapses, damages car||A portion of the wall of Government Senior Secondary School, Model Town, collapsed on Sunday morning, damaging a car parked near it.Fortunately, no one was injured in the accident. Anubhav Sharma, who lives opposite the school and is also the owner of the damaged car, said the wall collapsed due to the negligence of school authorities.“Around 4 am, we heard a loud thud. We rushed outside and found that the wall of the school had collapsed and debris had landed on my car. Had someone been inside the car at the time, it may have proved fatal,” said Anubhav.He added that the school authorities are not ready to take responsibility for the damage. “It was a holiday in the school or else it would have put the lives of students at risk,” said Anubhav.Charanpreet Singh, another resident of the area, said, “After the mishap, I spoke to the principal of the school, who further gave me the number of a lecturer. When I contacted the lecturer, he said he was in Amritsar for his son’s wedding and thus couldn’t help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-wall-of-government-school-collapses-damages-car-101635105243184.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU graduate constituency: Counting of votes to resume today||After a three-day break, counting of votes of the graduate constituency of Panjab University (PU) senate will resume on Monday. So far, three candidates have been declared elected and 12 have been eliminated. More results are expected to be declared on Monday. Around 40 candidates were in fray from the graduate constituency that will elect 15 members into the PU senate. The counting process began last Monday at the varsity’s gymnasium hall. The registered graduate constituency is the largest among the eight constituencies of the senate. Even though it had 3.61 lakh eligible voters, the voter turnout was only 14.57%. The polling for the constituency was held in two phases. A total of 35 of the 47 candidates have already been elected from the senate’s eight constituencies so far. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSMother of two ends life in Sector 30
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Higher reaches receive snow in Himachal Pradesh||The higher reaches of the hill state wore a white mantle after receiving heavy snowfall on Sunday, while the middle hills and low-lying areas received light to moderate rainfall.The Dhauladhar mountains and the peaks surrounding Manali town were also covered in snow. Rohtang Pass was closed to tourists after it received up to 30cm snow. The northern portal of the Atal Tunnel, received 5cm snow, which led to traffic being halted. Sissu received 5cm snow, Gondhala 10cm, Koksar 12cm, Baralacha 30cm and Keylong 4cm.The Lahaul-Spiti district administration has issued a warning to the tourists asking them to avoid venturing to snow-bound areas. Farmers in the area are worried that the fresh snowfall may damage the apple crop in the tribal valley. The apple season is yet to begin in Lahaul-Spiti.The remote Pangi valley also received the first heavy snowfall of the season. All 19 panchcyats in Pangi valley have been cut off from the district headquarters Chamba as the 4,414m Sach Pass, the shortest route to Pangi, has been closed for traffic. The subdivisional headquarters, Kilar, recorded six to seven inches of snowfall, while the higher reaches recorded up to a foot of snow.The snow has also slowed down campaigning for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection. If the weather does not improve, polling in remote areas will be hard. Pangi resident commissioner Balwan Chand said essential services had been hit due to snowfall and will be restored once the skies clear. Rainfall, squall in low-lying areas Middle and low hills experienced moderate rainfall with Dalhousie being the wettest with 77mm rainfall, followed by Olinda (60mm)and Kheri (57mm). Una received 53mm rain, Bangana 50mm, Ghamroor 42mm, Nagrota Surian 41mm, Guler 39mm and Mehre 37mm.Saloni in Hamirpur recorded 36mm rain, Dehra 34mm Jhandutta 30mm, Amb 28mm Dharamshala 16mm and Bharmour 10mm. The region also witnessed high-velocity winds. In Tissa of Chamba one person was injured after roof of a school was blown away by squall.The MeT department has forecast more rain and snowfall across the state on Monday. The spell of snow and rain also brought down the maximum temperature in the region even as night temperatures were about 1°C above normal.Keylong was the coldest with the night temperature at -0.7°C, followed by Kalpa at 4.6°C. Manali recorded a temperature of 7.5°C, Kufri 10°C, Shimla and Dalhousie 10.1°C, Palampur 10.2 °C and Dharamshala 12.8°C. The maximum temperature dropped 3-4°C below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/higher-reaches-receive-snow-in-himachal-pradesh-101635104822086.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Caught in snowstorm, 3 Mumbai trekkers die in Himachal’s Kinnaur district||Three Mumbai-based trekkers were killed after they were caught in a snowstorm while crossing the Barua Pass in Kinnaur district on Sunday. The victims – Deepak Narayan 58; Rajendra Pathak 65; and Ashok Madhukar 64 – were part of a 13-member trekking party. Their companions have been rescued. One Prasad Manohar sustained cold injuries, while those who have been safely rescued are Rajneesh Kumar, Rakesh Sharma, Dhananjai Gavde, Pawan Kirtikar, Dhan Raj, Mahesh Hegde, Vishwas Adsug, Bhawna Deshmukh and Pradeep Roy of Delhi. The trekkers were on their way from Janglik village in Dodra Kwar in Rohru subdivision to Sangla in Kinnaur district. The authorities were alerted around 4.30pm. “A 13-member police team rescued four members around 12am, and it took another three hours to rescue the other six,” said Kinnaur superintendent of police Ashok Rattan. Of the 13 trekkers, 12 were from Mumbai and one from Delhi. “A rescued trekker told us that three people had succumbed to hypothermia. However, due to heavy snowfall in the area at night, the rescuers were unable to reach the location. The 10 rescued trekkers were brought to the Reckong Peo Hospital. A rescue team, comprising Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel, has been dispatched to recover the bodies,” he said. Kinnaur deputy commissioner Apporv Devgan asked tourists visiting Kinnaur to avoid visiting higher reaches in inclement weather to avoid untoward situations and said that rain leads to shooting stones on some stretches and residents as well as tourists should venture out only if necessary. Earlier, 11 trekkers had gone missing after getting caught in a snowstorm, while on their way to Chitkul. So far, seven bodies have been recovered, two trekkers have been rescued, while two have still not been found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/caught-in-snowstorm-3-mumbai-trekkers-die-in-himachal-s-kinnaur-district-101635104642927.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Delay in wages: PU panel yet to submit its report||A special Panjab University (PU) panel, which was constituted to consider the issue of delay in payment of workers’ wages by maintenance contractors, is yet to submit its report to the varsity.The three-member panel, which was formed on October 16, was scheduled to submit its report on October 18. The workers had even held protests on campus to press for their demands. “The report is yet to be submitted, but it has been learnt that most of the cases have been cleared and pending ones will also be cleared in coming days,” said a varsity official.The varsity has maintained that non-payment or delay in release of due payments to workers is a matter of serious concern and needs to be addressed immediately.The committee had been instructed to seek explanation from the contractors concerned and ensure that the wages, if found due to workers, be released immediately. “We have to go through all records and examine the whole issue before submitting the report. We will examine if there is any negligence and who is responsible for it,” said a member of the committee.The members of a student body had also submitted a memorandum to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar recently, demanding the varsity to intervene and ensure the immediate release of salaries of contractual employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delay-in-wages-pu-panel-yet-to-submit-its-report-101635104475181.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||BSc nursing seats in Punjab set to remain vacant, only 8% qualify 2nd entrance test||The undergraduate nursing seats are set to remain vacant in the state as only 220 candidates managed to qualify in the second entrance test conducted by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) for admissions to BSc nursing courses. With 97% of seats in the undergraduate nursing courses remaining vacant after the first round of counselling, the medical university decided to hold another entrance test for want of enough eligible candidates. But the attempt failed as 92% of candidates, who appeared in the second entrance test, failed to score minimum marks. The BFUHS conducted the entrance test on Sunday but only 220 of the 2,730 could score 50 or above marks required for the eligibility. A total of 3,878 candidates applied online for the test, of which 1,148 remained absent. In the first entrance test conducted in August, only 240 of the 2,596 candidates could score more than 50 marks. During the first round of the counselling, the BFUHS allotted nursing seats to 190 candidates while 4,780 seats remained vacant in government and private nursing colleges of the state. There are 4,970 BSc nursing seats in the 103 colleges of the state. During the first round of counselling, 89 nursing colleges failed to fill even a single BSc nursing seat. BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said: “We have conducted the second entrance test to give another chance to the students as a large number of seats are vacant. But unfortunately, only 220 students have managed to score the qualifying marks. This is very disappointing that students are not putting in efforts the profession needs,” he added. Officials said the BFUHS had even put an easier question paper in the second entrance test to fill the nursing seats but still only a few students qualified. In recent years, there has been a continuous decline in the number of candidates interested in pursuing nursing courses, badly affecting the private colleges offering the courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsc-nursing-seats-in-punjab-set-to-remain-vacant-only-8-qualify-2nd-entrance-test-101635104462441.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU teachers’ body elections: Governance reforms, promotion policy for dental teachers among key agendas||While the governance reforms at Panjab University (PU) were highly debated during the absence of the varsity senate, the issue now has found space in the future agendas of one of the groups contesting the upcoming elections of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA).The rival groups of incumbent president Mritunjay Kumar and Manu Sharma, both presidential candidates, have laid down their future agendas as the polling day nears. The election to the office-bearers of PUTA will be held on October 28 and over 600 teachers of PU are eligible to cast their votes.Finding a common ground, both the groups have ensured the implementation of the seventh pay commission as well as the promotion policy of teachers of the dental institute. However, Manu Sharma’s team has also outlined the senate and governance reforms in their planned deliverables. “Over the years we have realised that there is a need for various reforms in the governing structure of the university,” said Manu Sharma. While the matter of senate polls was in the high court earlier this year, the vice-president of India, Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU, constituted an expert panel in February to examine the existing governing structure of the university and make recommendations.Although the panel submitted its report to the office of chancellor in July, its various recommendations were criticised by the stakeholders. Mritunjay Kumar said, “We are not against the governance reforms but those should be democratic and start from the bottom level first. We have also advocated that the number of campus teachers should be increased in the senate.”Key agendas of groupsThe key agendas of the Mritunjay-Naura group include the grant of central university status to PU and pension for all. The group has promised that they will make efforts to ensure that teachers receive all retirement benefits immediately on their retirement and the completion of the process of counting the past service of teachers. The group has also said that timely processing of CAS promotions, payment of arrears and pay fixation will be among their priorities. The team of Manu Sharma and Kashmir Singh is also vouching for the CAS promotion for teachers of dental institute and clearance of cases of counting of past service. They have also claimed to work for the flexibility in the use of ‘improvement of education funds’ and central funding for PU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-teachers-body-elections-governance-reforms-promotion-policy-for-dental-teachers-among-key-agendas-101635104402255.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD promises to restore truck unions in Punjab||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced on Sunday that the SAD-BSP alliance would restore truck unions if it wins the upcoming assembly elections in the state. The Congress government had abolished truck unions in the state.Sukhbir made this statement while inducting Punjab Transport Ekta Union President Rajinder Singh Raju into the party from the Congress. Raju has been appointed senior vice-president of the party’s transport wing. Former Akali MP Prem Singh Chandumajra was also present. The SAD chief said the present system, of abolishing truck unions, started by the Congress government had created syndicates. “After restoring truck unions, we will form committees to fix genuine rates to ensure that the interests of the trucking community as well as the trade and industry are safeguarded,” he said. He also promised to provide annual stickers to truckers to ensure they were not stopped by anyone on the road. SAD transport wing president Pararmjit Singh Fazilka and Gurbinder Singh Binder Manila were also present on the occasion. The SAD, in a press release, said that several leaders of the Congress, AAP and the BJP from Sunam, Ghanour and Khanna also joined the party.38 buses impounded The Punjab transport department has impounded 38 buses in eight districts and challaned one bus as part of its campaign to check tax evasion, incomplete documentation and plying of buses on illegal permits by private bus operators. While five buses violating transport norms were impounded in Gurdaspur, RTA Ferozepur impounded four buses. Similarly, buses were impounded in Muktsar, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Bathinda districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-promises-to-restore-truck-unions-in-punjab-101635104222120.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm infestation: Impact to be reassessed as cotton sales belie projections||The state government on Saturday ordered a re-assessment of losses to the cotton crop due to pink bollworm infestation after doubts were raised over the field inspection reports. Sources said that the trend of cotton arrival in different mandis of Punjab’s southern districts was not indicative of major crop loss at this stage. “Initial girdawari inputs submitted last week claimed that standing crop on 4-lakh acres of the 7-lakh acres area was severely hit. However, the sale of raw cotton in mandis is inconsonant with the loss projections. Government is sensitive to farmers’ concern but a reassessment of cotton crop losses was needed for objective financial support to the affected persons,” said a cabinet minister privy to the development, requesting anonymity. According to the reports of the district authorities, Bathinda and Mansa, key cotton-growing districts, suffered 76-100% loss of productivity. It was also stated that more than 80% of the total area in the two districts was under severe pest attack. Pockets of Sangrur and Muktsar had a limited impact, the reports said. However, official data does not hint at a major difference in the sale of cotton till the first three weeks of October in the corresponding period of 2020 when the bumper yield was reported. In the 2020 kharif season, about 50-lakh quintal cotton was produced and almost half of the produce was purchased by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), a central agency. Punjab Mandi Board cotton state coordinator Rajnish Goel said till October 21, 2020, 6.01-lakh quintal cotton arrived in mandis in seven districts. In the corresponding period this year, 5.28-lakh quintal raw cotton was purchased. This season, the rate of cotton has touched an all-time high of ₹8,380 per quintal, he said. This year 3.3-lakh hectare area was under cotton cultivation, an increase of 17% than that of the 2020-21 kharif season. Yarn sector hopes that Punjab would reach last year’s production of 50-lakh quintals. Till October 21 this year, Bathinda, stated to be the worst-hit district, has seen cotton purchase of 1.08-lakh quintals whereas in the corresponding period last season, 1.60-lakh quintals were sold by farmers in the mandis. Till Thursday, Mansa saw sales of 1.19-lakh quintals whereas the district recorded a sale of 1.46-lakh quintals. Official data says about 80,000 quintal crop was purchased at various mandis in the cotton belt spread across south Punjab till September 21. In the corresponding period last kharif season, various purchase centres had reported the arrival of only 1,637 quintals. Vice-president of Mansa arhtiya association Chanderkant Garg said the cotton rate may even touch ₹9,000 per quintal as the yarn is in great demand in the international market. “The actual impact of the pest attack may be known by November-end when cotton harvesting will be over as currently, the farmers are rushing their produce to the market,” said Garg, who also owns a cotton mill. Box: Cotton sale in mandis Bathinda Mansa Punjab October 21, 2021 1.08 lakh quintals 1.19 lakh quintals 5.28 lakh quintals October 21, 2020 1.60 lakh quintals 1.46 lakh quintals 6.01 lakh quintals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pink-bollworm-infestation-impact-to-be-reassessed-as-cotton-sales-belie-projections-101635104162848.html
25-10-2021||Other||10 addl judges of Punjab and Haryana HC appointed as permanent judges||The Centre on Sunday notified appointment of 10 Punjab and Haryana high court additional judges as permanent judges.The department of justice in the ministry issued a list of additional judges elevated as judges. Those elevated include three women additional judges.The judges include justices Suvir Sehgal, Alka Sarin, JS Puri, Ashok Kumar Verma, Sant Parkash, Meenakshi I Mehta, Karamjit Singh, Vivek Puri, Archana Puri and Rajesh Bhardwaj, as per the seniority list. The list does not include name of justice Girish Agnihotri, who in order of seniority comes after justice Suvir Sehgal and was appointed as additional judge in October 2019. These judges would take oath of their office in a ceremony on Monday morning along with justice Sureshwar Thakur, who has been transferred from Himachal Pradesh high court. The Supreme Court collegium, in its meeting held on October 7, had approved the proposal for the appointment of the additional judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-addl-judges-of-punjab-and-haryana-hc-appointed-as-permanent-judges-101635104102081.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi appeals industry honchos to become partners in Punjab’s progress||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has urged top honchos of industry from across globe to become partner in state’s progress. The CM made the request after meeting a delegation of German companies operating in the state. The meeting was a precursor to the two-day “Progressive Punjab Investors Summit-2021” on October 26 and 27. Channi, who had similar interactions a few days back with the captains of industry based in Punjab, will meeting more industrialists on Monday for their suggestions and feedback before the investors’ meet. He said investments of over ₹99,000 crore in the past four years reflect the enormous confidence and trust demonstrated by investors in the conducive and sustainable ecosystem in the state. “These consultations with industry will go a long way in improving the delivery of governance thus ensuring ease of doing business in the state,” he said in a statement. Principal Secretary to CM Hussan Lal, principal secretary, investment promotion, Tejveer Singh, special principal secretary to CM Kamal Kishore Yadav and CEO Invest Punjab Rajat Agarwal were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-appeals-industry-honchos-to-become-partners-in-punjab-s-progress-101635103997633.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER: Advanced endoscopy centre inaugurated||The department of gastroenterology of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) inaugurated an advanced endoscopy centre on its premises on Sunday.Dr DN Reddy, Padma Bhushan; Dr Jagat Ram, PGI director; YK Chawla, former director; Kartar Singh, former head of the department and Dr Ajay Kumar, chairman, Dr BL Kapoor Hospital, were present during the inaugural event.Dr Usha Dutta, head of the department, said that the new centre has state-of-the-art equipment for advanced complex endoscopy procedures and a new image C-arm fluoroscopy unit, besides spy glass cholangioscopy equipment. The centre will give a major boost to the new domain of third space endoscopy, which includes procedures like per-oral endoscopic myotomy (POEM). Another addition to the department is a new automated disinfection unit to sterilise endoscopes to overcome the risk of transmission of infection.During the event, Dr Reddy delivered the first PGI gastroenterology oration. He gave an inspiring talk on how he developed endoscopy skills at different centers of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-advanced-endoscopy-centre-inaugurated-101635103995820.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three mini Covid centres to continue with temporary closure||Three mini Covid care centres in Chandigarh will continue with temporary closure till December 31, the UT health department said on Sunday. As fresh Covid-19 cases are gradually ebbing in Chandigarh and the tricity, the UT health department has asked the three centres, being run by Sri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society; Competent Foundation and Bharat Vikas Parishad; and Be Sure Buddy Private Limited to either close the centres permanently or continue with the temporary closure.Besides, the health department had already announced the closure of three other centres at sports complex in Sectors 8, 34 and 43 from November 1.“Considering the possibility of the third pandemic wave, the three organisations were given two options—closing the centres and vacating the premises, or to continue with temporary closure and retaining the premises, with own security arrangements for the items and installations, upto December 31. We are glad that the three organisations decided to continue with the temporary closure,” said Yashpal Garg, UT health secretary. The organisations had contributed towards the management of the second Covid wave by running six mini-Covid care centres with oxygenated beds. They centres were operated by the organisations in a highly professional manner with the qualified doctors and nurses and also provided food, medicines and other required services to the Covid patients without any charges from the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-three-mini-covid-centres-to-continue-with-temporary-closure-101635103865679.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction row: AAP, SAD to attend all-party meet on Monday||The opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have decided to attend the all-party meeting convened by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday to deliberate on issue of jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab. While Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu will represent the Congress at the meeting to be held at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh, AAP and SAD have deputed two leaders each for the meeting. AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann and Sunam MLA Aman Kumar Arora will represent the party at the meeting. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has deputed former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra and former minister Daljit Singh Cheema. The Union home ministry’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of BSF from the existing 15km to 50km from the International Border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam has riled all major parties in the state. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has vehemently criticised the extension, declaring that his government will not accept the decision as “it is against the spirit of federalism”. He later also sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to “relook and restore” the status quo that existed before the October 11 notification regarding BSF’s jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-jurisdiction-row-aap-sad-to-attend-all-party-meet-on-monday-101635103744253.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amid war of words in Cong, Sidhu says state must return to real issues||Amid a war of words in the party over former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s Pakistani friend Aroosa Alam, Punjab Congress Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Sunday that Punjab must come back to real issues facing the state. In a series of tweets, Sidhu, who has refrained from commenting on the issue, said the choice was between irreparable damage and the last chance for damage control. “Punjab must come back to its real issues that concern Punjabi and our future generations…How will we counter the financial emergency that stares upon us? I will stick to the real issues and not let them take a backseat (sic),” he posted on the microblogging website. A slugfest is on in the Punjab Congress after deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said a probe will be carried out to ascertain whether Aroosa Alam, a Pakistan journalist and Amarinder’s companion, has any links with that country’s spy agency ISI. Amarinder, while terming it a “baseless investigation”, accused the deputy CM of resorting to personal attacks. Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur and principal strategic adviser Mohammad Mustafa also jumped in to target the former chief minister. Sidhu further asked who will bring back state’s resources to its coffers, instead of them going to private pockets and who will lead the initiative for resurrection our great state to prosperity. “Let the mist clear, reality shine like the sun upon the roadmap for revival of Punjab, shunning those who protect the selfish vested interests and focus only on the path that will lead to Jittega Punjab, Jittegi Punjabiyat and Jittega Har Punjabi,” he tweeted. The PPCC chief has been repeatedly raising the 18-point agenda, including justice in sacrilege cases, action against big fish behind drug trafficking and cancellation of power purchase agreements, set by the Congress high command for implementation before assembly polls. He had raised his concerns over the to-do list in his meeting with AICC general secretaries KC Venugopal and Harish Rawat. On October 15, he wrote a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi and pitched his Punjab model with 13-point agenda for the Congress manifesto for the upcoming assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-war-of-words-in-cong-sidhu-says-state-must-return-to-real-issues-101635103562258.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Narrow escape for two car occupants as road caves in at Haibowal||A man and his son had narrow escape after the car they were travelling in got stuck in a 4-ft deep and 9-ft wide road cave-in at Haibowal on Sunday morning. The incident occurred around 7.15am when Arun Sahni of Joshi Nagar was passing the area with his son Abhishek. According to Arun, when they got on to the main road after driving out of Joshi Nagar, a portion of the road caved-in and one of the front wheels of their car got stuck in it, ultimately causing the vehicle to overturn. Some passersby came to their rescue.Activist Kumar Gaurav, who reached the spot after the incident, said, “Over 20 days have passed since the MC had dug up the main road from Rekhi department store to Gurudwara Bhuri Wala for installing sewer lines. After installing the sewer lines, the workers covered the dug-up portion with soil. But the soil was not properly pressed in and no levelling was done. Due to this, the road caved-in after rain,” he said. He also showed several other points on the same stretch where cave-ins could occur. Gaurav said apart from the municipal corporation (MC) authorities, the MLA of the area is also to be blamed for not monitoring the works properly.MLA Rakesh Pandey said, “It is the responsibility of the MC to monitor the work and ensure the safety of commuters.”Superintending engineer Ravinder Singh said the department will carry out an inspection to know the reason behind this cave-in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-narrow-escape-for-two-car-occupants-as-road-caves-in-at-haibowal-101635103382125.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi bypoll | Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda rally behind Pratibha Singh||Deputy leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma and former chief minister and leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday rallied behind Pratibha Singh, the Congress nominee from the Mandi parliamentary constituency that will go to bypoll on October 30. Sharma blamed the saffron party for rising unemployment and inflation in the country. Speaking at Takoli in Mandi, Sharma said, “It is time that the people remove the BJP from power. The party’s downfall will start from the Himachal byelections.” Calling the sale of government undertakings unfortunate, the former Union Cabinet minister said the country was facing serious challenges and there had been no improvement in the growth rate of the country.Hooda said the gap between the rich and poor had widened under the BJP regime. “The Prime Minister’s anti-people policies and autocratic functioning has jeopardised the country’s future. The government does not listen to farmers or the common man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-bypoll-anand-sharma-bhupinder-hooda-rally-behind-pratibha-singh-101635103322007.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rain, hailstorm damage paddy crop across Punjab, girdawari ordered||Paddy harvesting in parts of Malwa, Majha and Doaba regions of the state is set to get delayed as heavy rain coupled with high-velocity winds and hail flattened the crop and drenched the harvest. The untimely rain that started on Saturday evening continued intermittently till Sunday afternoon, flooding fields and grain markets.According to the government figures, nearly 70 lakh tonne paddy has reached the grain markets, which is roughly one-third of the total yield expected this season. Last year, the 210 lakh tonne of paddy was procured in the state. Paddy, including basmati varieties, is sown on nearly 31 lakh hectares of land in the state this year.Guru Har Sahai block in Ferozepur district, and parts of Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts were the worst hit. The rain also drenched tones of paddy lying in mandis across the state.The state agriculture department has already sought a report about the damage from districts. Punjab agriculture director Sukhdev Singh Sidhu said teams have already been rushed to assess the damage to standing crops and the stock. “As per the reports received so far, there is serious damage to the standing crop, while harvesting in parts of Punjab is surely going to be delayed,” Sidhu said.Agriculture experts say unfavourable weather conditions will adversely affect the production in addition to making the grain vulnerable to shrivelling, blackening and discolouration. In Amritsar, the agriculture officials reported 30% loss to the standing crop. In Rupnagar, 10% of the standing crop has been flattened. Major Singh, a farmer from Ghamrouda village in Patiala district, said the farmers stare at huge financial losses. “The government should provide adequate compensation and immediate financial relief to the affected farmers,” he said. Tarn Taran district, pea and potato crops were also severely hit. Bathinda chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said the district witnessed 10.5mm rain and preliminary inputs do not hint at much loss to the crop in Bathinda and Mansa districts. “Paddy harvesting that was picking up the pace will slow down again. The harvesting may resume in most parts of the district after a week,” he said. As per the official figures, Jalandhar witnessed 32.6 mm rain, while Nakodar and Phillaur saw 18mm.State agriculture department joint director Gurvinder Singh said barring Ferozepur, the loss to crop in southern Punjab was not substantial. “However, rain at this point of time is not good for paddy and cotton,” he added.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC)’s state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “We want ₹50-60,000 per acre compensation from the state government. We will launch widespread protests if the compensation is not announced soon.”Baldev Singh of Shahkot said his paddy crop was flattened due to rain and gusty winds. “Now it can be harvested only manually,” he said. Kulwinder Singh of Nakodar said untimely rain can add to the moisture content, besides discolouring of the grain.Jalandhar agriculture department officer Naresh Gulati said nearly 45% of the paddy is yet to be harvested in the district. “Sunny weather for the next three-four days can bring down the losses,” he said.‘Farmers will be compensated’ Punjab deputy chief minister and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa took stock of the situation in Dera Baba Nanak town of Gurdaspur district and announced a special girdawari to assess the losses across the state. “I have asked the officials to complete the girdawari in a week’s time so that the farmers can get the compensation at the earliest. I also want to appeal to the officials to be honest while assessing the damage,” he said during his visit and interaction with farmers. Deputy chief minister OP Soni, during an event at a Amritsar village, assured adequate compensation to the farmers. “The rain has damaged the paddy crop in Majha region. Fair compensation will be given after the girdawari.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-hailstorm-damage-paddy-crop-across-punjab-girdawari-ordered-101635103262353.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 20 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Sunday recorded 20 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed its tally to 6,02,209, according to a medical bulletin.The death toll remained unchanged at 16,551, the bulletin stated.Of the fresh cases, five were reported from Jalandhar, four from Amritsar and three from Faridkot.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Punjab stands at 229, the bulletin said.Twenty-two more people recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,85,429, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-20-fresh-covid-cases-101635103142078.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Crop loss reported in several parts, may cause veggie prices to soar||Incessant rains coupled with strong winds caused crop loss in several parts of Ludhiana, particularly in Khanna, Samrala and Machhiwara on Sunday.Market experts said this is likely to lead to a rise in vegetable prices in the coming days.Farmers in Khanna rued that the standing crop in their fields were completely flattened by the unseasonal rain. In Samrala and Machhiwara, vegetable farmers lamented that the unexpected change in weather destroyed their potato crop.Nachattar Singh, a farmer from Lalhari Kallan, said “Rain has washed away our potato crop. Farmers who were yet to harvest their rice crop have also suffered heavy losses.” At the grain markets in Khanna and Ludhiana, farmers were seen anxiously trying to save their grains from getting drenched by trying to cover it with plastic.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader from Khanna, Rajinder Singh Benipal said farmers in Naulari, Alipur, Baupur, Bhadla Nicha, Nasrali and Rajewal have suffered massive losses. He said vegetable crops such as spinach, coriander and potato have been completely destroyed.Surjit Singh, secretary market committee, Khanna, said, “We managed to save 90% of the crop that arrived in the market. We have informed the authorities about damage.” Harminder Singh, a progressive farmer from Jagraon, said besides damaging the standing crop, the rain has also delayed the harvesting process by another week. “This will leave farmers with a limited window for stubble management and sowing of wheat crop,” said Harminder Singh.Chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh said the initial survey conducted to assess the crop loss has revealed that about two percent of crops were damaged due to rain, while majority of the matured rice crops have been dislodged due to strong wind and rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-crop-loss-reported-in-several-parts-may-cause-veggie-prices-to-soar-101635103022201.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Never seen such chaos, anarchy in Punjab Cong: Tewari on infighting||Amid continued infighting, Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari on Sunday slammed the “daily soap opera” in the Punjab Congress, questioning open defiance, party leaders squabbling like children and use of guttural language against each other. Referring to former Punjab affair in-charge Harish Rawat’s interview, Tewari said that in his 40 years plus in the Congress, he has never seen such chaos and anarchy. “Repeated open defiance of AICC by a PCC president, colleagues squabbling publicly with each other like children. Guttural language against each other that even fish wives would not use. For the past 5 months, it is @INCPunjab vs @INCPunjab,” he tweeted, hitting out at state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Rawat, in an interview last week, asked Tewari to understand the ground situation in the state. The Congress has been rocked by factional feud in Punjab for the past five months that saw Capt Amarinder Singh resign as the chief minister after Navjot Singh Sindhu and several ministers and MLAs rebelled against him. Charanjit Singh Channi, a minister in the Amarinder cabinet, was then appointed as the first SC chief minister of Punjab. However, the change of guard has failed to end the rift in the state unit as Channi and Sidhu have not been on the same page on senior appointments, portfolio allocation and pending promises. The Congress has also stepped its attack on Amarinder since his announcement that he would float a new party and have an understanding with the BJP for the upcoming assembly polls. In another tweet, Tewari, who had backed Capt Amarinder in his tussle with Sidhu and other detractors, said: “Do we think that people of Punjab are not disgusted by this daily soap opera? Irony is that those who complained loudest of transgressions & aberrations were unfortunately and continue to be worst offenders themselves.” The Lok Sabha MP said history would record that the appointment of the committee that ostensibly heard perceived and real grievances was a serious error of judgment. “Where is progress on the issues that agitated these MLAs and other eminences – Bargari, Drugs, Power PPAs, illegal sand mining. Has there been any movement forward,” he asked without mincing words. The three-member committee comprising Rajya Saba MP Mallikarjun Kharge, Rawat and ex-MP JP Agarwal was constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to resolve the rift in the state Congress. The panel held one-to-one discussions with close to 150 party lawmakers and functionaries from the state with the then CM appearing twice before it and handed then handed an 18-point agenda for implementation before the state polls. The to-do list is also a bone of contention between Channi and Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/never-seen-such-chaos-anarchy-in-punjab-cong-tewari-on-infighting-101635102842110.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pundri MLA claims rotten foodgrains are being supplied under PDS||Nearly a month after he threatened to withdraw support from the BJP-JJP coalition government alleging that bureaucrats do not listen to elected representatives, independent MLA from Kaithal’s Pundri assembly constituency Randhir Gollen has alleged that rotten foodgrains are being supplied under the public distribution system (PDS).“Even cattle cannot eat the rotten wheat that is being supplied under the PDS to the poor. We took up the matter with the Kaithal deputy commissioner but to no avail,” alleged Gollen on the sidelines of a public rally he organised in the assembly segment on completion of two years as an MLA on Sunday.“A written complaint has already been filed with the deputy commissioner but no action was taken against the officials concerned. I will take other three MLAs of the district along to take up the issue with the higher authorities,” said Gollen adding that there are problems at the district level.On the other hand, Kaithal deputy commissioner Pradeep Dhaiya has refuted the allegations of inaction on complaint of the MLA and said action was taken immediately and directions have already been issued in this regard to the officers concerned.Reacting to the allegations, Haryana’s additional chief secretary (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department) Anurag Rastogi said he has asked for details of the matter.On September 19, Gollen had threatened to withdraw support to the BJP-JJP government if action wasn’t taken against officials who “don’t listen to the elected representatives”.“I feel the bureaucracy is dominating everywhere (in the government); nobody is ready to listen to the elected representatives. If they (officers) don’t listen to us, how will we work for the people who have elected us?” he had said.Gollen was earlier associated with the BJP but had left the party and contested independently from Pundri as the party did not give him a ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pundri-mla-claims-rotten-foodgrains-are-being-supplied-under-pds-101635102782089.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Untimely rain affecting harvesting, procurement of paddy in Haryana||Light to heavy rain on Sunday in parts of the northern districts of Haryana have increased worries of paddy growers by affecting harvesting and procurement of the crop.As per reports, rains were reported in parts of Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Yamunanagar districts and has created problems for the farmers.“The untimely rain has delayed harvesting for next two-three days,” said farmer Praveen Kumar, of Karnal’s Nilokheri village.Farmers said unseasonal rains will not only affect the yield but will also increase the harvesting cost.According to farmers, the moisture content in paddy lying in grain markets has also increased due to rains and farmers alleged that there were no arrangements of sheds and most paddy is lying in the open.“There were no arrangements of sheds in the mandis and the paddy is lying in the open. There will be no procurement in most mandis,” said commission agent Rishi Pal, of Indri Grain market in Karnal.Kaithal agriculture department deputy director Karam Chand said light rain was reported in parts of the district and has affected harvesting of paddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/untimely-rain-affecting-harvesting-procurement-of-paddy-in-haryana-101635102309696.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||30mm rain cools down Ludhiana||Overnight showers brought the temperature down by 10°C in Ludhiana. Met officials said that 30mm rain was recorded between late Saturday evening and Sunday morning. While the maximum temperature on Sunday was 20.6°C, the minimum was 16°C, a five degree dip from the previous day. On Saturday, the maximum and minimum temperatures stood at 30.6°C and 21°C respectively. On the brighter side, however, the showers improved the air quality index (AQI) of the city. As against 169 points recorded on Saturday, the AQI stood at 121 points on Sunday. Experts of the meteorological department said rain and strong winds have brought down the pollution levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30mm-rain-cools-down-ludhiana-101635102244897.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||JP Dalal faces farmers’ protest in Bhiwani||Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal on Sunday faced farmers’ irk during his visit to his home constituency Loharu in Bhiwani district.The minister had gone to Loharu to take part in programmes organised by different societies and meet people ahead of Diwali. He interacted with shopkeepers, vendors and party workers.Nearly 40 farmers were detained by the police when they were heading towards the venue to show black flags to Dalal. Later, police released the detainees.The farmers alleged that the government’s ‘real face’ has been exposed as they are not getting the DAP fertiliser amid rabi season and their mustard cultivation is getting delayed.“Majority of the farmers did not get the fertiliser despite standing in queues for hours. The retailers have been selling DAP to farmers they know while other farmers are unable to get the fertiliser,” said Dayanand Punia, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha.Dalal said the government has provided 20% more DAP than the average of the last five years.“I assure all farmers that they will get the DAP on time. There is no shortage of fertiliser,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jp-dalal-faces-farmers-protest-in-bhiwani-101635102121816.html
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||DAP shortage: Khattar deputes six senior IAS officers to monitor fertiliser distribution||The Haryana government on Sunday deputed administrative secretaries in six districts to keep a close watch on the supply chain of DAP fertilisers amid reports of shortage of the fertilisers and farmers becoming restive.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar chaired a high-level meeting of officers in which issues related to the availability and demand of DAP fertilisers were discussed.While directing the deputy commissioners (DCs) and superintendents of police (SPs) of border districts of Rewari, Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani, Nuh and Jhajjar to check the vehicles going out of the state by setting up checkposts in their respective areas so that DAP fertiliser is not taken out of the state illegally, Khattar said the administrative secretaries will be present in these respective districts from October 25 to 27 to keep an eye on the DAP distribution.The chief minister directed the officers that DAP fertilisers should be distributed on time among farmers who have registered themselves for rabi crops on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal.Khattar said last year, 87,000 metric tonne (MT) DAP was sold in state till October 24 against 98,000 MT already sold this year.Assuring that there will be no shortage of DAP fertilisers in state, Khattar said the fertiliser available in the market this year is 11,000 MT more in quantity than last year.He appealed to farmers to purchase DAP as per requirement and refrain from hoarding so that it can be distributed equally among all farmers.Khattar spoke to Union chemicals and fertilisers minister Mansukh Mandaviya over the phone to increase six additional rakes. He said at present, 24 rakes of DAP fertiliser are available for farmers in state and five more will be received shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dap-shortage-khattar-deputes-six-senior-ias-officers-to-monitor-fertiliser-distribution-101635101884559.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||PCS (Prelims)-2021: 54% of total registered candidates give exam a miss||Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services (Preliminary)-2021, commonly known as PCS (Preliminary)-2021, and Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF)/Regional Forest Officer (RFO) Preliminary Examination-2021 was held across the state on Sunday. A total of 6,91,173 candidates had applied for 538 posts of PCS and 16 ACF/RFO posts. The preliminary exam was conducted by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) in two shifts from 9.30 am to 11.30 am and 2.30 pm to 4.30 pm, informed UPPSC secretary Jagdish. UPPSC had set up 1,505 examination centres in 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh for the exams, with Prayagraj alone having 133 centres for 60,886 registered candidates. Likewise, there were 55,131 candidates registered to appear in the recruitment exam in Lucknow. Other districts where UPPSC conducted the preliminary exam included Agra, Aligarh, Basti, Bulandshahr, Etawah, Ghazipur, Hardoi, Jyotibaphule Nagar, Maharajganj, Mainpuri, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Shahjahanpur, Azamgarh, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Ayodhya, Ghaziabad, Jaunpur, Jhansi, Kanpur Nagar besides Barabanki, Meerut, Moradabad, Rae Bareli, Varanasi, Sitapur, Mirzapur and Mathura. To deter any attempt to use smart tools for using unfair means in the recruitment exams, jammers were installed at 113 sensitive centres across the state, the officials added. “Out of the total registered 6,91,173 candidates, mere 46% appeared in the exam with 54% giving it a miss. The exam passed off peacefully with no report of any untoward incident,” the UPPSC secretary said. A maximum of 39,467 candidates out of the total 60,886 (64.80%) appeared in the exam in Prayagraj, while the lowest attendance of 29% was witnessed in Etawah and Mainpuri districts, he added. Earlier, in January, the commission had announced that it planned to conduct the Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services (Preliminary) Examination-2021 along with Assistant Conservator of Forest (ACF)/Range Forest Officer (RFO) Preliminary Exam-2021 on June 13 and June 20, respectively. But it had to be postponed due to the second wave of Coronavirus. The decision to postpone the exams had followed in wake of many aspirants of the exams, both at the individual level and collective level, demanding that the commission postpone the exams seeing the situation in the state was worrying at that point. Earlier, the number of posts was 400, but later it increased by 138, including 52 posts of sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pcs-prelims-2021-54-of-total-registered-candidates-give-exam-a-miss-101635101164982.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Man-tiger peaceful co-existence: Pilibhit district administration coaxes farmers to switch from cane to other cash crops||Slowly, silently but surely, Pilibhit, a district in the terai region of Uttar Pradesh, appears to be finally moving towards an environment where tigers and humans can co-exist peacefully in their defined territories, after being in a bloody conflict for decades together. Courtesy the ambitious mission ‘crop diversification with a life-saving purpose’ that Pilibhit district administration launched a year ago and which still continues, farmers living in the villages around the jungle now look to enhance their income while retaining peace of mind. “Since tigers can easily hide in sugarcane fields, they provide the big cats with a semblance of their natural habitat. However, the tigers attack and kill farmers in an encounter in the fields. We launched an intensive campaign to persuade cane farmers to shift to equally remunerative alternative crops that are agro-climatically suited to the terai environment,” said Pulkit Khare, district magistrate, Pilibhit, who is leading the campaign from the front. Many farmers, according to him, told tales of spending fearful nights in their cane fields guarding their crops or moving in a group with mashaals while harvesting the crop. “After several rounds of discussions with progressive farmers and experts, crops like haldi, laahi, sarson, matar, chana, soyabean, mentha, lemon etc, were identified as equally remunerative alternatives to conventional sugar cane plantation,” he revealed. Reduced cane area And the campaign has already started yielding the desired results. “As per the annual GPS survey for 2020-21 conducted by the cane department, the cane coverage was 1,04,213 hectares. But that got reduced to 1,02,114 hectares when the same GPS survey was carried out for the year 2021-22,” Khare said. “Thus, a reduction or rather diversification of around 2,099 hectares (3.5%) of cane area took place in these villages as a result of this intensive campaign to motivate and train farmers for alternative ‘safer’ crops which would reduce man-animal conflict incidents in the times to come,” he added. Amandeep Singh, of village Purva Bhoora, is one such farmer who has started growing vegetables instead of sugarcane in the fields near the jungle. “Inspired by the district administration’s relentless campaign, I have stopped growing sugarcane in the field near the forest area from where tigers often crept into the cane field,” he said, adding, “Instead, I have started growing vegetables in two of the seven acres of the land that I possess,” he said. Like Amandeep, Gurumangat Singh Cheema of Haripur village, has also switched to an alternative to sugarcane. “After the officials’ persuasion last year, I have begun growing mentha and potato in place of cane on the four acres of land and get equally good returns without any fear of encountering tigers that would easily hide in dense cane fields,” he said. Man-tiger conflict commonplace Pilibhit, located in the terai landscape of Uttar Pradesh, is home to Pilibhit Tiger Reserve which has rich flora and fauna. As part of the Upper Gangetic Plain, its characteristic sal forests, tall grasslands and swamps host species like Indian leopard, swamp deer, hispid hare, floricans and an estimated 65 Royal Bengal Tigers. Stories of man- animal conflict are commonplace in these habitations. Incidents of tigers straying into the village to either snatch away livestock or have direct confrontation with villagers had been increasing. “In the last five years, 15 humans were injured and 21 lives were lost in such conflicts. Fencing the entire perimeter of the reserve is a mammoth project which moves only a few notches each year as per the availability of budget with the department,” said Khare, a young 2010 IAS officer, whose videos of raiding government paddy procurement centres in the same district a year ago, went viral. Though several efforts by the forest department like asking villagers to resort to haanka (lighting the fire, beating drums and dhols) to scare away the animal, moving in groups to their fields for irrigation or manuring or identifying the signs of tiger’s presence nearby are carried out intensively in these villages, nothing was of much help. This forced the administration to intervene, analyse and make other efforts to reduce such occurrences considering an increasing number of man-tiger conflicts in the district. “Data analysis of the region of such occurrences showed a high percentage of such man-animal conflicts taking place in the sugarcane fields adjoining the jungle in these villages. (12 out of 21 deaths in the last 5 years were in sugarcane fields of farmers who went for irrigation or harvesting the crop,” the DM said referring to ‘The Sugarcane Tigers of Pilibhit by Sanctuary Asia’ (Vol.41 Aug 2021). ‘Sugarcane tigers’ are those that stray out of the reserve and adopt sugarcane fields as their habitat. This includes the sub-adults pushed out of the forest by dominant male tigers and tigresses and cubs who find it congenial to take refuge in cane farms when the crop is ripe. “Cane fields also provide a semblance of the forest ecosystem with long canes often providing hiding places for herbivores, which attract the tiger as prey to these fields,” he further pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mantiger-peaceful-co-existence-pilibhit-district-administration-coaxes-farmers-to-switch-from-cane-to-other-cash-crops-101635100804653.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Home Guard officer shot at after trying to stop ‘illegal cow slaughter’||A 50-year-old Home Guard officer was shot at and a Delhi Police head constable had a narrow escape when a four or five men fired at them after they were found illegally slaughtering a cow in east Delhi’s Patparganj Industrial Area in the early hours of Sunday, said police.The suspects are at large, and the police are on the lookout for them.The incident took place barely a few hundred metres away from the office of the deputy commissioner of police (east), under the jurisdiction of the Madhu Vihar station. The carcass of the dead cow was recovered near the drain where the suspects allegedly slaughtered it.The Home Guard officer, identified as Joginder, suffered superficial wounds after being hit by a bullet. The suspects fled in a car. A case was registered and teams were formed to identify and nab the suspects, said DCP (east) Priyanka Kashyap.She said Joginder was on police picket duty in Patparganj Industrial Area along with head constable Naveen Kumar, when a passerby informed them about a cow being slaughtered. The two went there and tried to stop the people involved in the illegal activity. The suspects tried to flee in their car. When the two tried to intercept them, the suspect rammed the car into their bike. Joginder and Naveen fell off the bike after which the suspects fired at them, she said.“The bullet hit Joginder near his waist and he was rushed to a nearby hospital. He is out of danger,” said a police officer who did not want to be named||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-home-guard-officer-shot-at-after-trying-to-stop-illegal-cow-slaughter-101635100445874.html
25-10-2021||Mumbai||Why are mental health practitioners pushing for resilience building?||This July, when a 31-year-old teacher from Kolkata lost her husband to Covid-19, it was not just grief that she had to dabble with. A few days before her husband tested positive, she had walked out on him due to incidents of physical abuse. When he landed in the isolation ward, they got talking again and he promised to be good to her and make their marriage work. But two weeks later, he succumbed to the infection, driving her into a pile of guilt. The mother of two daughters aged four and seven turned to a psychologist who let her vent, cry, and slowly bring back her self-esteem. A big part of her therapy involved building resilience. “Grief and guilt can be a devastating combination,” said Alisha Lalljee, a Bandra-based counselling psychologist who has been virtually counselling the Kolkata woman. “In her case, close relatives blamed her for not being there for her husband. She was made guilty for walking out on him. Despite being a confident woman, it was the societal pressure that kept pulling her down. Building resilience helps to cope in such circumstances,” she said. The term resilience is not new. In a recent mental health event, Mumbai-based psychiatrist Dr Avinash DeSousa spoke of resilience and how it plays a crucial role when it comes to dealing with mental health issues. More and more mental health practitioners have started emphasising its importance in recent years. As the world faces the worst shocks like the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown that followed, its resilience that helps each individual to cope, bounce back and get back on the feet to face the next challenge. “Self-love or self-compassion is a crucial aspect to being more resilient,” said Lalljee, who included daily journaling in the Kolkata woman’s therapy along with cognitive behavioural therapy and rational emotive behavioural therapy. “Acceptance of the situation, learning to identify the rational and irrational thoughts and beliefs, believing that you have a superpower and that you have been through worse are some mechanisms that help in coping,” she said. The American Psychological Association defines resilience as “the process of adapting well in the face of adversity, trauma, tragedy, threats, or significant sources of stress—such as family and relationship problems, serious health problems, or workplace and financial stressers.” The association lists a variety of resilience-building strategies including prioritising relationships, taking care of own body, practising mindfulness, being proactive, looking for opportunities for self-discovery among others. “Put simply, it’s your ability to bounce back,” said DeSousa. “The good part is that resilience is something that can be taught formally to children or older adults, and it can even be tailor-made for the disaster or trauma. It’s like training them in the right or wrong ways to react for a certain shock,” he said. According to DeSousa, biological factors also play a role in one’s resilience. “How the family copes, the situations one has been brought up in all contribute to resilience building or not,” he said. Thus, when two people suffer from the same kind of trauma, one may cope better and faster than the other. A 2019 review in Lancet Psychiatry stated that at the level of a child’s community, high social support will change psychosocial and behavioural outcomes. “It is important to note that studies like this review tend to show that single resilience factors—such as paternal communication or maternal support—do not contribute to resilience on their own but are instead related to the totality of the family experience. Single factors together create an environment of social cohesion and a positive family climate, which are associated with resilience,” the review said further adding that resilience is not solely a quality within individuals; it grows from access to and use of the resources needed to support mental health and wellbeing. Dr Samir Dalwai, a developmental and behavioural paediatrician said that resilience-building exercises must be included compulsorily at the school level. “Unfortunately, our systems are such that we expect a lot from our children but offer little to build on their strengths. Resilience building involves validating the child’s feelings, motivating them, helping them build the skills that they lack and gradually helping them rise above,” he said. “When we don’t build such strengths, most land up adapting bad coping mechanisms when they face any kind of stressors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-are-mental-health-practitioners-pushing-for-resilience-building-101635100441957.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man strangles wife in Ashok Nagar, dies by suicide||A 40-year-old man allegedly strangled his wife, before taking his own life in their house in east Delhi’s Ashok Nagar, senior police officers said after recovering their bodies on Saturday morning.The police said they did not find a suicide note in the room, which was bolted from inside when investigators and other officers reached the spot. The couple had three children.“On the face of it, the man appears to have killed himself after murdering his wife. We have registered a case of murder and are probing the incident. An initial inquiry has revealed that the man likely suspected that his wife was having an affair,” said a senior police officer who asked not want to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said that on Saturday morning, the New Ashok Nagar police station received information that a man had taken his own life and that a woman’s lifeless body was on the bed.During the enquiry, the police learnt that the woman’s parents live in the same lane and that their three children slept with their grandparents every night. The woman, said police, visited her parents every morning. Her brother visited her house after she did not visit their house on Saturday morning, and did not respond to phone calls.“Her brother went to check on the couple. As he peeped inside the room through the window, he spotted the man’s body, after which he alerted his family and the police,” said the officer.The woman worked as domestic help, and the man as an electrician with a private company in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-strangles-wife-in-ashok-nagar-dies-by-suicide-101635100263563.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Congress, others would do well to retain seats they won in 2017: Maurya||LUCKNOW: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya hit out at Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi ‘Vadra’, describing her as ‘Twitter Vadra’ and claiming that despite her being active, Congress would do well to retain even the 7 seats that it won in the 2017 UP polls. “In fact, not just Congress, it would be worth observing if Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party also manage to win the seats they won last time,” Maurya said on Sunday. In the 2017 UP polls, Samajwadi Party had won 47, BSP 19 and Congress had won 7 seats. “The Congress doesn’t exist in UP politically. They have been neglected by the people. In 2014 Lok Sabha polls, they won just two seats and shrunk further in 2019 LS polls to just one seat in UP. In 2017 assembly polls, they won 7 seats and holding on to that tally would be some achievement for them. SP and BSP too would do well to win as many seats as they did last time,” Maurya said. Asked why he has been referring to Priyanka as ‘Twitter Vadra’, Maurya said: “All these parties are competing among themselves. One is active on Twitter. Congress seems to be ahead at the moment in getting photos clicked but that’s about all and since they have not made space for themselves in the hearts of the people, they won’t be able to make any impact.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-others-would-do-well-to-retain-seats-they-won-in-2017-maurya-101635100204040.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Evening rain gives Delhi cleaner air, temperature likely to dip||Moderate to light rains were reported from across the national capital on Sunday, with parts of the city also receiving hailstorm, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, and predicted that the weather will clear up by Monday, and temperatures will start dropping in the coming days.On Sunday, Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative data for the entire city, 27mm rainfall was reported till 8.30pm. Palam weather station received 4.9 mm rain.IMD scientists said that while ‘trace’ showers (not enough to be recorded in the observatory) was reported in most parts of the city till Sunday afternoon, rains intensified in the evening with some areas also receiving hailstorm.“Radar images indicate that parts of northwest Delhi and Haryana received hailstorm. We can only report hailstorm for sure when it is reported over an observatory; for any other part of the city, we rely on public and media reports,” said a senior Met official.Forecasters explained that Sunday’s rain was caused by a western disturbance, which also led to intense and widespread showers and thunderstorm in parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. In Delhi, the clouds are expected to clear up by late Sunday night, they said.“Western disturbance is moving away and the weather will clear up in Delhi by Monday. Temperatures are also likely to start falling from tomorrow (Monday),” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services.The rainfall also resulted in a fall in pollution levels. Since most of Sunday’s showers were concentrated towards the evening hours, the overall air quality index, which is released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) at 4pm, showed only a minor drop from Saturday. On Sunday, the overall AQI was 160 in the ‘moderate’ zone.By 9pm, pollution levels fell further dropped to 158. At 10.30pm, of the 39 monitoring stations listed on the CPCB’s Sameer app, only five showed air in the poor zone. The air quality at all others were in the moderate zone.“The AQI will improve but remain in the moderate zone on Monday. After that as the winds change back to northwesterly, AQI will start rising again during the week,” another senior Met official said.Some parts of the city witnessed waterlogging, officials said. The Delhi Traffic Police posted on its official Twitter handle that the Mehrauli-Badarpur Road in south Delhi was closed due to waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur underpass and asked commuters to take alternate routes.“Due to waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur underpass, MB road is closed. Please avoid this route. Kindly take alternate route MB Road-Maa Anandmai Marg towards Badarpur,” the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.Other places from where waterlogging was reported included Kirari, Rohtak Road, and Nangloi, civic officials said.However, no major waterlogging was reported from anywhere else, they added.The city reported a maximum temperature of 31.5 degrees celsius and a minimum of 19 degrees Celsius, IMD officials said.Last week, the city recorded recorded 87.9 mm rainfall between Sunday night and Monday, the most in a day since an October 1956 day when Delhi recorded 111mm rain. Delhi has now broken a weather record for the 15th straight month, records showed.IMD data shows that despite a late onset, Delhi this year has had one of the most erratic monsoons ever. It started off with an unusually delayed arrival — instead of its normal date of June 27, monsoon this year entered the Capital only on July 13, 16 days behind schedule. This was the most-delayed arrival in 19 years.In 2002, monsoon hit Delhi on July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/evening-rain-gives-delhi-cleaner-air-temperature-likely-to-dip-101635099969115.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Gogi murder: 4 arrested for killing man who celebrated gangster’s killing||A member of slain gangster Jitender alias Gogi’s gang, who was allegedly involved in the murder of Deepak alias Radhe, a member of the rival Tillu Tajpuria gang, has been arrested along with his three associates, police said.Three pistols and 18 bullets were seized from the arrested men, who, according to the police, were planning more killings to take revenge for the murder of Gogi, who was shot dead inside a courtroom in the Rohini court complex. “The arrests of the four men have helped us avert a gang war in the city,” said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.On September 24, Gogi was being produced before a judge in Rohini Court in a decade old attempt to murder case, when two assailants dressed as lawyers shot him dead in the courtroom number 207 . The police personnel escorting Gogi gunned down the assailants before they could flee.Police cracked the case by arresting two men, whose interrogation revealed that Gogi’s killing was planned by his archrival, Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuria, who is presently lodged in Mandoli jail. Apart from the duo, Tillu, his associate Naveen Bali and another jailed criminal have been arrested in the case, so far.On October 11, one Deepak alias Radhe, who was a member of Tillu gang, was shot dead in Rohini Sector-15 and four persons were arrested in that case. At least two more suspects, identified as Sumit alias Sethi and Bachchi, were absconding. On September 23, the Rohini district police received information that the two would be coming at Helipad Road in Sector-37 Rohini on a bike.“Accordingly, a trap was laid and Sumit was caught with a pistol and six cartridges. He is a hitman of Gogi’s gang. His interrogation led to the arrest of his associates namely Kunal, Karan Hans, and Suraj Kumar. Two more pistols and 12 bullets were seized from them,” added DCP Tayal.HT on October 17 reported that Radhe was allegedly murdered because he he had thrown a party to celebrate Gogi’s murder.Police officers privy to the investigation said that the police have formally arrested jailed gangsters -- Rohit Moi(Gogi’s second-in-command) from Tihar and another close aide, Kapil Maan from Mandoli jail in connection with Radhe’s murder.Officers said Moi planned the murder because he had learnt about Deepak throwing a party outside his house in Rohtak, Haryana, on the night of September 24 -- the day when Gogi was shot at 18 times inside the Rohini district court.A police officer said Deepak was not an active member of the Tillu gang but had thrown a party after Gogi’s death.“Gangster Rohit Moi got to know about Deepak celebrating Gogi’s murder through his friends. Moi spoke to another key gang member, Kapil Maan, at the Mandoli jail and planned the murder. They also followed Deepak for 4-5 days. Currently, Moi is running Gogi’s gang from inside jail, and another absconding member Deepak Pehal alias Boxer is running the gang from outside,” a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gogi-murder-4-arrested-for-killing-man-who-celebrated-gangster-s-killing-101635099968013.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Deadline of BJP’s farewell from MCDs is near: Delhi minister Gopal Rai||Asserting that the deadline of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s farewell from the three municipal corporations in the city is near, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday announced that it will launch a campaign after Diwali (to be celebrated on November 4) to strengthen the party’s organisational structure ahead of the MCD polls next year. AAP’s Delhi convener Gopal Rai said the party organised 2,532 ‘mohalla meetings’ across Delhi from September 1 to October 20 under ‘Aapka MLA Aapke Dwar’ programmme. “In every mohalla sabha, people have raised the issue of dirt and litter throughout Delhi. People said the BJP and MCDs have proved completely unsuccessful in cleaning Delhi,” Rai said.“It is evident now that the deadline of BJP’s farewell from MCD will come before their deadline of clearing Delhi’s garbage mountains,” Rai, who is also Delhi’s environment minister, said in a press conference.He said the AAP is preparing its plan of action for the civic body polls based on the report of ‘mohalla sabhas’. The party is also reviewing the performance of the organisation in holding the public meetings, he said.While the AAP rules the Delhi government, the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power in the three municipal corporations. The AAP is the principal opposition in all the three MCDs. Municipal corporation elections are due in April next year. Delhi BJP dismissed the AAP’s allegations as baseless. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “People of Delhi are fed up of allegation politics of Aam Aadmi Party leaders.” “People have seen how the Kejriwal government failed them during Covid-19, while the BJP-led central government has not only provided medical aid during the Covid-19 waves but has also ensured free Covid vaccination for 2 crore people in Delhi. People of Delhi have seen how BJP-ruled MCD staff and councillors worked hard during the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure not only proper sanitation, but also distributed food and ration to the poor,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deadline-of-bjp-s-farewell-from-mcds-is-near-delhi-minister-gopal-rai-101635099543751.html
25-10-2021||Other||ITBP recovers 2 more bodies in Uttarkashi||Rescue workers from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) brought down two more bodies, including one of a trekker from Kolkata, on Sunday from Lamkhaga Pass near Harsil valley area of Uttarakhand’s Uttarakashi district, officials said.The two deceased were a part of the 11 people, including eight trekkers and three porters, who had gone missing en route Lamkhaga Pass, which is a 90km-long trekking route passing through the remotest valleys of Kinnaur in Himachal Pradesh and Gangotri in Uttarkashi. They were part of a bigger 17-member team which had gone to the Pass for trekking.On Monday, due to snowfall in the area, the 11 people went missing. Six porters managed to reach the ITBP camp in Chitkul village in Kinnaur and informed them about the incident on October 19. A massive rescue operation, comprising army, air force, ITBP and SDRF personnel, was then launched to search for them.“The two bodies were retrieved by rescue workers of ITBP 2nd battalion from Kullu, Himachal Pradesh on Saturday. But due to bad weather, they couldn’t be brought down. On Sunday, after the weather improved, they were airlifted to the ITBP base in Himachal on Sunday in an air force chopper,” said Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer (DDMO), Uttarakashi.He said the two deceased were identified as Richard Mandal, 30, a trekker from Kolkata, and Upendra Chauhan, 32, a porter from Uttarkashi.“Mandal’s body was flown to Delhi from Himachal Pradesh where it would be handed to his family members. The body of Chauhan was brought to Uttarkashi where it was handed to his family members,” said Patwal.Earlier on Friday, the Uttarakhand SDRF had brought down five bodies near Lamkhaga Pass to Uttarakashi in an air force chopper.The deceased were identified as Anita Rawat, 38, from Delhi, Tanmay Tiwari, 30, Saurav Ghosh, 34, Savian Das, 28, and Vikas Maikal, 33, all residents of Kolkata and trekkers.“The bodies of four trekkers from Kolkata were handed over to their family members in Uttarkashi while the one from Delhi was cremated in Uttarkashi by her family members,” said Patwal.The rescue workers had earlier rescued two persons among the 11 missing. They were identified as Mithun Dari, a resident of Kolkata and a trekker, and Devendra, 37, a porter from Kolkata. Among the two, Dari, who received treatment in an army hospital in Uttarkashi, was flown to Dehradun on Sunday from where his family members will take him to Kolkata.“Till Sunday, seven of the 11 are now confirmed dead while two have been rescued and as many are still missing near Lamkhaga Pass,” said Patwal.Meanwhile, a total of 72 people have died so far in various flood-related incidents in the state after it was lashed by heavy rains from October 17-19.According to data shared by the state government’s disaster management department, of the total 72 deaths, maximum 35 were reported in Nainital district followed by 11 in Champawat and 10 in Uttarkashi district. Also, 26 people were injured and four are missing.Earlier on Sunday, state director general of police Ashok Kumar visited the US Nagar and Nainital districts which were the worst affected one in the state in the tragedy.During his visit, he informed the media about the rescue operation being carried by the state police wings and other government agencies.“A total of about 65,000 people in the state were prevented from getting trapped in the floods as they were stopped by the police from going to the hill areas as a result of prior warning about the rains. Similarly, 48,000 people were evacuated in a timely manner after the warning to safe places,” Kumar said, adding 9,900 people were also rescued, including 9,500 from Kumaon region and 400 in Garhwal region.“Rescue works are still on in many areas including Uttarakashi and Bageshwar district to search eight trekkers and six locals,” Kumar said while commending the SDRF, fire department and local cops for their quick response in the disaster.The Dehradun centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, issued a weather forecast of very light to light rains in seven districts of the state including Dehradun, Uttarkashi and Nainital for Sunday. It however forecast a dry weather on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-more-bodies-of-trekking-team-brought-down-from-lamkhaga-pass-in-uttarakashi-search-on-for-missing-two-101635099422632.html
25-10-2021||Other||IAF personnel tests positive for Zika virus in Kanpur, 22 contacts negative||An Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel has tested positive for the Zika virus, the first to have been reported in Kanpur, officials said. All the 22 samples of his family members, relatives and friends sent to King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, have tested negative, said chief medical officer Nepal Singh.“No new case is a big relief for all of us,” he said, adding the source of his virus hasn’t been traced.Chief medical officer Nepal Singh said that the IAF (warrant) officer was suffering from fever for the past several days and was admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the district.Following mysterious symptoms in the case, his blood sample was collected and sent to the National Institute of Virology for proper examination which confirmed that the patient was Zika virus-positive, he said, adding the report was received on Saturday.The health department quickly isolated all those who came in contact with the IAF officer. Anti-larva spray was done in and around the place he lived with his family. Dr Singh said health department teams were going door to door in Lal Bangla and Jajmau areas of Kanpur to see if anyone else has similar symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iaf-personnel-tests-positive-for-zika-virus-in-kanpur-22-contacts-negative-101635099305325.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt’s ‘green fellows’ to help tackle pollution||The Delhi government has decided to hire young students and professionals to become ‘green fellows’ under their ‘Green Delhi’ mission to assist the understaffed environment and forest departments in managing issues related to air pollution, water pollution and management of the Capital’s forest lands, said senior government officials on Saturday. Senior officials said the fellowship programme by the environment department aims at engaging the city’s youth in assisting the government in their mission to tackle environmental concerns. Under this programme, the government will engage three specialists, 10 fellows and 15 associate fellows for a period of four years to assist the city’s understaffed environment and forest departments in improving their research, on-ground presence and public engagement programmes related to environment issues. “The fellows will be assigned to work under senior officers (such as principal secretary, special secretary, director etc) or any other officer designated by the environment minister and in coordination with the environment department, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), the green war room as well as other departments,” a senior official from the environment department said. The official said the applications for the fellowship programmes are in; the environment department will now assess the merit of the applicants and recruit them ahead of the upcoming winter season. Government officials also said while these fellows will assist the government in the upcoming months in better assessing the pollution sources in winter, they will eventually help the department undertake the much-awaited tree census, which has never been conducted in the city. Residents from some localities in the city, such as south Delhi’s Sarvodaya Enclave, Vasant Vihar and Greater Kailash, conducted their neighbourhood tree census but this was a private exercise. While the Delhi government expressed its interest in conducting the tree census in the city in 2018 and engaged Dehradun-based Forest Research Institute for the task, the proposal never took off. In 2015 too, the government planned a tree census after the high court observed that the city is not as green as official figures make it out to be. In 2017, a few government agencies and civic bodies started a census and counted around 18 million trees. But the exercise could not be completed and was left midway as some agencies could not submit their data. While Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai refused to comment on the government’s plan to conduct a tree census, Reena Gupta, advisor to the Delhi government, told a news channel on October 20 that the ‘green fellows’ will assist in the task. “Of course, we want to do a tree census all over Delhi in all the colonies, but we do not have people in the forest department. Under this new programme..., we are hoping some of these will help us conduct the tree census,” Gupta told the news channel. Experts also said that Delhi, which is grappling with the problem of air pollution, needs a comprehensive tree census to get a clear picture of where the city stands in terms of its green cover, which will also help agencies plan plantation drives better in the future. C R Babu, professor emeritus at Delhi University’s Centre for Environmental Management and Degraded Ecosystems, said the tree census could give an idea as to how prepared the city is when it comes to fighting pollution. “The girth and the canopy details of trees will give us an idea as to how much carbon is trapped in these trees, how much dust they can trap and how much pollution they can mitigate, thereby helping the city focus its fight against pollution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-s-green-fellows-to-help-tackle-pollution-101635099301796.html
25-10-2021||Delhi||Taking stock of the market: Bull run boosts finance literacy programmes in Delhi||Kanika Bhaskar, a resident of Nirman Vihar in east Delhi, expounds stock market trading concepts such as risk management, position-sizing, and stop-loss, among others like a seasoned professional. It is quite a feat considering that until last year she was running her family’s office furniture business with her husband, and did not even know what BSE (Bombay Stock Exchange) or NSE ( National Stock Exchange) are. “All I knew was that there are companies and there are stocks. But during the lockdown, our business came to a halt, and I was free. That is when a friend told me that she was earning ₹45,000 a day from the market; I was intrigued and wanted to know more about it. And so in December last year, I joined an in-class stock market course,” Bhaskar. She has since attended three courses—one in-class and two online and has read several books on stock market trading. “I did a lot of paper practice before I made my first investment in July this year. “Today, I am totally occupied with the stock market and making decent money,” she says. She is not the only one. Thousands of people from varied backgrounds are attending stock market courses—both offline and online. Finance institutes across the city, which earlier catered to students of commerce and business, now have engineers, doctors, housewives, retired people attending their stock market courses that cost anything between ₹10,000 to ₹40,000 . Stock market gurus offering private classes and workshops too are flourishing like never before. The curriculum of these courses includes how to operate a demat account, place different kinds of orders, equity market analysis, and use various technical analysis tools to make trading decisions, among others. The growing interest in the stock market is also reflected by the fact that the number of demat accounts in the country has almost doubled from 35 million in March 2020 to a record high at 62.2 million at the end of June 2021.More than 5.8 million new demat accounts were created in the September quarter this year, according to data from CDSL and NSDL. Retail investors cumulatively owned a record 7.18% of all listed companies on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) in the June quarter this year—an increase from their 6.96% holding in the March quarter. The new and aspiring retail investors are fuelling demand for stock market education, says the owners of these stock market institutes. “Today, 80% of our students are people who have no background in finance. These include doctors and even DTC drivers,” says Aryan Sharma, who heads the Laxmi Nagar branch of the National Institute of Financial Markets(NIFM), a private financial market institute. The institute’s walls are plastered with posters, including one featuring Microsoft founder Bill Gates with a quote: ‘If you are born poor, it is not your mistake, but if you die poor, it is your mistake.’ “This is to inspire people to believe that the stock market can help you become rich,” says Sharma. “But making money from the market is a science and art and one requires patience and perseverance to master it.” It is 10 am, the time for his first class of the day for the students pursuing a course called Certified Advanced Level Smart Investor. And today’s lesson is about analysing candlestick charts to determine the possible price movement of stocks based on past patterns. The class, which has about 25 students, includes young businessmen, an aspiring restaurateur who wants to learn an extra skill; two mechanical engineers, who have given up their career in engineering to make a living as stock traders. The compact air-conditioned classroom has an LED TV and whiteboard. Each student has a laptop and notebook and is listening intently as Sharma explains candlestick patterns – from bullish to bearish -- on the TV screen. “Essentially I teach my students how to understand the behaviour and psychology of the market. And I tell them that when others are fearful of the market you should be greedy and when others are greedy, you should be fearful,” adds Sharma, a cost accountant by profession and a stock market teacher for a decade.“Many of our students who knew nothing about the market when they joined today are confident traders.” Saurabh Tiwari, a mechanical engineer in Sharma’s class, says that he wanted to do something of his own and recently gave up his job with a multinational company to try his luck as a trader. “The pandemic made me realise that all jobs are dicey and it is better to be on your own,” says Tiwari, who has been attending the in-class trading lessons for the past two months. “I think I have made fairly good progress; my background in mechanical engineering will help me use various technical analysis tools to make trading decisions. I have no plans to return to engineering.” Praveen Baghel is another mechanical engineer in the class. He says he was inspired by his cousin brothers to try his luck in the market. “During the pandemic, stock market was open when all businesses were shut and I saw my brothers making a lot of money. I asked them to teach me the basics, but they said they did not have time and so I joined this course,” says Baghel. “In life, one should acquire as many extra skills as possible and with India’s economic growth story continuing to be exciting, stock market trading is an important skill that will hold you in good stead when nothing else is working.” Manish Taneja, the senior analyst at IFMC (Institute of Financial Market Courses) another Delhi institute in Lajpat Nagar offering in-class, live web classes and online recorded lessons in stock market trading, says a lot of his students are people from the travel and hospitality industry who lost their jobs, and also those who had huge salary cuts during the pandemic. But then these institutes also have those looking to supplement their income. Manoj Tiwari, a Delhi-based software engineer is one such person. Last year in September, inspired by a friend, he made an investment in the stock market and suffered a loss. He decided to join an in-class course in a Laxmi Nagar Institute before making another investment. “Today, I know how the market will behave. I am mostly into option selling and earn decently in addition to my salary,” says Tiwari. Each of these stock market institutes claims to teach their own unique tricks of trading. Manish Taneja, for example, teaches what he calls Uni-Directional Trade Strategy (UDTS)-- a copyrighted course on stock trading strategies for both beginners and traders. “We have developed this revolutionary tool to give traders and first-time investors freedom from cumbersome analysis and make stock trading simple,” says Taneja, who worked with a brokerage firm in Delhi before he co-founded IFMC. Not just in-person classes, workshops, both online and offline, are flourishing too. Ravi Kumar, a stock market guru, who has been busy imparting lessons on the stock market through his two-day workshops and three months’ online ‘master classes’ since 2013 , says the number of people in his workshop and classes has doubled in the past one and a half years. This month he has already organised five workshops in Delhi, Gurugram and other cities in hotels, clubs, auditoriums. About 13,000 people, he says, have attended his workshops in the past one and a half year. “Among them are 12-year-olds to 80-year olds. Parents are sending their young children as they believe stock trading is science and not gambling as it was considered earlier. Now stock trading is almost as popular with children as coding,” says Kumar, a PhD in Business Finance and Wealth Management from the University of Southern California. “I have offered private stock market lessons to CEOs of top companies. Making money in the stock market is as easy as making a cup of coffee if you learn how to read the pulse of the market.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/taking-stock-of-the-market-bull-run-boosts-finance-literacy-programmes-in-delhi-101635098042226.html
25-10-2021||Lucknow||Zika virus: IAF personnel tests positive in Kanpur, it’s the 1st case in UP||In the first known case of the zika virus in Uttar Pradesh, an Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel tested positive for the viral disease in Kanpur, health officials said on Sunday.Samples of 22 people the infected IAF personnel came in contact with have tested negative, the officials said.Zika virus disease is caused by a virus transmitted primarily by Aedes mosquitoes, which bite during the day. Symptoms are generally mild and include fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or headacheKanpur’s chief medical officer Nepal Singh said that the IAF (warrant) officer showed symptoms of the virus, including fever, over the last few days and was admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the district.As there was no improvement in his condition, the blood samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, on Wednesday, Singh said. The officer’s tests returned positive today (Sunday), he said.The health department has isolated the officer’s contacts, he added. “All the 22 samples of his family members, relatives and friends sent to King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, have tested negative,” Singh said.“No new case is a big relief for all of us,” Singh said, adding that the health department is yet to trace the source of the officer’s infection.Health and civic bodies’ officials have been put on alert to deal with the situation after the first case of zika virus in Uttar Pradesh. Besides, several teams have been tasked with checking the spread of the virus in the district, officials said.Anti-larva spray was done in and around the place the IAF officer lived with his family.Dr Singh said health department teams were going door to door in Lal Bangla and Jajmau areas of Kanpur to see if anyone else has similar symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zika-virus-iaf-personnel-first-to-test-positive-in-kanpur-22-contacts-negative-101635090841254.html
25-10-2021||World||Facebook will fuel further unrest: whistleblower tells UK parliament||Facebook will fuel more violent unrest around the world unless it stops its algorithms pushing extreme and divisive content, whistleblower Frances Haugen told the British parliament on Monday.The former employee, who accused the social media giant of putting profit before people at a Senate subcommittee earlier this month, said she was encouraged by British plans to force big tech companies to tackle harmful content on their platforms.Facebook, Haugen said, saw online safety as a cost and lionised a start-up culture where cutting corners was good. "Unquestionably it is making hate worse," she said.With a focus on the United States, the company was wilfully blind to its impact in many markets where a lack of local-language staff meant it often failed to understand the toxic or dangerous nature of messages on its platform, she said.The world's biggest social network has rejected the charges, with CEO Mark Zuckerberg saying earlier this month that it was deeply illogical to argue that Facebook deliberately pushed content that made people angry.Facebook, which also owns Instagram and WhatsApp, has been accused by U.S. lawmakers of chasing higher profits while being cavalier about user safety.Britain is bringing forward laws that could fine social media companies up to 10% of their turnover if they fail to remove or limit the spread of illegal content."The events we're seeing around the world, things like Myanmar and Ethiopia, those are the opening chapters because engagement-based ranking does two things: one, it prioritises and amplifies divisive and polarising extreme content and two it concentrates it," Haugen said.Facebook, which operates in more than 190 countries and boasts more than 2.8 billion monthly users, declined to provide immediate comment in response to Haugen's committee appearance.Haugen in October told a Senate Commerce subcommittee hearing that Facebook had devised ways to keep users scrolling even if it was detrimental to their wellbeing.She also said she provided the documents used in a Wall Street Journal investigation and a Senate hearing on Instagram's harm to teenage girls. She compared the platform to addictive substances such as tobacco and opioids.British interior minister seeks tougher lawsBefore Monday's hearing, Haugen met the country's interior minister, Priti Patel, who advocates tougher legislation for tech platforms that fail to keep users safe.She is scheduled to speak at a major tech conference, the Web Summit, next week and in Brussels to European policymakers."Facebook has been unwilling to accept even little slivers of profit being sacrificed for safety, and that's not acceptable," she said on Monday, singling out Instagram's impact on the mental health of some young users.Reuters, along with other news organisations, viewed documents released to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Congress by Haugen.They showed Facebook had known that it hadn't hired enough workers who possessed both the language skills and knowledge of local events needed to identify objectionable posts from users in a number of developing countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-will-fuel-further-unrest-whistleblower-tells-uk-parliament-101635181244043.html
25-10-2021||World||Two months on, EU mulls reopening diplomatic office in Afghanistan||More than two months after Afghanistan fell to the Taliban, leading to the shutting down of the most diplomatic offices in the capital city Kabul, the European Union (EU) is planning to resume operations in the war-torn country.According to a report by UK newspaper Financial Times (FT), the 27-member bloc is likely to return to Kabul as the EU resumes engagement with the interim government of the Islamist militant group.A representative of the EU told FT that the bloc is adopting a “calibrated approach” to the Taliban wherein it is coordinating with the militant group without recognising their interim government in Afghanistan.The plan to reopen the diplomatic mission in Kabul stems from the EU’s belief that it needs to have a presence in Afghanistan to lobby for human rights’ protection, prevent a humanitarian crisis, and also to ensure the Taliban live up to their pledge of not letting the country once again become a safe haven for terrorists.According to the FT report, the diplomatic and security arm of the EU are planning to reopen a representative office in Kabul that would house its officials and can also be used by member states.A final decision on the reopening of the mission “has not been taken yet,” EU spokesperson Nabila Massrali said. “We can confirm that we are working on establishing a minimal presence on the ground. For security reasons, we cannot enter into the details,” she was quoted as saying by FT.She added that “available options” are currently being explored regarding who will guarantee the security of the EU staff in Afghanistan.The FT report further said the EU had sent an exploratory mission to Afghanistan last month to gauge the feasibility of sending diplomats back to the country.Earlier this month, the EU pledged 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) in aid for Afghanistan in the bloc’s first in-person meeting with the Islamist militant group in Qatar. However, European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said the funds were meant for “direct support” for the Afghans and not the interim Taliban government. “We have been clear about our conditions for any engagement with the Afghan authorities, including on the respect of human rights,” she added.The Taliban have constantly been seeking recognition from the global community, even saying that non-acceptance of their government in Afghanistan is benefitting the Islamic State Khorasan (ISIS-K), which has carried out many attacks in the country since the withdrawal of the US and other foreign forces.The latest in the series of attacks was a suicide bombing at a Shia mosque in Kandahar province that resulted in the death of more than 40 people and left 70 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-months-on-eu-mulls-reopening-diplomatic-office-in-afghanistan-101635177199503.html
25-10-2021||World||Moderna reports ‘robust' response of its Covid-19 vaccine in kids aged 6 to 12||Moderna Inc on Monday announced that its vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) showed 'robust' neutralizing antibody response in children aged 6 to 12 years. The American biotechnology company said it plans to submit these data to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European Medicines Agency (EMA) and other global regulators in the coming days.Moderna is yet to receive emergency authorisation from the FDA for administering its Covid-19 vaccine in teens but has moved ahead to study lower doses in children while it waits for the nod. The randomised, observer-blind, and placebo-controlled study was conducted in 4,753 participants aged 6 to 12 to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of two 50 µg doses of the mRNA-1273 vaccine in children.“We are encouraged by the immunogenicity and safety profile of mRNA-1273 in children aged 6 to under 12 years and are pleased that the study met its primary immunogenicity endpoints,” Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel said in a statement.According to Moderna, the vaccine was “generally well tolerated with a safety and tolerability profile generally consistent” with the results of the Phase 3 trial in adolescents and adults. The company has reported mild or moderate severity in the majority of adverse events. The most common side effects were fatigue, headache, fever, and injection site pain.The study has not been published in a peer-reviewed publication and the findings continue to be monitored by an independent safety monitoring committee. In order to assess long-term protection and safety, the participants will be monitored for 12 months after their second dose.Meanwhile, the enrolment for the Phase 2/3 study in children aged 6 months to under 6 years of age continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-reports-robust-response-of-its-covid-19-vaccine-in-kids-aged-6-to-12-101635173965917.html
25-10-2021||World||2 men confess to inciting Bangladesh violence through Facebook post, loudspeaker||Two men, accused of spreading communal hatred on social media in Bangladesh, have admitted to their crimes, a court said on Monday. The violence against the minority Hindu community in Bangladesh broke out on October 13 during the Durga Puja festivities after an alleged blasphemous post on social media. The mayhem continued for a few days and spread to other parts of the country.Also Read | Anatomy of planned desecration in BangladeshDuring one such incident, around 70 Hindu homes were torched in Rangpur, in Pirganj sub-district, on October 17, police said. The two accused men - Shaikat Mandal and his accomplice Rabiul Islam - were accused fanning communal hatred on social media and instigating the violence in Rangpur. They confessed to their crime in a pre-trial hearing on Monday.“Shaikat Mandal and his accomplice Rabiul Isam have admitted their role before a senior judicial magistrate Delwar Hossain in (north-western) Rangpur,” an official of the court told mediapersons.They were among the 693 people arrested by the Bangladesh Police in connection with the violence. Both the men were picked up from Gazipur on Friday in a police raid and booked under the Digital Security Act.Mandal was a philosophy department student of Rangpur's Carmichael College. He was expelled from the ruling Awami League's student wing Chhatra League after his arrest. Thirty-six-year-old Islam, meanwhile, is a cleric.A Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) official told bdnews24.com that Mandal uploaded objectionable content on Facebook to boost his follower count, while Islam instigated Muslims in the village through announcements on the loudspeaker.At least seven people have confessed to their crime under the pre-trial legal proceedings so far. More than 70 cases have been being filed against 24,000 suspects, most of whom were anonymous.The police said last week that they have identified the man who placed the Quran in one of the Durga Puja pandals in Comilla on October 13, which triggered violence and led to the killing of three people. He has been identified as 35-year-old Iqbal Hossain from Sujanagar area of the city and is under police custody.Dhaka watchers said there is a strong possibility that rabid Islamists belonging to Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh, who are supporters of the Taliban, would be behind this orchestration of communal violence. The Sheikh Hasina government is trying to unearth the conspiracy and piece together the evidence, they added.The attacks on the Hindus in Bangladesh have been widely condemned by the United Nations.Hindus constitute around 10 per cent of the Muslim-majority Bangladesh's 169 million population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-men-confess-to-inciting-bangladesh-violence-through-facebook-post-loudspeaker-101635173762131.html
25-10-2021||World||Taliban offers wheat in exchange for labour as UN agency warns of acute food crisis||Amid deepening economic crisis and millions facing emergency levels of hunger, the Taliban’s interim government has reportedly launched a programme offering wheat to thousands of people in exchange for labour. The Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid told a press conference that the programme will be rolled out in major Afghan towns and cities, with an aim to employ 40,000 men in Kabul alone, reported Dawn. The report suggests that the unemployed labourers who are most at risk of starvation will be offered wheat instead of money.“This is an important step for fighting unemployment,” Dawn quoted Zabihullah Mujahid as saying, adding that the labourers must “work hard”.A new UN report showed that nearly 19 million people in Afghanistan experienced high levels of acute food insecurity during the two months of the post-harvest season, a nearly 30% rise from the same period last year. The report also predicted that more than half the population of Afghanistan will face acute food insecurity from November 2021 to March 2022. Also Read | Taliban welcome Vladimir Putin's plan to remove them from terrorists' listThe collapse of public services, a severe economic crisis and increasing food prices were among the major reason for the food insecurity.”We cannot allow Afghanistan to be a collective failure – the international community must prevent the crisis from becoming a catastrophe,” the World Food Programme said in a statement.”Things were already desperate, and now continuing drought, escalating displacement, the collapse of public services, and a deepening economic crisis have driven the entire country to the precipice,” it added.Referring to the report, David Beasley, WFP executive director, highlighted that Afghanistan is now among the world’s worst humanitarian crises and food security has all but collapsed. He warned that millions of Afghans will be forced to choose between migration and starvation unless the UN agencies step up life-saving assistance and the economy is resuscitated.“We are on a countdown to catastrophe and if we don’t act now, we will have a total disaster on our hands,” Beasley added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-offers-wheat-in-exchange-for-labour-as-un-agency-warns-of-acute-food-crisis-101635166129779.html
25-10-2021||World||Ahead of resuming international flights, US to outline travel, vaccination rules. Details here||The Biden administration plans to unveil on Monday its detailed rules requiring nearly all foreign air visitors to be vaccinated against COVID-19 starting Nov. 8, sources told Reuters.The White House first disclosed on Sept. 20 it would remove restrictions in early November for fully vaccinated air travelers from 33 countries.The extraordinary U.S. travel restrictions were first imposed in early 2020 to address the spread of COVID-19. The rules bar most non-U.S. citizens who within the last 14 days have been in the United Kingdom, the 26 Schengen countries in Europe without border controls, Ireland, China, India, South Africa, Iran and Brazil.The White House plans to outline the legal framework requiring COVID-19 vaccinations for most foreign air travelers replacing the current restrictions, as well as rules for exemptions from the requirements.The Biden administration will also detail requirements airlines must follow to confirm foreign travelers have been vaccinated before boarding U.S.-bound flights.The White House announced on Oct. 15 that the new vaccine rules would take effect on Nov. 8.One concern among U.S. officials and airlines is making sure foreign travelers are aware of the new vaccine rules that will take effect in just two weeks.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) plans to issue new contact tracing rules requiring airlines to collect information from international air passengers. The White House said earlier airlines will provide the information "upon request to follow up with travelers who have been exposed to COVID-19 variants or other pathogens."The CDC said this month it would accept any vaccine authorized for use by U.S. regulators or the World Health Organization from travelers.The new rules are expected to exempt minor children from the vaccine requirements, the sources said.The Biden administration has also been discussing initially exempting citizens of a small number of countries with extremely low vaccination rates because of a lack of access to COVID-19 vaccines, the sources said, saying that would include enhanced testing requirements.Foreign air travelers will need to provide vaccination documentation from an "official source" and airlines must confirm the last dose was at least two weeks earlier than the travel date.International air travelers will need to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test taken within 72 hours of departure. The White House said in September unvaccinated Americans will need to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test within 24 hours of departing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ahead-of-resuming-international-flights-us-to-outline-travel-vaccination-rules-details-here-101635160072422.html
25-10-2021||World||Covid-19: Beijing cancels marathon, restricts entry-exit||China on Monday indefinitely postponed the annual Beijing marathon scheduled to be held later this month as it fights a country-wide surge in Covid-19 cases including in the capital.Beijing authorities also restricted entry to the city on Monday, and sent out directives asking citizens not to leave unless necessary.“The epidemic situation is severe and complex, and the epidemic risk and prevention pressure faced by the capital continue to increase,” a Beijing official said on Monday.Organisers of Beijing’s marathon said in a statement on Sunday that the run would be postponed until further notice “…in order to prevent the risk of the epidemic spreading (and) effectively protect the health and safety of the majority of runners, staff and residents.”More than 30,000 people were expected to take part in the event on October 31.A marathon in Wuhan, the central Chinese city where the first Covid-19 cases were detected in 2019-end, was cancelled on Sunday.The China-Mongolia border city of Ejin Banner, a region hit hard in the latest coronavirus flare-up, told all residents and tourists on Monday that they must stay indoors to prevent the spread of the outbreak.The Chinese mainland on Sunday reported 35 new locally transmitted Covid-19 cases, the national health commission said in its daily report on Monday, taking the total number of cases over 160 in the new outbreak, which has now spread to 11 provinces.All of them are said to be the highly transmissible Delta variant.The latest outbreak, said to have been triggered by tour groups travelling out of the northern autonomous region of Inner Mongolia, comes as the country’s top health official warned of more cases.Authorities have suspended inter-provincial tour groups in five areas where cases have been detected, including Beijing.There is increasing risk that the outbreak might spread further, helped by “seasonal factors”, Mi Feng, spokesman at the National Health Commission, said on Sunday.It’s likely to have raised concerns over China’s ability to maintain its zero-tolerance approach to the virus, especially leading up to the 2022 Winter Olympics, slated to begin on February 4, to be held in and around Beijing.Despite the small numbers reported in the recent outbreaks, China has stuck to a zero-Covid strategy by implementing lockdowns, mass testing of populations, at times more than once, and mass vaccination drives, the largest in the world.Health authorities said on Sunday that about 75.6% of China’s 1.4bn population had received complete vaccine doses as of October 23, or some 1.068bn.Mainland China has reported more than 96,700 cases until Sunday and the number of deaths is at 4,636.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-beijing-cancels-marathon-restricts-entryexit-101635160206764.html
25-10-2021||World||Sudan Prime Minister Hamdok held in apparent coup; general declares emergency||Sudan’s leading general declared a state of emergency Monday, hours after his forces arrested the acting prime minister and disrupted the internet in an apparent coup as the country was nearing a planned transition to a civilian leadership.In a televised address, General Abdel-Fattah Burhan announced that he was dissolving the country’s ruling Sovereign Council, as well as the government led by Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok. He said quarrels among political factions prompted the military to intervene but he pledged to complete the country's democratic transition, saying a new technocrat government would lead Sudan to elections.In response to the moves, thousands flooded the streets of the capital, Khartoum, and its twin city of Omdurman to protest the apparent military takeover. Footage shared online appeared to show protesters blocking streets and setting fire to tires as security forces used tear gas to disperse them.Protesters could be heard chanting, “The people are stronger, stronger” and “Retreat is not an option!” as plumes of smoke filled the air. Videos on social media showed large crowds crossing bridges over the Nile to the center of the capital.At least 12 protesters were wounded in demonstrations, according to the Sudanese Doctors Committee, without giving details.A takeover by the military would be a major setback for Sudan, which has grappled with a stop-and-go transition to democracy since long-time autocrat Omar al-Bashir was toppled by mass protests two years ago.The moves come less than a month before Burhan was expected to hand the leadership of the ruling transitional council to a civilian. The Sovereign Council, which has run the country since shortly after al-Bashir’s ouster, includes both military and civilian members, who have frequently disagreed over Sudan’s course and the pace of the transition to democracy.The United States and the European Union expressed concern over Monday’s developments.Jeffrey Feltman, the U.S. special envoy to the Horn of Africa, said Washington was “deeply alarmed” by the reports. Feltman met with Sudanese officials over the weekend in an effort to resolve the growing dispute between civilian and military leaders. EU foreign affairs chief Joseph Borrell tweeted that he’s following events with the “utmost concern.”The first reports about a possible military takeover began trickling out of Sudan before dawn Monday. By mid-morning, the Information Ministry confirmed that the prime minister, Abdalla Hamdok, had been arrested and taken to an undisclosed location. Several senior government figures were also detained, the ministry said in a Facebook post. It said their whereabouts were unknown.Hamdok’s office said in a statement on Facebook that he and his wife were detained early Monday as part of what it described as a “complete coup.”In other hallmarks of a takeover, internet access was widely disrupted and the country’s state news channel played patriotic traditional music. At one point, military forces stormed the offices of Sudan’s state-run television in Omdurman and detained a number of workers, the Information Ministry said.Monday’s apparent takeover came after weeks of rising tensions between Sudan’s civilian and military leaders. A failed coup attempt in September fractured the country along old lines, pitting more conservative Islamists who want a military government against those who toppled al-Bashir in protests. In recent days, both camps have taken to the street in demonstrations.After the September coup attempt, the generals lashed out at civilian members of the transitional power structure and called for the dissolution of Hamdok’s government. The Sovereign Council is the ultimate decision maker, though the Hamdok government is tasked with running Sudan’s day-to-day affairs.Burhan, who leads the council, warned in televised comments last month that the military would hand over power only to a government elected by the Sudanese people. His comments suggested he might not stick to the previously agreed timetable, which called for the council to be led by a military figure for 21 months, followed by a civilian for the following 18 months. Under that plan, the handover was to take place sometime in November, with the new civilian leader to be chosen by an alliance of unions and political parties that led the uprising against al-Bashir.Since al-Bashir was forced from power, Sudan had slowly emerged from years of international pariah status. The country was removed from the United States’ state supporter of terror list in 2020, opening the door for badly needed foreign loans and investment. But the country’s economy has struggled with the shock of a number economic reforms called for by international lending institutions.Sudan has suffered other coups since it gained its independence from Britain and Egypt in 1956. Al-Bashir came to power in 1989 in one such takeover, which removed the country’s last elected government.Among those detained Monday were five senior government figures, according to two officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to share information with the media.They include Industry Minister Ibrahim al-Sheikh, Information Minister Hamza Baloul, and Mohammed al-Fiky Suliman, a member of the Sovereign Council, as well as Faisal Mohammed Saleh, a media adviser to Hamdok. Ayman Khalid, governor of the state containing the capital, was also arrested, according to the official Facebook page of his office.After news of the arrests spread, the country’s main pro-democracy group and two political parties issued appeals to the Sudanese to take to the streets.One of the factions, the Communist Party called on workers to go on strike in an act of mass civil disobedience after what it described as a “full military coup” orchestrated by Burhan.The African Union has called for the release of all Sudanese political leaders including Hamdok. “Dialogue and consensus is the only relevant path to save the country and its democratic transition,” said Moussa Faki, the head of the AU commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sudan-prime-minister-hamdok-held-in-apparent-coup-general-declares-emergency-101635158632443.html
25-10-2021||World||German IS bride sentenced to 10 years over Yazidi girl murder||A Munich court on Monday sentenced a German woman who joined the Islamic State group to 10 years in prison over the war crime of letting a five-year-old Yazidi "slave" girl die of thirst in the sun.Presiding judge Reinhold Baier of the superior regional court in the southern German city handed down the verdict to Jennifer Wenisch, 30, in one of the first convictions anywhere in the world related to the Islamic State group's persecution of the Yazidi community.Wenisch was found guilty of "two crimes against humanity in the form of enslavement", as well as aiding and abetting the girl's killing by failing to offer help and membership of a terrorist organisation.Wenisch and her IS husband "purchased" a Yazidi woman and child as household "slaves", whom they held captive while living in then IS-occupied Mosul, Iraq, in 2015, the court found."After the girl fell ill and wet her mattress, the husband of the accused chained her up outside as punishment and let the child die an agonising death of thirst in the scorching heat," prosecutors said during the trial."The accused allowed her husband to do so and did nothing to save the girl."Wenisch's husband, Taha al-Jumailly, is also facing trial in separate proceedings in Frankfurt, where the verdict is due in late November.Identified only by her first name Nora, the Yazidi girl's mother has repeatedly testified in both Munich and Frankfurt about the torment allegedly visited on her child.- Morality police -The defence had claimed the mother's testimony is untrustworthy and said there was no proof that the girl, who was taken to hospital after the incident, actually died.Wenisch's lawyers had called for her to receive just a two-year suspended sentence for supporting a terrorist organisation.When asked during the trial about her failure to save the girl, Wenisch said she was "afraid" that her husband would "push her or lock her up".At the close of the trial, according to the daily Sueddeutsche Zeitung, she claimed she was being "made an example of for everything that has happened under IS".According to other media reports, Wenisch converted to Islam in 2013 and travelled the following year via Turkey and Syria to Iraq where she joined IS.Recruited in mid-2015 to the group's self-styled hisbah morality police, she patrolled city parks in IS-occupied Fallujah and Mosul.Armed with an AK-47 assault rifle, a pistol and an explosives vest, her task was to ensure strict IS rules on dress code, public behaviour and bans on alcohol and tobacco.In January 2016, she visited the German embassy in Ankara to apply for new identity papers. When she left the mission, she was arrested and extradited days later to Germany.Wenisch's trial, which began in April 2019, is one of the first examples of court proceedings over the Islamic State group's brutal treatment of Yazidis.- Universal jurisdiction -A Kurdish-speaking group hailing from northern Iraq, the Yazidis were specifically targeted and oppressed by the jihadists beginning in 2015.Prominent London-based human rights lawyer Amal Clooney, who has been involved in a campaign for IS crimes against the Yazidi to be recognised as a "genocide", was part of the team representing the Yazidi girl's mother.Germany has charged several German and foreign nationals with war crimes and crimes against humanity carried out abroad, using the legal principle of universal jurisdiction which allows crimes to be prosecuted even if they were committed in a foreign country.A handful of female suspects are among those who have appeared in the dock.In November 2020, a German woman named as Nurten J. was charged with crimes against humanity allegedly committed while she was living in Syria as a member of Islamic State.In October 2020, another German court sentenced the German-Tunisian wife of a rapper-turned-jihadist to three-and-a-half years in prison for having taken part in the enslavement of a Yazidi girl in Syria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-is-bride-sentenced-to-10-years-over-yazidi-girl-murder-101635153294747.html
25-10-2021||World||Internet cut off; US, EU express concern: What we know about Sudan coup attempt||Sudanese military forces have out the country's Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok under house arrest and detained several members of the civilian leadership, in what is being described as a coup attempt.As per the latest reports, the soldiers have stormed the headquarters of Sudan TV and radio and arrested the staff members.The whereabouts of the Prime Minister are not known. Meanwhile, Sudan's state news channel played patriotic traditional music and scenes of the Nile river.Here's what we know so far:• The internet in Sudan has been largely cut off and military forces have closed bridges.• Thousands of people flooded the streets of capital Khartoum and its twin city of Omdurman. Footage shared online appeared to show protesters blocking streets and setting fire to tires as security forces used tear gas to disperse them.• The country's main pro-democracy group and the largest political party urged people in separate appeals to take to the streets to counter the apparent military coup.• US special envoy to the Horn of Africa, Jeffrey Feltman, said Washington was "deeply alarmed" by reports of the military takeover.• The European Union joined the United States in expressing grave concern about what is happening in Sudan. EU foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell tweeted on Monday that he's following events in the northeast African nation with the “utmost concern”.• The Arab League too expressed "concern" over developments in Sudan. Arab League Secretary-General Ahmed Aboul Gheit urged all sides to adhere to an August 2019 power-sharing deal outlining the transition following the ouster of president Omar al-Bashir.• Meanwhile, former Sudan rebel leader Arman has claimed on his Twitter account that he has also been arrested.• The officials said the detained government members include industry minister Ibrahim al-Sheikh, information minister Hamza Baloul, and Mohammed al-Fiky Suliman, member of the country's ruling transitional body, known as The Sovereign Council, and Faisal Mohammed Saleh, a media adviser to Hamdok. Ayman Khalid, governor of the state containing the capital, Khartoum, was also arrested, according to the official Facebook page of his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/internet-cut-off-us-eu-express-concern-what-we-know-about-sudan-coup-attempt-101635148544829.html
25-10-2021||World||Saudi dissident claims MBS talked about using 'poison ring' to kill King||A Saudia Arabian dissident has claimed that crown prince Mohammed bin Salman once boasted about killing the kingdom's former monarch. Saad al-Jabri made the claim on CBS News' "60 Minutes" programme, which aired on Sunday.Al-Jabri did not provide evidence on the news programme, but this is among the several unproven allegations he has made against the Saudi crown prince. Speaking to CBS News later, Saudi authorities described him as "a discredited former government official".Al-Jabri now resides in Canada. He claimed that in 2014 meeting with Prince Mohammed bin Nayef, who was head of intelligence as interior minister at the time, MBS (as the crown prince is popularly known) boasted that he could kill King Abdullah. At the time, Prince Mohammed held no senior role in government but was serving as gatekeeper to the royal court of his father, at the time still heir to the throne."He told him 'I want to assassinate King Abdullah. I get a poison ring from Russia. It's enough for me just to shake hand(s) with him and he will be done'," Al-Jabri said, claiming that Saudi intelligence took the threat seriously. The issue was handled within the royal family, al-Jabri said.A video recording of that meeting still exists, he claimed.King Salman ascended to the throne in January 2015 after his half-brother, King Abdullah, died of a lung infection at a hospital. It was later declared that the death was due to natural causes.Al-Jabri has in the past accused MBS of plotting to kill him weeks after the 2018 murder of Jamal Khashoggi. An assessment by the US officials claimed that Khashoggi was killed in an operation approved by the Saudi crown prince.A short, silent clip was shown to "60 Minutes" correspondent Scott Pelley. The video, al-Jabri said, could be released if he's killed. He described Prince Mohammed as "a psychopath, killer."The killing of KhashoggiSaudi critic Jamal Khashoggi was killed inside the Saudi Consulate in Turkey in October 2018.After recordings from inside the consulate were leaked by Turkish authorities, the Saudis claimed it had been an effort meant to forcibly bring Khashoggi back to the country, and that it went awry.The crown prince denied any knowledge of the operation, despite a US intelligence assessment to the contrary.This is al-Jabri's first on-record interview since his son Omar al-Jabri, 23, and daughter Sarah al-Jabri, 21, were detained in March 2020 in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.Human Rights Watch says the arrest of family members is an apparent effort to coerce al-Jabri to return to Saudi Arabia.A Saudi court sentenced his son and daughter to nine and six-and-a-half years in prison, respectively, for money laundering and unlawfully attempting to flee Saudi Arabia, according to the rights group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-dissident-claims-mbs-talked-about-using-poison-ring-to-kill-king-101635146194728.html
25-10-2021||World||Ex-chief of China’s arms giant Norinco Group arrested for graft||A former chairperson of China’s state defence giant China North Industries Group Co (Norinco Group), a Fortune 500 company, has been arrested on corruption charges, official media reported on Monday.Yin Jiaxu, 65, also the former top Communist Party of China (CPC) secretary of Norinco Group, was “…suspected of taking bribes and making illegal profits for relatives and friends”, a brief report on his arrest said, adding that the decision to arrest him was taken by China’s Supreme People’s Procuratorate.Norinco, a major military-industrial group, provides weapons and technical support to the People’s Liberation Army besides exporting arms.It is also engaged in the oil and gas business.In April, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI) said Yin Jiaxu was suspected of “serious violation” of laws and regulations, expelled him from the CPC and confiscated his “illicit gains”.Charges against him included “being addicted to golf” and trading “power for sex”, the CCDI said.Initial investigations against him found that “…Yin had lost his ideals and convictions, betrayed his original aspirations and mission, was disloyal to the party, and resisted the authorities’ probe,” according to the CCDI statement.Investigators found that Yin Jiaxu had “violated the eight-point frugality code on party and government conduct” by being addicted to playing golf, accepting gifts and money, and attending banquets that may have compromised the fulfillment of his duties, thus breaching the rules.Yin had reported false personal information to the party, the statement said. “He had connived with his relatives by allowing them to do business and seek huge profits in violation of regulations, and traded power for sex and money,” according to the statement.It also noted that Yin Jiaxu should assume the leadership responsibility for the huge loss of state-owned assets. He had abused his power to seek benefits for others and received a huge amount of gifts and money in return, it said.Yin had violated the party’s disciplinary standards on politics, organisation, clean governance and life, and is suspected of taking bribes, the statement said.He did not show “signs of restraint” even after the 18th CPC National Congress in 2012 when President Xi Jinping replaced Hu Jintao as CPC general secretary.“Born in 1956, he (Yin) was the deputy general manager of China South Industries Group Co in 2002, and later served as the deputy general manager of Norinco in 2010, then as the chairman from 2013. Yin Jiaxu retired in 2018,” a state media report said.The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), which tracks the global defence industry, said in its December report that Norinco was the ninth-largest arms company in the world and third-largest in China, after Aviation Industry Corporation of China and China Electronics Technology Group Corporation.President Xi Jinping’s anti-corruption campaign has netted several senior officials including those in the defence industry since it was launched during his first term in 2013.In January, it was announced that the former chief of China’s multi-billion aircraft carrier programme and head of one of the largest shipping companies, Hu Wenming, would be arrested on charges of corruption.Hu Wenming was expelled from the CPC in 2020 for severely violating party discipline and being suspected of taking bribes and misfeasance.Xi’s long-running anti-graft crackdown has targeted millions of officials including hundreds of senior officials, who are often referred to as “tigers” while the relatively minor ones are called “flies”.There has been speculation that the campaign has been used to target Xi Jinping’s political opponents and critics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/exchief-of-china-s-arms-giant-norinco-group-arrested-for-graft-101635139865082.html
25-10-2021||World||Sudan cabinet members, pro-govt party leaders arrested in apparent coup: Report||Soldiers arrested most of the members of Sudan's cabinet and a large number of pro-government party leaders on Monday in an apparent military coup, three political sources said.The information ministry said "joint military forces" had arrested civilian members of the Sovereign Council and members of the government and had taken them to an undisclosed location.There was no immediate comment from the military. Sudanese state TV broadcast as normal.A Reuters witness saw joint forces from the military and from the powerful, paramilitary Rapid Support Forces stationed in the streets in Khartoum.Sudan has been on edge since a failed coup plot last month unleashed bitter recriminations between military and civilian groups meant to be sharing power following the 2019 ouster of former leader Omar al-Bashir.Bashir was toppled and jailed after months of street protests. A political transition agreed after his ouster has seen Sudan emerge from its isolation under three decades of rule by Bashir and was meant to lead to elections by the end of 2023..The Reuters witness said military and paramilitary forces deployed across the capital, Khartoum, restricting civilians' movements, as protesters carrying the national flag burnt tires in different parts of the city.The information ministry said on its Facebook page that a number of ministers and civilian members of the ruling Sovereign Council were arrested.Khartoum airport was shut and international flights were suspended, according to Dubai-based al-Arabiya TV channel.Citing unidentified sources, Saudi-owned, Dubai-based Al Hadath said Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok had been placed under house arrest, and that unidentified military forces arrested four cabinet ministers, one civilian member of the Sovereign Council, and several state governors and party leaders.Family sources told Reuters that military forces had stormed the house of Hamdok's media adviser and arrested him.Reuters witnesses said internet services appeared to be down in Khartoum.The Sudanese Professionals Association (SPA), a main activist coalition in the uprising against Bashir, called on supporters to mobilise after what it called the arrest of cabinet members."We urge the masses to go out on the streets and occupy them, close all roads with barricades, stage a general labour strike, and not to cooperate with the putschists and use civil disobedience to confront them," the group said in a statement on Facebook.As tensions built this month, a coalition of rebel groups and political parties aligned themselves with the military and called on it to dissolve the civilian government, staging a sit-in outside the presidential palace.Last week, several cabinet ministers took part in big protests in several parts of Khartoum and other cities against the prospect of military rule.The military head of the Sovereign Council has previously asserted his commitment to the transition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sudan-cabinet-members-pro-govt-party-leaders-arrested-in-apparent-coup-report-101635138777989.html
25-10-2021||World||Under threat, Imran Khan to release proscribed hardline Islamist group's leader||The Imran Khan-led government has said Saad Hussain Rizvi, the chief of proscribed hardline Islamist group Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), will be released and cases against its protesters will be dropped. Pakistan interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed announced on Sunday that the cases against the TLP protesters will be dropped by Wednesday.Ahmed's announcement came after hundreds of TLP workers took to the streets across the country to exert pressure on the government for the release of Rizvi. The minister said the ban on TLP will also be reviewed in the days to come. ARY News reported that the announcement was made after an eight-hour-long meeting between Rizvi and the Imran Khan government.Rizvi was detained by the Punjab government on April 12 for “maintenance of public order (MPO)”. He was initially detained for three months and then again under the anti-terrorist Act on July 10.According to the Dawn newspaper, the interior minister addressed a press conference after leading a government team in negotiations with the TLP's representatives, including its detained chief, in Islamabad. “We have released 350 TLP workers up to now and we are still waiting to open both sides of road of Muridke as per the decision with the TLP,” Rashid tweeted later.
25-10-2021||World||Pandemic far from over, will end when...: WHO chief's word of caution||The World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has said the coronavirus pandemic is far from over and the world needs to use public health tools effectively to tackle it."The pandemic will end when the world chooses to end it. It is in our hands. We have all the tools we need: effective public health tools and effective medical tools. But the world has not used those tools well. With almost 50,000 deaths a week, the pandemic is far from over," Tedros said in his address to the World Health Summit in Berlin on Sunday, according to news agency ANI.The world body chief also urged G20 countries having vaccinated 40 per cent of their population to actively engage in the Covax mechanism and the African Vaccine Acquisition Trust (AVAT). Covax and ACT aim to accelerate the development, production, and equitable access to Covid-19 tests, treatments, and vaccines for every country in the world, according to the WHO website.Ghebreyesus appeal came after UN secretary general Antonio Guterres also called on the G20 countries to help collect $8 billion to ensure a fair distribution of Covid-19 vaccines around the world.Addressing the World Health Summit, Gutteres said that he joined the WHO chief earlier to launch a global strategy for Covid-19 vaccination, which suggests a credible and cost-effective plan to deliver vaccines to 40 per cent of people in all countries by the end of this year and 70 per cent by mid-2022.According to data published by the Worldmeters website on Monday, as many as 244,427,410 Covid-19 cases have been registered across the world so far. It also showed that at least 4,963,752 people have lost their lives to the viral disease and the number of recoveries stands at 221,451,949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-far-from-over-will-end-when-who-chief-s-word-of-caution-101635130596293.html
25-10-2021||World||China locks down county with over 35k residents amid Covid delta outbreak||China locked down a county that has seen the most Covid-19 cases in the country’s latest delta outbreak, as an initial flareup in the northwest quickly spirals into a nationwide surge.Ejin, a county in northwestern China’s Inner Mongolia, has asked its 35,700 residents to stay home from Monday and warned of civil and criminal liabilities should anyone disobey the order, state broadcaster CCTV reported, citing a local government statement. The small county bordering Mongolia is the current outbreak’s hotspot, home to nearly one-third of the more than 150 infections found over the past week in the mainland.The lockdown came a day after a warning from National Health Commission officials that the outbreak would continue to worsen after spreading to 11 provinces in about a week. China reported 38 Covid infections on Monday, half of which were found in Inner Mongolia.The capital Beijing -- which has seen a dozen new cases traced back to the northwest -- has all but banned entry by people arriving from anyplace in the country that’s reported having local Covid cases. People who have to visit Beijing from such areas must provide a Covid test conducted no longer than two days earlier, and undergo two weeks of unspecified health monitoring.Meanwhile, provinces with a handful of cases -- including Beijing; Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia in the northwest; and Guizhou, in the southwest, have been banned from conducting cross-country travel tours. All train services around China related to tourism have also been halted, as the current outbreak has seen the virus spread quickly among tour groups. The escalating curbs underscore the challenge even China’s formidable Covid restrictions face in controlling the highly-contagious delta variant. The country is the only nation in the world still seeking to eliminate local transmission of the virus at a time when other so-called Covid-Zero stalwarts -- from Singapore to Australia -- have pivoted to treating it as endemic.China has managed to quash a slew of flareups since delta first breached its tight border controls in May. One in July and August eventually spread to half of China, forcing authorities to cut transport from hotspots and test local populations multiple times to bring infections back to zero -- only to see new flares emerge.More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-locks-down-county-with-over-35k-residents-amid-covid-delta-outbreak-101635128749635.html
25-10-2021||World||As Covid cases surge in Germany, questions on extension of state of emergency||Germany is currently facing an increased spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), prompting calls to extend the nationwide state of emergency, which will end next month.Germany recorded the highest single-day spike since mid-May on Saturday after 15,145 people were detected as Covid-19 positive.On Sunday, 11,411 new cases were reported, pushing the caseload to 4,476,078, according to worldometers.com. The total cases include 95,794 deaths, 4,206,400 recoveries and 173,884 active cases.According to a report by the New York Times, infections in Germany have increased by 57 per cent in the last two weeks, while deaths have increased by 11 per cent.Will the state of emergency extend?Amid the worsening pandemic situation in Germany, leaders of the country’s 16 states are discussing how to proceed after the state of emergency ends on November 25. According to news agency Reuters, restrictions will automatically expire after this date unless they are extended by a parliamentary vote.In general, all 16 states have made the wearing of masks compulsory in stores and while travelling on public transport. Since August, visitors to Germany have to present proof of vaccination, recovery from Covid-19 or a recent negative test for entry to indoor public spaces such as restaurants, salons and gyms, the New York Times report also said. The same rules are applicable to all citizens.German health minister Jens Spahn said on Saturday that it will be possible to lift the state of emergency while upholding the above rules till next spring. Health minister Spahn also said that Germany can deal with a higher number of Covid-19 cases because of the higher number of vaccinations.“We can obviously deal with higher incidences, higher numbers of infections better, much better without overburdening the health system because so many are already vaccinated,” Spahn said in an interview with Deutschlandfunk radio.As many as 66 per cent of the German population is fully vaccinated against the viral disease. However, states such as Saxony and Thuringia have a lower vaccination rate and hospitals are being overburdened with a rising number of cases, the health minister also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-covid-cases-surge-in-germany-questions-on-extension-of-state-of-emergency-101635124113183.html
25-10-2021||World||China expects new Covid-19 outbreak to worsen in coming days||China’s new Covid-19 infections will increase in coming days and the areas affected by the epidemic may continue to expand, a health official said.The current outbreak in China is caused by the delta variant from overseas, Wu Liangyou, an official at the National Health Commission, said at a briefing in Beijing Sunday. The wave of infections spread to 11 provinces in the week from Oct. 17, Mi Feng, spokesman for the commission, said at the briefing. Most of the people infected have cross-region travel histories, Mi said. He urged areas that have been affected by the pandemic to adopt “emergency mode.” Some cities in the provinces of Gansu -- including its capital Lanzhou -- and Inner Mongolia have halted bus and taxi services because of the virus, according to Zhou Min, an official at the transport ministry. Ejina, a county in the western part of Inner Mongolia, asked all residents and travelers to stay indoors starting Monday to contain the spread of coronavirus, the local government said in a statement.China reported 26 new local confirmed Covid-19 infections on Saturday, including seven in Inner Mongolia, six in Gansu, six in Ningxia, four in Beijing, one in Hebei, one in Hunan and one in Shaanxi, according to the National Health Commission. Another four local asymptomatic cases were reported in Hunan and Yunnan.The spread of the delta variant in Asia is slowing efforts by governments to re-open their economies. Singapore announced Saturday that only employees who are fully vaccinated, or have recovered from Covid-19 in the past 270 days, can return to the workplace from Jan. 1. The government last week extended other virus restrictions for another month because cases continue to rise even with more than 84% of the population fully vaccinated.Beijing Restricts Tourism; Singapore Work Access: Virus UpdateIn China’s capital city of Beijing, the epidemic has expanded to three districts including Haidian, a scientific hub, Pang Xinghuo, vice head of the Beijing Center for Disease Prevention and Control, said at a briefing Sunday. Five new confirmed local Covid cases and an asymptomatic one were reported between Saturday midday to Sunday 3 p.m., Pang said.Beijing will cancel a marathon originally scheduled for Oct. 31 due to the virus, the Beijing Daily reported. People in cities where infections have been found are banned from visiting or returning to the capital at present, the newspaper said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-expects-new-covid-19-outbreak-to-worsen-in-coming-days-101635122106269.html
25-10-2021||World||Taliban welcome Vladimir Putin's plan to remove them from terrorists' list||Taliban have welcomed remarks by Russian President Vladimir Putin about the possibility to exclude the group from the terror list.Putin, speaking at a meeting of the International Valdai Club, said the removal of the Taliban movement from the list of terrorist organisations is possible. However, he also emphasised that this must happen at the level of the United Nations, Russian News Agency TASS reported.Abdul Qahar Balkhi, the spokesperson of the Afghan Foreign Ministry in the interim government of the country, said on Sunday: "Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan welcomes remarks by President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, regarding removal of names of IEA leaders from the blacklist.""As the chapter of war has come to an end, so too must world countries bring a positive change in their relationship and approach towards Afghanistan. We seek positive relations with the international community based on the principle of reciprocity," the Taliban spokesman tweeted.Putin has said that Russia is pondering over removing the Taliban from the list of extremist groups."All of us expect that these people, the Taliban, who are undoubtedly in control of the situation in Afghanistan will ensure that the situation develops in a positive fashion," Putin said."All of us expect that these people, the Taliban, who are undoubtedly in control of the situation in Afghanistan will ensure that the situation develops in a positive fashion," Putin said.Taliban seized control of Kabul in August and they announced the interim government of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in September.Taliban have been pushing for international recognition. However, the world community have made it clear that the Taliban have to deliver on the promises that they have made before any recognition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-welcome-valadimir-putin-s-plan-to-remove-them-from-terrorists-list-101635121620258.html
25-10-2021||World||UK announces £6 bn health spending ahead of key budget||The British government will provide an extra £6 billion to its National Health Service to tackle backlogs built up during the pandemic, finance minister Rishi Sunak will announce in this week's budget.All eyes will be on Sunak Wednesday as he outlines the government's tax and spending plans for the next year.He is grappling with a range of problems thrown up by the pandemic and lockdowns, with many anticipating tax hikes to deal with record borrowing.Sunak told the BBC on Sunday that the country would have to wait until Wednesday to find out his tax plans. But his office released details of the £6 billion ($8.25 billion, seven billion euros) health fund for patients waiting for diagnostic tests and non-emergency operations. Part of the funding will go towards creating 100 "one-stop-shop" diagnostic centres across England to catch life-threatening diseases such as cancer. Sunak called it a "game-changing investment... to make sure we have the right buildings, equipment and systems to get patients the help they need."The minister will also announce a £5 billion fund for innovative health-related projects, according to his office.Health Minister Sajid Javid said the investment would add to coronavirus treatments and vaccines developed in the UK to battle the pandemic. "The new investment will build on this success by accelerating the discovery of ground-breaking medicines and technologies," he said.But the big-spending plans have raised questions about where the debt-wracked government is going to find the money, with free-marketers within Sunak's Conservative Party concerned that it will come from tax rises.The country is also suffering from high inflation and supply shortages, blamed on the pandemic and Brexit.Sunak on Sunday told Sky News that high employment levels were a sign that the government's "plan for jobs is working". But he conceded supply shortages and high energy prices were squeezing household budgets.Labour's Rachel Reeves, the shadow finance minister, took aim at her counterpart for not doing enough to ease the burden."Our priority would be easing the cost-of-living price crisis, helping businesses who have had a torrid 18 months," she told Sky News.jwp/jv||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-announces-6-bn-health-spending-ahead-of-key-budget-101635111695542.html
25-10-2021||World||Calls to ban guns on movie sets grow after Alec Baldwin shooting||Calls were growing Sunday to ban the use of firearms in movie-making, as Hollywood struggled to come to terms with Alec Baldwin's fatal on-set shooting of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins.A memorial service will be held Sunday for 42-year-old Hutchins, who was struck in the chest when Baldwin fired a prop gun during the filming of the low-budget Western "Rust." She died shortly after the incident Thursday in New Mexico.Director Joel Souza, 48, who was crouching behind her as they lined up a shot, was wounded and hospitalized, then released.Police are still investigating the shooting, which sparked intense speculation on social media about how such an accident could have occurred despite detailed and long-established gun safety protocols for film sets.A petition on the website change.org calling for a ban on live firearms on film sets and better working conditions for crews had gathered more than 18,000 signatures by Sunday afternoon. "There is no excuse for something like this to happen in the 21st century," says the text of the petition launched by Bandar Albuliwi, a screenwriter and director. Dave Cortese, a Democrat elected to the California Senate, put out a statement on Saturday saying, "There is an urgent need to address alarming work abuses and safety violations occurring on the set of theatrical productions, including unnecessary high-risk conditions such as the use of live firearms."He said he intends to push a bill banning live ammunition on movie sets in California.The hit Los Angeles police drama "The Rookie" decided the day after the shooting to ban all live ammunition from its set, effective immediately, according to industry publication The Hollywood Reporter. But some industry professionals said the use of weapons on film was not the problem.Movie armorer SL Huang, writing on Twitter, said she had worked on hundreds of film sets without incident, thanks to the stringent safety protocols and the built-in redundancies."A tragedy happening in *this particular* way defies everything I know about how we treat guns on film sets," she wrote."My colleagues and I have been trying to figure out how this could happen when following our basic safety procedures and we keep ending at a loss. "Which implies... that very basic, very standard safety procedures may not have been followed. And that nobody shut the production down when they weren't."Baldwin, who has spoken of his heartbreak after the killing, is cooperating with the police investigation.The probe has focused on the specialist in charge of the weapon and the assistant director who handed it to Baldwin, according to an affidavit seen by AFP. rle/seb/st/sw/hg/bfm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/calls-to-ban-guns-on-movie-sets-grow-after-alec-baldwin-shooting-101635111758788.html
25-10-2021||World||Archaeologists in Iraq find ancient wine press, carvings||Archaeologists in Iraq revealed Sunday their discovery of a large-scale wine factory from the rule of the Assyrian kings 2,700 years ago, along with stunning monumental rock-carved royal reliefs.The stone bas-reliefs, showing kings praying to the gods, were cut into the walls of a nearly nine-kilometre-long (5.5-mile) irrigation canal at Faida in northern Iraq, the joint team of archaeologists from the Department of Antiquities in Dohuk and colleagues from Italy said.The carvings, 12 panels measuring five metres (16 feet) wide and two metres tall, show gods, kings and sacred animals. They date from the reigns of Sargon II (721-705 BC) and his son Sennacherib."There are other places with rock reliefs in Iraq, especially in Kurdistan, but none are so huge and monumental as this one," said Italian archaeologist Daniele Morandi Bonacossi."The scenes represent the Assyrian king praying in front the Assyrian gods," he said, noting that the seven key gods are all seen, including Ishtar, the goddess of love and war, who is depicted on top of a lion.Ancient 'propaganda scene'The irrigation canal was cut into limestone to carry water from the hills to the fields of farmers, and the carvings were made to remind people of the king who ordered its construction."It was not only a religious scene of prayer, it was also political, a sort of propaganda scene," Morandi Bonacossi added."The king, in this way, wanted to show to the people living in the area that he was the one who has created these massive irrigation systems, so... the people should remember this and remain loyal."At Khinis, also near Dohuk, the team unearthed giant stone basins cut into white rock that were used in commercial wine-making during the reign of Sennacherib, in the late 8th or early 7th century BC."It was a sort of industrial wine factory," said Morandi Bonacossi, professor of Near Eastern archaeology at Italy's University of Udine, adding this was the first such discovery in Iraq."We have found 14 installations, that were used to press the grapes and extract the juice, which was then processed into wine."Some of the most famous carvings that have survived from the Assyrian period are the mythical winged bulls, with examples of the monumental reliefs seen in the Iraq Museum in Baghdad, as well as the Louvre in Paris and the British Museum in London.Iraq was the birthplace of some of the world's earliest cities. As well as Assyrians it was once home to Sumerians and Babylonians, and to among humankind's first examples of writing.But it is also now a location for smugglers of ancient artifacts.Looters decimated the country's ancient past, including after the 2003 US-led invasion.Then, from 2014 and 2017, the Islamic State group demolished dozens of pre-Islamic treasures with bulldozers, pickaxes and explosives. They also used smuggling to finance their operations.However, some countries are slowly returning stolen items.Earlier this year, the United States returned about 17,000 artifacts to Iraq, pieces that mostly dated from the Sumerian period around 4,000 years ago.Last month, a 3,500-year-old tablet recounting the epic of Gilgamesh was returned to Iraq after being stolen three decades ago and illegally imported to the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/archaeologists-in-iraq-find-ancient-wine-press-carvings-101635111909017.html
25-10-2021||World||Thousands of migrants continue to walk through southern Mexico||A group of about 2,000 mainly Central American migrants continued their mass trek from the southern Mexico city of Tapachula on Sunday, reaching a town about 16 miles (26 kilometers) away.Migrants started out before dawn to avoid the burning heat. Mostly from Honduras and El Salvador, many were accompanied by small children. By midday on the second day of their march, they reached the town of Huehuetan, in southern Chiapas state.Unlike previous marches, the one that started Saturday from Tapachula did not include as many Haitian migrants, thousands of whom reached the US border around Del Rio, Texas, in September.Tens of thousands of migrants from Honduras, El Salvador and Haiti have been waiting in Tapachula, near the Guatemalan border, for refugee or asylum papers that might allow them to travel, but have grown tired of delays in the process.Mexico requires migrants applying for humanitarian visas or asylum to remain in the border state of Chiapas, next to Guatemala, for their cases to be processed.Anthony Beltrandez, a Cuban who left his country in 2018 to go to Uruguay, had been waiting for 1 1/2 months in Tapachula for papers that would allow him to reach the US border.“But they took a long time,” said Beltrandez, a furniture restorer. So he decided to join the group of migrants who left Tapachula on Saturday.“There has been a lot of heat, a lot of sun,” Beltrandez said of the walk.On the first day of the march, the migrants pushed past a line of state police who were trying to stop them. There were minor scuffles and a small child suffered a slight head wound, but the migrants continued on their way.They made it only a few miles (kilometers) to the nearby village of Alvaro Obregon on Saturday before stopping to rest for the night at a baseball field.“We don't want problems with anyone,” Beltrandez said as the group reached Huehuetan on Sunday. “We want to do everything peacefully.”Police, immigration agents and National Guard have broken up smaller attempts at similar breakouts earlier this year. In August, National Guard troops in riot gear blocked several hundred Haitians, Cubans and Central Americans who set out walking on a highway from Tapachula.In January, a larger caravan of migrants tried to leave Honduras but was blocked from crossing Guatemala.José Antonio, a Honduran in the latest group who did not want to give his last name because he feared it could affect his case, said he had been waiting in Tapachula for two months for an answer on his request for some sort of visa.“They told me I had to wait because the appointments were full,” the construction worker said. “There is no work there (in Tapachula), so out of necessity I joined this group.”The marches are reminiscent, but nowhere near as large, as the huge migrant caravans that crossed Mexico in 2018 and 2019 heading toward the US border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-of-migrants-continue-to-walk-through-southern-mexico-101635112369806.html
25-10-2021||World||US didn’t put enough pressure on Ghani, laments Khalilzad||The United States did not put enough pressure on former Afghanistan president Ashraf Ghani to share power with the Taliban, Zalmay Khalilzad, who recently resigned as US special envoy to Afghanistan, told CBS in an interview broadcast on Sunday.The Afghan-born Khalilzad, speaking for the first time since his resignation on October 18, expressed reservations about the US decision to lift conditions on the withdrawal deal he had negotiated with the Taliban during the Trump years.The agreement signed on February 29, 2020 between Washington and the Taliban - which excluded Ghani’s government in Kabul - paved the way for the US to end its longest war. But it was “a conditions-based package” that included negotiations between the insurgents and Kabul, as well as a permanent ceasefire, Khalilzad said.But once in the White House, US President Joe Biden decided “to do a calendar-based withdrawal” without regard to those conditions, he said.Washington feared the Taliban would resume attacks on US forces if they stayed in the country longer - a situation Khalilzad acknowledged.Khalilzad placed most of the blame on Ghani, who he said never agreed to share power with the Taliban. “They preferred the status quo to a political settlement,” he said of Ghani’s government.“They (Ghani’s government) were not serious about the political settlement. It’s my judgement that we didn’t press him (Ghani) hard enough. We were gentle with President Ghani. We used diplomacy. We encouraged him.”Iran to host meeting on Af, Taliban not invitedIran will host a regional meeting on Afghanistan on Wednesday - but without the participation of the Taliban regime, which hasn’t been invited to the talks, reported Tolo News.“We are aware that the meeting will be held. The meeting relates to neighbours, and we are not invited,” said Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid.TT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-didn-t-put-enough-pressure-on-ghani-laments-khalilzad-101635110489660.html
25-10-2021||World||Wuhan halts marathon as China’s cases surge||The Wuhan Marathon, which was due to take place on Sunday, was postponed at short notice as worries continue to increase over a resurgence of the coronavirus in China ahead of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympic Games.China reported 26 new domestic Covid-19 cases on Sunday, in an outbreak that has become the latest test of the country’s zero-tolerance approach with just over 100 days until the start of the Games.Authorities have been racing to contain infections via mass testing of residents and targeted lockdowns. But with the rise in cases, organisers of the Wuhan Marathon said they would postpone Sunday’s event in the central Chinese city “to prevent the risk of epidemic spread”.The event was expected to have 26,000 participants, taking part in races including a full marathon and half marathon.Gansu, China’s northwest province, announced the suspension of all tourism activities after a surge in cases in the region, local media reported.In Russia, restaurants, cafes and non-essential shops will be closed in St Petersburg from October 30 until November 7 due to a steady spike in cases.US doctor refuses mask, told to leave meetingFlorida’s top health official, state surgeon general Joseph Ladapo, was asked to leave a meeting after reportedly refusing to wear a mask at the office of a state senator who told him she had a serious medical condition.The incident apparently took place at the office of Senator Tina Polsky.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-halts-marathon-as-china-s-cases-surge-101635110315790.html
25-10-2021||World||Facebook has different standards for misinformation in India: Reports||US social media giant Facebook has invested way less proportionately on preventing hate-speech and misinformation on its platform for users in India, developing and also in some non-English speaking nations compared to the United States, according to US media reports based on internal documents made public on Saturday.The United States accounts for less than 10% of Facebook’s daily users but it corners 84% of the company’s global budget, The Washington Post reported based in a 2020 company document. Only 16% went for the same purpose in the “Rest of World,” included India, France and Italy.One Facebook document viewed and cited by The Washington Post showed that the company had not developed algorithms for Hindi and Bengali, the world’s fifth and seventh most widely used language. The report cited company spokesperson saying hate-speech classifiers for Hindi and Bengal were introduced in 2018 and 2019 and systems for detecting violence and incitement in Hindi and Bengali were added as recently as 2021.Facebook was acutely aware at all times of its loose systems for monitoring and taking down hate-speech and misinformation in India. In February 2019, the company’s India staff did an integrity test of the network through a dummy user, whose profile identified her as a 21-year-old woman in north India. The user’s newsfeed was hit at first by soft-porn posts. However, in the aftermath of the Pulwama terrorist attack and resulting escalation in India-Pakistan tensions and the retaliatory airstrike by India, it resulted in unsolicited pro-Indian government propaganda and anti-Muslim hate speech.The dummy test was called an “integrity nightmare” by the Facebook in an internal document.Documents cited by Washington Post in this report included copies of internal papers, memo and reports that whistleblower Frances Haugen has provided to the US stock market regulator Securities and Exchange Commission, with redacted versions to US Congress. Some of these papers formed the basis for initial reports by The Wall Street Journal that the social media giant prioritised profit over public safety. The reports led to one of them damaging Congressional hearings yet for Facebook.Facebook spokesperson Dani Lever told The Washington Post that the company had made “progress” and had “dedicated teams working to stop abuse on our platform in countries where there is heightened risk of conflict and violence. We also have global teams with native speakers reviewing content in over 70 languages along with experts in humanitarian and human rights issues”.In India, Lever said, the “hypothetical test account inspired deeper, more rigorous analysis of our recommendation systems”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-has-different-standards-for-misinformation-in-india-report-101635100261819.html
25-10-2021||India||Power minister RK Singh unveils GDAM portal to promote renewable energy||New Delhi: The Union government on Monday launched a new market segment, Green Day Ahead Market (GDAM), which will enable electricity generation and distribution companies to buy or sell renewable energy through open access, the ministry of power and renewable energy said in a statement. Union minister of power and renewable energy RK Singh, while launching the portal, said India is the only large electricity market in the world to implement a GDAM exclusively for renewable energy. “The buyer’s behaviour is shifting from long-term contracts to short-term contracts, which is true even in the power market. This new initiative will help in enabling this energy transition. It will provide competitive price signals and offer an opportunity to the market participants to trade in green energy in the most transparent, flexible and efficient manner. The distribution utilities would also be able to sell surplus renewable power generated in their area at GDAM,” said Singh. The development assumes significance as India has set a target to have a 450 GW capacity of pure renewable energy by 2030. At present, India has an installed renewable energy capacity of 147 GW, including hydro power, and another 63 GW is under installation through various projects. The move is also aimed at reducing the country’s dependence on imported sources of fossil fuels. At a time when the country is facing a coal shortage, which is straining the generation capacity of thermal power plants, Singh said GDAM will help reduce the cost of power. “We saw that spot purchase of electricity shot up in the past few weeks when the demand for electricity from thermal power plants shot up. At present, average cost of electricity per day is about ₹4 per unit, which will further come down with GDAM,” said the Union minister. With this, the government is aiming to gradually shift from long term power purchase agreement (PPA)-based contracts to market-based models. At present, PPAs are mostly signed for up to 25 years in the electricity sector in the country. “The shift to short term power contracts will help open up the renewable energy market further as it will allow large industries also to go green by purchasing clean electricity from GDAM and selling in case of surplus. The GDAM will operate in an integrated way with the conventional day-ahead market (DAM) in the power sector. It will allow market participants to submit bids together for both conventional and renewable energy through separate bidding windows,” the power ministry said in a statement. An official from the power ministry explained that renewable energy bids will be cleared first, since plants generating green energy have been given a “must-run status”, which will be followed by clearances to the conventional segment (coal fired power plants). “This mechanism will allow renewable energy sellers to subsequently bid in the conventional segment should their bids remain uncleared in the green market. There will be separate price discoveries for both conventional and renewable electricity,” the official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-minister-rk-singh-unveils-gdam-portal-to-promote-renewable-energy-101635186252195.html
25-10-2021||India||Centre rushes team to UP over Zika case||The Centre on Monday rushed a high-level multi-disciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh, where a case of Zika virus was reported last week. In a statement, the Union health ministry said: “The multidisciplinary team comprising an entomologist, public health specialists and gynaecologist drawn from National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, National Centre for Disease Control and Dr RML Hospital, New Delhi, has been deployed by Union Health Ministry to assist the State Health authorities for control and containment measures of the Zika virus disease.” A 57-year-old man from Kanpur tested positive for the virus on Friday. The patient, an Indian Air Force (IAF) officer, showed symptoms of the virus, including fever, over the last few days and was admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the district. His blood samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, and the test turned positive. The samples of 22 people, who came in contact with the IAF officer tested negative, an official had earlier said.“The central team will work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union health ministry’s action plan for Zika management is being implemented,” the health ministry’s statement said.“The team will also recommend necessary public health interventions for management of Zika in the state of Uttar Pradesh,” it added. The viral disease is carried by the Aedes aegypti mosquito, which also spreads vector-borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya.On July 8, Kerala was the first state to record a case of Zika virus after a pregnant woman tested positive. In August, Maharashtra reported its first case after a 50-year-old woman Pune’s Purandar tehsil was infected. Multiple teams of the central government, comprising health experts, were earlier sent to both the affected states to review the situation. At least 60 cases of the viral disease have been reported in India so far this year. The country regularly holds surveillance as there have been sporadic mini-outbreaks in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rushes-team-to-up-over-zika-case-101635186188886.html
25-10-2021||India||Southwest monsoon withdraws, but 5 states, UTs to receive heavy rain till Oct 30: IMD||The southwest monsoon on Monday completely withdrew from the country, thereby, marking the seventh-most delayed monsoon withdrawal between 1975 and 2021.This, however, made way for the arrival of northeasterly winds that have been setting in in the lower tropospheric levels, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its latest bulletin.“Northeast monsoon rain has commenced over extreme south peninsular India today,” the IMD added.Also Read | IMD alerts: Heavy rain with hailstorm and snowfall in 9 states, UTs till Oct 29The delayed monsoon withdrawal this year has led to unseasonal rainfall in many parts of India with the hill states Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh in the north and Kerala in the south getting severely impacted.Meanwhile, untimely snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir has also caused deaths of many people in the Valley.With the arrival of northeast monsoon, the IMD has forecasted heavy rainfall with thunder and lightning in as many as five states and Union territories (UTs) of India till October 30.Here are the key IMD alerts for the five states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-with-thunderstorm-lightning-in-5-states-uts-till-oct-3-imd-101635184780668.html
25-10-2021||India||Supreme Court lets Karti Chidambaram travel abroad, told to deposit ₹1 crore||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday allowed Congress member of Parliament (MP) Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad after he gives an undertaking to return by November 21 and deposits ₹1 crore with the Supreme Court Registry.Karti, the son of former finance minister P Chidambaram, is facing money laundering probe by Directorate of Enforcement (ED) in connection with grant of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance to INX Media and for allegedly receiving ₹300 crore in kickbacks for facilitating the deal while his father was the finance minister.On Monday, ED represented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta submitted that Karti Chidambaram was not cooperating with the probe as he had not responded to the summons issued on June 30 requiring him to produce certain documents.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Congress MP, said, “We served this application three months back and we are not told once about this summons. You must show us the summons that you served as the last summon was issued in January 2020.”The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said, “This application was filed on September 30 after giving notice to respondents. It has been adjourned on two occasions in the past. Today when the applicant wants to go abroad in terms of a plan already stated, for the first time it is said across the bar by the solicitor general that the applicant has not cooperated during investigation of the case and has not appropriately responded to summons issued to him on June 30.”Regardless of this fact, the court allowed Karti to leave the country on Monday in connection with tennis matches in several countries. He has been ordered to report back on or before November 21.In February, this year, Karti was allowed to travel abroad by the top court on deposit of ₹2 crore as security. Sibal told the court, “I do not know why this special treatment is given to him that every time he travels abroad he is asked to make a deposit. Earlier it was ₹10 crore and last time, it was reduced to ₹2 crore.” Sibal requested the amount to be reduced this time.While retaining all other conditions mentioned by the court in its February 22 order, the bench reduced the security deposit amount to ₹1 crore. The top court also allowed ED to file its affidavit indicating non-cooperation by the accused and posted the matter for hearing on November 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-lets-karti-chidambaram-travel-abroad-told-to-deposit-rs-1-crore-101635185108995.html
25-10-2021||India||No expectation from 'Mamu': Digvijaya Singh on ‘Aashram’ set vandalism||A day after Bajrang Dal activists vandalised the sets of filmmaker Prakash Jha's web series ‘Aashram’ in Bhopal, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh hit out at the Madhya Pradesh police for going soft on the right wing outfit.Urging the state police to take necessary action in the incident, Singh said he had no faith in chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and home minister Narottam Mishra, who said Jha should think of the “wrong he was doing” while condemning the vandalism.He also alleged the outfit was involved in the killing of office-bearers of the Congress-affiliated National Students Union of India (NSUI) in Mandla district.“I strongly condemn the attack on noted film producer and director Prakash Jha and his crew in the Old Jail premises in Bhopal on Sunday,” Singh said in a statement.“What is the police administration doing? I don't have any expectations from the Mamu (apparently referring to Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan who is fondly called Mama by supporters) and the state home minister (Narottam Mishra) but we have faith in the director general of police (DGP). He should take strong action in the matter," the Rajya Sabha MP was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Calling Bajrang Dal leader Sushil Surhele a "habitual offender", Singh said he is out on bail after being sentenced in a murder case connected to a trader in Bhopal's Hamidia Road.Earlier in the day, Surhele said his activists had thrown ink on Jha and that his organisation will not allow the shooting of the ‘anti-Hindu’ show in Bhopal. .Alleging that the district police had failed to take action in the killing of NSUI functionaries in Mandla in 2020, Singh warned that if the administration fails to act on these incidents, the Congress would launch an agitation.On Sunday evening, a group of Bajrang Dal activists ransacked the set of the third season of web series ‘Aashram’, starring Bobby Deol as godman and conman ‘Baba Nirala’. The attackers threw ink on Jha who is also producing the web series, accusing him of portraying Hindus wrongly. Windscreens of two crew buses were broken in stone pelting and one person was injured, police said(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-expectation-from-mamu-digvijaya-singh-on-aashram-set-vandalism-101635182506715.html
25-10-2021||India||Spurt in militancy exposes Centre’s claims on Article 370: Farooq Abdullah||Former chief minister of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state and leader of the J&K National Conference party Farooq Abdullah on Monday targeted the Union government over the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. He said the recent “spurt” in militancy has exposed the Centre’s claims that terror would end after revoking the law.“Least to speak about ending militancy, it is on the rise, and home minister Amit Shah needs to answer why. Spurt in militancy across Jammu and Kashmir exposes the claims of the Centre that terror would end after revocation of Article 370,” Abdullah was quoted as saying at a rally in Poonch by news agency PTI.On August 5, 2019, the Centre bifurcated the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh -- after revoking the Article 370, which granted special status to the state.Also read | ‘I will talk with people, youth of valley’: Amit Shah responds to Farooq Abdullah’s advice on talks with PakistanHe also expressed doubts about the return of peace to the UT because of the “ill-conceived” policies of the Centre, while urging people to maintain amity and brotherhood.Stating that his party has been facing these challenges since its inception by pursuing secularism and democracy, the former chief minister said, “This has been the strength of this party in a diverse place like Jammu and Kashmir, which has maintained its glorious ethos in the most testing times.”Warning against elements deployed by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to create suspicion in the minds of the public about religion, he said, “This atmosphere is aimed at polarisation to garner votes. This is the tested tool of those who want to remain in power at all costs.”The senior leader had also pitched for dialogue between India and Pakistan on Sunday, to which Union home minister Amit Shah had responded on Monday that he would rather talk to the people and the youth of the valley.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spurt-in-militancy-exposes-centre-s-claims-on-article-370-farooq-abdullah-101635183396638.html
25-10-2021||India||Top court asks Army to reconsider denial of PC to exemplary women officers||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and the Indian Army to consider the case of five Army women short service commission officers who were denied permanent commission as they were assessed from 1999-2005 based on an assessment system that relied on an annual confidential report (ACR) due to which they failed to get over 60% marks, the threshold fixed by the Supreme Court in March for grant of permanent commission (PC).The officers in question approached the top court complaining against the unit assessment card (UAC) assessment system that prevailed till 2005. This system was discontinued by the Army in September 2005 and replaced by ACR-based assessment policy for grant of PC. However, their plea to be considered for PC was rejected by the Delhi High Court on September 17 against which the officers had filed appeals. They were discharged from the Army in July.Senior advocates Huzefa Ahmadi and V Mohana appeared for the officers and sought to challenge the denial of PC on the faulty UAC system and the failure of Army to consider their exceptional achievements beyond the stipulated ACRs of the fifth and tenth year of service. “If the UAC assessment marks are eschewed, these officers will get far above 60% marks required by them to get PC,” Ahmadi said while Mohana pointed out that the Court’s March 25 judgment specifically named two of the petitioners - Gopika Bhati and Sonali Singh, for their exemplary achievements and suggested their entire track record be taken into consideration for grant of PC.Bhati was the only officer to receive GOC-in-C commendation card for rendering emergency duties in Northern Command Sector and was part of Operation Parakram and Operation Vijay, besides being a national level squash and tennis player. For Sonali Singh, the judgment noted that she was the first woman officer to be convoy commander for Pathankot to Leh in 1999 and was the first woman to be the officer in-charge of Ammunition Dump, Amritsar during Operation Parakram.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain and senior advocate R Balasubramanian were present in Court representing the Centre and Army. “We have gone as per the Court’s decision. The direction was to review the method of evaluation for future batches. If a better system has replaced an old one that does not mean that the old system is condemned.” Further, he argued that any concession will mean dipping the merit below 60% marks.The bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna told the Centre to have a considerate view as the matter involved a small group of officers affected by UAC system. “These are officers who have made achievements. This cannot be ignored. You must add up their achievements while computing 60%. If there are vigilance and discipline grounds on which they have been rejected, we would be the last to interfere,” the judges observed.Both Jain and Balasubramanian sought time to confer with the authorities and proposed to get back by November 12, the next date for hearing the matter.Recently, the Court had directed the Army to reconsider the case of 72 women short service commission officers in the Army who were denied PC. On a nudge by the Court, Army reconsidered the list and agreed to grant PC to 39 officers. The Court had appreciated the Army for its fair stand even as it called for reasons for refusing PC to the remaining officers. This matter too is listed for November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-asks-army-to-reconsider-denial-of-pc-to-exemplary-women-officers-101635182648412.html
25-10-2021||India||‘No lakshman rekha in politics’: Mamata Banerjee inducts 2 ex-UP Congress leaders||KOLKATA: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress on Monday inducted two former Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh ahead of assembly elections in the state early next year, declaring that she waited for the Congress but did not receive a response.“We respect all small and regional parties. In whichever state we go, we will not impose our decisions on anyone. I know the character of India. Every state has its own culture. We will stand with the people of that region. Akhilesh (Yadav) is like my younger brother. I am not against him. Our job is to raise issues. I waited for the Congress but sadly, they did not respond,” Mamata Banerjee said at an event in north Bengal’s Siliguri town, a remark seen to explain why the TMC hadn’t tied up with other opposition parties in UP.The event was organised to welcome UP’s Rajesh Pati Tripathi and son, Lalitesh Pati Tripathi, to the Trinamool Congress. The induction ceremony for the two UP politicians - Rajesh is the grandson of veteran Congress leader and former chief minister Kamalapati Tripathi who died in 1990 - coincided with the TMC launching its election campaign in Goa, the other state where the party hopes to make inroads in state elections early next year.Banerjee said the two leaders Rajesh Pati Tripathi and Lalitesh Pati Tripathi, resigned from the Congress before joining the TMC.“When we decided to contest the Goa elections, people said we are a regional party. We all come from some region or the other but we are all Indians. TMC is a national party. There is no such lakshman rekha (boundary) in politics. The lakshman rekha should be applicable only for rioters,” she said.“I have visited UP several times, as a member of Parliament and as a union minister. For the azaadi (independence) of UP, we have welcomed members of a family that contributed to India’s fight for Independence,” said Banerjee, referring to Kamalapati Tripathi, a freedom fighter who served as UP chief minister for two years between 1971 and 1973, was appointed Congress working president by Indira Gandhi in 1983 but eventually targeted Rajiv Gandhi with his “a-letter-a-day” pushback on the state of the party.Mamata Banerjee said she and nephew Abhishek Banerjee will visit Uttar Pradesh after Chhat puja on November 10. “They have invited me to watch Ganga arati at the river bank in Varanasi,” she said, referring to the Tripathis. Former UP legislator Rajesh Pati Tripathi, said: “The distance between the Congress and its workers has widened in recent times. No goal should be difficult to achieve if we have a leader like Mamata Banerjee.” Asked whether the TMC can do better than the Congress in UP, he said, “Our aim is to serve the people. This is a big fight but one must remember that Mamata Banerjee ended the 34-year-long rule of the Left Front in Bengal when nobody thought she could do it.” Son Lalitesh Pati Tripathi said, “People of UP have always presented alternative powers before the country. Mamata Didi sent us a message and we accepted it.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was present at the event when the Tripathis switched camps.Hours before the announcement, he campaigned at Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district where assembly bypoll will be held on October 30. While asking voters to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won the seat in the March-April polls by a thin margin of 57 votes, Abhishek Banerjee focused on Goa.“I am telling in front of all television cameras that after three months the TMC will come to power in Goa. Write this down. We will win in Goa and then move to Meghalaya, Assam, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh. People take vaccines to defeat the coronavirus. Mamata Banerjee is the vaccine against the BJP,” said the TMC Lok Sabha member.Rival parties scoff at TMC plans West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the TMC’s freshly-minted UP leaders won’t make a difference.“What difference does it make if people whose ancestors were Congress leaders join the TMC? How many people know them? If Mamata Banerjee is so keen on weakening the BJP, why is she inducting people from the Congress, the only national force against the saffron camp. She should be creating cracks in the BJP instead. Who is she helping at the end of the day? Her actions are benefitting the BJP,” said Chowdhury.Abhishek Banerjee, seen as the driving force behind the TMC’s expansion plans announced on June 8, said his party will set up units in other states with the sole aim to win elections and face the BJP head-on. Encouraged by the TMC’s resounding victory over the BJP in the March-April Bengal polls, the TMC has renewed its contract with Indian Political Action Committee, or I-PAC, the company founded by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls in which Mamata Banerjee wishes to see her party playing a bigger role in national politics. Kishor is interacting with leaders of regional and national parties on behalf of the TMC.BJP leader and leader of the Opposition in the Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari attacked the TMC. “A hunchback always dreams of lying supine but his dreams never come true. The TMC’s daydreams will end in a nightmare. It is not a party but a private limited company run by Mamata Banerjee and her nephew,” he said at a campaign meeting for the Gosaba assembly bypoll in South 24 Parganas district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lakshman-rekha-in-politics-mamata-banerjee-inducts-2-ex-up-congress-leaders-101635181928588.html
25-10-2021||India||SC notice on plea challenging change of Central Vista land use||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre on a petition questioning the change of land use of a public recreational spot in Central Vista for purposes of constructing residences of the Prime Minister and Vice President under the Central Vista Project.The petition was filed by a lawyer Rajeev Suri, who had earlier filed the petition challenging the clearances given by the Delhi Development Authority, Central Vista Committee and the environmental clearances for the Central Vista project resulting in an elaborate judgment of the top court in January this year which allowed the Centre to proceed with the construction.However, the judgment did not deal with the change of land use of Plot no. 1, the land meant for the residences of PM and Vice President, as it was sanctioned only on October 10, 2020.Under the project, the PM’s residence will come up behind the existing South Block while the new V-P residence would be located behind North Block. As the area is presently occupied by a public recreational park and a bus depot, the petition questioned the change of land use from part-recreational to residential resulting in a loss of public recreational space for citizens.Advocate Shikhil Suri arguing for the petitioner said, “The Government must show how the change of land use is justified in public interest.” He stated that all other challenges with regard to the said land had been addressed by the judgment of the Court in the Central Vista case.The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar issued notice to the Centre and said, “The petitioner wishes to pursue only one contention, namely, before modification of the plan concerning plot No. 1, it had provided for public recreational area also, as noticed from the public notice. However, now that has been completely done away with and the land use stands converted to residential only.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared for the Centre and accepted the notice and agreed to file an affidavit in three days. Posting the matter for Friday, the bench said, “The respondents (Centre) may file a short affidavit to deal with this contention….including to justify the necessity for such modification.”The petitioner informed the Court that the land falling under Plot no 1 has facility for transportation spread across nine acres while the recreational space is six acres, which will now be lost for all coming generations of the country.The bench asked the Centre whether any alternate recreational space had been contemplated while acquiring the present plot. “From the petition it is clear that the public recreational area is not available now. Are you giving it up completely or is it being shifted to any other place,” the bench observed. Mehta said, “If Parliament is coming up nearby, from the security point of view, there cannot be any recreational spot.” He agreed to take instructions in this regard by the next date.The proposed Central Vista Project envisages a new Parliament with a built-up area of around 60,000 square metres and expanded seating for over 1,200 members of both Houses, along with 51 Union ministries in 10 buildings. As per the estimates prepared by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the work on the new Parliament is expected to be completed before the 75th Independence Day next year while the Central Secretariat complex is slated for completion by 2024. The residence of the Prime Minister along with the building housing elite special protection group (SPG) has a deadline of December next year while the work on the Vice President’s house is expected to be completed by May 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-on-plea-challenging-change-of-central-vista-land-use-101635179348109.html
25-10-2021||India||Not summoned, says NCB's Sameer Wankhede on landing in Delhi||The Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede landed in Delhi on Monday evening amid allegations of extortion charges levelled against him and others in the drugs-on-cruise-case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is behind the bars since a few weeks now.Wankhede said allegations against him were baseless and that he had not been summoned by the authorities, but was in the national capital for a different purpose."I have not been summoned. I've come here for a different purpose. Allegations against me are baseless," the top officer of the NCB was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.NCB Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede reaches Delhi amid allegation of payoff in the drugs case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan"I have not been summoned. I've come here for a different purpose. Allegations against me are baseless," he says. pic.twitter.com/FJGuQE8KYtThe NCB has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the claims made by a witness in the case that an extortion bid of ₹25 crore was made by some agency officials, including its Wankhede, and others for letting off accused Aryan.Also read | Aryan Khan drugs case: Being targeted because of my dead mother, says Sameer WankhedeThe inquiry will be conducted by Gyaneshwar Singh, the NCB deputy director general (DDG) of the northern region based at its headquarters here. Singh is also the chief vigilance officer (CVO) of the federal anti-narcotics agency.Earlier in the day, the federal anti-drug agency and Wankhede filed affidavits before a special court under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, against the allegations of extortion attempts levelled against them.Also read | After Nawab Malik’s latest tweet attack, Sameer Wankhede lists names of familyIn the affidavits, they urged the court to pass an order saying no court should take cognizance of the affidavit prepared by the independent witness, Prabhakar Sail. As per the NCB and its zonal director, the allegations made by Sail were only an attempt to create hurdles and scuttle the investigation into the case. However, the court disposed of the applications and refused to pass any blanket order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-summoned-says-ncb-s-sameer-wankhede-on-landing-in-delhi-101635178506639.html
25-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: SKM writes to President Kovind for removal of Ajay Mishra||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Monday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the removal and arrest of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this month, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed. Mishra’s son, Ashish, has been accused of mowing down some of the protesting farmers.The SKM, an umbrella body of several farmer unions, also asked for the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident under the supervision of the Supreme Court.“Union Minister of State for Home Mr Ajay Mishra should be immediately dismissed from his post. Mr Ajay Mishra should also be arrested immediately for his role in the murder (criminal conspiracy under Sec.120B in addition to other charges as described above),” read the SKM’s letter to the President.Also read | Lakhimpur violence: SKM calls for countrywide protests on Oct 26 demanding resignation of minister Ajay Mishra“We also continue to demand that the investigation of this incident should be done by an Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the direct supervision of the Supreme Court,” it added.“It is very obvious that conflict of interest is a key obstruction to justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri farmers' massacre, and any decent government would have, in terms of principles of natural justice, sacked and arrested Mr Ajay Mishra by now,” the SKM further said in its letter.On October 3, eight people were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh after a vehicle, allegedly carrying BJP workers, rammed into a group of protesting farmers. Of the eight deceased, four were farmers.In the violence that ensued, two BJP workers, their driver and a journalist were also reportedly killed. Ashish, a key accused in the case, was reportedly present in one of the cars, an allegation that the minister and his son have denied. However, the junior Mishra was arrested in connection with the case on October 9.A ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ (farmers’ gathering) was planned in state capital Lucknow on October 26 against the incident. However, it was postponed by the SKM due to adverse weather and the ongoing harvest season.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Kisan Union, another farmer body that is part of the farmers’ agitation against the three centrally passed agri laws, said the farmers will hold a countrywide protest on Tuesday (October 26) demanding the removal of Mishra.“Demonstrations would be held at administrative headquarters in every district of the country. A memorandum will be submitted to the government with a demand that the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra be removed from his post,” news agency PTI quoted Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge of the BKU, as saying.The BKU said the protests would also be held against the repeal of the three farm laws and would be supported by all farmer groups already protesting at Delhi’s borders.On Friday, the SKM had given a call for the protests pressing for the removal of Mishra, for the repeal of the three farm laws and for a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-skm-writes-to-president-kovind-for-removal-of-ajay-mishra-101635177911173.html
25-10-2021||India||Struck by snowfall, Himachal's Kinnaur bans all treks, mountaineering activities||The Kinnaur district administration in Himachal Pradesh on Monday banned trekking and mountaineering activities after three people out of a group of 13 died following heavy snowfall in the district.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) had informed earlier today that the deceased trekkers were lying somewhere at a height of 15,000 feet. "Three trekkers are dead while 10 of them have been rescued. The dead are lying somewhere at around 15000 feet. ITBP team is reaching to the spot today to search the bodies," the ITBP said.The tourists – 12 from Mumbai and one from Delhi – were going to Sangla in Kinnaur from Janglik in Shimla. They started trekking from Rohru to Burua village on October 17 but were stranded near Burua Kanda top due to heavy snowfall and bad weather conditions in the region.The deceased, identified as Rajendra Pathak, Ashok Bhalerao and Deepak Rao, are yet to be located. A search and rescue operation is underway.Several areas of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been battered with snow-covered conditions over the past week.Last week, seven out of an 11-member trekking group died on the Harsil-Chitkul route between Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh when they were hit by an avalanche. Bodies of five trekkers have been recovered so far while two of them are still missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/struck-by-snowfall-himachal-s-kinnaur-bans-all-treks-mountaineering-activities-101635173670519.html
25-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: 2 men confess to inciting Bangladesh violence on Facebook and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.2 men confess to inciting Bangladesh violence through Facebook post, loudspeakerTwo men, accused of spreading communal hatred on social media in Bangladesh, have admitted to their crimes, a court said on Monday. The violence against the minority Hindu community in Bangladesh broke out on October 13 during the Durga Puja festivities after an alleged blasphemous post on social media. Read moreMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases down to 889, lowest since May 5 last yearMaharashtra on Monday recorded just 889 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This is the lowest daily number since May 5 last year (when the 24-hour count was 841). Read moreOn edible oil prices, Centre, states hold meeting to review stock limit ordersThe Centre on Monday held a meeting with states and union territories to discuss ways to reduce the rising prices of edible oils as demand rises during the festive season. Read moreRPSG Group and CVC Capital land successful bids to acquire Lucknow and Ahmedabad IPL teamsThe Sanjiv Goenka-owned RPSG group has won the Lucknow franchise by bidding for over ₹7,000 crore and private equity firm CVC Capital the second franchise at over ₹5,000 crore, the BCCI announced on Monday. Read morePost on 100-year-old great grandpa sparks viral Twitter threadPeople often take to Twitter to wish happy birthday to their loved ones. This Twitter user did the same and now the post has sparked a sweet thread on the micro-blogging site. Read more5 simple habits that can keep heart diseases at bayMany people are on a house-cleaning spree or busy renovating their homes ahead of Diwali. Just like you don't neglect your house cleaning and make every effort to improve its look, it is equally important to pay attention to the maintenance of your heart. Read more'No bulletproof cover, no security': Amit Shah's outreach to J&K's youthDuring his 3-day visit to Jammu & Kashmir Union Home Minister Amit Shah reached out to the youth of Kashmir valley. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-2-men-confess-to-inciting-bangladesh-violence-on-facebook-and-all-the-latest-news-101635174928483.html
25-10-2021||India||Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases down to 889, lowest since May 5 last year||Maharashtra on Monday recorded just 889 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This is the lowest daily number since May 5 last year (when the 24-hour count was 841). It is also a drastic fall from the 1,410 cases reported on Sunday.With today's caseload, the number of cases across the state reached 66,03,850, according to state government's health bulletin. So far, 64,37,025 people have recovered - 1,586 of those recoveries happed today.Maharashtra also recorded 12 Covid-linked fatalities, dowon form 18 a day before. The death toll has now reached 1,40,028.Mumbai, the financial capital of India, on Monday reported 263 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and seven related fatalities. The total caseload and death toll in the city stand at 7,54,770 and 16,220, respectively.This is the lowest daily count for the city since August 14, 2021, when 265 Covid-19 cases were recorded in Mumbai.On Sunday, the city recorded 400 cases and six fatalities.The first wave, which started on March 9, 2020 and went up to February 9, saw 2,048,802 cases and 51,360 deaths in Maharashtra. Against it, the second wave which continues has logged 88,656 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-down-to-889-lowest-since-may-5-last-year-101635175259709.html
25-10-2021||India||Army brass kicks off top meet, amid Ladakh row||The army’s top brass on Monday kicked off a bi-annual conference in New Delhi to deliberate on key organisational and operational issues including the prevailing situation along the country’s northern border with China where the two armies are negotiating disengagement of rival troops from friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said. Infrastructure development in border areas and induction of niche technologies into the army will also be discussed during the four-day conference, chaired by army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane. The conference began a fortnight after the 13th round of military talks between India and China to cool tensions in Ladakh reached an impasse on October 10, with PLA not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army. The military dialogue took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the flashpoints on LAC in Ladakh. If the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army, Naravane said on October 9, referring to the military build-up and infrastructure development across LAC. India and China have been locked in a border standoff for over 17 months and despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. Outstanding problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved to lay the groundwork for the de-escalation of the Ladakh border row. The conference also comes days after Naravane visited the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for a security review after several soldiers were killed in a counter-terror operation, and renewed infiltration attempts by Pakistani terrorists are being witnessed along the Line of Control after a temporary lull following the renewal of a ceasefire pact with Pakistan in February 2021. “The apex leadership of Indian Army will brainstorm on current/emerging security and administrative aspects to chart future course in the backdrop of the situation along the borders and challenges imposed by Covid-19 pandemic,” the defence ministry said in a statement on Sunday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will address and interact with the army commanders later this week, it said while adding that the chief of defence staff and the chiefs of the Indian Air Force and navy are scheduled to address the senior army leadership for promoting tri-service synergy. The current theaterisation model, a long-awaited military reform with the full backing of the government, seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, the Air Defence Command and the National Maritime Theatre Command. The creation of theatre commands could take two to three years, with senior officers from the three services being assigned key responsibilities to finalise the joint structures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-brass-kicks-off-top-meet-amid-ladakh-row-101635174667626.html
25-10-2021||India||HT This Day: October 26, 1951 — Himachal goes to the polls||India’s first General Elections, the biggest in the world, began today with the casting of votes by the people of Chini and Pangi tehsils of Himachal Pradesh, on the country’s north border. The first votes were cast at 6 am.Details of polling have not yet reached here as there are no means of communication with the tehsils except a wireless link, used for official purposes only.Between today and November 2, the 20,000 voters of these two tehsils will cast their votes to elect two representatives to the State’s first 36-member biggest inland three to Legislative Assembly the House of the People.Polling in Chini, which is in Mahasu District, will conclude on October 27, but in Pangi in Chamba District it will continue till November 2.The voters of Chini will have plural votes in the choice of their representatives to the House of the People as the Mandi-Mahasu Parliamentary constituency, of which it is a part, has to return two members, one of them a Scheduled Caste, The Chamba-Sirmur Parliamentary constituency, which includes Pangi, has to elect only one member.Results for the Assembly seats will be known within a week or ten days after polling is over. But those of the Parliamentary candidates will await the end of voting in the whole State, which with continue till the middle of December.The ballot boxes of the Parliamentary candidates will not be opened until then.There are 11 polling stations in Chini and 15 in Pangi.Polling in the rest of Himachal will start on November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-26-1951-himachal-goes-to-the-polls-101635174189032.html
25-10-2021||India||‘Facing threat to life’: PIL in Delhi HC seeks urgent evacuation of over 270 minorities from Afghanistan||A public interest litigation (PIL) over evacuation of more than 200 Indian nationals and Afghans belonging to minority communities has been moved in the Delhi high court, news agency ANI reported on Monday. The PIL said these individuals were stranded in Afghanistan that was recaptured by the Taliban in August and faced threats to their properties and life almost regularly from the Islamist militant group.The plea has been filed by a former spokesperson of Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGPC), Parminder Pal Singh, through advocate Gurinder Pal Singh. Parminder has urged the government to make arrangements for urgent evacuation of the 227 stranded Indians and Afghans hailing from Hindu and Sikh communities via chartered and special flights or any other mode from Afghanistan’s capital Kabul.The PIL has also urged the government to issue electronic/e-visas to the stranded persons, and consult with international agencies to ensure their safe return to India.Alleging that the Indian government has so far not provided any assistance to the stranded individuals, the PIL said the minorities were spending every minute in a state of supreme fear and anxiety in the war-torn country.“The long ordeal and waiting for grant of e-visa and lack of evacuation flights have taken a toll on both mental and physical well-being of these stranded persons,” the petitioner was quoted as saying by ANI.The development came a day after multiple humanitarian NGOs wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the External Affairs Ministry (MEA), seeking evacuation of around 100 Indians, including their spouses and children, and over 200 Hindu-Sikh Afghans.In the letter, it was mentioned that those wanting to be flown out of Afghanistan are also awaiting issuance of e-visa as the previously issued ones were cancelled by the Indian government.In August, when the US and other foreign-led forces were withdrawing from Afghanistan, India had announced cancellation of all previously issued visas and said Afghans can enter India only via e-visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-in-delhi-hc-seeks-urgent-evacuation-of-over-270-minorities-from-afghanistan-101635172245576.html
25-10-2021||India||Was gang-raped, says Assam college student after photo leaks; classmate arrested||GUWAHATI: A 21-year-old was arrested on charges of gang rape in Assam’s Dibrugarh on Monday on a complaint by his classmate at college after she discovered that her nude photo was being circulated. Police are looking for two others, the accused’s cousin and a friend, who were also identified by the woman as his accomplices.Police registered the woman’s complaint on Saturday. In this, the college student alleged that she believed she was gang-raped by the accused six months ago after giving her a sedative-laced drink.Police said action is also being taken against others who allegedly tried to blackmail the girl after her photo emerged.“As per the complainant, she recently came to know about the photo when someone, while the talks of her marriage were on, sent it to her prospective groom. She decided to file a FIR (First Information Report) after that,” said Shwetank Mishra, superintendent of police, Dibrugarh.According to the FIR registered in Borboruah police station, the woman was going to college with the prime accused on his two-wheeler six months earlier when the vehicle apparently broke down. The two then took a lift from his relative in his car.“During the ride, she allegedly drank a sedative-laced drink that she was offered and fell unconscious soon after. When she regained consciousness, she found herself in a room at the relative’s house where her classmate and another youth was also present,” said Bitul Chetia, additional superintendent of police, Dibrugarh. “The victim apparently had no knowledge of the assault as she was unconscious at that time. She suspects that the three raped her and clicked nude photos of her. We have sent her for medical examination and recorded her statement,” Bitul Chetia added.Based on her complaint a FIR has been lodged under for gang rape, insult with intention to provoke breach of peace, criminal intimidation, criminal act with common intention, violation of privacy and publishing or transmitting sexually explicit material. “There is an allegation that some others tried to blackmail the woman after the nude photo went public. We will initiate separate action for that,” the Dibrugah SP said.In a separate incident, the body of a woman who went missing on Sunday night from her home in Baganpara area of Baksa district was found on Monday in a paddy field. The victim is suspected to have been raped and murdered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-gang-raped-says-assam-college-student-after-photo-leaks-classmate-arrested-101635173227482.html
25-10-2021||India||Centre takes stock of edible oil prices, reviews stock limitation orders ahead of Diwali||The Centre on Monday held a meeting with states and union territories to discuss ways to reduce the rising prices of edible oils as demand rises during the festive season. The Union government has taken several steps to ease the edible oil prices including sharp reduction in import duties palm oil, sunflower oil and soybean oil, stopping futures trading in agri commodities and stock limitations.A total of 23 states participated in today’s meeting, people aware of the developments said. Uttar Pradesh took the lead in ordering stock limits while 17 more states are in the process of implementing the same, they added.The meeting was held in response to a letter written to all states by Union food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey on Friday, in which the department outlined initiatives taken by the Centre to ease prices of edible oils for the relief of consumers and keeping the festive season in mind."This is especially important to the context of the upcoming festival season in which demand for edible oils will increase," the government official said in the letter.On October 10, the Centre had imposed stock limits on traders of edible oils and oilseeds, barring a few importers and exporters, till March 31, in a bid to provide relief to consumers.State governments and union territories were asked to decide the stock limit to be imposed on edible oils and oilseeds after taking into account the available stock and consumption pattern of that particular state or UT."However, for finalising the stock limit quantity of edible oils and oilseeds, the states/UTs may consider/explore the previous stock limit imposed for edible oils and oilseeds by the state/UTs," the department said.As an example, the department said that, for refiners, stocks of a maximum of two months of the average scale of the last six months could be used. Similarly, quantities for extractors/millers should be fixed, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-takes-stock-of-edible-oil-prices-reviews-stock-limitation-orders-ahead-of-diwali-101635171060097.html
25-10-2021||India||Southwest monsoon withdraws; northeast monsoon commences over peninsular India||Monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country; with the setting in of north-easterly winds, the northeast monsoon has commenced over south peninsular India, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday.This is the seventh most delayed monsoon withdrawal during the 1975 to 2021 period. Monsoon had withdrawn on October 28 last year; on October 25 in 2017; on October 28 in 2016; on October 2019 in 2010 and October 27 in 1975. Interestingly, out of these 7 years, during recent years of 2010-2021, 5 years had monsoon withdrawal on or after October 25---2017, 2010, 2016, 2020 and 2021.“The past ten years show that there is some delay in complete withdrawal of monsoon from the country. Southwest monsoon should withdraw from the country around October 15 and northeast monsoon should commence over peninsular India by October 20. But there is some delay. This may be linked to a prolonged summer in the northern hemisphere. It is also linked to climate change which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has also recognised in its latest report,” explained DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services at IMD Pune.Unseasonal rain in October due to western disturbances caused flooding and landslides in different parts of northwest India earlier this month. Uttarakhand was particularly badly impacted. October rains though caused due to western disturbance, delayed monsoon withdrawal from the country provided adequate moisture for intensification of rainfall episodes, Pai said.In Himachal Pradesh, Rajgarh recorded 8 cm, Solan 7 cm; Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi: 3 cm; Punjab: Ludhiana-10 cm, Patiala-9 cm; in West Uttar Pradesh: Aligarh recorded 5 cm rain on Sunday.“In view of significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country the Southwest monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country on Monday. Simultaneously with the setting in of north-easterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels, the northeast monsoon rain has commenced over extreme south peninsular India today,” IMD said.A cyclonic circulation is likely to develop over southeast Bay of Bengal and the neighbourhood by Tuesday. It is likely to move westwards. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over central parts of South Bay of Bengal during subsequent 48 hours. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during October 25 to 29; over Kerala and Mahe during October 25 to 27; over South Interior Karnataka on October 25 and 26; over Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on October 28 and 29. Light to moderate, widespread rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning is likely over Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and South Interior Karnataka during next 5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-withdraws-northeast-monsoon-commences-over-peninsular-india-101635169747140.html
25-10-2021||India||Zika virus in UP: Symptoms, treatment and other things to know||Uttar Pradesh has reported a case of the Zika virus, which caused havoc in Kerala a few months ago. The Centre has dispatched a multi-disciplinary team to Kanpur in UP where an Indian Air Force personnel tested positive with Zika on October 23.The local authorities in Kanpur have formed multiple teams and started implementing precautionary action in the affected person's his residential area and the workplace.According to Kanpur chief medical officer (CMO) Nepal Singh said, as many as 22 samples of people the patient came in contact with have been sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for examination.What is Zika virus?The World Health Organization (WHO) defines Zika virus as a mosquito-borne flavivirus that was first identified in Uganda in 1947 in monkeys. It was later identified in humans in 1952 in Uganda and Tanzania, it further said.The global health body has recorded outbreaks of Zika virus disease in Africa, the Americas, Asia and the Pacific.TransmissionZika virus is primarily transmitted by the bite of an infected mosquito from the Aedes genus, mainly Aedes aegypti. These mosquitoes usually bite during the day, peaking during early morning and late afternoon/evening.This is the same mosquito that transmits dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever.Zika virus is also transmitted from mother to fetus during pregnancy, through sexual contact, transfusion of blood and blood products, and organ transplantation.SymptomsThe symptoms of the disease caused by the Zika virus are mild fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or a headache and usually last for 2-7 days.The symptoms are very similar to other disease. Zika received special attention after the 2015-2016 outbreak in Brazil.TreatmentNo vaccine is yet available for the prevention or treatment of Zika virus infection. Development of a Zika vaccine remains an active area of research, according to WHO.How to prevent yourself from Zika?Protection against mosquito bites during the day and early evening is a key measure to prevent Zika virus infection. Special attention should be given to prevention of mosquito bites among pregnant women, women of reproductive age, and young children.The WHO recommends wearing clothing (preferably light-coloured) that covers as much of the body as possible; using physical barriers such as window screens and closed doors and windows; and applying insect repellent to skin or clothing.Things to know about Zika virus diseaseAccording to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in the United States, Zika is linked to birth defects. Its infection during pregnancy can cause a serious birth defect called microcephaly that is a sign of incomplete brain development.Zika virus infection is also a trigger of Guillain-Barré syndrome, neuropathy and myelitis, particularly in adults and older children. The infection in pregnancy also results in complications such as fetal loss, stillbirth, and preterm birth.It also said that returning travellers infected with Zika can spread the virus through mosquito bites and sex. The CDC, in one of its advisories, said that even if the travellers do not feel sick, after returning from an area with risk of Zika, they should take steps to prevent mosquito bites for three weeks so they do not spread Zika to uninfected mosquitoes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-in-up-symptoms-treatment-and-other-things-to-know-101635168336326.html
25-10-2021||India||RJD chief Lalu Prasad to campaign for party candidates on October 27||Campaigning for the by-polls to two assembly seats in Bihar, Kusheshwarsthan and Tarapur, scheduled for October 30, has taken an interesting turn with RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav deciding to campaign for his party candidates on October 27. Campaigning for the two seats will come to an end on October 28 evening. The NDA camp has also pushed its top leaders to campaign for the polls with chief minister Nitish Kumar and Union minister Pashupati Paras joining the electioneering from Monday. Kumar addressed one meeting each in both the constituencies on Monday and will follow it up with another couple of meetings on Tuesday. “The RJD chief will campaign for a day on October 27,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary. People familiar with the development said that Prasad, who returned to the state after almost three-and-half- years would address one meeting each in both the assembly constituencies. Lalu Prasad entering the campaigning assumes significance after the RJD’s partner the Congress announced its exit from the Mahaghatbandhan (Grand Alliance). The Congress Bihar in-charge, peeved over the RJD’s decision to contest on both the seats, announced that the party would field its own candidates. As soon as Lalu’s campaigning dates were announced, the ruling NDA as well as the Congress started targeting RJD leaders and claimed that his presence will hardly make any difference. “When Lalu Prasad will go to these places, people will definitely ask why he ditched Congress. He should mention that whenever he tried to play games with the Congress, he had fallen flat,” said Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore. At the same time, BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said that Lalu Prasad’s campaign was not going to make any impact this time. “The GA is disintegrated. When they fought the last election together, both the seats were won by the NDA,” said the BJP spokesperson. JD-U spokesperson Nikhil Mandal has also taken Lalu Yadav’s campaign lightly. “People will vote for development,” he said while HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan said that it was a desperate move by RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav who has got a feel of ground reality. “That is why RJD as a last resort is bringing him to campaign,” said Rizwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-chief-lalu-prasad-to-campaign-for-party-candidates-on-october-27-101635166386842.html
25-10-2021||India||BSF jurisdiction extension: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi says will move Supreme Court||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Monday that the state government will approach the Supreme Court against the Centre's recent move to enhance jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF). Channi was speaking after an all-party meeting on the issue.He also said that a session of the state assembly will be convened to pass a resolution against the central government's notification.Also Read | Mamata says Centre's BSF move meant to hurt federal structure"Political parties will hold agitations against the extension of BSF jurisdiction in Punjab. We will also approach the Supreme Court seeking justice in this matter," Channi said while addressing the media."A session of Punjab Assembly will be convened in the next 10-15 days to pass resolutions against the central government's notification and against the three farm laws," he added.The all-party meeting was convened by Channi. The Punjab government, governed by the Congress, had earlier called the move an attack on federalism.Also Read | ‘Relook and restore status quo’, says Punjab CM on Centre's BSF moveAt the all-party meeting, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the main opposition party, was represented by Bhagwant Mann and Aman Arora whereas Daljit Cheema and Chandumajra were the representatives of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal also reached Punjab Bhavan for the meeting.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Punjab unit decided to boycott the meeting stating that there is no conflict between the BSF and the state police.Senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said, "BSF is a concurrent list subject. Along with the BSF, the Punjab Police can also carry out searches and register cases. The drones are used to smuggle weapons and drugs and to stop these illegal activities, the jurisdiction of BSF has been widened."Earlier this month, the Union government amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.In Gujarat, which shares border with Pakistan, the same limit was reduced from 80 km to 50 km, and in Rajasthan, it was kept unchanged at 50 km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-jurisdiction-extension-punjab-cm-channi-says-will-move-supreme-court-101635162978348.html
25-10-2021||India||Kerala newborn case: Court stays adoption, orders DNA test||A family court in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday stayed the adoption of a baby after the state government opposed it in light of the allegations of the daughter of a ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) leader that her parents snatched and put her newborn up for adoption as they disapproved of her relationship with her Dalit husband.Anupama S Chandran, the daughter and a former student activist, sat on a fast outside the state secretariat seeking her baby back and action against those who allegedly kidnapped her newborn. In her police complaint, Chandran alleged her father took away and handed over the baby to a Kerala State Council for Child Welfare-run orphanage. The baby was later reportedly given to a family from Andhra Pradesh in a hurry flouting adoption rules.The court ordered a DNA test and asked the state Child Welfare Committee to furnish details whether the baby was abandoned or admitted to a children’s home by someone. “There are enough ambiguities in records. Was the child abandoned or received from its guardians?” the court asked the panel to explain when it hears the matter next on November 1. The court asked police to submit an action taken report and other details of the case in a sealed cover. The baby will remain with the Andhra family till then.Chandran welcomed the court’s order saying she feels she is getting closer to getting her child back. “I am happy my six-month fight for my baby evoked some results for the first time. I have immense faith in the judiciary,” she said. She said even after getting her child back, she will continue her fight against her tormentors and government agencies, who failed her.Legal experts said she has to cross more hurdles to get her baby back after the DNA test. The foster parents or the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) can appeal against the family court’s decision in a higher court. CARA is the nodal agency for all adoption-related issues in the country.The Kerala government on Friday ordered a probe into “serious lapses and delay” on the part of its agencies in the case. The Kerala State Women’s Commission on Thursday also ordered an inquiry into the matter.The CPI (M) too pledged support to Chandran. Chandran has said the party was aware of everything and did not expect justice from it. She added it was forced to react as the case has hit national headlines. Chandran said she has been struggling to trace her baby.PS Jayachandran, Chandran’s father, has claimed they sent the baby to the government-run children’s home in Thiruvananthapuram with his daughter’s consent. He added Chandran signed on stamp paper but the daughter has said she did so under duress.The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party sought a probe and the baby’s return to the mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-newborn-case-court-stays-adoption-101635162668008.html
25-10-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking recognition of same-sex marriages on Nov 30||The Delhi high court has listed multiple petitions seeking legal recognition and registration of same-sex marriages under the Foreign Marriage Act and the Special Marriage Act for final hearing on November 30, news agency ANI reported on Monday.The petitioners in the case are a married same-sex couple, with one between them being of Indian origin and even has his family living in the country. They have been in a relationship for around 20 years, and got married in New York, US in 2012. The couple currently is a resident of Paris, France, and their marriage is legally recognised and accepted in the United States, Canada and France – all of where they have lived and worked in the past two decades, the ANI reported.The petitioners are expecting their first child together, and the Indian origin spouse has sought to obtain the Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) status so that he can spend time with his family in the country. Among several pleas, the petitioners have sought a declaration that a foreigner spouse of an Indian citizen or OCI cardholder can apply for registration as an overseas citizen of India under the Citizenship Act, 1955, regardless of sex, gender or sexual oriental of him or her.The LGBT community members in India, the petitioners pointed out, are forced to hide their feelings of getting married to the person they desire. They also noted that it’s discriminatory to deny the LGBT community the option to marry, thereby creating them a second class of citizens.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the central government, submitted to the court that marriage in India is permissible between a biological man and a biological woman, according to the ANI report. However, counsel Karuna Nunday, who appeared for one of the petitioners, said that there is no such requisite under law and it is a matter of discourse.Earlier, Centre had told the Delhi high court that the acceptance of marriage between two persons of the same gender is neither recognised nor accepted in any uncodified personal laws or any codified statutory laws.Also Read | Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking legal recognition of same-sex couplesAs its reply to many other pleas seeking recognition of same-sex marriages under the Special Marriage Act, the Foreign Marriage Act and even the Hindu Marriage Act, the Centre has quashed it saying the same are untenable, misplaced and unsustainable, ANI reported.Notably, before the November 30 hearing, the division bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh has also granted liberty to all parties in the matter to file an affidavit, if they desire.In what was a historic verdict in the history of Indian constitution, the Supreme Court in September 2018 had decriminalised Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which termed sex between two consenting homosexual individuals to be an “unnatural offence.” The Section remains relevant in cases of non-consensual sexual acts, sex with minors, and with animals. However, legal recognition and/or acceptance of same-sex marriage is yet to happen in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-petitions-seeking-recognition-of-same-sex-marriages-on-nov-30-101635161247524.html
25-10-2021||India||AIADMK high command to take call on Sasikala's re-induction: OPS||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) coordinator O Panneerselvam said on Monday the party’s leadership would discuss and take a call on re-induction of expelled leader VK Sasikala into the camp.A report quoted the former deputy chief minister of Tamil Nadu, also known as OPS, saying politics was a space where anyone could come and go.Party high command will discuss and decide on the re-induction of VK Sasikala into AIADMK: Party Coordinator O Panneerselvam in Madurai(File photo) pic.twitter.com/Z0VTLNls9zOnly last week, the party had filed a police complaint against Sasikala, aide to former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, for unveiling a plaque identifying herself as the AIADMK ‘general secretary’.The AIADMK had sought action against Sasikala for “cheating by impersonation, promoting disharmony, enmity and hatred and circulating statements with intent to cause fear or alarm.”Ever since she walked out of jail earlier this year ahead of the Assembly election in Tamil Nadu, Sasikala has been making several not-so-discreet bids at staking claim to the party with the latest one being unveiling a plaque that addressed her as the AIADMK general secretary.Also read | New equations in making? Sasikala meets OPS to condole his wife's deathThe incident happened on October 17, the day AIADMK rang in its golden jubilee year of founding, when Sasikala, along with her supporters, went to party founder MG Ramachandran’s (MGR) memorial to unveil the plaque.She had earlier shared audio clips with supporters wherein she spoke about setting the party back in order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-high-command-to-take-call-on-sasikala-s-re-induction-ops-101635161342859.html
25-10-2021||India||Farming crisis: India faces fertiliser crunch ahead of key sowing season||Escalating global prices and a supply-chain squeeze have hit the availability of fertilisers in India, threatening the coming winter sowing season. The crisis has left cultivators in various states scrambling for crop nutrients, such as in Punjab.A sharp increase in international prices, lower production of feedstock or raw materials during the peak of the pandemic, and shipping bottlenecks are the key reasons behind the crisis.Inventories of crop nutrients, especially DAP (diammonium phosphate) and the muriate of potash (MPO), have hit a five-year low, the managing director of one of India’s biggest crop-nutrient firms has revealed said, requesting not to be named.The Centre as well as state governments have pressured authorities to crack down on hoarding, as farmers in Punjab say they are being compelled to buy some nutrients above the label price.On October 14, the government revamped parts of its subsidy regime for fertilisers and crop nutrients to continue providing them at below-market rates, while special discounts were announced for the summer sowing season heading into the coming winter sowing months.International prices of raw materials for crop nutrients such as DAP and 22 grades of P&K fertilisers have been increasing for over 18 months now, trade data shows. Most of these fertilisers have seen a jump of over 50% in prices, forcing the government to expand subsidies.India offers subsidies to compensate fertiliser companies who sell them at below-market rates.The country imports up to a third of its fertilisers to meet domestic demand. China, the largest producer of DAP, is a key supplier of the nutrient to India.“Prices have gone through the roof and urea, for instance, is very expensive to buy. That is the main issue,” said KS Raju, chairman of the board at Nagarjuna Fertilisers and Chemicals, a top conglomerate.Although the government has announced additional subsidies under its nutrient-based subsidy regime worth ₹28,602 crore, manufacturers could still be buying at a slower pace.“Since extra capital is required because of higher global rates, purchase deferment is taking place, adding to the shortage,” said Ashok Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. Shipments, however, were expected to increase, he said.Data show that India needs to ratchet up imports as stocks are running low. During the summer sowing months, DAP demand outstripped availability by 13.6%, official data accessed by HT show.“Indigenous production of urea at 7.89 million tonnes and DAP at 1.11 million tonnes during April-July 2021 declined by 3.9% and 12.3%, respectively, over April-July 2020,” wrote Satish Chander, the director-general of Fertiliser Association of India, in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Fertilisers.Rumours of a shortage have prompted panicked farmers to buy nutrients such as DAP in excess quantities, said Amrik Singh, an official of Punjab’s agriculture department. DAP is an essential nutrient for winter-sown wheat.“I bought two bags for ₹1,400 each against the label price of ₹1,200,” said Lakhbir Singh of Nizampura Vegetable Growers’ Association in Punjab.The Centre has called upon the railways to increase the number of rakes ferrying fertilisers to states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, a fertiliser department official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farming-crisis-india-faces-fertiliser-crunch-ahead-of-key-sowing-season-101635161646131.html
25-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to visit Pulwama, spend the night at CRPF camp||Union home minister Amit Shah, who is in Jammu and Kashmir, will visit the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp in Lethpora, in Pulwama district on Monday, news agency ANI reported. He will have dinner with the soldiers, and spend the night at the camp before wrapping up his visit to the union territory.Lethpora is the place where a convoy of vehicles carrying security personnel on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway was attacked by a vehicle-borne suicide bomber on February 14, 2019. Forty CRPF personnel were killed in the attack.Shah is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir - his first since the abrogarion of Article 370.The home minister arrived in J&K on Saturday. Immediately after his arrival in Srinagar, Shah drove straight to Nowgam from the airport to meet the family of Jammu and Kashmir police officer Parvaiz Ahmad, who was killed by terrorists in June this year.Later that day, Shah reviewed the security scenario at a meeting held at Raj Bhavan in Srinagar.The home minister returned to Srinagar on Sunday evening after addressing a rally in Jammu and visiting the India-Pakistan border, where he interacted with jawans of the Border Security Force (BSF).On Monday, he visited the Kheer Bhawani temple, nestled among chinars in Tullamulla area of Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir. After offering prayers at the revered temple, Shah said the shrine has divine power which can be felt only after visiting it.Donning a traditional Kashmiri pheran, Shah was accompanied to the temple by Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha.He also offered prayers at the temple of Mata Ragnya Devi and performed puja.Taking to Twitter, Shah said he had the honour of visiting the major centre of faith of the Kashmiri Pandit community which inspires the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-visit-pulwama-spend-the-night-at-crpf-camp-101635160632397.html
25-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajnath Singh invites foreign defence firms to DefExpo 2022 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajnath Singh invites foreign defence firms to take part in DefExpo 2022Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday chaired a roundtable of ambassadors from friendly foreign countries and invited international defence firms to take part in Asia’s largest defence exhibition, DefExpo 2022, which will be held in Gandhinagar from March 10-13, 2022. Read more'Every kid in Pakistan plays this kind of bowling in street cricket': Ex-Pak captain tears down on IND's ChakaravarthyFormer Pakistan captain Salman Butt, following India's 10-wicket drubbing at the hands of Pakistan in their opening T20 World Cup encounter on Sunday, tore down on India's spinner Varun Chakaravarthy. Read moreSatyameva Jayate 2 trailer: John Abraham rips apart cars with bare hands, fans say ‘John ab-rehem nahi karega’. WatchThe trailer of Satyameva Jayate 2 has just dropped online. The film features John Abraham in a triple role - a father and twins on opposite sides of the law. Read moreJioPhone Next launch: Never-before revealed details out nowJioPhone Next disappointed the entire country when it failed to launch on the deadline announced by Reliance Industries chief Mukesh Ambani. It was all set to launch this Diwali, but missed the original launch date on Ganesh Chaturthi. Read moreThis Made-in-India e-bike gets one lakh bookings in two months since launcheBikeGo on Monday informed that it has received over one lakh orders for its Rugged electric bike which was launched in India two months back. Read moreAlia Bhatt in bodysuit and pants is caught up in retro vibes and we are obsessedRetro fashion can never go out of style because a little bit of nostalgia never hurt anyone. On the runway, retro looks have dominated many designer's collections this season. Even back home, many Bollywood stars have given this trend their stamp of approval, and Alia Bhatt, who is dating Ranbir Kapoor, seems to be one of them. Read moreKid refuses to eat roti and sabzi, wants cake instead. Watch sweet videoRemember the viral video of the little boy who asked Alexa in his very sweet voice to play ‘Dum Dum Diga Diga, Mausam Bheega Bheega’? The little one is making headlines again and this time for expressing his demand about what he wants to eat in a sweet way. Read more'Hum aap sabhay...': PM's Bhojpuri speech while inaugurating UP medical collegesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. Built at a cost of ₹2,329 crore, these medical colleges are situated in the districts of Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajnath-singh-invites-foreign-defence-firms-to-defexpo-2022-and-all-the-latest-news-101635160042058.html
25-10-2021||India||Congress attacks Facebook, seeks probe against it for ‘influencing elections’||The Congress on Monday attacked Facebook while reiterating its allegation that the social media company influences elections in India in favour of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and demanded a probe into the matter.“We demand a Joint Parliamentary Committee to look into Facebook’s role of influencing our elections, in trying to compromise and undermine our democracy, and in trying to shape opinions through fake posts,” said Congress spokesman Pawan Khera. He called the company “Fake-book”.The attack came after The New York Times cited Facebook’s internal documents and said they show “a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence” in India. Researchers at the social media giant pointed out that there are groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on its platform. In February 2019, a Facebook researcher created an account to look into what the social media website will look like for a person living in Kerala, the New York Times reported. “For the next three weeks, the account operated by a simple rule: Follow all the recommendations generated by Facebook’s algorithms to join groups, watch videos and explore new pages on the site. The result was an inundation of hate speech, misinformation, and celebrations of violence, which were documented in an internal Facebook report published later that month.”The report said internal documents include details on how bots and fake accounts tied to the “country’s ruling party and opposition figures” were wreaking havoc on India’s national elections.Khera cited the company’s reluctance in banning the Bajrang Dal although an internal report, according to the Wall Street Journal, termed the Hindu nationalistic group a “dangerous” organisation, as “it would anger the ruling party”. He questioned why was the government was not uttering a word against Facebook.Khera accused Facebook of inaction during the 2020 Delhi riots and the West Bengal elections this summer. “They are knowingly furthering the agenda of the ruling party and its ideologies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-attacks-facebook-seeks-probe-against-it-for-influencing-elections-101635159847032.html
25-10-2021||India||‘I will talk with people, youth of valley’: Amit Shah responds to Farooq Abdullah’s advice on talks with Pakistan||Union home affairs minister Amit Shah on Monday responded to former erstwhile Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah’s suggestions for talks between India and Pakistan and said that he would rather speak with the people and the youth of the valley.Shah, who is currently on his first visit to the Union territory since revoking Article 370, made the remark while speaking at a public rally in Srinagar earlier in the day.On Sunday, Jammu Kashmir National Conference (JKNC) leader Farooq Abdullah had pitched for discussions between India and Pakistan and said that a conducive environment should be made for dialogue between the two sides, news agency PTI had reported. Abdullah has made similar remarks earlier on October 17 when he said that attempts should be made for friendly relations between the two neighbours.Also read | Call me whenever you need: Amit Shah shares phone number with Jammu man, takes his number“Today I saw in the newspaper, Farooq (Abdullah) ‘sahab’ has advised me that the Government of India should talk with Pakistan. He is an experienced person and was also the chief minister and it is his advice. But I want to tell him and you that I will speak to the people of the valley (Kashmir) and the youth of the valley,” Shah said during his speech.“Why shouldn’t I talk with you?” he asked, adding that is why he has extended his hand of friendship to the youth of the valley.Further, the home minister also said that he wanted to talk with the people of the valley “frankly” and so there was no security in front of him. “I was taunted and condemned with harsh words. Today, I want to speak to you frankly and that is why there is no bullet proof (shield) or security here,” he said.Earlier in the day, Amit Shah and Jammu & Kashmir’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha visited the Kheer Bhawani Durga temple in Ganderbal district where they offered prayers, news agency ANI reported. Later, Shah is also scheduled to visit the CRPF camp in Lethpora in Pulwama district.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-will-talk-with-people-youth-of-valley-amit-shah-responds-to-farooq-abdullah-s-advice-on-talks-with-pakistan-101635159306337.html
25-10-2021||India||‘Filmmakers to take prior permission for shooting objectionable scenes’||Filmmakers will have to take prior permission for shooting “objectionable scenes” including those that may hurt the “religious sentiments”, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said on Monday a day after Bajrang Dal men vandalised the set of web series Ashram 3 in Bhopal on Sunday.The men threw ink on filmmaker Prakash Jha and thrashed a few crew members after chasing them while accusing them of including obscene scenes and hurting the sentiments of Hindus in the series. Police have taken four people under preventive custody but have not filed any first information report (FIR) in this regard.Mishra said the state government is laying down guidelines under which filmmakers will have to take prior permission before filming “objectionable scenes” from the concerned district administration. He also objected to an advertisement showing two women celebrating Karva Chauth and added he has spoken to the state police for required action. “Today, they are showing two women celebrating Karva Chauth, and tomorrow, they will come up with an advertisement that two men are getting married. We cannot allow anyone to show such objectionable content.”Mishra questioned why film and advertisement makers were “targeting” Sanatan Dharma and added why don’t they make any ads on other religious traditions and places.In November 2020, Mishra announced a team of officers will check scenes and content before shootings at religious and heritage places. He made the announcement after a kissing scene of the web series Suitable Boy was filmed at Maheshwar Temple in Khargone district.Officials said draft guidelines were being prepared for shootings at religious places.Congress leader Digvijaya Singh attacked the state government over the attack on Jha. “Prakash Jha is a renowned filmmaker and police protection should have been provided to him.” He questioned till when will the state’s residents bear the atrocities of goons, who he alleged enjoyed chief minister Shivraj Chauhan and Mishra’s patronage. “RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)’ Bajrang Dal has become an organisation of goons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filmmakers-will-have-to-take-permission-for-scenes-that-may-hurt-religious-sentiments-mp-minister-101635159307626.html
25-10-2021||India||Mamata says Centre's BSF move meant to hurt federal structure, borders peaceful||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) was meant to create a disturbance and her government was protesting the move.Stating that it was an attempt to interfere into the federal structure of the country, the Trinamool Congress supremo said law and order was a police subject and her government would follow the state laws.“Just like Punjab, we're also protesting against the BSF's jurisdiction that has been recently increased. Our border areas are completely peaceful. Law and order is a police subject. It'll create disturbance. The state government will go with state laws,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Punjab cabinet opposes Centre’s decision to extend BSF’s jurisdictionThe Narendra Modi-led central government had amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50-km stretch, instead of the earlier 15-km limit, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.Speaking at an administrative review meeting in Siliguri, Banerjee said, "We have sent a letter protesting the move. Earlier, they had a jurisdiction of 15km. There were incidents of firing in Balurghat or Cooch Behar. Now, they have extended it to 50km”"We do not have problems in the border areas and share very cordial relations (with neighbouring countries). There is no need to create this confusion. Law and order is a state subject. The BSF must look after what they are responsible for and we will have total support for that," she said.Also read | As a controversy hits BSF, the roots and evolution of India’s border forceBengal shares an international border with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. On Sunday, Banerjee had appealed to the Prime Minister to immediately withdraw the Union Home Ministry's notification that extended the jurisdiction of BSF earlier this month.Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said all parties on Monday unanimously passed a resolution that this notification be rolled back by the central government. “If the Centre doesn't do it, the parties decided that a session of the Vidhan Sabha be called over this,” he said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-says-centre-s-bsf-move-meant-to-hurt-federal-structure-borders-peaceful-101635159000438.html
25-10-2021||India||Amit Shah has bulletproof shield removed, tells J&K crowd want to speak frankly||Union home minister Amit Shah, on the final day of his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, addressed a gathering at Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre (SKICC) in Srinagar on Monday. He had the bulletproof glass shield removed while talking to the people of the union territory, saying he wants to "speak to them frankly"."I was taunted, condemned… today, I want to speak to you frankly, which is why there is no bullet proof shield or security here," Shah said. This is his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019.Watch: Bulletproof glass shield being removed from the podium ahead of Amit Shah's address#WATCH | J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had the bulletproof glass shield removed from the podium before addressing a gathering in Srinagar earlier today. pic.twitter.com/s41gF7icDNHe also hit out at National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah for seeking talks with Pakistan, saying the government would rather talk to the youth of Jammu and Kashmir for making it the most developed in the country."I read in newspapers that Farooq Abdullah has suggested that the government should talk to Pakistan. He has a right to his opinion but we would rather talk to the Kashmiri youth," Shah said in his address."The repealing of Article 370 had only one intention - to put Kashmir, Jammu and newly created Ladakh (Union Territory) on the path of development. You will see the fruits of our efforts by 2024," the home minister added.Also Read | J&K was better governed before nullification of Article 370, says Ghulam Nabi AzadArticle 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, was abrogated in August 2019 and the state was bifurcated into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.Shah said that those who advocate talks with Islamabad and separatists should be asked what has Pakistan done in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK)."Compare the development between this side and PoK. Do they have electricity, roads, healthcare and toilets. There is nothing (on the other side). You (Kashmiris) have the same rights as any other Indian," he said.Shah then remotely inaugurated several development projects, including a 500-bed hospital at Bemina, which has been completed at a cost of ₹115 crore. The home minister also laid the foundation stone for the Handwara Medical College, a ₹46-crore steel girder bridge over the Ferozepur Nallah in Baramulla district and road projects worth ₹4,000 crore.The home minister said that ₹12,000 crore worth of investment has already come to the union territory and the government aims at a total of ₹51,000 crore by the end of 2022 to provide five lakh jobs to the local youth.Also Read | Govt doesn't believed in buying peace in J&K, says Manoj SinhaShah said the schemes and the plans of the Modi government will ensure that Jammu and Kashmir will be the most developed province of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-has-bulletproof-shield-removed-tells-j-k-crowd-want-to-speak-frankly-101635158535391.html
25-10-2021||India||7th century Sanskrit play staged in Bengali for first time in Silchar||A seventh-century Sanskrit play, Bhagavadajjukam, has been staged in Bengali by a group of young artists in Assam’s Silchar recently. An alumnus of the National School of Drama (NSD), Gulista Aliza from Mumbai, travelled thousands of kilometres to be a part of it. The Bengali screenplay was written by veteran theatre artist Santanu Paul, who claimed that this is probably for the first time for Barak Valley when a Sanskrit play is being staged in Bengali. The play in Bengali is named “Khachachara Atmaram”.A 40-year-old theatre group, Bhabikal, which organises youth and children theatre workshops twice a year, staged the play at Kalikaprasad Bhattacharjee and Mukundadas Bhattacharjee Smriti Mancha. Most of the cultural groups stage their dramas and musicals in Barak Valley during the Durga Puja festival. Earlier, drama used to be a part of the celebration which is still known as ‘Jatra Gaan” in rural areas. Bhagavadajjukam is a Sanskrit play written by Bodhayana in the seventh century. The play is about the transmigration of souls as practised by Buddhist monks. It’s called prahasana, a satirical comedy and has been staged in different languages across India. The dedication of the entire team was seen during the play. The stage was old and comparatively small. There was no ceiling fan and they staged the play twice in a row in heat. Apart from two actors, the rest of the team was performing on stage for the first time. Some of the actors were not Bengali but it never looked like they were struggling with the language. There were only a few people seated in the audience but it did not discourage the actors from giving their best shot. Gulista Aliza, who directed Khachachara Atmaram, said, “Before staging the play, we did workshops for months to train the artists. Most of the artists who played different roles in the play were not experienced but on stage, they were so much mature and confident. It is a result of their dedication and strong teamwork.”Gulista is trying to explore Sanskrit drama and Indian mythology. She said, “From Samudra Manthana to many more mythological stories, in my perception, they were beautifully written and rich by content. I have met many theatre artists from western countries like France and Italy. They all believe that Natya Shastra of India has enriched their theatre culture. We need to explore our own culture more and being part of this play is one of my attempts in that direction.” Santanu Paul, who leads the Bhabikal theatre group, is one of the coordinators of the National School of Drama for northeast India and also a faculty of Sangeet Natak Academy. He said, “Theatre culture in Northeast India is rich but we don’t get proper exposure. The first drama in Cachar district was staged in 1903 by the postal recreation club. We celebrated its hundred years in 2003. Revolutionary Bengali writer Dinabandhu Mitra came here and wrote famous ‘Kamale Kamini’ during his visit to Silchar.” Paul also informed that several groups across Barak Valley organise competitions and workshops to keep the young generation connected. “We often say that the young generation is not connected to roots but they are interested in theatre in my opinion. We organise workshops twice a year, Rupam Natya Sanstha organises competitions and there are other initiatives. I have seen youths practising in every corner of town before the competition. We need to give them a bigger platform. I had a chance to get a year-long training under Padma Bhushan Heisnam Kanhailal in 2007, it changed my perception. We need to provide our young generation with such chances here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7th-century-sanskrit-play-staged-in-bengali-for-first-time-in-silchar-101635158646246.html
25-10-2021||India||Snowfall sets foot in Himachal, Uttarakhand; North India braces for cold winter. See photos||Many parts of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand received fresh snowfall on Monday as weather conditions started changing across north India preparing it for a cold winter. Many people have been stranded in Himachal’s Lahaul and Spiti district due to inclement weather as roads remained blocked.Meanwhile, the famous Char Dham Yatra near Kedarnath in Uttarakhand continued amid clearance of layers of snow, the Devasthanam Management Board informed. The snowfall started in the high peaks of Gangotri and Yamunotri Dham as the temperatures dropped in the low-lying areas of Uttarkashi district.The Manali-Leh highway was closed for normal traffic after fresh snow at Baralacha pass in Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul and Spiti district. At least 80 passengers were stranded in the area on Sunday.A layer of snow covered the Dhauladhar mountains visible from Dharamshala, Himachal Pradesh, as the region received the season's first snowfall.However, the cold weather conditions have not been kind to everyone. Three trekkers out of a group of 13, died following heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) informed on Monday. The trekkers started their climb from Rohru to Burua village in Kinnaur district on October 17 and were stranded at Burua Kanda due to snowfall.The extreme weather events amid a delayed monsoon withdrawal over the past few weeks have raised an alarm for exceptionally cold conditions across the northern belt of India. Experts have warned that the mercury will fall as low as 3 degrees celsius due to the La Nina effect.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already predicted heavy rainfall, snowfall with thunderstorms, gusty winds, and lightning at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, and Punjab this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-sets-foot-in-himachal-uttarakhand-north-india-braces-for-cold-winter-see-photos-101635155728646.html
25-10-2021||India||Rajnath Singh invites foreign defence firms to take part in DefExpo 2022||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday chaired a roundtable of ambassadors from friendly foreign countries and invited international defence firms to take part in Asia’s largest defence exhibition, DefExpo 2022, which will be held in Gandhinagar from March 10-13, 2022. “More than 200 delegates, including ambassadors, heads of missions and defence attaches attended the roundtable, reflecting the growing global interest in the Indian defence space,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The minister briefed the delegates about the planning, arrangements and other details of the exhibition. The focus of India’s flagship defence exhibition is on projecting the country as an emerging defence manufacturing hub --- one of the top priorities for the government in the defence sector. Singh said he was confident that DefExpo 2022 will bring all the latest technologies under one roof and provide myriad opportunities to all stakeholders. “A resurgent India, where defence manufacturing is an identified pillar of growth, will display its ability to take the lead at DefExpo 2022. It will sow the seeds of successful new ventures and international partnerships to promote shared prosperity, boost investment, expand manufacturing and bolster the aerospace and defence ecosystem in India, which shall be ready to serve the defence requirements of our friendly countries also,” the minister said. The event comes at a time when the government has sharpened its focus on promoting self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector and positioning itself as an exporter of military hardware. DefExpo was traditionally held in Delhi until 2014 after which it has seen a string of new venues --- Goa (2016), Chennai (2018) and Lucknow (2020). The venue was shifted to Goa when Manohar Parrikar was the defence minister, it moved to Chennai when Nirmala Sitharaman held the portfolio and it was staged in Lucknow with Rajnath Singh as the defence minister. From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware and notifying two lists of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years. India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases. SURPRISE INSPECTION Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday undertook a surprise inspection of the offices of defence ministry in South Block, officials familiar with the development said. He visited several offices and inspected cleanliness, work atmosphere, upkeep of files and interacted with the employees, they said. The minister passed necessary instructions wherever the need for improvement was felt. He also made a point about digitisation of records and files being the way forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-invites-foreign-defence-firms-to-take-part-in-defexpo-2022-101635158405780.html
25-10-2021||India||Nawab Malik questions birth certificate of NCB official Sameer Wankhede||In another attack against the Narcotics Control Bureau’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik on Monday raised questions over the birth certificate of the officer. Malik tweeted a copy of a birth certificate that read the name of the officer’s father as Dawood K Wankhede. “Forgery by Sameer Dawood Wankhede started from here,” Malik tweeted. In another tweet, he posted an old picture of Sameer Wankhede with a question, “Guess who.”In a written statement, Wankhede said that publishing his personal documents on Twitter is defamatory in nature and an unnecessary invasion of the privacy of his family. “It is intended to malign me, my family, my father and my late mother. The series of allegations of Hon minister over the last few days have put me and my family under tremendous mental and emotional pressure. I am pained by the nature of personal defamatory, slanderous attacks by the hon minister without any justification,” the statement added. The statement also says that his father, Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede, is a Hindu and his mother late Zaheeda was a Muslim. “I belong to a composite multi-religious and secular family and I am proud of my heritage,” the officer said. The Bharatiya Janata Party has hit back raising questions over the intention of the leaders from the ruling parties. According to the document issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and tweeted by Malik, the officer’s mother’s name is Zahera Bano. In a press statement issued by the NCP, questions have also been raised over Wankhede’s first marriage. A picture of his first marriage in 2006 has gone viral on social media. The statement by Wankhede adds that he was married to Dr Shabana Qureshi in 2006. They mutually decided to file a divorce in 2016 and the next year, Wankhede got married to actress Kranti Redkar. Last week, Malik said that he will not stop until the NCB officer is put behind the bars. The NCP leader said that Wankhede will lose his job within a year. In a series of press conferences in the last three weeks, Malik raised many questions over the operations by the NCB in cruise drugs raids. BJP office-bearer Manish Bhanushal was also seen as part of the team of officers raiding the cruise. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday lauded the “bravery” of Prabhakar Sail, the independent witness in the cruise drug bust case, and demanded security as he’s is the key witness in the case. The Sena leader also demanded a probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) on the recent developments, stating it was a conspiracy to defame Maharashtra by political parties and central agencies “under the garb of nationalism”.On Sunday, Sail alleged that he was made to sign on blank papers as pancha (witness) on the night when the NCB officials conducted a raid at the International Cruise Terminal, Green Gate, on October 2 and arrested Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha. Sail, 40, claimed that he used to work as a bodyguard of KP Gosavi, one of the nine witnesses in the case. “He is a key witness in this case and the home department must provide him security. I have spoken to home minister [Dilip] Walse-Patil. The witness has brought to light this conspiracy by one political party with the help of a few officials to defame Maharashtra,” said Raut. He also added, “Prabhakar Sail has done a great service to the country and the state. Therefore, the state must provide him security and I am confident it will be provided.”Raut also said the entire case is also about money laundering. “Sam D’Souza is the biggest money-laundering player of Mumbai and the country. He launders money for political leaders, IAS-IPS officers. It’s a big game which has just started. The facts which came to light are shocking. Under the pretext of nationalism, some people are extorting money, lodging fake cases,” Raut said.The Sena chief spokesperson added that the “thread” of the case will go “right up to Delhi”. “The things that have come to light are startling. I think there should be an SIT probe on this matter,” he said. Reacting to the letter by NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede to “ensure that no precipitate legal action is carried out” against him by “unknown persons” with “ulterior motives” to frame him, Raut said, “If he’s not done anything then he need not worry.”BJP has hit back at the ruling parties questioning as to who is behind the rebuttal of witness Prabhakar Sail. “It needs to come to the light that who is behind Sail’s statement and in which hotel was Sail’s statement recorded? Shielding the drug mafia is the real intention behind it? Is Sail being threatened to become part of the extortion gang of the ruling party? The entire episode needs to be investigated by the CBI to check all these links. His mobile locations and call records need to be checked to find out who all were in contact with the witness for the last 22 days. We firmly beleive that the truth will prevail,” said BJP leader Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-questions-birth-certificate-of-ncb-official-sameer-wankhede-101635157328102.html
25-10-2021||India||UP's Purvanchal region will become medical hub of North India, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday shared his vision of turning the Purvanchal region into a medical hub while inaugurating nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. He was speaking while addressing an event in Siddharthnagar."With the construction of nine new medical colleges, about 2,500 new beds have been created, new employment opportunities have been created for more than 5,000 doctors and paramedics," said the Prime Minister.These colleges are situated in the districts of Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur. They have been built at a cost of ₹2,329 crore."Today is a big day for east Uttar Pradesh and the entire state. The day marks a double dose of healthcare infrastructure. More than 5,000 new doctors and paramedics will now be available. The dream of pursuing medical education will now be a reality for youth of eastern Uttar Pradesh," PM Modi added.He also accused the previous governments of ruining the Purvanchal region by defaming it because of 'dimagi' (brain) fever. "The same region will now infuse new hopes," the Prime Minister said.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who was also present on the occasion, said that the Centre has started as many as 157 medical colleges in the country so far.While eight medical colleges have been sanctioned under a Centrally sponsored scheme for establishment of new medical colleges attached with district or referral hospitals, the one at Jaunpur has been made functional by the state government through its own resources.The new medical colleges have been named after noted personalities of the region and in some cases prominent politicians.Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya were also present at the inauguration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ups-purvanchal-region-will-become-medical-hub-of-north-india-says-pm-modi-101635154505015.html
25-10-2021||India||Zika virus in UP: Centre rushes high-level team to Kanpur to assess situation||The Union health ministry on Monday rushed a multi-disciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh where a case of the Zika virus disease case has been reported.A 57-year-old man from Kanpur had tested positive for the viral disease on October 22.The high-level team, comprising an entomologist, public health specialists and gynaecologist drawn from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, National Centre for Disease Control and RML Hospital, New Delhi, shall work closely with the state health department and take a stock of the situation on the ground.In a statement, the ministry further said it would also be assessed whether the Centre's Action Plan for Zika management was being implemented. The team would further recommend necessary public health interventions for containing the spread of the virus in the state.Also read | Maharashtra reports first Zika virus case in Pune villageA warrant officer in the Indian Air Force (IAF) was diagnosed with the infection on Saturday, the first case in Kanpur.Chief Medical Officer Nepal Singh said the IAF officer was suffering from fever for the past several days and was admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the district.Due to mysterious symptoms, his blood samples were sent to Pune where it was confirmed that the patient was Zika virus positive, he said, adding the report was received on Saturday.Also read | Zika virus cases in Kerala: Symptoms, prevention and treatment of mosquito-borne diseaseTwenty-two more samples of persons who came in contact with the patient and those who had similar symptoms were also sent for examination, Singh said.Kerala was the first state to have reported a case of Zika virus in a pregnant woman on July 8, following which a high alert was issued in the state.(With inputs from agencie)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-in-up-centre-rushes-high-level-team-to-kanpur-to-assess-situation-101635154425463.html
25-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan drugs case: Sameer Wankhede denies allegations, ready to face probe||Sameer Wankhede, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer heading the investigation into a drugs case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, on Monday denied any wrongdoing and said he was ready to face any inquiry.Wankhede, the NCB’s Mumbai zonal director, made the assertion before the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court. Citing recent developments, especially allegations made by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik, the NCB on Monday moved the special court seeking orders to not allow anyone to take cognizance of the affidavit of Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the alleged drug bust case, or initiate action on the basis of the affidavit without prior permission of the special court.On October 3, Aryan Khan along with and a few others was arrested by the NCB after an alleged drug bust on a cruise ship.The agency’s counsel Advait Sethna urged the court to take up the plea for urgent hearing. Sethna told the court that names of witnesses were being divulged and also informed it about Sail’s affidavit, adding that it was forwarded to the NCB’s Delhi office “for further legal action”. In the affidavit, sworn before a notary, Sail claimed that he used to work as a bodyguard of Kiran P Gosavi, one of the nine witnesses in the case. Sail said a meeting was held after the raid at a cruise terminal in Mumbai and he heard a conversation between Gosavi and another individual about demanding ₹25 crore and settling for a smaller sum. He also claimed that he heard ₹8 crore of ₹25 crore was meant for a senior NCB officer. Sail went on to claim that he had collected two bags allegedly containing ₹50 lakh in cash and handed it over to Gosavi. In the affidavit filed before the special court along with the plea, Sameer Wankhede categorically denied the allegations made against him, saying they “are not only false but misleading, mischievous and maligning”. “I have been personally targeted, especially by a known political figure, for reasons best known to him,” Wankhede said in his affidavit. “The only justification that I can fathom is that one Sameer Khan, a relative of the political honcho, was arrested in an NDPS case in accordance with law and later enlarged on bail by this court. From that time, there are a series of personal vendetta targeted at me and my family members, who are victims of such defamatory attacks and false, frivolous and vexatious allegations.” Sameer Wankhede further said in his affidavit, “I was threatened to be arrested and to be dispelled from service. There is a lurking threat of arrest as it does not suit some vested interest, just for conducting honest and impartial investigation. “I am ready to face all that is in law to establish my innocence. In this case, highly influential people are involved, so I request the court to pass appropriate orders to preserve and protect the sanctity of a fair and unbiased investigation.”Wankhede stepped into the witness box and informed special judge Vaibhav Patil that his personal details and information about his family members were being made public. “They are targeting my family, by deceased mother and father. Today, they have also posted some photographs,” said Wankhede. “They are threatening officers, ‘panch’ witnesses and their family members. In this regard, a ‘panch’ has already filed a complaint.” The special court has slotted the matter for hearing in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-sameer-wankhede-denies-allegations-ready-to-face-probe-101635154625827.html
25-10-2021||India||MP minister Narottam Mishra backs ‘Ashram’ set vandals' demand, wants Prakash Jha to think||Madhya Pradesh home minister on Monday condemned the vandalism unleashed by Bajrang Dal activists at the sets of web series ‘Aashram’ in Bhopal, but backed the demand of the vandals calling for a change in the name and content of the series.He further urged Ashram’s producer-director Prakash Jha, on whom the miscreants threw ink over accusations of “portraying Hindus wrongly”, to think of the wrong that he was committing. The home minister said a permanent guideline will be issued and if there was an objectionable scene, the story would only be shot once permission was granted by the administration.“I support it (demand to change the show's name). Do you dare to keep some other name? Don't do things that will cause problems. What happened (violence at 'Aashram' sets) was wrong, four arrests were made. But Jha sahab, you should also think of the wrong you're doing,” Mishra was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.#WATCH | MP HM says, "...Directed DGP on Dabur's "lesbian ad", it should be probed & they be told to withdraw ad or face action. In 'Ashram' matter, we'll issue a permanent guideline that if there's objectionable scene,story should be given to admn first & shot only if permitted" pic.twitter.com/burQZYOXrgOn Sunday, Bajrang Dal activists ransacked the set of the third season of the web-series and threw ink on Jha. The windscreens of two buses of the crew were also broken in stone-pelting, said police. The outfit also threatened to stop the shooting of the web series that was underway on Old Jail Premises located in the Arera Hills.The activists also raised slogans against Jha and Bollywood actor Bobby Deol, who is in the lead role in the web-series, accusing them of hurting the Hindu sentiments.Speaking about advertisement by fast-moving consumer goods brand Dabur on a same-sex couple celebrating Karwa Chauth, Mishra said he had ordered the director general of police to probe the same and inform the company to withdraw the ad or face action.“Directed DGP on Dabur's "lesbian ad", it should be probed and they be told to withdraw ad or face action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-minister-backs-ashram-set-vandals-demand-wants-prakash-jha-to-think-101635153035217.html
25-10-2021||India||PM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission from Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, touted to be one of the country's largest pan-India schemes, from Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi.Addressing the event, Modi took the opportunity to congratulate India for achieving the milestone of administering one billion (100 crore) vaccine doses in the fight against the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. He also extended greetings for upcoming festivals, including Diwali and Chhath. Also read: 'A gift to the state’s people’: PM Modi inaugurates 9 medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh“In its fight against Corona pandemic, the nation has achieved a major milestone of administering 100 cr vaccine doses.With blessings of Baba Vishwanath, Maa Ganga & trust of people of Kashi, the campaign of 'Sabko vaccine, muft vaccine' is going ahead successfully,” PM Modi said. The prime minister also inaugurated various development projects worth more than ₹5,200 crore for Varanasi.Speaking at the event, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath thanked Modi for launching the mission from Varanasi, which also happens to be the Prime Minister's Lok Sabha seat.The Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission aims to fill gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. It will provide support for 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high focus states, reported news agency PTI.Through this, critical care services will be available in all the districts of the country with more than five lakh population through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services.Under the scheme, a national institution for one health, four new national institutes for virology, a regional research platform for WHO South East Asia Region, nine biosafety level-III laboratories, five new regional national centre for disease control will be set up.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-ayushman-bharat-health-infrastructure-mission-in-varanasi-101635149766351.html
25-10-2021||India||Will oppose BJP in Uttar Pradesh polls, says farmer leader Rakesh Tikait||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKU), which is spearheading the protests against the three farm laws enacted last year, will oppose the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due early next year, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said on Monday. He asked farmers not to vote for the BJP while maintaining they will not support any political party.Tikait accused the BJP of cheating the farmers. “...thus, I will appeal farmers not to vote for the BJP in the state assembly elections,” said Tikait in Agra, where he met the family of a sanitation worker allegedly killed in police custody last week. He added their agitation will continue until the three laws are not withdrawn. “The masses will give a befitting reply to the BJP which has brought these farm laws.” He added the farmers were always ready for the talks.The SKM earlier asked voters to “punish” the party in Assam, West Bengal, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala assembly elections held this summer.Tikait also accused the state government of discrimination when it comes to compensation. “...(Rs) 40 lakh was given to the family of a trader from Kanpur allegedly killed by police but only 10 lakh has been given to the family of the sanitation worker killed in Agra...(this) is unjustified,” He sought a judicial probe into the alleged custodial death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-oppose-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-polls-tikait-101635151326653.html
25-10-2021||India||Singhu border lynching: NCSC says Punjab govt abdicated responsibility||The chairperson of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, Vijay Sampla, on Monday alleged that the Punjab government abdicated its responsibility by not taking care of the family of Lakhbir Singh, the Dalit farmer who was lynched at Kundli at the site of the farmers’ protest. Sampla met Singh’s family, including his wife, sister and four minor girls, in Delhi on Monday. Sampla said no action has been taken by the state government to ensure the release of compensation to the family under the provisions of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. He also pointed out that the family has been facing a social boycott that is unlawful and has been prevented from performing rites as per their faith. “We had earlier written to the Akal Takht that the social boycott should not be allowed. In the border areas, religious conversions are on the rise, this will worsen it,” he said.Accusing the government of not taking action to nab the perpetrators he said, “Earlier in a report, they (state government) said four (accused) have been arrested but no organisations or the state government has recognised their pain. The Punjab government has taken no steps nor said a word about the incident. They have abdicated their responsibility.” “The commission has assured them that under the POA Act action will be taken and money will be released at the earliest. Provisions for the education and other requirements of the girls will be ensured. A compensation of ₹8.5 lakh that they are entitled to will be released. Half of that amount is released soon after the filing of the FIR,” Sampla said. The wife of the deceased will also be entitled to a monthly pension of ₹5,000. Singh, 35, from Cheema Khurd village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district was lynched at a farmers’ protest allegedly for desecration of the holy book of the Sikhs. Sampla however, said there is no proof of his involvement in the said crime and alleged that the killing could be a conspiracy. “There is no evidence that Lakhbir Singh did anything, they (protesting farmers) got him to work there, so they brought him there. If we look at this, there is a conspiracy planned. On Dussehra, it was rumoured that they will target Hindu festivals as well. Till there is no evidence, he cannot be held responsible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singhu-border-lynching-ncsc-says-punjab-govt-abdicated-responsibility-101635150607373.html
25-10-2021||India||'It could've been avoided': Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel on Jashpur incident||A day after a clash broke out between the Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh's Jashpur, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Monday that the incident was unfortunate and should not have taken place. “It could have been avoided,” Baghel told news agency ANI.On Sunday, Congress' former Jashpur unit president Pawan Agarwal was pushed by party workers and was stopped from completing his speech at a party workers conference in the district.Video shared by news agency ANI showed Congress leaders getting into an altercation with Agarwal, who reportedly started speaking about Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo.Speaking to news agency ANI, chief minister Baghel said, “Party's state in-charge PL Punia has clarified everything, one should not spoil the atmosphere by raising questions again and again after that. The incident could have been avoided. It was unfortunate, it should not have taken place.”Also Read| Chhattisgarh Cong leader tries to make a case for TS Singh Deo, stopped midwayMoments after the assault on Sunday, Congress leader Pawan Agarwal said that TS Singh Deo waited for two and half years to become the chief minister of Chhattisgarh and it was time for Bhupesh Baghel to leave the top position. Agarwal also pointed out that it is due to Deo and Baghel that Congress became the ruling government in Chhattisgarh.For months, a power-sharing crisis has been going on between Bhupesh Baghel and TS Singh Deo. As the Baghel led-government finished over two and a half years of office, supporters of Deo have been demanding a rotational tenure for the chief minister.On the other hand, there is resentment growing in the Baghel camp over a possible change of guard amid the issue of rotational tenure for the CM's post.Last week, TS Singh Deo arrived at New Delhi on October 18, days after chief minister Baghel visited the national capital and met senior Congress leaders including Priyanka Gandhi. However, functionaries close to Baghel, denied that the meeting had anything to do with a possible change in guard.Apart from Deo and Baghel, two other prominent Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh- home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu and speaker Charan Das Mahant are eyeing the chief minister's post.In 2018, Congress won the state assembly elections with a thumping majority, as it secured 68 of the total 90 seats. Bhupesh Baghel, who was then the state unit president, was appointed as the chief minister.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-could-ve-been-avoided-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-on-jashpur-incident-101635150296106.html
25-10-2021||India||Delhi sees sharp spike in dengue cases, total tally crosses 1,000 this year||There seems to be no respite for New Delhi residents despite a drop in Covid-19 cases as the city witnessed an alarming increase in the number of dengue cases in recent days, with 283 cases reported in the Capital over the last week. The jump in cases took the tally of infections beyond 1,000 this year, according to data released by the municipal corporation on Monday. The city recorded a total of 1,006 dengue cases this year until October 23, according to the data. Of the confirmed dengue cases this year, 665 were reported in just October, the month in which the city historically sees a peak in dengue infections. Of the total number of dengue cases recorded this year, 66.1% were reported in October alone.In October 2020, 346 dengue cases were reported, accounting for 32.2% of the total number of infections that year; 787 cases were reported in October 2019, marking 38.6% of the annual cases; and 1,114 cases were recorded in October 2018, accounting for 39.8% of the total annual infections. This year also saw dengue claim a life in New Delhi, even as fatalities from the Covid-19 pandemic came down. Last month, a 35-year-old woman from Sarita Vihar was hospitalised with severe stage of dengue and later succumbed on September 28. Her death was examined and confirmed by an expert committee. A dengue death was reported last year as well. Two people died from the disease in 2019 and four in 2018. The highest number of dengue deaths in New Delhi in a single year was reported in 2015 when a deadly outbreak claimed at least 60 lives, according to official figures. Dengue causes fever, body ache, nausea, vomiting, and in severe cases, internal bleeding or a fatal drop in blood pressure. Dengue cases began to rise amid a steady drop in the number of Covid-19 infections. Dengue was recently identified as one of the diseases, along with scrub typhus and leptospirosis, which killed at least 51 people, most of them children, in the state of Uttar Pradesh this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-respite-after-covid-19-slowdown-as-delhi-sees-sharp-spike-in-dengue-cases-101635150365086.html
25-10-2021||India||La Nina threatens to worsen energy crisis with colder winter||A weather phenomenon that typically delivers harsher winters is on the way and expected to add to Asia’s energy crisis. The La Nina pattern, which forms when equatorial trade winds strengthen to bring colder, deep water up from the bottom of the sea, has emerged in the Pacific. That typically spells below-normal temperatures in the northern hemisphere and has prompted regional weather agencies to issue warnings about a frigid winter.Several nations and particularly China, the top energy consumer, are grappling with surging fuel prices and for some, power shortages or curbs on supply to heavy industry. Coal and gas prices are already elevated and a bitter winter will add heating demand that’ll likely spur further gains.“We are expecting temperatures to be colder than normal this winter across northeastern Asia,” said Renny Vandewege, a vice president of weather operations at data provider DTN. “Weather forecast data is a critical component of predicting how much energy load will be required.”Here’s the outlook for some key nations:ChinaTemperatures plunged early last week across most of eastern China, and are already colder than usual in some northern areas, according to the country’s National Climate Center. Provinces including Heilongjiang, Shaanxi and Shanxi began the winter heating season between four and 13 days earlier than in previous years. Local government-controlled systems -- typically powered by coal or gas -- are fired up to warm residents’ homes in many areas.Extreme weather conditions could happen more regularly as a result of global warming, according to Zhi Xiefei, atmospheric science professor at Nanjing University of Information Science & Technology. “Cold waves could lead to greater temperature drops, but unusual warm events could also appear,” Zhi said.The climate center expects the country to enter La Nina conditions this month, the official Xinhua News Agency said on Saturday.JapanJapan will likely see lower than normal temperatures next month, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency, which had earlier forecast a 60% chance of a La Nina over the autumn-winter period. The nation, which has been relatively insulated from the energy crisis, is staying vigilant after last year’s deep freeze that saw wholesale power prices spike. Utilities were caught without enough fuel as demand surged last winter, forcing them to buy costly spot liquefied natural gas shipments. The trade ministry has already been meeting with major power, gas and oil firms to prepare for the winter months, and LNG stockpiles held by Japan’s major electricity providers are currently about 24% above the four-year average.South KoreaSouth Korea will see colder weather in the first half of winter, and is also likely to be impacted by the effects of La Nina, according to the country’s meteorological administration. The country saw its first snow of the season 15 days earlier than last year amid an unusually cold October.The nation’s government is already taking steps to bolster fuel supply and mitigate the impact of higher prices. Fuel taxes and LNG import tariffs will be temporarily lowered, Vice Finance Minister Lee Eog-weon said Friday. IndiaTemperatures in India are expected to fall to as low as 3 degrees Celsius (37 Fahrenheit) in some northern areas in January and February before recovering. Unlike in other nations, cooler weather typically leads to lower energy consumption as demand for air conditioning wanes.Most importantly, the nation is anticipating a drier period after the end of the monsoon season. Key coal mining regions suffered flooding in recent months that triggered a squeeze on supply of the fuel used to produce about 70% of the nation’s electricity. Aside from La Nina events, there are other factors that can impact the region’s winter weather, according to Todd Crawford, director of meteorology at Atmospheric G2. Climate change has led to a lack of sea ice in the Arctic’s Kara Sea, which may be contributing to high pressure ridging in that area. This leads to downstream colder conditions across northeast Asia, “like what happened last winter,” he said.There are also indications the polar vortex – a girdle of winds that bottle up cold at the pole – could be weaker than normal at the start of winter, which would allow frigid air to spill south, Crawford said. “Putting all that together, we think the best window for big cold in northeast Asia this winter is in the late November to mid-January window,” he said. “That is where we think the greatest risk lies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/la-nina-threatens-to-worsen-energy-crisis-with-colder-winter-101635145648841.html
25-10-2021||India||Metro Matters | Green infra is the health insurance Delhi needs||For long, Delhi learnt to associate even moderate spells of downpour with waterlogged roads. But last Monday, few seemed to resent traffic snarls triggered by the heaviest 24-hour rainfall recorded for October since 1956. The intense shower washed away pollutants that were setting the stage for the city’s annual choking season, giving Delhi its first “good’ air day of 2021.
25-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai airport footfall returning to pre-Covid times and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The footfall at the Mumbai airport is returning to pre-Covid times. During the nine-day Navratri festival, 665,985 passengers flew in and out of the airport between October 7 and October 15. Over 317,000 of them arrived at the airport and 348,740 departed it. Read moreIt was a long time coming, but was worth the wait. It took Pakistan nearly three decades and 13 matches to end their barren run against India at World Cups. And what a way to do it. Led by the charismatic Babar Azam, Pakistan annihilated India by 10 wickets in their T20 World Cup opener at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium on Sunday to snap their losing streak at the biggest cricketing tournament in the world. Read moreAsus has been launching thin and light laptops with its VivoBook series in India and the company is now bringing OLED displays to the range with the recently launched Asus VivoBook K15 OLED laptop. This laptop features a good quality display with decent hardware specifications which are light to hold — the company says these laptops are aimed at a younger demographic. Read moreToyota Motor has filed a trademark for the Maruti Suzuki Ertiga-based Toyota Rumion in India, hinting that the automaker is looking at launching the MPV in the country sometime soon, and under the same name. The vehicle, which is the third rebadged Maruti Suzuki model to be sold under Toyota brand, had been recently revealed in South Africa. Read moreThere are videos on the Internet that show wonderful gestures by kids. Those videos often leave people both surprised and happy. This clip involving a kid and a security official at Bengaluru airport is a fine inclusion to that list. There is a chance that the wholesome video will leave you smiling. Read morePomegranate or anar, the fruit that lures with its shiny red tiny seeds that taste sweet and a little tart, is a storehouse of nutrition. Rich in phytochemicals, antioxidants and Vitamin C, pomegranate has been known for its medicinal properties since more than a thousand years. India is said to be one of the largest producers of pomegranates in the world. It is also grown in parts of the United States, Afghanistan, Russia, China, and Japan. Read moreOn Monday, October 25, the 67th National Film Awards ceremony took place and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu presented the awards to those who won this year. The awardees include Kangana Ranaut and Manoj Bajpayee. Read moreIndia's first indigenous aircraft carrier IAC Vikrant set sail from Kochi for its second sea trial on October 24. The warship, the largest and most complex to ever be built in India, had completed maiden sea voyage in August this year. It is likely to be inducted into the Indian Navy in August next year. After the first sea trials, the Navy had said that performance of key systems was found to be satisfactory. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-airport-footfall-returning-to-pre-covid-times-and-all-the-latest-news-101635146185014.html
25-10-2021||India||After alleged student attack, Omar asks Punjab CM to reassure Kashmiri students||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Monday asked Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to reassure Kashmiri students studying in his state after some of them were allegedly assaulted after India lost their opening match of the Twenty20 World Cup to Pakistan in Dubai on Sunday.“It is distressing to hear about the incidents of physical & verbal assault against some Kashmiri students in a college in Punjab last night. I request @CHARANJITCHANNIji to direct @PunjabPoliceInd to look in to this & also to reassure the students studying in Punjab,” Abdullah, a former chief minister, said in a tweet.Nasir Khuehami, a student leader, said that Kashmiri students were assaulted in Sangrur and Kharar (Mohali) in Punjab. He added that they told him that local Punjabis came to their rescue. “Students from Bihar, UP (Uttar Pradesh), and Haryana barged in their rooms, thrashed them and went rampage,” tweeted Khuehami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reassure-kashmiri-students-omar-asks-punjab-chief-minister-101635146647001.html
25-10-2021||India||Festival season: Centre to hold meeting with states to discuss edible oil prices||With an eye on the festival season, Sudhanshu Pandey, secretary of the Department of Food and Public Distribution (DFPD), is expected to hold a meeting today with representatives of all the states and union territories in order to discuss the demand, availability, stock limits and prices of edible oils across India.“The DFPD is monitoring the prices of edible oils and their availability to the consumer,” a statement issued by the department said. “It is especially important in the context of the upcoming festival season, during which the demand for edible oils will increase.”The government-run department said that since the demand for edible oils was different in each state and union territory, they can separately refer to the stock disclosure notice that has been issued in order to finalise their stock limits for edible oils and oilseeds. The DFPD has also created a website dedicated to closely monitoring edible oil stocks on a weekly basis. The Centre has already taken various steps to bring down high prices, including a cut in import duties on palm oil, sunflower oil and soybean oil. Stock limits were put in place for most traders of edible oils and oilseeds until March 31 this year in a bid to control domestic prices. The prices of oils have fallen by ₹3-4 per kg following a recent cut in import duties. During an 11-month spell from November 2020 to September 2021, the import of vegetable oils rose 2% to 12,470,784 tonnes compared to 12,257,837 tonnes in the corresponding period of the previous year. Of the total vegetable oils imported, edible oil imports rose to 12,085,247 tonnes from 11,950,501 tonnes, while non-edible oil imports rose to 385,537 tonnes from 307,333 tonnes. The marketing year for vegetable oils runs from November to October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/festival-season-centre-to-hold-meeting-with-states-to-discuss-edible-oil-prices-101635145444996.html
25-10-2021||India||Kerala man orders iPhone worth ₹70,900 from Amazon, gets soap bar, ₹5 coin||A man from Kerala's Aluva ordered an Apple iPhone 12 from Amazon but received a bar of soap and a coin instead earlier this month, according to reports. Noorul Ameen later told Mathrubhumi.com that his account has been credited with the amount he paid to buy the phone using an Amazon Pay card.Noorul Ameen, a regular Amazon customer, ordered the smartphone on October 12 after paying ₹70,900 through his Amazon Pay card and received the package on October 15, according to Mathrubhumi.However, he was suspicious after the package was halted in Salem for a day after being dispatched from Hyderabad. Most packages arrived from Hyderabad to Kochi in two days, but his iPhone 12 order took three days. As he was suspicious, he opened the box in front of the Amazon delivery partner and shot a video while doing so. He told Mathrubhumi that the items felt similar in weight to an iPhone.The package contained a bar of popular dish-washing bar Vim, a piece of the soap, and a ₹5 coin instead of the iPhone 12 he had ordered. Ameen immediately called Amazon customer care and filed a police complaint. The police launched an investigation and found that the iPhone was being used by someone in Jharkhand since September 25. This was 15 days before Ameen booked the phone.“We contacted the Amazon authorities and the Telangana-based seller. The phone has been in use in Jharkhand since September 25 this year, even though the order was placed only in October. When we contacted the seller, he said the phone was out of stock and that the amount paid by Noorul would be returned,” a police officer told the New Indian Express.Ameen told Mathrubhumi that his account was credited with the amount, which he had paid using an Amazon Pay card. Kerala Police also said in a Facebook post that the seller returned the money to Ameen. They said the amount was credited to his account last Thursday and that an investigation into the case is ongoing.Last month, the New Indian Express also reported that a 22-year-old engineering student in North Paravoor received a package stuffed with old newspapers instead of a high-end laptop she booked. The seller has refunded the amount to the student, the New Indian Express added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-man-orders-iphone-worth-rs-70-900-from-amazon-gets-soap-bar-rs-5-coin-101635143431848.html
25-10-2021||India||Mumbai drugs case: Witness arrives at NCB office; Ananya Pandey to be quizzed by NCB | Latest updates||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has summoned Bollywood actor Ananya Pandey for the third round of questioning on Monday in connection with the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case. The actor faced questioning by the agency for around four hours last Thursday.In a new turn of events in the drugs-on-cruise case, an 'independent witness' on Sunday claimed that an official from the anti-drugs agency and others, including absconding witness KP Gosavi, demanded ₹25 crore to let off Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan under arrest in the case.>Prabhakar Sail, the 'independent witness', told reporters he overheard Gosavi telling a man called Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of ₹25 crore and "to settle at ₹18 crore as they have to give ₹eight crore to Sameer Wankhede", the zonal director of NCB, reported news agency PTI. This was after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 2 raid.Also read: 'Aryan has a future ahead, should be …’: Union minister's advice for Shah Rukh>Prabhakar Sail is one of the nine witnesses the NCB has named in the case. He also claims to be a personal bodyguard to KP Gosavi. He reached NCB Mumbai Police Commissioner’s office on Monday.>A senior NCB official has denied the allegations, terming them as "completely false and malicious".>Meanwhile, Sameer Wankhede, who is heading the probe, on Sunday wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue.>Wankhede did not mention any names but wrote in his letter that the threat of jail and dismissal have been issued against him on public media by highly respectable public functionaries.>This could be a reference to Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik who earlier said the officer will lose his job. "They (BJP) have a puppet - Wankhede. He raises bogus cases against people. I challenge that Wankhede that he'll lose his job within a year... We have evidence of bogus cases," news agency ANI quoted Malik as saying.>Sail also shared a video with the media which purportedly shows Gosavi recording audio of Aryan Khan at the NCB office, in which hotelier Kunal Jani, who was earlier arrested in a separate drugs case, was also briefly seen. This triggered speculation if Jani, who is the director of a prominent restaurant in Bandra, was connected to the case.>However, the NCB said that it arrested Jani in a separate drugs case and he was present at its office when Aryan Khan was brought there as the restauranter’s statement was also being recorded, reported PTI.>Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 and was sent to judicial custody on October 7. He has been charged under the sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and all his bail pleas have been rejected.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-drugs-case-witness-arrives-at-ncb-office-ananya-pandey-to-be-quizzed-by-ncb-latest-updates-101635139641401.html
25-10-2021||India||Mumbai airport traffic returning to pre-Covid times with Navratri as tailwind||The footfall at the Mumbai airport is returning to pre-Covid times. During the nine-day Navratri festival, 665,985 passengers flew in and out of the airport between October 7 and October 15. Over 317,000 of them arrived at the airport and 348,740 departed it. During the same time last year, about 284,000 passengers flew in and out of the Mumbai airport. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, around 844,000 passengers flew in and out of the airport during the Navratri festival from September 29 to October 7, 2019.“From October 7 to October 15, 2021, CSMIA (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport) played host to a total of over 665,985 passengers of which over 317,240 passengers were seen arriving, while 348,740 passengers departed the airport. During the same period, a total of 5,101 flights were operated with 2,544 departing and 2,557 arriving at CSMIA,” said an airport spokesperson.Mumbai authorities allowed airlines to operate at 100% capacity, and the footfall is expected to increase during Diwali and Christmas.As many as 729,240 passengers flew in and out of the airport during the Ganpati festivities between September 5 and September 19.The airport spokesperson said New Delhi, Bengaluru and Goa were the top three destinations during the Navratri festival.IndiGo flew the most number of passengers, at 340,347, followed by Go First (95,562) and Air India (87,546) during that period. As many as 277,805 passengers flew on weekdays and 3,88,180 during the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-airport-traffic-returning-to-pre-covid-times-with-navratri-as-tailwind-101635141664588.html
25-10-2021||India||Netas react to India’s defeat in T20 match with Pakistan||Several politicians took to Twitter after India lost to Pakistan in their opening match of the ICC T20 World Cup in Dubai on Sunday.Indian National Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who was at the Dubai International Stadium to watch the match, said, “A few cheerful moments on a dispiriting evening at the Dubai Cricket Stadium. Never have I witnessed India being routed more comprehensively in over half a century of watching international cricket.” He also congratulated Pakistan and hoped that India reverses the result in the finals.
25-10-2021||India||Rising water levels, swampy banks a challenge for Patna as Chhath approaches||Rising water levels of the Ganga due to unprecedented rain this month and unusually swampy banks have turned into a challenge for Patna’s civic authorities as they focus on preparing the ghats of the capital city of Bihar for next month’s Chhath festival, officials of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) said on Sunday.The four-day Chhath festival begins on November 8 and is celebrated across Bihar.PMC officials said an unusually high amount of rainfall in October has worsened the condition of the ghats along the Ganga river in Patna. Several roads leading to the banks of the Ganga are inundated while many are peppered with potholes. The water levels near NIT Ghat, Kali Ghat and Collectorate Ghat have risen considerably over the past two days.Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said, “Repairs to the approach roads have begun. Uneven roads are being levelled using sand and mud. We have also launched a drive to clean up the banks of the river. A sufficient number of sanitation staff has been deployed to carry out the drive.”The civic body has segregated a total of 93 ghats along the Ganga river into 23 sectors to make arrangements for the Chhath festival, which include putting in place barricades, lighting, drinking water facilities and changing rooms.Patna’s district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said, “We have formed 21 teams for monitoring preparations at Chhath festival ghats and for ensuring timely completion of all assigned work. These teams will inspect all the ghats and identify the unsafe ones, where devotees will be prevented from entering.”Also, the urban development department (UDD) has asked the authorities to set up artificial ponds at 45 parks in Patna. Department officials also said a cleanliness drive is underway spanning around 1,400 ghats and at least 3,000 ponds across Bihar to set the stage for Chhath celebrations.“Municipal bodies have been instructed to repair approach roads, clean up water bodies and arrange basic amenities at Chhath festival ghats for the convenience of devotees latest by November 8. A special cleanliness drive will be launched during Diwali and Chhath festival,” said a senior UDD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-water-levels-swampy-banks-a-challenge-for-patna-as-chhath-approaches-101635139144555.html
25-10-2021||India||India reports 14,306 fresh Covid cases; Kerala highest contributor||India reported 14,306 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 443 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday. Of the total cases and fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, Kerala alone accounted for 8,538 infections and 71 deaths.The health ministry also said that the country's active caseload now stands at 167,695, the lowest in 239 days, and accounts for less than 1 per cent of total infections.The recovery rate in the country has soared to 98.18 per cent and is the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. The weekly positivity rate stood at 1.24 per cent and the daily positivity rate at 1.43 per cent, according to the health ministry.Also read: Pandemic far from over, will end when...: WHO chief's word of cautionIn an apparent sign of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic receding, the daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 31 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 120 consecutive days now.India has administered more than 1.0227 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses so far, as per the data available with the health ministry. On October 22, the country celebrated the milestone of administering 1 billion vaccine doses under the inoculation drive.India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-14-306-fresh-covid-cases-kerala-highest-contributor-101635136050940.html
25-10-2021||India||Char Dham Yatra continues amid snowfall in Uttarakhand, temple council says||The pilgrimage to Char Dham in Uttarakhand continued on Monday, the governing council of the circuit of the temples said, even as heavy snowfall and rain battered most parts of the hilly state.The Char Dham temples comprise four pilgrim destinations, including Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath, in Uttarkhand and draw a large number of visitors every year. The pilgrimage to the four temples began on September 18 this year, after the Nainital high court allowed fully vaccinated tourists with negative RT-PCR reports for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to travel.The Devasthanam Management Board, the governing council of the pilgrim circuit, said the process of clearing snow on the route to the Kedarnath shrine was underway, according to news agency ANI. Last week, the state authorities were forced to halt pilgrimage to the Char Dham as heavy rainfall triggered flash floods and landslides across Uttarakhand and claimed the lives of at least 75 people, including several tourists. At least 13 people, including 10 trekkers, were also reported to have died after they were trapped in heavy snowfall in the mountains.ALSO READ | Climate crisis, land-use change ruining ecology: Experts on Uttarakhand flash floodEven helicopter services to the Kedarnath shrine was reportedly affected after layers of snow covered the helipad. The route to Gangotri and Yamunotri was also hit by snowfall.The Uttarakhand government then requested the pilgrims and visitors to the Char Dham to postpone their trips or stay put at safer locations for the weather to improve. Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami asked the district magistrates of Pauri and Rudraprayag to keep him updated on the situation.Incessant rainfall, result of an unusual western disturbance – a rain system that originates in the Mediterranean region — swept across Uttarakhand and adjoining Himachal Pradesh brought normal life to a virtual standstill and caused widespread damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-yatra-continues-amid-snowfall-in-uttarakhand-temple-council-says-101635133982063.html
25-10-2021||India||‘J&K was better governed before nullification of Article 370’: Azad||Former chief minister and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has said Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was better governed before it was stripped of its semi-autonomous status and downgraded to a Union Territory following the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 in August 2019.The comments came hours after Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is on a three-day visit to J&K, on Tuesday called Article 370 “discriminatory” and said that a new era of development was ushered in with its nullification.“We were told the scenario in J&K will change after the abrogation of Article 370. Growth, hospitals, unemployment will be taken care of. But that has not happened at all. As a matter of fact, we were far better when it was being ruled by various CMs (chief ministers before August 2019),” Azad told news agency ANI. “...We are a great loser after the state has been divided into two (Union Territories). We have been a great loser ever since the Assembly has been dissolved.”Another former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti criticised the Centre for opting for “cosmetic” steps which do not address the “actual problem”. In a tweet, she said Shah’s visit should have been preceded by following up on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurances after his meeting with J&K leaders in June.At that meeting, Modi and Shah stressed the importance of conducting elections in J&K. They reiterated their commitment to restoring the region’s statehood, and urged J&K leaders to participate in the ongoing delimitation exercise for redrawing poll constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-was-better-governed-before-nullification-of-article-370-azad-101635136565654.html
25-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to address panchayat, BJP leaders on Day 3 of J&K visit||Union home minister Amit Shah will address panchayat representatives and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Srinagar on the third and last day of his visit to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on Monday. He will also meet members of the civil society and attend a Central Reserve Police Force function in Pulwama.Shah earlier returned to Srinagar on Sunday evening after addressing a rally in Jammu and visiting the India-Pakistan border. He interacted with Border Security Force jawans as well.Security across Jammu and Kashmir had been enhanced, especially in Srinagar, in view of his visit. Security forces have stepped up checking and frisking. Some of the roads have been closed for traffic while three-tier security has been put in place in Srinagar. Amit Shah on Sunday said the Centre aimed to wipe out terrorism from Jammu and Kashmir and put an end to the killing of civilians. He said nobody will be allowed to disrupt peace and development in the region.Shah’s visit is his first to the region after the Centre revoked the erstwhile state’s semi-autonomous status and split it into two union territories in August 2019.Amit Shah arrived in Srinagar on Saturday amid a spike in violence. A series of targeted killings has left 11 civilians dead this month.On Sunday, paramilitary troopers allegedly shot dead Shahid Ahmad, a civilian, in Shopian. Ahmad’s family called his killing a “cold-blooded” murder even as police blamed him for snatching the rifle of a paramilitary trooper. It was the second such civilian killing this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-address-panchayat-bjp-leaders-on-day-3-of-jammu-and-kashmir-visit-101635135184201.html
25-10-2021||India||PM Modi to visit UP today, launch new healthcare scheme||On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh for the launch of a new healthcare scheme, Prime Minister Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), that will work toward strengthening the healthcare infrastructure across India.“The objective of PMASBY is to fill critical gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. It will provide support for 17,788 rural Health and Wellness Centres in 10 High Focus States,” stated the press release issued by PM’s office. It added that 11,024 urban Health and Wellness Centres will also be established across all states.Under the PMASBY, a national institution for one health, four new national institutes for virology, a regional research platform for WHO South-East Asia Region, nine biosafety level-III laboratories, five new regional national centres for disease control will be set up, the PMO said.Under three phases of the scheme, 157 new medical colleges have been approved across the nation, out of which 63 medical colleges are already functional, the PMO said.The Centre said that eight medical institutions have been sanctioned under the centrally sponsored scheme, which aims to set up colleges attached with district or referral hospitals, while one institution to be inaugurated in Jaunpur on Monday has been made operational by the Adityanath-led state government using its own resources.The PMASBY scheme was first announced in the Union Budget 2021-2022 on February 1. An outlay of about ₹64,180 crores over six years (till the financial year of 2025-26) was sanctioned for the scheme in September.Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya will also be present at the event. Furthermore, PM Modi will also inaugurate many development projects worth more than ₹5, 200 crores in Varanasi.With Uttar Pradesh going to the polls next year, this is PM Modi’s second visit to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-up-today-launch-new-healthcare-scheme-101635133805937.html
25-10-2021||India||Northeast monsoon to set in over peninsular India||Monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country during the next 48 to 24 hours according to India Meteorological Department.Monsoon normally withdraws completely by October 15.Simultaneously, the northeast monsoon, which affects the south Peninsular region, is also likely to commence over southeast Peninsular India during the next 48 hours. Under the influence of likely setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south Peninsular India, light to moderate fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning are likely over Kerala and Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and South Interior Karnataka during next 5 days, over Coastal Karnataka during next 3-4 days and Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema during the next 24 hours. Isolated very heavy rain is also likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal from October 25 to 26 and over Kerala and Mahe on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeast-monsoon-to-set-in-over-peninsular-india-101635133325783.html
25-10-2021||India||On last day of J-K visit, Shah to inaugurate development projects in Srinagar||Union home minister Amit Shah, who is on the last leg of his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, will on Monday inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development projects in Srinagar. Shah's visit to the Valley is the first since the revocation of Article 370 and 35A in August 2019.On Sunday, Shah visited the forward areas of the Makwal border and interacted with the soldiers and local population. He was accompanied by J-K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha.Speaking to news agency ANI, additional director general of the Border Security Force (BSF) posted to the Western Command, NS Jamwal said on Sunday that Shah's visit to the border area was a huge encouragement for the soldiers. "He has assured that our issues of tunnels and drones are being addressed and it will be resolved soon," Jamwal addedIn Jammu, the Union home minister met the delegations of Kashmiri Pandits, Gujjar-Bakarwal community, Pahadi community and Jammu and Kashmir Chamber of Commerce.Addressing a rally in Bhagwati Nagar ground after he inaugurated a new campus of the IIT in Jammu on Sunday, Shah said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi restored the grassroots democracy and started a new phase of development in Kashmir where lakhs of people faced injustice under the garb of Article 370.On Saturday, Amit Shah met the families of civilians and soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir who were killed by terrorists in a series of targeted killings in October. As many as 11 civilians, a majority of who belonged to other states, have been killed this month.Shah also met the family of slain Jammu and Kashmir Police inspector Parvez Ahmad, who was killed by terrorists in June this year. Shah said that the entire country is proud of Ahmad's bravery and offered a government job to the policeman's wife.Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said the Union home minister's visit to the Valley is to give confidence to people that security forces and the state administration are with them. “We will not allow this to be perpetrated and that we will bring the situation under control,” Rawat added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-final-day-of-j-k-visit-shah-to-inaugurate-development-projects-in-srinagar-101635128719219.html
25-10-2021||India||Monday’s forecast for Delhi: Partly cloudy skies, lowest temperature of 18°C||New Delhi is likely to see partly cloudy skies on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, with the mercury predicted to dip to around 18 degrees Celsius.The city’s maximum temperature on Monday could go up to 31 degrees Celsius.On Sunday, the mercury recorded a high of 31.5 degrees Celsius, while it was 19 degrees Celsius at its lowest.Delhi’s air quality was categorised as “moderate” as of Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) stood at 105 at 7am. Sunday’s average 24-hour AQI for the Capital was 160.An AQI up to 50 is considered “good”, 51-100 “satisfactory”, 101-200 “moderate”, 201-300 “poor”, 301-400 “very poor”, and 401-500 “severe”.On Sunday, the ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said, that New Delhi’s AQI was in the “moderate category”, and combined with dry weather and southwesterly winds, dust emission will enhance to PM10. “Additional dust input from desert areas via transport is very likely,” SAFAR said. “Stubble burning effective fire count… is 735 and its share in PM2.5 is 2%.”It also said that the impact of emissions from fires will be low as the wind is mainly from southwesterly. “With a change in wind direction from southwesterly to northwesterly, the AQI may degrade. Due to scattered rainfall, the AQI will improve slightly over the next 24 hours and then degrade to moderate,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mondays-forecast-for-delhi-partly-cloudy-skies-lowest-temperature-of-18c-101635131884047.html
25-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to launch health infra scheme from Varanasi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM to launch ₹64k-cr health infra scheme from Varanasi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will launch the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), worth ₹64,180 crore, to strengthen the health care infrastructure across the country. Read more'Aryan Khan has a future ahead, should be …’: Union minister’s advice for Shah Rukh KhanUnion minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale has advised Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan to send his son Aryan Khan, who has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case, to a rehabilitation centre. Read moreAs Covid cases surge in Germany, questions on extension of state of emergencyGermany is currently facing an increased spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), prompting calls to extend the nationwide state of emergency, which will end next month. Read moreVarun Dhawan joins Natasha Dalal for her first Karwa Chauth, Kartik Aaryan calls him ‘Aadarsh Pati’Varun Dhawan and wife Natasha Dalal celebrated their first Karwa Chauth on Sunday. Late evening, Varun shared pictures from the celebrations at home as Natasha did puja of the moon. Read moreAngelina Jolie dresses up in silver bodycon gown with Zahara Jolie-Pitt and Shiloh for Eternals premiereAfter stunning the crowds at the Los Angeles premiere of Eternals, Angelina Jolie graced the red carpet at the Rome premiere of the film with her daughters, Zahara, 16, and Shiloh, 15. Read more'This is the first game of the tournament, not the last': Virat Kohli after India's 10-wicket drubbing against PakistanVirat Kohli's India endured a tough start to their T20 World Cup campaign as they suffered a heavy 10-wicket drubbing against Pakistan in their first match in Dubai on Sunday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-pm-modi-to-launch-health-infra-scheme-from-varanasi-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101635126485312.html
25-10-2021||India||Unlike other parties...: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi explains BJP's take on secularism||Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has alleged that some political parties have used secularism as a tool for "political gains", but for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) it is the "constitutional and national responsibility"."Some people have used the word secularism only for their political gains. If you look at the 75 years of Indian history, you'll see that some political parties have made secularism as the means for their political benefits. They have deceived the objectives of our Indian Constitution," Naqvi said during his address to the national executive meeting of BJP Minority Morcha in Delhi on Saturday, according to news agency ANI"For the BJP, secularism is a constitutional and national responsibility. It is not a political deal for us," the BJP leader said.Naqvi also highlighted the benefits received by minorities under various schemes launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government.“Out of 2 crore people who benefitted from the Modi government's housing project, 31% are minorities, while 33% of 12 crore farmers being provided Kisan Samman Nidhi are also minorities,” the cabinet minister asserted.Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi also credited PM Modi for working on ensuring equality among all sections of society during the last seven years of his governance. “The government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked for inclusive empowerment with a commitment to constitutional values. It has ensured all sections, including minorities, becoming an equal partner of the development process,” ANI quoted him saying further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlike-other-parties-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-explains-bjp-s-take-on-secularism-101635129048775.html
25-10-2021||India||India to lift quarantine requirement for international travellers from today||Fully vaccinated travellers, who are coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of World Health Organization (WHO) approved Covid-19 vaccines, shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine and testing from Monday, according to the revised guidelines for international arrivals released on Wednesday.They will, however, have to produce a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report. These guidelines for international arrivals supersede all others issued on and after February 17 this year, the Union health ministry has said.“The global trajectory of Covid-19 pandemic continues to decline with certain regional variations. The need to monitor the continuously changing nature of virus and the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) must still remain in focus,” the ministry said.“The existing guidelines (issued on 17th February 2021 with subsequent addendums) for international arrivals in India have been formulated taking a risk-based approach. In view of increasing vaccination coverage across the globe and the changing nature of the pandemic, the existing guidelines for international arrivals in India have been reviewed,” it added.Check latest SOPs here:1. If partially or not vaccinated, the travellers need to undertake measures which include submission of sample for post-arrival Covid-19 test at the point of arrival after which they will be allowed to leave the airport, home quarantine for seven days, re-test on the eighth day of arrival in India and if negative, further self monitor their health for the next seven days.2. The new guidelines provide protocols to be complied with international travellers as well those to be followed by airlines, points of entry (airports, seaports and land border) for risk profiling of passengers.3. This Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) shall be valid from Monday till further orders. Based on the risk assessment, this document shall be reviewed from time to time, the ministry said.4. According to the guidelines, while planning for travel, all travellers should submit a self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha portal before the scheduled travel and upload a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report. This test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey.5. All passengers shall also submit a declaration with respect to the authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution if found otherwise.6. “Travellers from countries excluding those countries at risk will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days’ post-arrival. This is applicable to travellers from all countries including countries with which reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO approved Covid-19 vaccines also exist,” the guidelines stated.7. If the travellers who are under home quarantine or self-health monitoring develop signs and symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 or test positive for Covid-19 on re-testing, they will immediately self-isolate and report to their nearest health facility or call the national helpline number (1075) or state helpline number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-lift-quarantine-requirement-for-international-travellers-from-today-101635120558123.html
25-10-2021||NA||Sameer Wankhede reaches Delhi, says have come for ‘different purpose’||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Kanpur Metro today began run on test-track in depot: UPMRC MD#WATCH | Kanpur Metro today commenced a run on test-track in depot. Extremely satisfying and fulfilling achievement for the whole team of UPMRC. We will be achieving bigger goals in the next few months: Kumar Keshav, MD, UPMRC(Video source: Kanpur Metro Corporation) pic.twitter.com/tVXJ8ynZFxKanpur Metro today commenced a run on test-track in depot, ANI reported quoting UPMRC MD Kumar Keshav. “Extremely satisfying and fulfilling achievement for the whole team of UPMRC. We will be achieving bigger goals in the next few months,” he added.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede reaches Delhi, says have come for ‘different purpose’NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede reaches Delhi amid allegations of payoff in the cruise ship drugs case involving Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan. "I've come here for a different purpose. Allegations against me are baseless," he told ANI.Sudan army kills 2, injures 80 others among anti-coup protestersAmid the ongoing unrest in Sudan, the country's army has killed two people, and injured as many as 80 others among the anti-coup protesters, AFP reported citing medics.Kinnaur administration in HP bans trekking, mountaineering activitiesAmid multiple deaths among trekkers due to extreme snowfall in the state, the Kinnaur administration in Himachal Pradesh has prohibited trekking and mountaineering activities on all treks in the district, ANI reported.Maharashtra begins process of announcing ex-Mumbai cop Param Bir Singh as an ‘absconder’The Maharashtra home department has commenced the process of announcing former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh as an ‘absconder’. The department has written to the Intelligence Bureau (IB) that the IPS officer is untraceable. The state said it has sought legal opinion on the process to declare him an absconder.Bengal governor Dhankar admitted to AIIMS, Delhi with MalariaNews agency ANI on Monday reported that West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has been admitted in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi after testing positive for Malaria.NIA court sentences 4 Hizbul Mujahedeen terrorists to up to 12 yearsThe NIA court Delhi on Monday sentenced Md Shafi Shah and Muzaffar Ahmad Dar to 12 years of imprisonment, and Talib Lali and Mushtaq Ahmad Lone to 10 years of imprisonment for conspiring to commit terror activities in India, and also conspire to wage war against the Indian government. “All are functionaries of Hizbul Mujahedeen,” ANI reported citing the court order.Moderna reports ‘robust’ response to Covid vaccine in kids aged 6-11Moderna has reported ‘robust’ response to Covid-19 vaccine in children between six and 11-years-old, news agency AFP reported.US-based car rental giant Hertz orders 1 lakh Tesla electric autosCar rental giant headquartered in Florida in the United States, Hertz, has ordered 100,000 Tesla electric autos, news agency AFP reported.Delhi's air quality to deteriorate to ‘moderate’ category in coming daysIn the forthcoming days, the air quality of Delhi will deteriorate to ‘moderate’ category, IMD's Vijay Kumar told ANI on Monday. He said that on Sunday, due to “very good rainfall” in the Delhi-NCR region, the air quality improved to ‘satisfactory’ category from ‘poor’ category.Uttarakhand raises grant to ₹1.5L each from ₹95K for damaged houses due to rainUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Monday said that according to the standard of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), the state government has raised the aid from ₹3,800 to ₹5,000 for household goods that was damaged due to rains. “We've also raised grant from ₹95,000 to ₹1.5 lakh each for damaged houses,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Ananya Pandey skips NCB questioning today for being unwell, agency confirmsActor Ananya Pandey has sought for a different summon date from the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for questioning in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs' case, deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain said. “Actress Ananya Panday is not well and sought for time.”  He said that the NCB will be issuing another summon to her in the next few days.RJD chief Lalu Prasad to campaign for Bihar bypolls on Oct 27RJD supremo Lalu Prasad who returned to Bihar after nearly three-and- half years on Sunday will campaign on October 27 for the party candidate in two assembly seats in the state where bypolls are scheduled. The by-elections, notably, will be held on October 30.SC allows Cong MP to travel abroad on condition of depositing ₹1 crSupreme Court allows Congress MP Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad from October 25 to November 21, 2021 on the condition of depositing ₹1 crore.(file photo) pic.twitter.com/PIB2I2FLymSupreme Court on Monday allowed Congress MP Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad between October 25 and November 21, 2021 on the condition of depositing ₹1 crore, ANI reported.Schools, colleges in Bengal to reopen from Nov 15: CM MamataWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced tht schools, and colleges in the state will reopen from November 15 onwards.Centre rushes team to Kanpur where a case of Zika virus was reportedThe Centre has sent a multi-disciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur, which reported a case of Zika Virus on Sunday. Read morePM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure mission in VaranasiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission and development projects in Varanasi. PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission is one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure across the country. PM, officials detained, internet down in apparent Sudan coup: ReportSudan's interim prime minister and a number of senior government officials were arrested Monday, the information ministry said, describing the actions as a military coup, reported news agency AP. According to the ministry's Facebook page, the internet in the country was largely cut off and military forces closed bridges. It said the whereabouts of Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok were not immediately known. Witness in cruise drugs case arrives at NCB officePrabhakar Sail, the witness in the Mumbai drugs case, has reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai Police Commissioner’s office. The witness has claimed that ₹25 crore was demanded by an official of the NCB and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, who was arrested in the case.PM Modi inaugurates 9 medical colleges in UPPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. The Prime Minister left for Siddharthnagar and Varanasi today to launch Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana and inaugurate medical colleges in the state.3 trekkers dead amid heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh's KinnaurThree trekkers died following heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, while 10 others were rescued, reported news agency ANI. Search and rescue operations are underway, the news agency further quoted Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) as saying in a statament.India's daily Covid-19 tally comes down after 14,306 new infections; active caseload lowest in 239 daysIndia reported 14,306 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, marginally lower that the previous day's number, according to the Union Health Ministry's data published on Monday. A total of 443 Covid-19 related fatalities were recorded in the same time span. Further, 18,762 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, with the active caseload standing at 1,67,695. Internet services interrupted in Sudanese capital Khartoum: ReportInternet services were interrupted in the Sudanese capital Khartoum early on Monday, Reuters reported. Several local media reports also confirmed internet services were down, according to Reuters. Military forces arrested several members of Sudan's civilian leadership early on Monday, Al Hadath TV reported, as a prominent pro-democracy group called on Sudanese people to take to the streets to resist any military coup.Delhi CM Kejriwal in Lucknow, to offer ‘aarti’ at Saryu GhatDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday arrived in Lucknow. He will be offering 'aarti' at Saryu Ghat, this evening, reported news agency ANI.As Covid cases surge in Germany, questions on extension of state of emergencyGermany is currently facing an increased spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), prompting calls to extend the nationwide state of emergency, which will end next month. Read moreUttarakhand rains: Total deaths climb to 72The Uttarakhand government said on Sunday that a total of 72 people have died due to rain-related incidents in the state, adding four people are still missing. Amit Shah to inaugurate various development projects in J-KWith Monday being the last day of his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir,  Union home minister Amit Shah will inaugurate and lay foundation stone of various development projects in Srinagar.PM Modi to launch ₹64k-cr health infra scheme from Varanasi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will launch the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), worth ₹64,180 crore, to strengthen the health care infrastructure across the country. Read moreFrom today, Maharashtra to start special vaccination drive for college studentsMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, while announcing the special inoculation drive on October 21, said that vaccination, especially among the youth, is the need of the hour as they have to travel the most. Tope added that those universities and colleges which perform well in this inoculation drive will be rewarded. Read moreAfghanistan: 17 killed in clashes between Taliban, group of armed men in Herat provinceSeventeen people were killed in a clash between the Taliban fighters and a group of armed men in the western Afghan province of Herat, Sputnik reported on Monday citing a local hospital. "Today, the bodies of 17 people, including seven children, three women and seven men, were taken to a hospital in the province of Herat. All of them died from gunshot wounds," the sources told the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-25-2021-101635121555094.html
25-10-2021||India||Accused to stay in IAF custody, nod for police probe||The principal district court in Coimbatore allowed the Indian Air Force (IAF) to continue with custody of flight lieutenant Amitesh Harmukh, accused of raping a woman colleague, under the Air Force Act, 1950 and also the local police to proceed with their investigation in the rape case.On Saturday, the court, while hearing the petition filed by the Coimbatore police against the lower court’s September 30 order, directed the Indian Air Force (IAF) authorities “to provide a feasible atmosphere on campus for the privacy of police enquiries” that will have to go on “without interruption”.“The Revision Petitioner (Coimbatore Police) is permitted to proceed with their investigation and that the accused would only be under the custody of Air Force Authority and that proper intimation to be given well in advance for investigation of the accused by the police to the respondent (Air Force Authority)...,” the court said in its order on Saturday. The court added that the police after completion of the probe, shall prepare two sets of material evidence and one of which should be produced to the court martial for trial under the Air Force Act. “It is left open for the revision petitioner (local police) to seek appropriate direction after the disposal of the case by the court-martial, as per section 126 of Air Force Act, that a person convicted or acquitted by a court martial may, with the previous sanction of the Central government, be tried again by a criminal court for the same offence or on the same facts,” the order read.N Sundaravadivelu, counsel for Harmukh, said that the IAF has started a court of inquiry. “They will issue summons for a court martial soon,” he said.The city police said that they are awaiting a detailed order. “The revision application was to set aside the order of the magistrate. Our investigations will continue and we will examine the detailed order once it is received,” said a senior police official, requesting anonymity.Police arrested 29-year-old Harmukh on September 25 after the 28-year-old woman officer filed an FIR on September 20 saying she was unhappy with the action taken by the IAF authorities. The assault took place on September 10. The arrest was challenged by Harmukh and the IAF. On September 30, the judicial magistrate’s court in Coimbatore decided to hand over the custody of Harmukh to the IAF. On October 7, the Coimbatore city police filed a petition before the district court challenging lower court’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-to-stay-in-iaf-custody-nod-for-police-probe-101635116116229.html
25-10-2021||India||PM to launch ₹64k-cr health infra scheme from Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will launch the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), worth ₹64,180 crore, to strengthen the health care infrastructure across the country.According to a statement by the press information bureau, the Prime Minister will inaugurate the project from his parliamentary constituency Varanasi, during a visit to poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Besides this, he will also inaugurate nine new medical colleges at Siddharth Nagar, the bureau added.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh on 25th October, 2021… at around 1.15 in Varanasi, the Prime Minister will launch PMASBY. It will be one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure across the country. It will be in addition to the National Health Mission,” a note by the press information bureau said on Sunday.“Modi will also inaugurate various development projects worth more than ₹5,200 crore for Varanasi,” it added.The PMASBY scheme with an outlay of around ₹64,180 crore over six years (till financial year 2025-26) was announced by the Centre during the Budget session in February this year. This scheme will be in addition to the National Health Mission, the statement said.The scheme focuses on developing capacities of health systems and institutions across the continuum of care at all levels — primary, secondary and tertiary — and on preparing health care systems for responding effectively to the current and future pandemics, and disasters, it added.Under the scheme, government support will be provided to 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high-focus states. At least 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be set up.Besides these, critical care services will be available in districts having more than 500,000 population, through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services.“Under PMASBY, a National Institution for One Health, 4 New National Institutes for Virology, a Regional Research Platform for WHO South East Asia Region, 9 Biosafety Level III laboratories, 5 New Regional National Centre for Disease Control will be set up. PMASBY targets to build an IT enabled disease surveillance system by developing a network of surveillance laboratories at block, district, regional and national levels, in Metropolitan areas. Integrated Health Information Portal will be expanded to all States/UTs to connect all public health labs,” the statement said.Experts believe it is time to strengthen the medical infrastructure at the ground level.“In a country like India whatever efforts we make to improve the health care system, it will still be less because of the population; and inaccessibility and affordability is also an issue... This underutilised infrastructure in the pvt sector can be utilised either through Ayushman Bharat or any other schemes...,” said Dr MC Misra, former director, AIIMS, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-launch-64k-cr-health-infra-scheme-from-varanasi-today-101635115884942.html
25-10-2021||India||Farmers facing repeated crop loss look forward to govt’s aid scheme||For years, farmers in southwest Delhi’s Rawta village have had to contend with their farmlands turning into waterbodies during monsoon due to the Najafgarh drain that passes through nearby Gurugram overflowing.Some farmers have made peace with it, leasing out their submerged farms for pisciculture. But others have suffered the consequences of damaged crops resulting in financial losses. Now, the villagers see hope in chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s assurance on compensation for crop damage.“Most farmers have no other source of income. So, they must take the risk of investing in crops, even though input costs have been going up and incomes dropping year after year. It is not just the rain calculations anymore; things are getting worse. Floods are more frequent now. There is unplanned development around these villages and large parts of the Najafgarh drain are blocked. Crop damage is more frequent, and farmers have been suffering losses for several years now. The government must help us,” said Amit Yadav, a farmer in Rawta’s neighbouring village of Jhuljhuli.Kejriwal had on October 20 said that he has issued directions to officials to ensure that farmers in the city who suffered losses due to crop damage this year get compensation of ₹50,000 per hectare — an initiative which, Kejriwal said, the Aam Aadmi Party government in the national capital has been actively pursuing since it came to power in 2015.He further said that district officials under the revenue department have started a survey, which is likely to be completed within two weeks, following which compensation money will be disbursed to eligible farmers within one-and-a-half months.Government data showed that Delhi has around 29,000 hectares of farmlands and around 21,000 farmers.HT visited several villages in the northern, north-western, southern, and south-western peripheries of the Capital this week and found that financial losses caused by crop damage, especially during the monsoons, is a perennial issue.Although there have been instances of compensations for crop damage earlier, many farmers still don’t trust the system. This year, with the chief minister himself addressing the issue through a press briefing, some of them are hopeful.Dinesh Rana, a farmer based in Palla village in the northwestern periphery of Delhi, said: “This year, there has been significant crop damage because of excess and unseasonal rain. Farmers are in immense distress. The compensation system is often clumsy but this year there is some hope because the chief minister himself has given assurance.”Many farmers also assert that the amount of compensation is unreasonably low in the light of current input costs per hectare and the absence of many farming subsidies in Delhi.Paras Tyagi, co-founder, Centre for Youth Culture, Law and Environment, a Delhi-based public policy group that works primarily on villages, said: “In Delhi, there are almost no subsidies for farmers. So, input cost is very high compared to several other states. In light of the input costs, ₹50,000 per hectare is too little a compensation amount. Secondly, there are loopholes in the system because of which many genuine farmers often get excluded from such schemes. So, there is a lack of trust too. The government has to invest in making the system better.”“Still, something is better than nothing. The financial burden is too high on farmers. But these are short-term measures. The government needs to come up with long-term measures if it is serious about addressing the issue of crop damage. There have to be infrastructural changes,” said Rajneesh Chauhan, a farmer in Tiggipur village.Rajesh Shokeen, a farmer based in Dichaon-Kalan village in southwest Delhi, said along with compensation schemes, “the government has to invest on irrigation, subsidies, facilities to pump out flooded water, etc.”Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said he is monitoring the process as directed by the chief minister. “We will not only ensure that no eligible farmer is excluded from the scheme, but also that they are adequately compensated. The compensation amount in Delhi is higher than in its neighbouring states. We will make sure that no farmer in Delhi is distressed,” Gahlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-facing-repeated-crop-loss-look-forward-to-govt-s-aid-scheme-101635115471676.html
25-10-2021||India||India’s first voter readies for a new challenge||Kinnaur/Shimla: The clouds are rolling in as Shyam Saran Negi gets ready for his morning walk. The 105-year-old sleeps on a thin mattress on the floor of his cramped room, the steam from the wood-fire blanketing him from the cold. Outside, a film of mist hangs over the orchard as unseasonal flakes of snow drive down the mercury.
25-10-2021||India||A civilisational triumph for a newly independent country||That the Indian National Congress should have won 364 of the 489 seats to the first Lok Sabha was natural. It was the party that had led the freedom struggle. And not just dynamically but charismatically. Its leader, Jawaharlal Nehru, was, without question, the man of the moment with lesser but not less-known personalities from the struggle illuminated by their courage and sacrifice, forming his ‘victorious team’. The Congress had to win that election by what is commonly called a ‘landslide’ , forming the first elected government of free India
25-10-2021||India||What we eat and what we eat in: Need for law on food containers||Urban middle-class India has embraced take-out food with gusto. During the pandemic, this intensified. But what else were people imbibing, apart from food? A new study, ‘Occurrence, potential release and health risks of heavy metals in popular take-out food containers from China’, by researchers Yu Han, Jiali Cheng, Di An, Ying He, Zhenwu Tang, published recently in Environmental Research, is worrying. According to the researchers “the summed carcinogenic risks of Cadmium, Lead, Nickel and Cobalt were unacceptable under specific exposure frequency, although the total non-carcinogenic risks from metal intake were low”.What does this mean for you and me? It is obvious that the containers we and others globally use are likely to be contaminated with heavy metals. While Indian legislation is cracking down on single use plastics, containers are a harder one. This study talks of cancer, but the heavy metals it discusses can cause several other disorders, from nerve and brain damage to poisoning of the nephric system.India needs standards and public testing as a first step to regulate containers that will, hopefully, be entirely replaced. Manufacturers should be registered, their goods bearing their details. It is sometimes possible to carry one’s own reusable containers but for most part, the idea is still laden with loopholes. These must be plugged, though shifts in culture, behaviour, logistics and innovation. Leaning on the Precautionary Principle, India should act on whatever data exists. As the pandemic showed us, health is literally, national wealth. What we eat matters, but what we eat in matters equally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-we-eat-and-what-we-eat-in-need-for-law-on-food-containers-101635109859471.html
25-10-2021||India||Kerala forest dept seizes suspected whale bones from self-styled antique collector’s house||The Kerala Forest Department on Sunday seized whale bones from one of the hideouts of arrested self-styled antique collector Monson Mavunkal in Kochi, officials said. The police have also slapped a case on his former make-up man for allegedly raping a minor. The forest team raided his hideout after a tip-off and recovered suspected whale bones and sent them for examination. Officials found that bones were shifted from his house in Kochi soon after his arrest. Earlier, two ivory tusks obtained from the house were found fake after an examination, therefore, the officials are tight-lipped this time. They found ivory tusks were made of grated powder of cattle horns obtained from meat shops. “We have seized two big suspected whale bones and sent them for examination. If they are real bones we will book him under the Wildlife Protection Act. We will start our investigation once the result is out,” said forest flying squad inspector KG Anwar. Whales are protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act and possession and trade of any of their by-products is punishable in the country. Meanwhile, a case under the Protection of Children from Offences of Sexual Act (POCSO) was registered against Mavunkal’s former make-up man P Joshy. In her complaint, a 19-year-old girl said besides Mavunkal she was also sexually exploited by his make-up artist several times. She was 17 when the assault took place and the special investigation team (SIT) registered a case under POCSO. Arrested Joshi was sent to judicial custody later. The SIT earlier slapped a POCSO case on Mavunkal after the girl, daughter of one of his employees, complained that she was sexually assaulted at his house. In the complaint filed at the Ernakulam North police station, the mother of the girl said her daughter was sexually assaulted while she was 17 and they were scared to approach the police. During the investigation, she also took the name of the make-up man. Mavunkal was arrested on September 26 after five businessmen approached chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office complaining that they were cheated by him of ₹10 crore on the promise of shares in the upcoming international antique museums in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. Later, several other businessmen filed similar complaints against him and the government constituted a special investigation team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-forest-dept-seizes-suspected-whale-bones-from-self-styled-antique-collector-s-house-101635102904248.html
25-10-2021||India||Anti-razing law comes into effect in Karnataka||The Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Act, aimed at preventing the demolition of religious structures in public places, has come into effect following the assent of Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. The law that was recently passed by the Karnataka Assembly has now been published in the Karnataka Gazette notification. The demolition of a temple in Nanjangud in Mysuru a couple of months ago had triggered public outrage following which the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill was introduced in a hurried manner in the assembly and on October 19, the governor gave his nod. The new law says, “Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force or any judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal or authority from the date of commencement of this Act, subject to the provisions of this Act, or the rules made there under the government shall protect the religious structures existing on the date of commencement of this Act, in such manner subject to such conditions as may be prescribed: Provided that no protection shall be done, if any case relating to their removal is pending in any court of law and in such other circumstances as may be prescribed.” The Act also bars construction of any religious structures on public places by the government or local authority without proper permission in future. It further says that the district administration may allow religious activity in such protected structures, subject to custom, law, usage and any other conditions as may be laid down by the state government from time to time. The law gives protection to the state government as well as its officers or employees with the provision that no legal proceeding should lie against them for anything which is done or intended to be done under this Act or rules made there under. PTI GMS RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antirazing-law-comes-into-effect-in-karnataka-101635102311387.html
25-10-2021||India||Karnataka: Doctor held for killing wife in suspected case of ‘black magic’||Karnataka police arrested a doctor for murdering his wife by injecting a high dose of drugs in a suspected case of a ‘black magic’ ritual in Davanagere district, an official said on Sunday. The crime was committed nine months ago, the police said. The police have identified the suspect in custody as a 45-year-old Dr. Channakeshappa, who practised medicine in Rameshwara village in Nyamathi taluk, and the victim as Shilpa . Following her death, Shilpa’s parents registered a complaint with the Davangere police station on February 11, claiming that her death was not an accident but a planned murder. During the initial police investigation, the doctor was able to evade arrest, claiming his wife was suffering from low blood pressure. Upon further investigation, it was found that Channakeshappa was frequently visiting suspected ‘black magic’ practitioners for the past year, and during one such interaction, was advised to ‘sacrifice’ his wife to access a treasure, the police said. On February 11, Channakeshappa gave Shilpa a dose of Dexamethasone, following which she became sick and died on the way to the hospital, the police added. CB Ryshyanth Superintendent of police said that the doctor is in judicial custody. “We have filed a chargesheet against the doctor on charges of murder,” he said. The doctor was taken into custody on October 18after the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) confirmed the administration of the drug. He has been booked under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, the police said. The incident comes weeks after Belagavi police started probing into a suspected case of ‘black magic’ after a two-year-old girl, who was found unconscious in a sugarcane field in Halyal village near Athani on September 23, died on October 1. The police said that there were signs of torture, especially burn marks on the girl’s body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakadoctor-held-for-killing-wife-in-suspected-case-of-black-magic-101635102302025.html
25-10-2021||India||Crane falls at Bengaluru Metro site, workers unhurt||Several construction labourers engaged in Bengaluru’s Namma Metro rail project had a narrow escape after a crane fell from a height of 40 feet at one of the worksites on Sunday. The incident took place during the construction of an elevated line metro from RV Road to Bommasandra and a metro-cum-road flyover from Ragi Gudda to Silk Board under phase II of Namma Metro. Talking about the incident, a BMRCL official said that a launching girder at a metro construction site near Udupi Garden Signal in BTM Layout Second stage, ‘rested’ on a metro pier instead of taking support from its own legs on Sunday, around 6.25 a.m. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) officials attributed it to a mechanical failure. In a statement, BMRCL said that no casualties were reported after the incident. “On October 24 at about 6.15 am the launching girder near Udupi Garden Signal, BTM Layout II Stage, while auto launching, instead of taking support on its own leg was resting on the pier. Preliminary investigation states mechanical failure and zero casualities. The launching girder will be taken down safely. Further action will be carried out as per contract provisions,” read a statement from BMRCL. At around 6.30 am, the machine that joins the segment snapped midway and fell. Labourers who were below it escaped by a whisker. Speaking to reporters, Namma Metro MD Anjum Parvez said: “This is the first time such a mishap took place during Phase 2 of the Namma Metro work. The broken launcher cannot be used again. There is a possibility that the work will get delayed by two or three weeks because of this incident. However, we will still manage to complete the work within schedule. We have already ordered an inquiry into the mishap.” Last month, there was a landslip at Tannery road at the site of Kottigere to Nagavara Metro work. The owners of the land had accused officials of BMRCL as being responsible for the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crane-falls-at-bengaluru-metro-site-workers-unhurt-101635102247379.html
25-10-2021||India||Man in Belagavi celebrated dead wife’s birthday before killing kids, self: Police||A day after a 46-year-old retired army personnel allegedly killed his four children and died by suicide in Hukkeri Taluk in Belagavi district, police on Sunday said that hours before the incident, the ex-serviceman had celebrated the birthday of his deceased wife on Friday night. According to the police, the man was suffering from depression since the death of his wife due to black fungus on July 6 this year. Late on Friday, the 46-year-old is suspected to have consumed poison, along with three daughters, aged 19, 16 and 11 years old; and son (8), an official added.According to police, after the celebration, the man gave water mixed with poison to his children and later he also consumed it. During the investigation, police were able to recover a death note as well, in which the man held himself responsible for the deaths. He also wrote that he was leaving ₹20,000 cash for the final rites.Until now the state has reported 41 deaths due to Covid-19 depression, including five deaths that came to light on Saturday. The deaths have happened due to the fear of infection, losing dear ones and financial loss due to Covid-19 pandemic. Udupi district in Karnataka tops the deaths related to Covid depression with 11 cases while Bengaluru is in the second position with 9 deaths.On Saturday, neighbours alerted the police and the relatives after no one from the family could be reached. The victim’s cousin said she spoke with him around 9 pm on Friday. “He asked me if I had dinner and even said goodnight before going to bed. There were no indications that he was going to take such a step,” she added. “He and his children often used to tell us that they cannot live without his wife,” the relative told reporters. In August this year, a couple was found dead in their residence in Baikampady near Mangaluru, allegedly fearing complications after showing symptoms of Covid-19.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-belagavi-celebrated-dead-wife-s-birthday-before-killing-kids-self-police-101635102242010.html
25-10-2021||India||Infra work derails in Bengaluru, residents voice discontent||With the infrastructure in Bengaluru crumbling following heavy rains since October and with chief minister Basavaraj Bommai busy campaigning for the October 30 bypolls, angry residents on Sunday took to social media to apprise the chief minister the problem they are facing. Several users even challenged the chief minister to accompany them on a city tour to get a sense of the trouble people are going through. A twitter user ‘BangaloreRepair’ tweeted, “Dear Mr B Bommai, we challenge you to come with us on a tour of Bangalore (not CBD) and realize what the citizens are going through. From pothole-ridden roads to no streetlights, from dusty air to garbage-laden roads. Your day, your time, your vehicle. Just our pitstops and destinations(sic).” Bommai is currently touring the poll-bound Hanagal and Sindgi constituencies. For the past five days, the chief minister has been campaigning in these constituencies along with his predecessor BS Yediyurappa. The tour has affected development works in the city since the chief minister holds the portfolio of Bengaluru development. A Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) official on Sunday said several review meetings which were to be headed by the chief minister now stands postponed. “While the development works are underway, but the urgency with which the development works started after rains has died down due to election campaign,” the official said. Meanwhile, on social media, people continued to pose challenges to the chief minister. People have been posting videos and pictures of their areas to show the kind of hardship they all must endure on a daily basis, under the hashtag #ChallengeTheCM. The two assembly constituencies fell vacant after CM Udasi, the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader died on June 8 while MC Managuli, another senior Janata Dal (Secular) leader died earlier in January. Hangal falls in his home district Haveri and a victory in this constituency is important for him since it’s the first election after taking over as the chief minister. Hanagal is a constituency located in the Haveri district which is the home district of Bommai and neighbours his own assembly constituency of Shiggaon in the Haveri district. Bommai has sought votes for BJP citing development works by the government like irrigation and water resources projects implemented in the two seats and in the names of PM Narendra Modi and Yediyurappa. “As much as the chief minister has emphasized on how Yediyurappa is his political guru, he is keen on proving his potential. He is aware that any loss would affect him as well. Generally, the ruling party wins elections in Karnataka, but the CM is not taking chances,” said a north Karnataka-based legislator. But it is not just the chief minister who is taking the bypolls seriously. Apart from a few ministers like CN Ashwath Narayan, N Munirathna, and CV Nagesh, others have been camping in Sindgi and Hangal for the past one week. A team of four ministers each headed by Govind Karjol and Murugesh Nirani as in charge of Sindgi and Hangal and 20 MLAs have also been deployed for campaigning. Meanwhile, BBMP officials claim that the latest deadline given for filling the potholes might not be completed in time due to the rains. Senior BBMP officials said that filling potholes, which has been a major concern for the citizen, will be completed only after rains have completely stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infra-work-derails-in-bengaluru-residents-voice-discontent-101635102182286.html
25-10-2021||India||1971 war tilted balance in India’s favour: Ex-envoy Menon||The 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, which gave birth to Bangladesh, tilted the balance of power in India’s favour in the sub-continent with Pakistan losing its ability to threaten India with the two-front war, former Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon said on Sunday.He said Bangladesh today is a development success story as that country overtook India and Pakistan in terms of per capita income and human development indicators.“In the Indian sub-continent, the outcome tilted the balance of power in India’s favour with Pakistan losing the ability to threaten India with the two-front war and for several years losing also the confidence to launch a conventional war,” Menon said during the Swarnim Vijay Varsh Conclave organised here to celebrate the 50th anniversary of India’s victory in the 1971 war.The former diplomat, who had served as the National Security Adviser under former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, said the war brought India peace with Pakistan for almost three decades “until Pakistan thought that her nuclear weapon has redressed the balance and tried Kargil only to fail again.” According to him, the war showed Pakistan that it could not match India in conventional warfare or count on Chinese or United States intervention.It resulted in Pakistan adopting non-conventional way of violence by use of terrorism and Jihadi Tanzeem as a policy, Menon said.“Pakistan has made it into a regular state policy, and particularly after the Jihad against the Soviet Russia in Afghanistan in the 1980s perfected her modus operandi,” the former diplomat.Menon said the positive effect of the war’s outcome clearly outweighed the lingering after-effects on Bangladeshi politics.“Today, Bangladesh is a development success story. She has taken over both Pakistan and India in terms of per capita income, human development indicators,” he said.According to Menon, India and Bangladesh now enjoy a relationship of unequalled cooperation and understanding, contributing to each other’s security and prosperity in real and significant way.Speaking about the Indo-Pakistan war, the former diplomat said the 1971 war changed the course of geo-politics of sub-continent, Indian-Pakistan relations, politics within India, Bangladesh and Pakistan and also affected relations with super-powers.Menon said the primary reason for India’s success in 1971 war was a clear political aim of India, which was followed by an integrated grand strategy.“The goal was to liberate Bangladesh by military and other means. This was made clear immediately after the Operation Searchlight. The grand strategy to achieve this end (goal) marshalled all the available instruments of the state power -- integrating military, diplomatic, economic and domestic affairs,” the former diplomat told the gathering.He opined that Bangladesh should be seen as liberated by its own people.Explaining the preparations at home, Menon said the challenge was also to maintain communal harmony in the face of atrocities on Hindus in Bangladesh and massive Pakistani incitement to communal violence in India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1971-war-tilted-balance-in-india-s-favour-ex-diplomat-menon-101635101762238.html
25-10-2021||India||Karnataka man celebrated dead wife’s birthday before killing children, self||Hours before killing his four children and himself, an ex-serviceman celebrated the birthday of his late wife Jayashree with his children on Friday night, said police who are probing the suicide case. The 46-year-old retired army personnel, grieving the death of his wife, allegedly killed his four children and died by suicide in Hukkeri Taluk of Karnataka’s Belagavi district, police said on Saturday.According to the police, the man was suffering from depression since the death of his wife due to post-Covid black fungus on July 6 this year. Late on Friday, the 46-year-old is suspected to have consumed poison, along with his three daughters, aged 19, 16 and 11 years and a son (8), an official added.According to police, after the celebrations, the man consumed water mixed with poison and gave the same to his children. During the investigation, police were able to recover a death note as well wherein he held himself responsible for the deaths. He also wrote that he was leaving ₹20,000 cash for the final rites.On Saturday, neighbours alerted the police and the relatives after no one from the family could be reached. The victim’s cousin said she spoke with him around 9 pm on Friday. “He asked me if I had dinner and even said goodnight before going to bed. There were no indications that he was going to take such a step,” she added. “He and his children often used to tell us that they cannot live without his wife,” the relative told reporters. Until now the state has reported 41 deaths due to Covid-19 depression, including five deaths that came to light on Saturday. The deaths have happened due to the fear of infection, losing dear ones and financial loss due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Udupi district in Karnataka tops the deaths related to Covid depression with 11 cases while Bengaluru is in the second position with 9 deaths.In August, a couple was found dead at their residence in Baikampady near Mangaluru, allegedly fearing complications after showing symptoms of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-man-celebrated-dead-wife-s-birthday-before-killing-children-self-101635101342572.html
25-10-2021||India||Ashram 3 sets vandalised, Bajrang Dal activists throw ink on Prakash Jha||Bajrang Dal activists on Sunday threw ink on filmmaker Prakash Jha and vandalised the set of his upcoming web series, Ashram 3, in Old Jail in Bhopal on Sunday, police said. Four people were arrested in connection with the case, they added. The workers belonging to the right wing organisation vandalised cars and a vanity van as they went on a rampage and also thrashed a few crew members after chasing them, police said. The accused alleged that series contained obscene scenes and hurt the sentiments of Hindus. When Jha tried to pacify the protesters, some of them threw ink on him. Sai Krishna Thota, superintendent of police, Bhopal South, said the workers objected to the name of the web series when it’s shooting was underway. “Bajrang Dal activists objected that this web series may hurt the sentiments of Hindus as it contains obscene scenes,” he said. While no case was registered till the time of going to press, deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Irshad Wali said four people were arrested as a preventive action under section 151 of CrPC. “We are identifying those involved in the incident,” he said. Actor Bobby Deol was present in the vanity van but was not injured in the incident. “We have been warning them to change the name of the web series because Ashram is a very pious place and Ashram is where people used to get education in the ancient time...,” Bajrang Dal regional head Sushil Sudole said, “We met Jha and Bobby Deol and they assured us of changing the name of the series,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bajrang-dal-activists-throw-ink-on-prakash-jha-vandalises-ashram-3-sets-in-bhopal-101635101221904.html
25-10-2021||India||Chronicling political journey of TRS spanning 2 decades||“Main akela hi chala tha janib-e-manzil magar log saath aate gaye aur karvan banta gaya.”(I set off alone towards my goal, but, people came along and it began to turn into a caravan). Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister Kalvakuntla Chandrasekhar Rao once quoted this popular verse written by famous Urdu poet Majrooh Sultanpuri, while describing his journey towards his goal of achieving separate statehood to Telangana region from the combined Andhra Pradesh.KCR was virtually alone when he resigned from the post of deputy speaker in the Andhra Pradesh state assembly and Telugu Desam Party headed by N Chandrababu Naidu in 2001 to take up the cause of Telangana, which was facing discrimination by successive governments in the united Andhra Pradesh.When he floated the TRS in a small portion of Jala Drushyam, a bungalow of veteran Telangana leader Konda Laxman Bapuji on the banks of Hussainsagar lake in the heart of Hyderabad on April 27, 2001, there were hardly any leaders with him, as they were sceptical about the success of such a movement for achieving statehood to Telangana.The Telangana region, which was merged with erstwhile Andhra state to form Andhra Pradesh in November 1956, had witnessed several movements for separation, the biggest being that in 1969-71 which turned violent and claimed several lives.There were quite a few attempts to revive the movement for separate Telangana subsequently, but they could not be sustained due to either lack of willpower from the leaders or lack of efforts to convert them into mass movements.So, there was no surprise when KCR began his journey, everybody thought it would also be a fly-by-night experiment like the previous ones. But now, after 20 years, KCR has not only proved the sceptics wrong by achieving statehood to Telangana, but also developed the TRS as one of the most powerful regional parties in the country.On Monday, the TRS is celebrating its 20th year of foundation with over 6,000 delegates attending the plenary to be held at sprawling Hyderabad International Convention Centre, where KCR would be re-elected as the party president. Though the event was supposed to be held in April this year, it was deferred due to second wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.“The success has not come so easily. We had to struggle a lot to enlighten the people of Telangana and faced several ups and downs during the 13-years-long movement to achieve the statehood. Our commitment to the cause and our fighting spirit led to the formation of Telangana in June 2014,” TRS working president and KCR’s son K T Rama Rao told reporters on Saturday while reviewing the arrangements for the plenary.He said the chief minister had been striving to develop Telangana into a number one state in the country with the same commitment. “In the last seven years, Telangana has become a role model for other states so much so that people in the borders area of neighbouring states are demanding that they be merged with Telangana,” KTR said.TWO DECADES OF TRSUnlike in the case of earlier movements for Telangana statehood, KCR adopted a two-pronged strategy – leading a mass movement to galvanise people to agitate for statehood, while carrying out a political movement by fighting the electoral battles, as he strongly believed that statehood cannot be achieved only through battles on streets but through a political process which involved the Centre.Within a few months of its inception, the TRS won substantial number of mandal parishad (block parishad) and zilla parishad seats, thereby indicating groundswell of support to KCR. At the same time, he travelled to different parts of Telangana to kick start a debate on issues confronting the region.During the movement, KCR raked up three issues – “Neellu, Nidhulu, Niyaamakalu” (Water, funds and recruitments), in which Telangana was allegedly facing discrimination from Andhra rulers and they became part of the TRS campaign in the subsequent years.Since KCR was aware that statehood could be achieved only through a political process involving the Centre, he quickly accepted the friendly hand extended by Congress party led by Sonia Gandhi in the 2004 general elections. The TRS won 26 assembly seats and five Lok Sabha seats and joined the UPA government at the Centre and the Congress government in the state.In the very first address of joint session of Parliament, the TRS forced incorporation of a sentence in the address of the President to the joint session of Parliament on granting statehood to Telangana through a process of consultation and consensus. KCR became the Union minister for labour in the Manmohan Singh Cabinet.However, the TRS did not remain content with what it had achieved. KCR continued to put pressure on the UPA government on granting statehood to Telangana and when nothing materialised even after two years, KCR pulled the TRS out of the UPA for failing to decide on Telangana statehood. KCR quit the Singh Cabinet at the Centre and his ministers from Y S Rajasekhar Reddy Cabinet in the state.He resigned from his Lok Sabha membership and forced a by-election in his Karimnagar LS constituency, which he had won with a massive majority in September 2016. Again in April 2008, he made all his MLAs and MPs resign from their seats and contest the by-elections so as to prove the strong Telangana sentiment among the people.Though the TRS suffered setbacks in 2009 general elections, it bounced back in 2010 by-elections, necessitated by the resignation of all its MLAs.“KCR used elections as a strategy to sustain the Telangana movement, apart from making his party cadres hit the streets with a series of agitations,” observed veteran journalist K Ramachandra Murthy, who was also former advisor to Andhra Pradesh government on public policy.In fact, Murthy said, the TRS would not have reached his goal of achieving statehood to Telangana, had Y S Rajasekhar Reddy not met with fatal helicopter accident in September 2009.“As long as YSR was alive, he had put his foot firmly down in separating Telangana from Andhra Pradesh. After his death, KCR revived his movement in November 2009 by undertaking fast-unto-death, that forced the UPA to announce the commencement of process for separate Telangana,” he said.In the next two years, Telangana was like a boiling cauldron with a spate of suicides by Telangana activists demanding separate statehood. Apart from TRS, several other political parties including the CPI, BJP and the Congress, besides state government employees, teachers and workers of various PSUs joined the agitation and fought under the umbrella of Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC) headed by Osmania University professor M Kodandaram.“In fact, it was TJAC, rather than TRS, which spearheaded the movement for separate statehood. The credit should go to Kodandaram,” said Murthy.Ultimately, the UPA government announced the formation of Telangana state and in February 2014, the AP Reorganisation Bill was passed in Parliament amidst an unprecedented pandemonium.POST-TELANGANA ERAThough it was the Congress which granted statehood to Telangana, the TRS, being the political front of the Telangana movement, walked away with the credit. KCR initially proposed to merge the TRS with the Congress but later went back on the move and contested the first assembly elections to Telangana in April 2014. The TRS won 63 out of 119 assembly seats in Telangana and KCR became the first chief minister.After achieving Telangana, the TRS lost its image of being a mass organisation and turned into an out-and-out political party. He began decimating the opposition parties by encouraging defection of their MLAs into the TRS in the name of polarisation of political forces.“In the last seven years, the TRS government has taken up several developmental programmes like Kaleshwaram, Mission Kakatiya and Mission Bhagiratha and welfare schemes like Rythu Bandhu. It was able to sustain and even improve the brand image of Hyderabad. But at the same time, KCR has become inaccessible to the common man and has been ruling from his fort-like bungalow, a character of typical feudal lord,” Murthy said.All India Congress Committee official spokesman Dasoju Sravan said there was no doubt that TRS had played a big role in Telangana state becoming a reality, but there were various other factors that led to the formation of the state. “It was Sonia Gandhi who should be thanked for granting statehood to Telangana, as she understood the aspirations of the people,” he said.Sravan said after coming to power, KCR failed to ensure a sustainable development of the state due to his lopsided priorities. “The state had plunged into a debt trap, corruption is all pervading and unemployment has reached its peak due to autocratic governance of the TRS chief,” he alleged.Former Bharatiya Janata Party Telangana unit president and party’s national president of OBC Morcha Dr K Laxman said the TRS had lost its character of an organisation that led a massive movement before 2014 and had turned into a typical autocratic regional party dominated by a single family of KCR.“The aspirations of the people who took part in the movement have not been fulfilled after the TRS came to power. They continue to suffer as they were during the combined Andhra regime,” he observed.The TRS has also earned the notoriety of being a family party with KCR’s son K T Rama Rao, daughter K Kavitha and nephews T Harish Rao and J Santosh Kumar dominating the party and the government. “Nobody dares to question KCR’s authority and those who raised any voice like former health minister Eatala Rajender, they would be hounded out,” political analyst Suresh Dharur said.As of now, the TRS has been more or less an invincible and formidable political party in Telangana, except for an occasional setback as had happened in 2019 general elections in which the BJP won four Lok Sabha seats and Congress three.“The TRS has been able to win the elections due to lack of strong opposition. There is no powerful leader who can match up to the stature of KCR,” Dharur observed.It would be interesting to see whether the Telangana Congress under the leadership of firebrand leader A Revanth Reddy and the BJP led by MP Bandi Sanjay could emerge as a potential alternative to the TRS in the next elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chronicling-political-journey-of-trs-spanning-2-decades-101635101102080.html
25-10-2021||India||CIAL to commission its 1st hydropower project||Cochin International Airport Ltd (CIAL) is venturing into hydropower production, and its first plant will be commissioned by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Kozhikode district on November 6, the authorities said on Sunday. The CIAL, the country’s first fully solar-powered airport, said it is expecting an annual power generation of 14 million units through the plant, which will be constructed at Arippara near Kozhikode, and it will be handed to the state electricity board grid in November first week. “Despite the pandemic threat, we completed the project in the estimated time. We are sure that this will impart further momentum to set up projects across the state, which has 44 rivers and numerous streams,” said the managing director of the CIAL S Suhas. “The potential of renewable energy is immense. If we use our technological expertise we can set up joint ventures to harness the light of the Sun, the power of the wind, and the strength of rushing streams to create a better future’’ he said. The project was awarded to the CIAL by the state power department under the build, own, operate & transfer small hydropower policy for 30 years. The project came across the Iruvazhinji river without disturbing the fragile eco-system, the CIAL said in a statement. The CIAL also said it purchased five acres of land from 32 residents after giving them enough compensation, and the total project cost was ₹52 crores. The powerhouse will generate around 108,000 units a day during peak flow days, and it is estimated that the plant can be operational in full capacity for 130 days in a year. Annual power generation is estimated at 14 million units, said CIAL adding that it is its largest project after achieving power neutrality in 2015. Being a river project, it works on limited storage of water without affecting the natural downward flow, causing no adverse effect on the environment, CIAL said. The CIAL received the UN’s prestigious Champion of the Earth Prize for going carbon neutral three years ago. In January this year, it also commissioned the biggest floating solar power plant with a capacity of 452 KWh. The installed capacity of the world’s first airport fully powered by solar energy now stands at 40 MWp, producing 160,000 units a day against its requirement of 130,000 units. It also introduced cost-effective high-density polyethene floats using French technology, upon which 1300 photovoltaic panels were mounted. These panels were laid over two artificial lakes located in the 130-acre golf course of the airport, covering one acre and connected to the state’s power grid. One of the fastest-growing airports in 2091-20 the turnover of the CIAL was ₹655 crores and profile was ₹204 crores after tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cial-to-commission-its-1st-hydropower-project-101635101042584.html
25-10-2021||India||Forest department seizes whale bones from Mavunkal’s Kochi hideout||The Kerala Forest Department on Sunday seized whale bones from one of the hideouts of arrested self-styled antique collector Monson Mavunkal in Kochi. Forest team raided his hideout based on a tip-off and recovered suspected whale bones and sent them for examination. Officials found that bones were shifted from his house in Kochi soon after his arrest. Earlier, two ivory tusks obtained from the house were found fake after examination so this time officials are tight-lipped. The ivory tusks were found to have been made of grated powder of cattle horns obtained from meat shops. “We have seized two big suspected whale bones and sent them for examination. If they are real bones we will book him under the Wildlife Protection Act. We will start our investigation once the result is out,” said forest flying squad inspector K G Anwar. Whales are protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act and possession and trade of any of their by-products is punishable in the country. Meanwhile, a case under the Protection of Children from Offences of Sexual Act (Pocso) was registered against Mavunkal’s former make-up man P Joshy. In her complaint a 19-year-old girl said besides Mavunkal she was also sexually exploited by his make-up artist several times. The victim said she was 17 when the assault took place and based on her statement the special investigation team registered a case under Pocso. Joshi was arrested on Saturday and sent to the judicial custody later. The SIT had earlier slapped Pocso case on Mavunkal after the girl complained that she sexually assaulted at his house. In the complaint filed at the Ernakulam North police station, the mother of the girl said she was sexually assaulted while she was 17 and they were scared to approach the police. During investigation she named the make-up man. Mavunkal was arrested on September 26 after five businessmen approached chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office complaining that they were cheated by him of ₹10 crore by promising shares in the upcoming international antique museums in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. Later several other businessmen filed similar cheating complaints against him and the government constituted a special investigation team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-department-seizes-whale-bones-from-mavunkal-s-kochi-hideout-101635100982517.html
25-10-2021||India||Hearts cannot be won by undermining J&K status: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah on Sunday expressed surprise over Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement that Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood would be restored after assembly elections.He said “urges and aspirations of people have to be satiated for lasting peace” in the Union territory.Abdullah expressed surprise over the logic being advanced by the central leadership that the statehood will be restored after completion of the delimitation of constituencies and holding of elections.“It is strange,” he said and recalled the all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few months ago in which he took up these issues.“Modi had at that point of time asserted that the gap between New Delhi and J-K would have to be bridged by winning over the hearts… Hearts cannot be won by undermining the status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was bifurcated and then downgraded,” the NC leader said while addressing a public meeting at Mendhar in Poonch district.Defending the BJP-led NDA government’s decision to revoke Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, Shah had on Saturday said August 5, 2019 was written in golden letters in the history of Kashmir.He had reiterated that elections would be held in J-K after the delimitation exercise to be followed by restoration of statehood.“Elections will happen. (Politicians from Kashmir want that the) Delimitation be stopped. Why? Because it hurts their politics. Now, such things will not stop in Kashmir.“The youth of Kashmir will get opportunities, so a right delimitation will be done, which will be followed by elections and then the status of the statehood will be restored. I have said this in the country’s Parliament and this is the roadmap,” Shah had said.Abdullah further said it must have happened for the first time that a state is transformed and downgraded as a Union territory.“The urges and aspirations of the people have to be satiated for lasting peace,” he underlined.Pitching for India-Pakistan dialogue, the NC president said peace in the region will remain elusive unless a conducive atmosphere is made for talks between the two neighboring countries.He also decried attempts of dividing the society for political gains and said this is not good for the unity of the country and integration of people.“The nation cannot afford to get fragmented into bits and pieces on the basis of religion. Elections were not to be fought on religion, as these provide an opportunity to put in place responsive governments which serve the people in terms of development and economic emancipation,” he said.The former chief minister expressed grave concern over loss of life, and damage to standing crops and orchards due to heavy downpour, hailstorm and stormy winds across Jammu and Kashmir.Abdullah, who is on a four-day visit to Jammu Province, also sought an exhaustive assessment by expert panels on the damage caused, saying preliminary relief in terms of financial assistance should be provided to the affected till the assessment is completed.He also sought immediate release of compensation to the next of kin of those killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hearts-cannot-be-won-by-undermining-j-k-status-farooq-abdullah-101635100925260.html
25-10-2021||India||Kerala CM asks Tamil Nadu to draw maximum water from Mullaperiyar||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday requested his Tamil Nadu counterpart M K Stalin to ensure that maximum quantity of water is drawn from Mullaperiyar dam as the reservoir level may reach 142 ft once the torrential rains intensify.Vijayan, in a letter written to the Tamil Nadu chief minister, stated that at 4 PM, the inflow to Mullaperiyar dam was 2109 c/s and the discharge level was at 1750 c/s.“At present there is a net inflow of around 2,109 cusecs accumulating in the reservoir even after the diversion from Tamil Nadu side. With the current inflow it is feared that the reservoir level may reach 142 ft once the torrential rain intensifies. Hence, there would arise an urgent need for the gradual release of water from Mullaperiyar dam through the tunnel to Tamil Nadu,” Vijayan said in his letter.Vijayan sought Stalin’s timely intervention in the matter and requested him to give immediate directions to the authorities concerned to ensure that maximum quantity of water is drawn from Mullaperiyar Dam through the tunnel to Vaigai Dam and to gradually release the water downstream.He also requested to intimate the Kerala government about the opening of the shutters at least 24 hours in advance in order to take precautionary measures for ensuring the safety of the people living downstream of the dam.In the letter, Vijayan also pointed out that when the water level reached 133.45 ft on October 18, the Kerala state Chief Secretary and other officials held meetings to ensure safety and security of the people.Meanwhile, the NDRF has conducted awareness classes among the people living downstream Mullaperiyar dam and along the banks of Periyar river.As per the latest report in the afternoon, the water level at Mullaperiyar was at 136.85 ft.Kerala was ravaged by heavy rains it received during October 15 and 16 resulting in widespread damage to property and life in south central districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-asks-tamil-nadu-to-draw-maximum-water-from-mullaperiyar-101635100922105.html
25-10-2021||India||Two more killed as Kashmir records heavy snowfall||Two persons died and two were rescued on Sunday after the vehicles they were travelling in got stranded in snow on Sinthan Pass in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, taking the death toll due to inclement weather to five. Police identified the two deceased as Imtiyaz Ahmad and Dawood Majeed, residents of Kishtwar. “The duo was driver and conductor of a vegetable vehicle. They got stuck in snowfall,” said a police official.The rescued persons are Amir Ahmad and Sajad Ahmad, both residents of Kishtwar were treated for hypothermia and shock. “They have been sent to their homes,” police control room Anantnag informed. Deputy Commissioner Anantnag, Piyush Singla said that a rescue operation was launched by administration, police, army and SDRF during the night after learning about stranded persons and vehicles at Sinthan Pass at Kokernag. “Two vehicles were stuck along with four persons. We were trying to rescue them during the day but we had no contact. We could only contact one of them in the late evening,” Singla said.“The snowfall was heavy and we pushed men and machinery including excavators and JCB to clear the road. We also took the help of army. In the morning at around 5, the teams were able to rescue two of them while unfortunately the other two lost their lives,’ he said.On Saturday, three persons putting up in tents at Awantipora had died after a soil embankment had collapsed due to heavy rains in Pulwama district. The three belonged to nomad community from Jammu’s Rajouri district.The weather, however, cleared in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday with no major rain or snowfall in the region after heavy rains and snowfall on Friday and Saturday.The Srinagar - Jammu national highway was closed for the second day for fresh traffic. However, the authorities said that stranded vehicles were allowed to move after the road was cleared of the blockades.“The work on the road is going on while stranded vehicles are slowly allowed to move. The road will open for traffic on Monday if weather continues to improve,” an official of traffic control room said.Director meteorological department in J&K Sonam Lotus said that the weather outlook for the next 10 days is mainly dry. “Light rain or snow may occur at isolated places during November 1-2, although chances are less,” he saidThe union territory was under the influence of a western disturbance since Friday evening bringing heavy rains and snowfall in the region, according to the weather department officials. Weather office said that the spell brought record rainfall in many parts of the region.The summer capital Srinagar’s observatory of the meteorological department recorded a cumulative rainfall of 66 mm on Friday and Saturday. “The previous extreme rainfall record for the month of October in Srinagar was 65.4 mm in 1966,” said deputy director MeT Mukhtar Ahmad.The mountainous resort of Pahalgam received 111 mm rains during the two days against 67. 2 mm record in October, 1982. In Jammu, Katra recorded 124.5 mm rains breaking the record of 92.2 mm in the October of 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-killed-as-kashmir-records-heavy-snowfall-101635100802531.html
25-10-2021||India||Success of vaccination drive shows India’s capability: PM Modi||The success of India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive has showed that the country was moving ahead with new energy after administering 1 billion doses earlier this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on his monthly radio broadcast on Sunday.“Our health workers, through their tireless efforts, resolve and determination, set a new example,” the Prime Minister said in the 82nd edition of Mann Ki Baat. “I knew that they would leave no stone unturned in vaccinating people. After administering 100 crore vaccine doses, the country is moving ahead with new energy and enthusiasm.”“The success of our vaccine programme displays India’s capability and the strength of the sabka prayas (collective effort) mantra,” he said. On October 21, India achieved a milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed i billion. India has given a befitting reply to those who questioned its ability to inoculate its population against the deadly virus, Modi said. He also spoke about the use of latest technology such as drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles. He cited the examples of Manipur, where vaccines were delivered via a drone to an island, and Telangana, where trials are underway to deliver the jabs in a similar way. “Earlier, there were so many rules, laws and restrictions in this sector that it was not possible to unlock the real capabilities of a drone,” Modi said. “The technology that should have been seen as an opportunity was seen as a crisis.”Drones are now being used for various purposes, from spraying fertiliser on crops to preparing digital records of lands, and monitoring law and order, he said. “We have to become a leading country in drone technology. Many companies are setting up manufacturing units. The Army, Navy and Air Force have also placed orders worth more than ₹500 crore with Indian drone companies,” Modi said. Speaking about Amrit Mahotsav, Modi said the culture ministry is set to conduct a competition on patriotic songs to mark the celebration of 75 years of India’s Independence. He urged the country’s youth to pen songs that reflect thoughts of a new India that would fuel the country’s resolve for the future.“It is essential that these creations reflect the thought of new India, inspired by the current success of the country; it should be such that it fuels the country’s resolve for the future,” he said. Noting that lullabies also have their own diversity, the Prime Minister called on reviving the art and said the ministry has decided to organise a competition related to it after receiving suggestions from listeners. “In these lullabies, there should be reference to modern India, the vision of 21st century India and its dreams,” Modi said.The ministry will also conduct a Rangoli contest to mark the Amrit Mahotsav that would see people draw Rangolis related to the freedom movement, he said. Noting that October 31 is the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the Prime Minister paid tributes to the freedom fighter and independent India’s first home minister. “Sardar Patel used to say that we can take the nation to new heights if we are united. With national unity, the nation has stature and development,” he said. “We can learn a lot from the life and thoughts of Sardar Patel.”Lauding the increase in the number of women joining police, Modi said it has doubled between 2014 and 2020. He expressed hope that they will lead “new-age policing” in the future.Amid the festive season, Modi urged people to promote locally manufactured items. “If you buy local, then your festival will also be illuminated and the house of a poor brother or sister, an artisan, or a weaver will also be lit up,” the Prime Minister said. “I am sure that the campaign which we all have started together will be stronger this time during the festivals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-success-of-covid-vaccination-drive-shows-india-s-capability-says-modi-101635100682457.html
25-10-2021||India||Lalu attacks Cong, returns to Bihar ahead of bypolls||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad attacked the Congress on Sunday, saying if the RJD had left an assembly bypoll seat in the state for the Congress, the latter could lose even its deposit.Prasad, who returned to Patna after three-and-a-half years, asserted that he will campaign for the upcoming bypolls to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats.  Earlier in April, the Jharkhand high court granted him bail in one of the fodder scam cases.Asked about a virtual breakup of the Congress-RJD alliance in the bypolls, Prasad said: “Kya hota hai Congress ka gathbandhan? (What is this thing about an alliance with the Congress).” “Should we have given one seat (to Congress) for it to lose? So that it could lose even its deposit?” he told the media ahead of his departure, in New Delhi.The RJD chief also mocked Congress leader Bhakta Charan Das, the Congress’s in-charge for Bihar, who recently accused the RJD of having a secret understanding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Does he (Das) know anything,” Prasad asked.He also played down the reported rift between his two sons -- Tej Pratap and Tejashwi -- asserting that “there is no difference between the duo. Both are my sons”.Responding to the comment, Das said: “Lalu Prasad is a big leader and I have always had great respect for him. But I am not capable of responding to his remarks on me the way he has made it.”Talking over the phone in the midst of campaigning for the Tarapur assembly constituency, Das said Prasad had been the voice of Dalits and deprived sections for decades. “And the culture of Congress and sanskar of the Gandhi family prohibits me to reply to the comments of Prasad,” he added.Prasad has been receiving treatment in the national capital after he was relieved from the AIIMS.Late on Friday, Prasad returned to a rousing welcome by his family and party workers at the Patna airport.Posters and banners were put up across the city to welcome the RJD chief, who drove straight from the airport to his 10 Circular residence.Meanwhile, the Congress senior leaders including MLC Premchand Mishra have strongly objected to Prasad’s bid to mock the party’s state in-charge saying it does not behove of a veteran and tall leader like the RJD chief to use such derogatory words against a Congress senior leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-attacks-cong-returns-to-bihar-ahead-of-bypolls-101635100444239.html
25-10-2021||India||In a month, Sansad TV gets 6mn subscribers||Parliament’s new channel Sansad TV, launched last month, has already reached 6 million subscribers, chief executive officer Ravi Capoor said on Sunday.“It’s not about TRPs for the channel,” Capoor said. “Its a no shrill, no noise channel. Its about drawing cerebral, intelligent viewers back to TV.”The channel, formed by merging the Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV, airs a wide range of shows from fortnightly programmes about the history of India to panels that analyse House committee reports.During the upcoming winter session, Sansad TV will have two channels so that the proceedings of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha could be aired simultaneously.Meanwhile, Capoor said that the administration was focusing on expanding its content base. “Bibek Debroy does a programme called Itihaas, while Dr Karan Singh is doing a programme on what different faiths preach called Ekam Sat,” Capoor said. “The draw of Sansad TV is that experts are the anchors.”The channel also has shows dedicated to familiarizing the public with the members of Parliament, while opposition MPs such as Congress’ Shashi Tharoor and Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi also have their own interview segments. The channel also does shows on international policy, such as Diplomatic Dispatch and broadcasts iconic international speeches.The channel is also expected to rationalise the expenditure and assets of the two channels. At present, it has a work force of over 280 people, as compared to the earlier combined strength of nearly 600.“The operating cost has already been reduced by 25% in a month since its complete launch,” Capoor said.Capoor said that the channel was completed after a study of how international Parliamentary channels work. “Our learning was that while the channel should be rooted in Parliament, there should also be other content,” he said. “Our focus remains on how to straighten democracy and we are moulding content around that.”Sansad TV is also bilingual, and telecasts content in both English and Hindi. “We ideated and found that while we can’t telecast live proceedings of the standing committees, we can always analyze the reports that have been tabled to give the viewers a better sense of what is happening,” Capoor said.Though the channel has a dedicated news section, Capoor stressed that its purpose was not to “sell news”. “There is a small round of the news of the day in the morning and in the afternoon,” he said.Whether the new channel will fall under the jurisdiction of the Rajya Sabha or the Lok Sabha still remains to be decided. “We are looking at the structuring that needs to be done,” the TV chief said. “Right now, we’ve reached about six hours of programming, we are aiming to make that eight hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sansad-tv-reaches-6-million-subscribers-ceo-says-want-it-to-be-a-cerebral-channel-for-intelligent-viewing-101635100202463.html
25-10-2021||India||20 ITBP troopers get gallantry medals for role in LAC defence||Union minister of state for home affairs, Nityanand Rai pinned the gallantry medals earned by 20 Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) personnel for their bravery during the violent clashes and ongoing standoff with Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) last year, during the 60th raising day celebrations of the force on Sunday. Rai, who was the chief guest at the event, said the ITBP is working with dedication, utmost devotion and highest order of professionalism even in the uncongenial and inhospitable weather conditions on the mountainous borders of the nation. He said that he himself went to the forward posts of ITBP and experienced how the Himveers are discharging their duties with high morale. The medals for 20 men were announced on the eve of the Independence Day on August 14 this year. Out of the 20 ITBP personnel, eight personnel have been awarded the police medal for gallantry (PMG) for their gallant act, meticulous planning and tactical insightfulness and for defending the motherland in Galwan Nalla on June 15 last year, an ITBP spokesperson said on Sunday. Six ITBP personnel have been awarded with the PMG for gallant action during violent face-off on May 18 in the Finger IV area while the rest six have been decorated with the same medal for their gallant action near Hot Springs in Ladakh on the same day (August 14), the ITBP had said in August. India and China have been locked in a border standoff for 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to reduce tensions. The brutal clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year, which saw troops from both sides fighting each other for several hours with rocks, rods and clubs covered with barbed wire, resulted in the first fatalities on the LAC in 45 years. The Indian side lost 20 soldiers while China did not acknowledge casualties on its side till February this year when it admitted the death of four soldiers.Deputy Inspector General (veterinary) Sudhakar Natarajan was also decorated on Sunday with the police medal for meritorious service during the event for rendering exceptional service in the animal transport wing of the force, the lifeline for ensuring rations and logistics to its mountainous border deployments. Natarajan, who joined the ITBP in 1992, is credited with introducing the first batch of Belgian Malinois infantry patrol dogs in the ITBP, which was followed by all other Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF).In eastern Ladakh, the ITBP troops not only effectively used shields to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to Chinese PLA advancing troops and brought the situation under control during fierce face offs and skirmishes, the ITBP said in August. “With highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder-to-shoulder and also brought the injured (Army) troops to the rear. Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA,” the ITBP said. At certain places, it said, they gave a determined standoff for about 17-20 hours throughout the intervening night (June 15-16) in extremely challenging conditions. “Due to the high-altitude training and survival experience of the force at the icy Himalayan deployments, ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay and due to the all out and befitting response of ITBP troops at several fronts, many areas were safeguarded. The ITBP troops showed highest level of devotion, courage, determination, utter disregard to personal safety even in injured condition and exhibited great professional skills in the face of violent physical scuffle with the PLA,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-itbp-troopers-get-gallantry-medals-for-role-in-lac-defence-101635099724029.html
25-10-2021||India||Will not let terror stop J&K’s progress: Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the Centre aimed to wipe out terrorism from Jammu and Kashmir and put an end to killings of civilians, and added that nobody will be allowed to disrupt peace and development in the Union territory.Shah is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, his first after the Centre revoked the erstwhile state’s special status and split it into two UTs – J&K and Ladakh – on August 5, 2019.He said the “discriminatory” Article 370 was scrapped because of the personal efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fulfil the dream of Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee. Shah added that the development of the region had a place in the Prime Minister’s heart.Without naming the Abdullahs, Muftis and Gandhis, Shah took a swipe at the “three families” for all the ills plaguing Jammu and Kashmir and said that a new era of development was ushered in with the nullification of articles 370 and 35-A.Shah sent a clear warning to terrorists and Pakistan proxies by saying that “any attempt to vitiate peace and scuttle development won’t be tolerated”.Shah expressed regret over the loss of lives due to Pak-sponsored terrorism in the Union territory but added that violence has come down drastically ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power. “But we want to create such an atmosphere where not a single life is lost to terrorism,” he said.In a reference to the killing of 11 civilians by terrorists in targeted attacks across Jammu and Kashmir this month, he said some people are raising questions about the prevailing security situation in the UT but “I want to answer them with facts and figures”. “Between 2004 and 2014, a total of 2,081 civilians were killed with average deaths of 239 annually. From 2014 till September this year, 239 civilians unfortunately lost their lives which accounted 30 deaths per year. The figures are down but we are not satisfied,” the home minister said.“Jammu and Kashmir is placed in the heart of the prime minister and under his government, there will be no injustice, discrimination or appeasement,” he said.Shah later visited the International Border (IB) in Jammu on Sunday evening and lauded the bravery of soldiers guarding India’s frontiers. He interacted with BSF jawans and said they should protect the country without any worry as the government led by PM Modi will take care of their families. The home minister also visited the last border hamlet of Makwal and told residents that the Modi government is committed to providing every facility and ensuring development in the border areas.On his maiden visit to Jammu following the August 5 move in 2019, Shah started his speech at the JDA ground in Bhagwati Nagar with “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” slogans. “I have come here to meet the people of Jammu. I was tensed if the Jammu rally could be held due to inclement weather but see the blessings of Mata Vaishno Devi, the weather has cleared up,” he said.The time for sidelining the people of Jammu has come to an end and now both Kashmir and Jammu will be developed together, he said.Shah invoked the late Pandit Prem Nath Dogra (a Dogra leader who was for the full integration of J&K with India) to strike a chord with the crowd. “Today is the birth anniversary of Pandit Prem Nath Dogra. He worked along with Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who had given the slogan of ‘ek nishan, ek vidhan’. Jammu had been discriminated against for years together but not anymore. Now, there shall be equitable development of Jammu and Kashmir because an era of development under the Modi government has started,” Shah said.“From the land of Mata Vaishno Devi, of Pandit Prem Nath Dogra and the land where Syama Prasad Mookerjee sacrificed his life, I assure you that we will not allow anyone to sabotage the scuttle this journey of development of Jammu and Kashmir.”Shah also pointed fingers at the Abdullahs, Muftis and the Gandhis by making several references to the “three families”. “These three families were raising questions about what I would give to the people. May I ask them that you ruled for so long and what have you done for 70 years?” he said. “These families owe an explanation to the people of J&K. For 70 years, these three families did nothing for the people except for their personal gains but their dadagiri won’t work anymore.”Shah said the BJP did better than everyone else. “Article 370 was revoked by PM Modi and justice was done to all, including Valmikis, Paharis, West Pakistan refugees, women, Gujjars and Bakkarrwals. We brought laws, including forest rights law to do justice with all sections of the society,” he said.Saying that the BJP government headed by PM Modi has accorded top priority to Jammu and Kashmir, he said: “We don’t want any house in J&K to be without LPG, electricity and water. We have given 25,000 jobs to the youth recently and today alone 7,000 jobs have been given to youth from this podium.”Shah said that the new industrial policy of the BJP government was mocked by the “three families”. “But an investment of ₹12,000 crore was already in and by 2022 another investment of ₹51,000 crore will be in. At least five lakh youth will get jobs out of it,” he added.The home minister informed the audience that on a single day and from the podium of Bhagwati Nagar ground, he announced developmental works worth over ₹15,000 crore for Jammu.He also informed that the Modi government has initiated ₹35,000 crore worth of power projects in the UT of which some will be commissioned soon.National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah expressed surprise over Shah’s statement that Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood will be restored after assembly elections. He said “urges and aspirations of people have to be satiated for lasting peace” in the UT. Abdullah expressed surprise over the logic being advanced by the central leadership that the statehood will be restored after completion of the delimitation of constituencies and holding of elections.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that “repression” is the only method of the Centre to deal with the Jammu and Kashmir situation.“Even after turning Kashmir into an open-air prison, Bipin Rawat’s statement comes as no surprise because repression is GOIs only method to deal with the situation in J&K. It also contradicts their official narrative that all is well here,” Mufti said in a tweet reacting to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat’s statement over warning of further curbs in Kashmir.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-let-terror-stop-j-k-s-progressshah-101635099721898.html
25-10-2021||India||PLA to govern border areas under new law||China enacted a new law on Saturday on its land borders amid a military standoff along the disputed boundary with India, saying that its sovereignty and territorial integrity were “sacred and inviolable”, a remark likely to impact the ongoing row with New Delhi.The legislation, the first such law since new China was formed in 1949, combines military defence of China’s land borders with improving social and economic development in border areas.It strengthens a policy of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to work closely with civilians staying in border areas, such as villagers in its Tibet autonomous region living along the border with India, Bhutan and Nepal, to work as the first line of defence.India and China have been locked in a border row for 17 months, a phase that saw a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15, 2020, when troops from both sides engaged each other for hours. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clash, the first fatalities on the Line of Actual Control since 1975; four Chinese soldiers were killed and one injured.Long-standing border disputes should be resolved through negotiations, the new law enjoins, according to Chinese official media.China’s parliament, the National People’s Congress (NPC) on Saturday voted to adopt the “…new law on the protection and exploitation of the country’s land border areas, which will take effect on January 1, 2022”, Xinhua news agency reported.The law will now govern how China guards its 22,000km land border with 14 countries, including Russia, nuclear-capable North Korea and Mongolia, besides India and Bhutan, two countries with which Beijing has border disputes.Last week, Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh have “seriously disturbed” the peace and tranquillity in border areas, and this has obviously had an impact on the broader relationship too. The foreign secretary, in his remarks at a seminar on “Leveraging China’s Economy” on October 21, also referred to external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s remarks that the ability of India and China to work together will determine the Asian century.The state, the law says “shall take measures to safeguard territorial integrity and land boundaries and guard against and combat any act that undermines territorial sovereignty and land boundaries”.The law, which has 62 articles, stipulates that the state shall take measures to “…strengthen border defence, support economic and social development as well as opening-up in border areas, improve public services and infrastructure in such areas, encourage and support people’s life and work there, and promote coordination between border defence and social, economic development in border areas”.The law “stipulates the relevant responsibilities” of the PLA, the armed militia, and local governments to support and coordinate border defence and management of areas at the border and the building of border infrastructure.“Under the leadership of the Central Military Commission, relevant military organs shall organise, guide and coordinate the defence and control of land borders, maintain social stability, handle emergencies and cooperate in border defence and other related work,” Article 7 of the law says.The law laid out that the state has to nurture border towns and improve their overall “supporting capacity”.China has built hundreds of border villages – by some counts more than 600 – across the country’s borders in the Tibet autonomous region.“The State supports the construction of border towns, improves the system of border towns, improves the functions of border towns and strengthens the construction of supporting capacity,” Article 43 of the law says.On the issue of resolving border disputes, the law says: “The state shall, following the principle of equality, mutual trust, and friendly consultation, handle land border related affairs with neighbouring countries through negotiations to properly resolve disputes and longstanding border issues.”The land border law establishes a standardised legal framework for managing China’s land border affairs, Gao Jinlu, from the foreign affairs committee of the NPC, was quoted as saying by state media.President Xi Jinping signed orders to promulgate the law.Li Zhanshu, chairman of the NPC Standing Committee, presided over the closing meeting of the 31st session of the 13th NPC Standing Committee, which ran from Tuesday to Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-to-govern-border-areas-under-new-law-101635099602816.html
25-10-2021||India||Facebook struggles with hate speech, celebrations of violence in India: Report||Facebook’s internal documents show “a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence” in India, with researchers at the social media giant pointing out that there are groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on its platform, a US media report has said. In February 2019, a Facebook researcher created an account to look into what the social media website will look like for a person living in Kerala, the New York Times reported on Saturday. “For the next three weeks, the account operated by a simple rule: Follow all the recommendations generated by Facebook’s algorithms to join groups, watch videos and explore new pages on the site. The result was an inundation of hate speech, misinformation and celebrations of violence, which were documented in an internal Facebook report published later that month,” the US newspaper said in its report. “Internal documents show a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence in the country, the company’s biggest market,” said the report based on disclosures obtained by a consortium of news organisations, including the New York Times and the Associated Press news agency. The documents are part of the material collected by data engineer and whistleblower Frances Haugen, a former Facebook employee who recently testified before the US Senate about the company and its social media platforms. The internal documents include details on how bots and fake accounts tied to the “country’s ruling party and opposition figures” were wreaking havoc on India’s national elections, the report said. In a separate report produced after the 2019 national elections, Facebook found that “over 40 per cent of top views, or impressions, in the Indian state of West Bengal were fake/inauthentic”, the newspaper reported. One inauthentic account had amassed more than 30 million impressions. In an internal document – titled Adversarial Harmful Networks: India Case Study – Facebook researchers wrote that there were groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on the social media platform. The documents also detail how a plan “championed” by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to focus on “meaningful social interactions” was leading to more misinformation in India, particularly during the pandemic. Another Facebook report detailed efforts by Bajrang Dal to publish posts containing anti-Muslim narratives on the platform. “Facebook is considering designating the group as a dangerous organisation because it is “inciting religious violence” on the platform, the document showed. But it has not yet done so,” the New York Times report said. The documents showed that Facebook did not have enough resources in India and was not able to grapple with the problems it had introduced there, including anti-Muslim posts.“This exploratory effort of one hypothetical test account inspired deeper, more rigorous analysis of our recommendation systems, and contributed to product changes to improve them,” A Facebook India spokesperson said. “Product changes from subsequent, more rigorous research included things like the removal of borderline content and civic and political groups from our recommendation systems.”The company has strengthened its hate classifiers to include four Indian languages, the spokesperson said.The company has reduced the amount of hate speech that people see by half this year, the spokesperson said. “We’ve invested significantly in technology to find hate speech in various languages, including Hindi and Bengali. As a result, we’ve reduced the amount of hate speech that people see by half this year. Today, it’s down to 0.05%. Hate speech against marginalized groups, including Muslims, is on the rise globally. So we are improving enforcement and are committed to updating our policies as hate speech evolves online.”After India’s national elections had begun, “Facebook put in place a series of steps to stem the flow of misinformation and hate speech in the country,” according to an internal document called Indian Election Case Study, the New York Times reported. “The case study painted an optimistic picture of Facebook’s efforts, including adding more fact-checking partners — the third-party network of outlets with which Facebook works to outsource fact-checking — and increasing the amount of misinformation it removed,” the report said. “The study did not note the immense problem the company faced with bots in India, nor issues like voter suppression. During the election, Facebook saw a spike in bots – or fake accounts – linked to various political groups, as well as efforts to spread misinformation that could have affected people’s understanding of the voting process.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-struggles-with-hate-speech-celebrations-of-violence-in-india-us-report-101635099544970.html
25-10-2021||India||Modi to travel to Europe for G20, UN climate meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will travel to Italy and the UK between October 29 and November 2 to attend the G20 summit in Rome and the world leaders’ summit at the United Nations climate conference in Glasgow.He will be attending the G20 group of countries on October 30-31 at the invitation of Mario Draghi, his Italian counterpart. Other heads of nations of the world’s top economies are also expected to participate. This is the eighth time that Modi will attend the G20 summit, which has emerged as the main global forum for international economic cooperation. India will host the summit in 2023 for the first time.The summit under Italian presidency will focus on recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic and strengthening global health governance, economic recovery and resilience, climate change and energy transition, and sustainable development and food security.Modi will hold several bilateral meetings in Rome, including with Draghi.From Rome, Modi will travel to Glasgow to attend the World Leaders Summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at the invitation of his British counterpart Boris Johnson.COP26 is being held between October 31 and November 12 under the presidency of the UK partnering with Italy. The high-level segment of COP26, known as the world leaders’ summit, will be held on November 1-2. More than 120 heads of state are expected to attend. COP 26 was scheduled to be held in 2020, but was deferred because of the pandemic.“The UNFCCC embodies the global will and vision to combat climate change. The periodic Conference of Parties to this Convention have emerged as global climate summits, providing an opportunity for stocktaking and for charting the way forward,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.Modi last attended the UN climate summit in 2015, when resulted in the historic Paris Agreement, whose implementation begins this year. At COP26, nations are expected to issue guidelines to implement the Paris pact, and agree on mobilising climate finance, actions to strengthen climate adaptation, technology development and transfer, and trying to reach the Paris Agreement goal of limiting the rise in global temperatures.Modi will hold several bilateral meetings on the sidelines of COP26, including with Johnson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-travel-to-europe-for-g20-un-climate-meet-101635099424057.html
25-10-2021||India||A classroom and a nursery of new democracy||The government primary high school in Himachal Pradesh’s Kalpa village is a charming three-room wooden structure ringed by the Kailash mountain ranges on one side and an ancient monastery on the other. Built by the British in 1890, the school is perched atop a small hill and its 67 students have to trudge through mounds of snow in winter up a cobbled path to reach the classroom.But this unassuming building hides a storied history. Its classroom functioned as India’s first polling booth on the morning of October 25, 1951, in the newly independent country’s first national elections. It is here that Shyam Saran Negi, now 105, cast the country’s first ballot at 6.30am – the ballot box installed at the far end of the room, the presiding officer sitting on the teacher’s table and stacks of ballot paper piled up in a corner.“It was an unforgettable experience. It made me feel powerful because I realised the value of a vote,” said Negi, who has voted in 16 subsequent parliamentary elections.The village of Kalpa, then called Chini, went to the polls months ahead of the rest of the country because the remote village with roughly 60 families would get cut off by snowfall in early November. India’s first election commissioner, Sukumar Sen, was aware of this problem. He was keen to finish polling before it became impossible for election officials to trek up for six days from Rampur city, roughly 100km away.“Elections to these areas had to be arranged in a hurry before the snow-fall. It was just possible to complete the polling in these areas in time. Even then, it took about a week after the poll to transport the ballot boxes to the headquarters of the respective returning officers for the counting of votes,” Sen wrote in his election report.Holding an election at 10,000 feet was only of the many daunting challenges before Sen, who took over as election commissioner in March 1950, days after India officially became a republic and adopted a groundbreaking new Constitution that declared, among other things, that the country’s government will be elected by universal adult franchise.India had witnessed two previous elections, one in 1937 and another in 1946, but they had been conducted on restricted franchise, with roughly 20% of the adult population eligible to vote. Moreover, only 18% of the country was literate in 1951 – and the figure was in single digits in far-flung areas – and nowhere in the world had such a mammoth exercise been undertaken with so little prior experience.Yet, by all measures, the inaugural elections, held over 68 phases and four months, was a success.The Congress party won 364 of the 489 seats but opposition parties, independents and smaller groups garnered roughly half the cumulative votes. The introduction of symbols, indelible ink to prevent impersonation or double voting, and manufacture of ballot boxes, papers and seals on an industrial scale helped the exercise. The successful culmination of the election also belied the predictions of colonialists who warned that a large and poor country like India could never hold free and fair elections, or sustain democracy.“In the true spirit of democracy, the Constituent Assembly unhesitatingly adopted the principle of adult suffrage with full knowledge of the difficulties involved. This was indeed an act of faith – faith in the common man of India and in his practical common sense. This decision launched a great and fateful experiment unique in the world in its stupendousness and complexities,” Sen wrote after the completion of the election.Many things have changed in the past 70 years. The electorate has grown from 172 million to 911 million in 2019, the 68 phases have shrunk to seven, the turnout has swelled from 45% to 67% and the 489 seats in the first Lok Sabha polls have become 543.Still, many things remain unchanged. The Indian election continues to be the largest democratic exercise in the world, held at last count by 12 million officials across one million polling booths. Most of all, the unprecedented enthusiasm of people who had never voted before in 1951 is reflected in each new generation.“Even in a remote region like Kalpa, the elections were a festival that everyone wanted to participate in. It was a carnival, and it remains like that even today,” said VC Pharkha, former chief secretary of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-classroom-and-a-nursery-of-new-democracy-101635099246970.html
25-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence case: Ashish Mishra contracts dengue, hospitalised||Lucknow/Lakhimpur Kheri: Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, was shifted to the district hospital on Sunday after his blood sugar reached “critical level” and he was found infected with dengue as well, police said. “Ashish Mishra was sent to the district jail on Saturday evening itself for treatment at its healthcare facility after he was diagnosed with dengue. The illness has interrupted the investigation as the police were unable to continue with his cross -examination,” a member of the Investigation Committee probing the case said, on the condition of anonymity.Another police officer, requesting anonymity,said a panel of senior-most physicians from the district hospital, led by the chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailendra Bhatnagar, examined Ashish Mishra in the jail hospital on Sunday morning and referred him to the district hospital for treatment “under observation”. “The blood samples [of Ashish Mishra] collected Saturday night tested positive for dengue. His sugar levels were found to be critical. Some changes were also observed in the ECG. At the district hospital, a panel of doctors will attend him under six-hourly observation and subsequent follow-up will be made thereafter. Fresh [blood]samples have been sent to Lucknow for confirmation [of dengue],” the CMO said. The police official said Mishra, his friend Ankit Das, Das’ driver Shekhar Bharti and gunner Latif alias Kaale were taken on two-day custody for the second time since Friday. The police would seek the custody of Mishra again after his recovery, the official added. Ashish Mishra alias Monu is the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight people, including four farmers, a local journalist, a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were killed on October 3 after a convoy of vehicles allegedly led by Ashish Mishra rammed into a group of farmers returning from a protest against the three Central farm laws. A total of 13 arrests have been made in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-ashish-mishra-contracts-dengue-hospitalised-101635099246197.html
25-10-2021||India||UN climate conference: Reducing greenhouse gases India’s top priority||India is likely to reiterate its commitment of rapidly reducing greenhouse gas emissions at the United Nations climate conference to be held in Glasgow between October 31 and November 12, but may also insist that wealthy nations take stronger action to curtail emissions so that developing countries like India have room to grow. India has said it would install 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 and has internally announced that 30% of all private vehicles will run on electricity by that year. These could be reflected, among other measures, in an updated nationally determined contribution, environment ministry officials said at a select media briefing on Friday. Expectations of concrete action are high in the run up to this year’s climate summit as it could be the last change for the world to keep global warming to within 1.5 degrees Celsius compared with pre-industrial times, as was agreed upon in the landmark 2015 Paris Agreement, without compromising on growth in developing economies. India might even agree to net-zero emissions sometime after 2050. Net zero refers to the balance between the amount of greenhouse gas produced and the amount removed from the atmosphere. It entails reductions in the use of coal, oil and gas, and corresponding increase in carbon sequestration efforts like planting trees. “Net zero for a later date is on the platter as an option,” an environment ministry official said. However, the developed world should transition to net zero far earlier, say by 2030, leaving some carbon space for emerging economies like India, he said. “The decision will be taken at the highest level of the government, as it involves India’s growth trajectory,” the official said, requesting anonymity. India may decide on its final negotiation strategy on Wednesday during a meeting of the Union cabinet.As many as 130 countries have set or are considering a net-zero emissions target by mid-century, according to the United Nations. A net zero commitment by 2060 is under discussion in India, said the London-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, a non-profit. Many western nations such as France, the UK and Denmark, among others, will have net-zero emissions by 2050. Russia and China have also announced plans to be carbon neutral by 2060. Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, will reach zero-net emissions by 2060, it said on Saturday.India’s climate negotiators have held meetings with relevant ministries and on October 6 held consultations with non-government organisation working in the area of climate change. Many of these institutions have asked environment minister Bhupender Yadav that India should negotiate on the use of remaining carbon budget. Carbon space and its budgeting will be of highest importance for India, they said in their submissions reviewed by HT. Big emitters pledging net-zero emissions by 2050 or 2060 have no meaning unless the trajectory to get there is clear, according to economist Nitin Desai, chairman of the governing council at The Energy and Resources Institute, a New Delhi-based think tank. India should call on the developed world to become carbon negative or at least carbon neutral by 2030, Desai said. There is a need to highlight the carbon budget that is available to the world to meet the goal of 1.5 degrees Celsius, he said .  India may consider coining the concept of carbon tax on historical emissions by developed countries, according to Kirit Parikh, chairman of Integrated Research and Action for Development, a research foundation. He is of the view that India should call upon developed countries to adopt shorter timelines to become carbon neutral and highlight the importance of carbon space that remains available to the global community. By 2030, the US would have appropriated around 17.7% of the world’s total carbon budget, according to an analysis in Climate Change: Science and Politics, a book released by the Centre for Science and Environment, an advocacy organisation. China’s emissions will be between 29.5% of global emissions between 2012 and 2030, compared to 6.5% for India, the analysis revealed. “In this way, by 2030, over 80% to 100% of the available carbon budget will be occupied with hardly any room for India and African countries… Therefore, India and other developing countries must stake claim to the remaining carbon space,” the analysis showed. The remaining carbon space is of utmost importance and should be highlighted by India at the climate summit, said climate scientist T Jayaraman, senior fellow at the MS Swaminathan Research Foundation in Chennai, who was also part of the consultations. “India could consider supporting a global net zero by 2050, which is achieved in consonance with the principles of UNFCCC, particularly common but differentiated responsibilities and equity,” said Manjeev Singh Puri, former ambassador and lead climate change negotiator for India. “A timeline for peaking and then emissions reduction trajectory is a longer term issue for India, given its development imperatives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-climate-conference-reducing-greenhouse-gases-india-s-top-priority-101635099127340.html
25-10-2021||India||Shopian man killed in crossfire, say police; kin demand justice||A 20-year-old man was killed in crossfiring between terrorists and a CRPF party, in Shopian district of Jammu & Kashmir on Sunday, police said. The deceased’s family, however, dismissed the security forces’ statement and termed it a “targeted killing”.According to the police, Shahid Aijaz Rather was hit by bullets outside the camp of CRPF’s 178 battalion, at Babapora, Shopian.“Around 10:30 hrs unidentified terrorists attacked a Naka party of 178 Bn, CRPF at Babapora, Shopian. CRPF retaliated the fire and during crossfiring, one unidentified person got killed. Further details are being ascertained,” the Shopian district police said in a tweet.Block medical officer of Zainapora, Dr Khalid Abbas said the young man was brought dead to the hospital. “We are conducting his post mortem,” he said.The man sustained seven bullet injuries, including on the chest, heart and spleen, a medical official added.Rather’s brother Zubair Ahmad Rather, however, refuted the CRPF statement.“If he had been hit in cross firing then others with him would also have been hit. He was directly targeted. We want justice. Today it happened with us, tomorrow it will happen with others,” he told the media.Rather’s cousin and neighbour Adil Ahmad said he worked as a labourer and had gone to Shopian to pick apples. “He had been visiting Shopian for the past two days to pick apples. He was a Class 12 student... We came to know of his killing from social media. Everybody is in shock. His killing is an injustice.”Rather is survived by parents and four younger siblings, he added. “He was the eldest of his siblings and would do labour work to help his mason father to run the family expenses.”The killing has triggered condemnations from political leaders.People’s Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti accused armed forces of showing little restraint. “Another innocent civilian killed allegedly by CRPF in Shopian today. It’s sad that armed forces show little restraint & operate with such impunity. My heartfelt condolences to his family,” she said in a tweet.Srinagar mayor and youth president of Apni Party, Junaid Mattu said: “Strongly condemn the killing of a civilian, Shahid Aijaz at Zainapora, Shopian. My deepest condolences to his family. Allah (swt) jannat naseeb karey. Ameen”.National Conference vice president and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah, while reacting to the killing of the youth, said: “He was shot dead & his bag has no weapons or explosives, he’s carrying fruit & vegetables. This policy of ‘shoot first’ will further alienate people. This is no way to make friends with the people or the youth of Kashmir.”This is the second such death in Kashmir this month. On October 7, Parvaiz Ahmad Bokad, a tribal, was killed when CRPF opened fire on a vehicle, allegedly charging at a checkpoint at Monghal Bridge in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district.Police then said that the vehicle without a number plate was signalled to stop by CRPF’s Naka party, however, it instead sped towards the CRPF party, prompting the troops to open fire.Board’s family had protested his death and said he didn’t deserve to be killed irrespective of whether he jumped a naka (barricade) or not.The incident comes amid a heightened security environment in Jammu and Kashmir following suspected terrorists killing 11 civilians including non-locals and minorities this month. Home minister Amit Shah has been reviewing the security situation during his first visit to the Union Territory (UT) since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019 and splitting of the region into two UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shopian-man-killed-in-crossfire-say-police-kin-demand-justice-101635099126120.html
25-10-2021||India||Search team attacked in Poonch, LeT terrorist killed||An arrested member of terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was killed and three security personnel injured when terrorists opened fire on a search team of the army and police in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch on Sunday, officials familiar with the matter said.Police said that Zia Mustafa, an LeT terrorist from Pakistan, was taken to the Bhata Durian forest to identify the terrorist hideout. Security personnel have been carrying out a search operation for 14 days in Bhatta Durrian and the nearby forest areas of Surankote in Poonch and Thanamandi in Rajouri district to eliminate hiding terrorists. On October 14, terrorists killed a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) and three soldiers in the area. A total of nine personnel have died in the ongoing operation.“When the team approached the hideout, the terrorists opened fire, in which two policemen and an army jawan sustained injuries. Mustafa also sustained injuries and he could not be extracted from the site due to heavy firing,” the police said in an official statement.Officials said Mustafa, a resident of Rawalakot in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), was lodged in the Kot Bhalwal jail for the last 14 years and was shifted to Mendhar on police remand after investigation revealed his link with the hiding terrorists.“During the subsequent operation additional reinforcements were sent and the body of Mustafa has been retrieved from the encounter site,” a police official said, adding the operation, to neutralise the hiding terrorists, was in progress.The operation in the forest areas in the twin border districts began on October 11 when terrorists ambushed a search party killing five soldiers including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) in Surankote forest of Poonch before another gunfight in nearby Thanamandi on the same day. Drones and helicopters have been pressed into service to assist the marching troops, which includes para-commandos, in the jungle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/search-team-attacked-in-poonch-let-terrorist-killed-101635098946246.html
25-10-2021||India||Witness in Aryan case levels extortion charge, NCB denies||In a new disclosure on the drugs bust case involving Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, an independent witness has alleged an extortion racket, prompting a strong denial by the Narcotics Control Bureau.Prabhakar Sail, who claimed to have worked as a bodyguard of KP Gosavi, who was seen with drug enforcers in a raid on a cruise ship earlier this month, said in an affidavit that he was forced to sign blank papers on that night. Gosavi, one of the witnesses in the case, is on the run and police have issued a lookout notice on him.Sail allegedly heard Gosavi and another person discussing an amount of ₹25 crore, out of which ₹8 crore was supposedly to be paid to a senior NCB official, he said in a notarised affidavit. Sail said he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D’Souza over the phone after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 3 raid about a demand of ₹25 crore and to settle at ₹18 crore as they “have to give ₹eight crore to Sameer Wankhede”, the zonal director of NCB.“We will give a befitting reply” to the allegations, said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of the anti-drugs agency.NCB enforcers had raided a cruise ship on October 3, and arrested Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha for possession and consumption of banned drugs. The three continue to remain in judicial custody and courts have denied them bail several times. Another appeal for bail will be heard on Tuesday.“As the case is before an honourable court and sub-judice, Sail needs to submit his prayer to the court rather than through social media if he has anything to say,” the NCB said in a statement. “Zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB has categorically denied these allegations.”“The affidavit has been forwarded to the director general of Narcotics Control Bureau for further necessary action,” the statement signed by deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain of the NCB said.Wankhede also wrote a letter to the Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Sunday requesting him to ensure that no precipitate legal action is carried out with ulterior motives to frame him.“It has come to my notice that some precipitate legal action for framing me falsely is being planned by unknown persons in relation to the alleged vigilance related issue in case number 94/2021 (cruise drug case)” Wankhede said in the letter.The disclosures by Sail evoked responses from political parties opposed to the Bhartiya Janata Party, who have been protesting the handling of the case by the federal agency.“I am going to demand an SIT (special investigation team) probe by Maharashtra police in this entire episode. I will personally meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to demand a probe,” said Nawab Malik, a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party that rules the state in alliance with the Shiv Sena and the Congress party. Malik is a minister in the state.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said the cases are made to defame Maharashtra. This seems to be coming true. Police should take suo moto (on its own) cognisance,” said Sanjay Raut , a leader of the Shiv Sena.“The Modi government has been misusing central agencies against non-BJP governments. The statement by Prabhakar Sail has re-established it,” said Atul Londhe, spokesman of the Congress party. “The central agencies were used in Sushant Singh Rajput’s case for political gain and now being used in Aryan Khan case, too, for politics. We urge the judiciary to take a suo moto cognisance of the entire episode for the sake of Constitution as these cases have posed a challenge to democracy.”Leader of opposition in legislative council and BJP leader Pravin Darekar said, “Nawab Malik and others have been levelling false allegations against NCB and its zonal director Sameer Wankhede. The ruling parties have been targeting central agencies and the central government for political reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/witness-in-aryan-case-levels-extortion-charge-ncb-denies-101635098881560.html
25-10-2021||India||Uzbekistan to push for connectivity plan through Chabahar||Uzbekistan will push ahead with a joint plan with India and Iran to promote connectivity through the Chabahar port, as part of the country’s efforts to improve and diversify access to sea routes for trade, senior Uzbek officials have said.The three countries intend to hold the second meeting of a trilateral working group to discuss the joint use of Chabahar port on Iran’s Makran coast for trade and transit, Uzbekistan’s deputy foreign minister Furkat Sidikov said on the sidelines of a roundtable here on foreign policy issues. He indicated that the recent developments in Afghanistan would not have any impact on the plans of the three countries.“India is one of our strategic partners and this is an important project,” Sidikov said. The first virtual meeting of the trilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port was held last December, and the three sides will set the date for the second meeting, he said.Bakhtiyor Mustafayev, deputy director of the state-backed International Institute for Central Asia, said the government of landlocked Uzbekistan believes it is strategically important to diversify efforts to enhance access to the oceans.Almost 80% of Uzbekistan’s exports and imports move through northern routes passing through Central Asian states and Russia and it would be beneficial for the country to gain access to the Persian Gulf, Mustafayev said. At the same time, the countries in South Asia are developing fast, and represent a huge market with a population of about two billion, he said.“It would be more beneficial to try to combine South Asia and Central Asia,” Mustafayev said.Enhanced connectivity, he said, would also “open new doors to improve the security situation and deal with terrorism and extremism” across the region.The takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban in mid-August has triggered speculation about the viability of Chabahar port. India developed the Shahid Beheshti terminal of Chabahar as part of its efforts to access Afghanistan while bypassing the territory of Pakistan. The US granted the port a special waiver from sanctions imposed on Iran in view of its strategic importance in shipping supplies to Afghanistan.During a virtual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 11 last year, Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev – who is widely anticipated to retain his position in presidential elections held on Sunday – had first proposed a trilateral dialogue between India, Iran and Uzbekistan to promote connectivity through Chabahar port.The Indian side welcomed the proposal and responded with alacrity. The first meeting of the trilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar was held just three days later on December 14, 2020.During the virtual summit last year, India and Uzbekistan had also reiterated their commitment to enhancing connectivity between the two countries and in the larger Central Asian region to bolster trade and investment. The Indian side had said at the time that Chabahar port could be “a fulcrum of connectivity to Central Asia”.Speaking at the roundtable of foreign policy issues that was held on Saturday as part of the campaign for the presidential elections, Sidikov described the situation in Afghanistan as “difficult” but said that the country could not be isolated.Uzbek foreign minister Abdulaziz Kamilov visited Kabul on October 7 for talks with the Taliban leadership, and Uzbek officials and Taliban representatives held a working meeting in the border city of Termez on October 16 to improve cross-border connectivity, especially for shipping humanitarian aid.The Uzbek side is also interested in moving forward with a project to extend the existing railway line connecting Termez and Hairatan in Uzbekistan to Peshawar in Pakistan. The line currently terminates at Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan. “This railway project is not related to governments and is for the benefit of the people…We have discussed the project with the provisional government of Afghanistan…We are ready to support such projects,” Sidikov told the roundtable.People familiar with the matter said the thinking on the Uzbek side is that any isolation of Afghanistan could lead to an economic collapse and more chaos across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uzbekistan-to-push-ahead-with-joint-efforts-with-india-to-promote-connectivity-via-chabahar-port-101635097981017.html
25-10-2021||India||Call me whenever you need: Amit Shah shares phone number with Jammu man, takes his number||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday visited Jammu’s Makwal border, and interacted with many local residents. During a meeting with one such resident, Shah took the man’s contact number and also shared his own, news agency ANI reported. The union minister told the man that he can “contact him (Shah) whenever he needs.”In a video shared by ANI on Twitter, the man can be seen sitting on a bench beside Shah, with Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha also present at the scene. Shah types on what looks like the man’s mobile in an apparent move of sharing his contact details with the resident.During his visit to Makwal border, Shah also met and interacted with soldiers.Earlier in the day, he inaugurated a new campus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Jammu, before heading to the Bhagwati Nagar ground to address a rally where he said that earlier the Union Territory (UT) along with Ladakh were facing discrimination but now the administration was ensuring there was equitable development in these regions.He added that some individuals wanted to “derail the era of development” that had begun in Jammu and Kashmir under the rule of UT Governor and Union minister Jitendra Singh. “We won’t allow it and will ensure no harm is done to the development of Jammu and Kashmir,” Shah said.Shah, who is on a three-day visit to the UT, also hailed the abrogation of Section 370, saying that August 5, 2019 will be written in “golden letters” as it marked the end of “terrorism, nepotism, corruption” in the region. “J&K youth has to contribute to the development of the UT, it is their responsibility,” he said.Also Read | Delimitation will happen, J&K statehood to be restored: Amit Shah in SrinagarThe Union minister assured the people of J&K that “strict action” will be taken against those who want to ruin the current peace in the region, adding that it is the central government’s “commitment” to not allow obstruction of development there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-exchanges-contact-number-with-jammu-man-while-visiting-local-residents-101635093372940.html
25-10-2021||Today's||Making India self-reliant in health care||The coronavirus pandemic presented to us a set of complex challenges, demanding a prompt response to the evolving situation in a manner that also facilitated rapid scaling up of the public health infrastructure, with an approach calibrated to the varying maturity of health systems across India. The emergency reiterated the need for a concerted and “whole of government” and “whole of society” approach to building comprehensive, robust, and prompt response systems. While the pandemic highlighted the importance of public health care, it also allowed us to understand the key strengths and weaknesses of the system.
25-10-2021||Today's||When violence accompanies democracy||Reading political scientist Neera Chandoke’s new book, The Violence in Our Bones, against the backdrop of the mind-numbing incidents of violence that have dominated headlines in recent weeks — the SUV that ploughed through protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh (UP), the young men being shot and beaten to death in public view while protesting against eviction drives in Assam, mobs shutting down meat shops for Navaratri in UP — forced me to confront uncomfortable truths about India’s flawed democracy.
25-10-2021||Today's||The political drivers behind the attacks on Bangladesh’s Hindus||Three arrests in Bangladesh have blown the lid off the recent attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh. Iqbal Hossain, who placed the Koran at the feet of Hanuman in a puja pandal in Comilla, was nabbed from Cox’s Bazar coast. Fayez Ahmed, who circulated the pictures on Facebook, lived long years in Saudi Arabia . Police say the Koran used for provoking trouble was printed in that country and belongs to Fayez. Kamaluddin Abbasi , who led a huge mob in Chandpur within hours of the Comilla fracas, has confessed in court to leading the attack on a Hindu temple, when police opened fire to kill five rioters. All three are activists of the Jamaat-e-Islami , the pro-Pakistan party which opposed Bangladesh’s independence .
25-10-2021||Today's||Foreign Hand | A very different quad||The quad with a small q is about connectivity, technology and, for India, a new relevance in West Asia. On October 21, the foreign ministers of India, Israel, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the United States (US) announced their intention to join hands and form an “international economic forum”.
25-10-2021||Editorials||In Bihar, the rift in the Opposition||Bihar’s politics is undergoing a churn. While the focus in the last few months has been on the dynamic between the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal-United (JD-U) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), there appears to be even more trouble within the Opposition alliance. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress are old allies. But with the RJD fighting by-elections in two assembly seats on its own (the Congress was expecting the seat where it had fought in the 2020 assembly poll; Lalu Prasad said this would have meant losing the seat), the future of the alliance is uncertain.
25-10-2021||Editorials||Upgrading judicial infrastructure||An inadequately supported judiciary not only impacts the Gross Domestic Product of a country but also costs it foreign investments, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said last week. Addressing a gathering at Aurangabad, the CJI said that several courts function out of dilapidated buildings and rented properties; only 5% of court complexes have basic medical aid; 26% of the courts don’t have separate toilets for women, and 16% of the courts don’t even have toilets for men; and nearly 50% of court complexes don’t have a library. Justice Ramana added that he has sent a proposal to the Union government for establishing the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC), which envisages the collection of actionable data on the requirement and upgradation of court infrastructure.
