12-06-2020||World||Covid-19 pandemic: US to issue 96 million free face masks to plane, train passengers||The US government plans to distribute 96 million cloth face coverings for free to people riding on planes, trains and public transportation systems.The Transportation Department said Friday it will provide 86.8 million masks to airports and 9.6 million to 458 transit agencies and Amtrak.“This Administration is committed to protecting our people and reopening the economy,” Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao said in a press release. “Distributing these facial coverings will help boost public confidence as we begin to resume our normal lives.”Airline and transit operations have seen dramatic reductions in use by the public in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. People are beginning to return to travel, but the levels are still far below a year ago.On Thursday, 502,209 people went through Transportation Security Administration airport screening, the most since March 21, according to the agency. That represents about 19% of the equivalent day a year ago.Most airlines and transit systems already require masks, though enforcement has been spotty.The Transportation Department is working with the Health and Human Services Department, it said in a press release. The cloth coverings were obtained by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and will be distributed in the coming weeks.Travelers are “still responsible for having their own facial covering” in situations in which it is required, the DOT said. The government’s supply is intended to be supplemental and availability is not guaranteed.Workers in the transportation sector have been vulnerable to the disease. The Transportation Security Administration said 667 of its employees have tested positive for Covid-19, including five who have died.Because airlines and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention haven’t agreed on a system to trace passengers who have flown with ill people, it’s not clear how many have been infected by air travel.A second wave of infections by the novel coronavirus appears underway in the US The case load is slowly growing nationally, while it rages in local hot spots, with wide differences in infection rates even within states.Texas, California, Florida and Alabama all are among states where infections and hospitalizations are hitting new highs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pandemic-us-to-issue-96-million-free-face-masks-to-plane-train-passengers/story-84arRfWzgrcPk0CreEwalL.html
12-06-2020||World||Won’t be silenced: Priti Patel as UK opposition MPs accuse her of ‘gaslighting’ racism||UK Home Secretary Priti Patel has taken a defiant stand and said she will not be “silenced” by the Opposition Labour Party MPs who accused her of using her Indian heritage to “gaslight” the “very real racism” faced by communities in Britain.The Indian-origin Cabinet minister had referenced her personal experience of racist abuse while growing up as an ethnic minority in the UK during an impassioned statement in the House of Commons earlier this week. A group of 12 ethnic minority Labour MPs, including Indian-origin MPs Virendra Sharma, Tan Dhesi, Preet Kaur Gill, Valerie Vaz, Seema Malhotra and Nadia Whittome, wrote to her on Thursday to say that “being a person of colour does not automatically make you an authority on all forms of racism”. “We write to you as Black Asian and Ethnic Minority Labour MPs to highlight our dismay at the way you used your heritage and experiences of racism to gaslight the very real racism faced by Black people and communities across the UK,” the MPs write. Gaslighting refers to a form of psychological manipulation where seeds of doubt are planted against a particular idea. Patel responded by making the letter public on Twitter, with the message: “I will not be silenced by @UKLabour MPs who continue to dismiss the contributions of those who don’t conform to their view of how ethnic minorities should behave.” Addressing the House of Commons on Monday, a day after violent clashes between Black Lives Matter protesters and police officers, Patel had condemned the violence perpetrated by a minority of protesters who would face justice.Questioned by an Opposition Labour Party MP on whether the minister fully understood the “anger and frustration” felt by anti-racism demonstrators protesting against the brutal killing of African-American George Floyd in police custody in the US, Patel retaliated with references to her own experiences. The minister, born to Gujarati-origin parents who fled Uganda for the UK when dictator Idi Amin expelled Asians from the African country in the early 1970s, said: “On that basis, it must have been a very different Home Secretary who as a child was frequently called a Paki in the playground; a very different Home Secretary who was racially abused in the streets or even advised to drop her surname and use her husband’s in order to advance her career… so when it comes to racism, sexism, tolerance or social justice, I will not take lectures from the those other side of the House.” In their complaint letter, the group of 12 Labour MPs demand that Patel “reflect” on her words and the impact it had towards black communities in the UK.“Structures of racism, hatred and equality have many layers and therefore, whilst it is true, there are some experiences of racism that we all face, there are also some experiences of racism that we all do not face,” reads the letter. UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock spoke out in support of his Cabinet colleague when asked about the row during the daily Downing Street briefing on Thursday evening. “I abhor this divisive identity politics that’s being levelled at Priti Patel. I’m incredibly proud to be part of the most diverse government in history. We don’t think that there’s such a thing as the wrong type of BME [black and minority ethnic]. We think that people are equal,” he said. Fellow Indian-origin Cabinet colleague Alok Sharma also extended his support via Twitter, to say: “I stand with Priti”. Pakistani-origin Conservative Party colleague and former UK Chancellor and Home Secretary Sajid Javid also spoke out in her favour as he branded the Labour Party’s letter “utterly misguided and irresponsible”. “Imagine listening to an ethnic-minority woman’s history of suffering racist abuse – and then deciding that you’d rather condemn the victim than her abusers. All because she doesn’t fit your stereotype,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/won-t-be-silenced-priti-patel-as-uk-opposition-mps-accuse-her-of-gaslighting-racism/story-NOH5S0NlMRSDlTlZrIQx3K.html
12-06-2020||World||French researcher wins access to ex-president’s 1994 Rwanda genocide files||A French researcher won an extended legal battle Friday for access to ex-president Francois Mitterrand’s archives on the 1994 Rwandan genocide, in which Kigali accuses France of having played a role.France’s top administrative court, the State Council, ruled the documents would allow researcher and author Francois Graner “to shed light on a debate that is a matter of public interest”.The documents include notes written by the president’s advisers and minutes of government meetings.The ruling is the latest chapter in a long dispute between France and Rwanda in the aftermath of the genocide in which some 800,000 people, mainly minority Tutsis but also moderate Hutus, were slaughtered in 100 days of ethnic violence committed mainly by Hutu extremists.Ahead of the genocide’s 20th anniversary in 2014, Rwandan President Paul Kagame accused Paris of having played a “direct role” in the assassination of then-president Juvenal Habyarimana, a Hutu, which sparked the bloodbath.The Tutsi leader said France took part in Habyarimana’s “execution”, some say in a move to stoke anti-Tutsi sentiment.In November 2016, Kigali launched an inquiry into the alleged role of 20 French officials in the genocide.- ‘Victory’ for history -France has always denied the allegations and last year, President Emmanuel Macron announced the creation of a panel of historians and researchers to look into the claims.Graner, who has published widely on the genocide, first requested access to Mitterrand’s documents in 2015, the year the government under then-president Francois Hollande declassified archives on Rwanda for the period 1990-95.But the researcher’s request was refused, prompting him to file legal challenges that have failed until to now with courts upholding a law protecting presidential archives for 25 years after a leader’s death. In the case of Mitterrand, who died in 1996, they would become available in 2021.“Protection of state secrets must be balanced against the interests of informing the public about historic events,” the State Council ruled.“This is a victory for the law, but also for history,” Graner’s lawyer Patrice Spinosi told AFP.“Researchers like Mr Graner will be able to access president Mitterrand’s archives in order to fully understand France’s role in Rwanda in 1994 and 1995,” he said.- ‘Serious errors of judgement’ -Graner belongs to rights group Survie (“Survival”), which has vowed to “shed light on France’s involvement in Rwanda before and during the genocide.”Franco-Rwandan relations hit a low point in 2006 after a French judge recommended Kagame be prosecuted by a UN-backed tribunal over the 1994 killing of Habyarimana.The Rwandan President, who had led the Tutsi rebel force that eventually overthrew the genocidal Hutu regime, broke off ties with France for three years.The turning point came in 2010 when former president Nicolas Sarkozy acknowledged on a visit to Kigali that France had made “serious errors of judgement” in Rwanda.While falling short of an apology it was seen as a breakthrough in Rwanda.But France’s perceived foot-dragging on bringing genocide suspects living in the country to justice, has aggravated tensions.On May 16, the genocide’s alleged financier, Felicien Kabuga, was arrested at his home outside Paris after a quarter-of-a-century on the run.On June 3, a Paris court approved his transfer to a UN body for trial in Arusha, Tanzania.French-Rwandan former hotel driver Claude Muhayimana is set to go on trial in Paris in February next year, accused of having transported Hutu militiamen to sites where massacres were carried out.In the two other Rwandan genocide trials concluded in France, a former officer in the presidential guard, Pascal Simbikangwa, was given a 25-year sentence in 2014, while Octavien Ngenzi and Tito Barahira, two former mayors, received life sentences in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-researcher-wins-access-to-ex-president-s-1994-rwanda-genocide-files/story-HbrNpWAFDECDPRtCwhvkoK.html
12-06-2020||World||WHO says Covid-19 outbreaks add to childbirth death||The head of the World Health Organization said that as the pandemic accelerates in developing countries, officials are particularly worried about the coronavirus’ disproportionate toll on certain populations, including women at “heightened risk” of dying in childbirth.Secretary-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a press briefing on Friday that WHO is especially concerned about “the impact on people who struggle to access health services...women, children and adolescents.” Tedros said the pandemic has overwhelmed health systems in many countries and warned many women have a “heightened risk” of dying in childbirth.Tedros said the UN health agency recently investigated the risk of mothers spreading the coronavirus to their newborns and concluded that the benefits of breastfeeding outweigh the risks of transmitting the virus, including among women with suspected or confirmed Covid-19.He says WHO is also concerned about young people who may be vulnerable to anxiety and depression, noting that in some countries, more than one-third of teens receive mental health help exclusively at school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-outbreaks-add-to-childbirth-death/story-flw8xdbM3GQRLJwpOi7qVI.html
12-06-2020||World||WHO chief calls for any Covid-19 vaccine to be shared as a public good||Vaccines for the new coronavirus should be made available as a global public good, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday, to ensure everyone had fair access to any life-saving products that are developed.“Many leaders...have promoted the idea of making any vaccine a global public good, but that should continue to be promoted,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a press conference.“More leaders should join the boat, and we need to have a truly global political commitment and global consensus before we even have the product,” he said. “That is what we are pushing.”Tedros was speaking after concerns have been raised that some countries including the United States could hoard any vaccines or drugs they develop to combat Covid-19, with poorer countries not getting access to the treatments they need.The current situation in Brazil, now one of the global hot-spots for the virus, was of increasing concern especially in cities, the WHO’s top emergency expert Mike Ryan said.Brazil’s health system was “still coping”, although some intensive care units were at a critical stage and under heavy pressure with more than 90% bed occupancy rates, Ryan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-calls-for-any-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-shared-as-a-public-good/story-taTqroez9xrYs9ajTwjSTM.html
12-06-2020||World||Pak police refuse to file case against US blogger for tweet against Benazir Bhutto||Police here have refused to register a case against a Pakistan-based American blogger on a complaint filed by a man for maligning late former premier Benazir Bhutto on social media.The Islamabad Police has refused to register the case, saying that it was a case of cybercrime and only the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) was authorised to deal with it.Petitioner Waqas Ahmad Abbasi submitted a written application last week against Cynthia D Ritchie, accusing her of maligning former premier Benazir on social media. The Express Tribune reported that the Islamabad Police said that after evaluation, it was found that the case needed to be investigated by the FIA.However, the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) Islamabad President Shakeel Abbasi already approached the FIA with a complaint against Ritchie for making a slanderous tweet against Bhutto but it refused to take action.The FIA on June 9 told an Islamabad sessions court to dismiss a plea against Ritchie as the petitioner, Shakeel Abbasi, was not an affected party.Ritchie alleged that Benazir condoned rape culture.The FIA, in its written response to the court, argued that according to its rules, only the aggrieved party — the targeted victim or their guardian — could lodge such a complaint with the agency.However, Additional Sessions Judge Atta Rabbani issued a notice to Ritchie seeking her response by June 13.Meanwhile, the fight between Ritchie and the PPP leaders turned nasty after her objectionable tweets and subsequent allegations against top leaders of PPP, including former Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani.On June 10, the former prime minister sent a legal notice to Cynthia, seeking Rs100 million in damages and an apology.Separately, former interior minister Rehman Malik also said he will serve Ritchie a legal notice after she accused that he raped her in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-police-refuse-to-file-case-against-us-blogger-for-tweet-against-benazir-bhutto/story-IcpztZSwfj9r2ZV5a3GLcJ.html
12-06-2020||World||Covid-19: Australian government urges protesters not to attend Black Lives Matter rallies||Australian government leaders have urged activists not to attend Black Lives Matter and other rallies planned for the weekend due to the pandemic risk. Rallies are planned for Australian cities this weekend over the Minnesota death of George Floyd; the coronavirus risk posed to asylum-seekers held in crowded Australian immigration detention centers; and the pandemic threat created by eating meat. Police largely did not enforce social distancing rules during peaceful Black Lives Matter rallies attended by thousands in Australian cities last weekend that focused on the high incarceration rate of indigenous Australians. But Prime Minister Scott Morrison has urged police to charge protesters with breaching pandemic restrictions during the coming weekend. “The very clear message is that people should not attend those events, because it is against the health advice to do so,” Morrison told reporters. A large police presence gathered in Sydney around the site of a proposed Black Lives Matter rally hours ahead of its scheduled start in an apparent attempt to deter the public gathering. Finance Minister Mathias Cormann suggested demonstrators could lose government welfare payments if they attended rallies, but Morrison later ruled out any such federal retaliation. The government pays a wage subsidy to 3.5 million Australians to keep them in work during the pandemic lockdown. A protester became sick after attending a Melbourne rally on Saturday and later tested positive for COVID-19. Authorities suspected he became infected before the rally and might have spread the virus to other protesters. A court on Thursday ruled a refugee rally planned for Sydney on Saturday illegal because of the pandemic threat, increasing the range of powers available to police to prevent it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-australian-government-urges-protesters-not-to-attend-black-lives-matter-rallies/story-DKHpjjOjRgommf2o0aS1iO.html
12-06-2020||World||Syria economic meltdown presents new challenge for Assad||In scenes not witnessed for years in government-controlled parts of Syria, dozens of men and women marched through the streets this week, protesting a sharp increase in prices and collapse of the currency, some even calling for the downfall of President Bashar Assad and his ruling Baath party.“He who starves his people is a traitor,” some of the protesters chanted at the protest in the southern city of Sweida.In Syria nowadays, there is an impending fear that all doors are closing. After nearly a decade of war, the country is crumbling under the weight of years-long Western sanctions, government corruption and infighting, a pandemic and an economic downslide made worse by the financial crisis in Lebanon, Syria’s main link with the outside world.Syria faces near complete isolation as the toughest US sanctions yet start to come into effect next week. While Assad may have won the military war against his opponents with the help of allies Russia and Iran, he now faces an even bigger challenge of governing while more than 80% of his people live in poverty.In government-held areas, prices go up several times a day, forcing many shops to close, unable to keep up with the chaos. This week the Syrian currency dropped to a record 3,500 pounds to the dollar on the black market — compared to 700 at the beginning of the year. Some staples such as sugar, rice and medicine are becoming hard to find.“The Syrian economy has spiraled out of control and the regime cannot control the Syrian pound anymore,” said Osama Kadi, a Canada-based Syrian economic adviser.The pain is likely to grow under the new US sanctions, which Washington says aim to punish Assad and his top lieutenants for crimes committed during the country’s conflict.Effectively, the sanctions prevent anyone around the world from doing business with Syrian officials or state institutions or participate in the war-ravaged country’s reconstruction. They also target anyone involved in smuggling to Syria, mostly from Iraq and Lebanon.The US has already imposed sanctions on Assad and a number of his top officials. The new authority, known as the US Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act, allows foreign companies to be targeted, including in neighbouring Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq.“This legislation will close all the doors on the Syrian regime and any person that deals with it,” said Nizar Zakka, a Lebanese citizen who is a member of the Caesar Act team, a group that advises US authorities on implementing the sanctions.The first wave of sanctions will be imposed on June 17. Three other stages will follow before the end of August, he said.Caesar is the code name of a Syrian forensic photographer who graphically exposed the brutality of the government crackdown by smuggling out thousands of photos of torture victims.Experts say the new sanctions will be a heavy blow to a country where eight out of 10 people make less than $100 a month, according to the United Nations. The Syrian government called the sanctions “economic terrorism.”Some of the repercussions have already been profound.Bread prices increased nearly 60% in the rebel-held northwestern province of Idlib, even though the territory with a population of over 3 million is not included in the new sanctions. Its population, many of them unemployed and living in displaced camps, have also been hit hard by the collapse of the pound, since it is the main currency used in Idlib.As a result, protests erupted this week calling for the ouster of the “Salvation Government” administering Idlib, led by al-Qaida-linked Hayat Tahrir al-Sham.The Syrian pound — which had been at 47 to the dollar at the start of the conflict — had held steady at around 500 to the dollar from 2014 until last year.It started crumbling from a number of factors: the coronavirus lockdown, Lebanon’s financial crisis, new rules requiring use of the Syrian pound and a feud between Assad and his cousin Rami Makhlouf, one of Syria’s richest men.The Syrian government has lost major income from resources in areas outside its control, including oil fields in the east held by US-backed fighters and farmlands that produced much of the country’s wheat.Most damaging, perhaps, has been the financial turmoil in Lebanon. Banks there have served as a gateway to the world for Syrian businessmen, officials and average people. Now Lebanon’s tight capital controls lock away billions of dollars in their accounts.“Lebanon was not only Syria’s economic get-out-of-jail card, but it is the beating heart of Syria’s business community,” Danny Makki, a Britain-based Syrian journalist and political analyst, wrote recently for the Middle East Institute.Lebanon is also panicking about losing Syria, particularly the electricity it still buys from the war-torn country. In recent weeks, the Lebanese army has begun closing some smuggling routes to and from Syria where fuel, diesel, medicine and other goods flow.Syria and its allies say the Caesar Act aims at starving the Syrian people. The US Embassy in Syria — closed since the beginning of the conflict — tweeted on Sunday: “The regime’s destructive war has crushed the Syrian economy, not US or EU sanctions.”Amid the turmoil, Assad fired Prime Minister Imad Khamis on Wednesday in a move that appeared aimed at deflecting public anger. Khamis told parliament this week that the government was discussing with allies ways to boost the pound’s value. He said the government was also taking steps to avoid any shortage of pharmaceuticals.Samer Aftimos, a pharmacist in Damascus, said shortages are already taking place, in part because of people hoarding medicine. Drug companies have stopped supplying some medicines, he said.Syrian legislator Muhannad Haj Ali, who has been under European and American sanctions for years, said Syria survived past economic crises and will overcome the Caesar Act.“What the terrorists and the Americans couldn’t take on the battlefield, where we paid with our blood and wounds, they won’t be able to gain politically, no matter how much pressure they exert,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syria-economic-meltdown-presents-new-challenge-for-assad/story-t1KTav51zYwEgndJkKsUgJ.html
12-06-2020||World||Germany pushes for speedy stimulus rollout as economy stumbles||Germany pressed ahead with the implementation of a 130 billion-euro ($145 billion) stimulus package, as Europe’s largest economy seeks a way out of the worst recession since World War II.At a special meeting on Friday, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s cabinet signed off on numerous key initiatives agreed on by her ruling coalition last week. The goal is to get the bulk of the plan approved by parliament before its summer break, which typically begins a two-month recess in early July.With exports tumbling and unemployment surging from the fallout of lockdowns to contain the coronavirus pandemic, the government is under pressure to act. Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said Friday that figures for May could be as bad as April, when industrial production took a record hit. A recovery is only expected starting in July, he added.“Despite the gradual easing, the slump in sales in many industries is far longer than expected weeks ago,” Eric Schweitzer, president of the DIHK business lobby, said in a statement. “The water is already up to the neck” of companies in hard-hit sectors such as travel and trade fairs.A value-added tax cut designed to reinvigorate demand after weeks of curbs on public life is set to go into effect on July 1. Other measures the cabinet approved include emergency aid for small and mid-sized companies, a family bonus of 300 euros per child and changes to tax rules to changes to tax rules to encourage people to buy less-polluting vehicles.“Our measures have punch,” Finance Minister Olaf Scholz said in a press conference following the cabinet meeting. “We want to come out of this crisis with full strength.”To pay for the massive stimulus package, the government intends to increase borrowing this year by at least 30 billion euros, people familiar with the plan have said.A supplement to the 2020 budget to pave the way for the borrowing will be decided next week, Scholz said, declining to comment on the size. The move also requires parliamentary approval.After years of budget surpluses and restrained spending, Germany has reduced debt from over 80% of gross domestic product in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis to around 60%, giving it room for extra borrowing, according to Scholz.Germans broadly back the latest stimulus package, according to a survey published Friday. Among 1,270 voters polled for broadcaster ZDF, 68% said they think the measures are positive and half think the right amount is being spent. However, 85% said they don’t believe that the sales-tax reduction will do much to lift the economy.Even if the stimulus package were implemented in full, the economy is projected to shrink by 8.1% this year, according to the Berlin-based DIW institute. That’s worse than the Bundesbank’s prediction of -7.1% and the OECD’s -6.6%. Altmaier said there was no reason to update official government forecasts for now.While Germany has kept the coronavirus in check in recent weeks, a second wave of infections is unavoidable, according to Lars Feld, the country’s top economic adviser.“The goal is to avoid a lockdown during a second wave,” Feld said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “Then we perhaps don’t even need a second or a third package of fiscal stimulus.”Recent figures suggest that there’s a pick up in the economy from the low in April, “so it very much looks like we can realize a V-shaped scenario and then avoiding a second leg lockdown will be sufficient,” he added.That might be too late for some companies. Auto suppliers have been particularly hard hit by the collapse in demand and have fewer resources than carmakers to weather a prolonged downturn.”Our industry has suffered a cardiac arrest in Europe,” Elmar Degenhart, chief executive officer of German auto-parts giant Continental AG, told news agency DPA in an interview. “Such a cardiac arrest cannot be remedied with a high dose of vitamin C - what is needed is a defibrillator.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-pushes-for-speedy-stimulus-rollout-as-economy-stumbles/story-Z3uO8PcHzkHLFmsLJsnUEJ.html
12-06-2020||World||Chinese users saw Zoom as a window through the ‘Great Firewall’||Zoom Video Communications has gained a following in China in recent months from users ranging from underground churches to feminists who saw it as a rare way to connect with the world beyond the reach of state censors.Some fear that window may be closing.On Friday, Zoom said it had suspended accounts of three US and Hong Kong activists at Beijing’s request after they tried to commemorate the anniversary of the Tiananmen Square crackdown, but that they had since been reactivated. The US company also said it was developing technology to enable it to remove or block participants based on geography.The Chinese government heavily regulates the internet, in a system widely dubbed the Great Firewall, saying this is needed to maintain social stability. All Chinese social media platforms are required to censor public posts deemed illegal.“For us, the biggest challenge has been how to reach people within China because of the firewall, and Zoom for a while looked like a ray of hope,” said US-based Humanitarian China founder Zhou Fengsuo, whose account was suspended.The conferencing tool, originally designed for business use, saw Chinese user numbers surge in tandem with its global popularity amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a rare feat given how Western peers such as WhatsApp, Google Meet and Facebook are blocked in China’s cyberspace. Zoom’s mobile app has been downloaded 5.4 million times from Apple’s China store since Jan. 1, 11 times the number over the same period in 2019, according to research firm SensorTower.While most Chinese users turn to Zoom for conference calls and casual chats, some have seized the chance to discuss potentially sensitive topics, from patriotism to feminism.Some state-approved and underground churches use Zoom to hold services.“Zoom is not the only software, but we feel it’s rather more accessible,” said Xiao Meili, a feminist activist who held a Zoom talk in April on the #MeToo movement. “Before, some friends recommended Tencent conference ... but everyone would feel like you shouldn’t say anything that’s slightly sensitive,” she said, referring to a tool offered by the Chinese tech giant behind WeChat. Inside the firewallIn March, Youth Lectures kicked off a series of Zoom talks, the first of which was led by Chinese University of Hong Kong professor Chow Po Chung, on freedom of speech in China. Chow’s mainland China account on the Twitter-like platform Weibo has been deleted multiple times. Other anonymous groups hosted lectures from a #MeToo activist and a gender-activist on their work in mid-May.New York-based Lu Pin, whose influential Feminist Voices accounts on Weibo and WeChat were shut by authorities in 2018, said Zoom was a way to connect a Chinese audience to the outside world.“You don’t have to climb the firewall, people in China and outside of China both can connect to it,” she said.There are few alternatives, she said.“This is not a multiple-choice question. If you’re a Chinese person, if you don’t use this, what will you use?”Zoom’s China users had already been subject to new constraints since last month when the company announced that free users would no longer be able host meetings, and new registrations were limited to some enterprises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-users-saw-zoom-as-a-window-through-the-great-firewall/story-rahZKcx1pTkf0msuMkFGbJ.html
12-06-2020||World||Vast amounts of Venezuelan oil are hidden en route to China, bypassing US sanctions: Data, documents||Last year, China replaced the United States as the No. 1 importer of oil from Venezuela, yet another front in the heated rivalry between Washington and Beijing. The United States had imposed sanctions on Venezuela’s state-owned oil company as part of a bid to topple that country’s socialist president, Nicolas Maduro. US refineries stopped buying Venezuelan crude. Caracas’ ally China, long a major customer, suddenly found itself the top purchaser. Through the first six months of 2019, it imported an average of 350,000 barrels per day of crude from Venezuela.But in August, Washington tightened its sanctions on Venezuela, warning that any foreign entity that continued to do business with the South American country’s government could find itself subject to sanctions. State-owned China National Petroleum Corp, known as CNPC, stopped loading oil at Venezuelan ports that month. China’s import data showed purchases started to slow, and by late 2019, abruptly stopped.China’s largest oil company, like customers in some other countries, seemed to be knuckling under to US President Donald Trump’s threats, despite Chinese President Xi Jinping’s professed support for Maduro.But China never stopped buying. Crude from Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA, kept arriving at Chinese ports with the help of a Switzerland-based unit of Rosneft, Russia’s state-owned oil company, and a roundabout delivery method that made it appear as if the oil’s origin was Malaysia, Reuters has found. Between July 1 and Dec. 31, tanker ships delivered at least 18 shipments totaling 19.7 million barrels of rebranded Venezuelan crude to Chinese ports, Reuters determined. That finding is based on a review of ship-tracking data, internal PDVSA documents and interviews with four petroleum analysts who have tracked flows of Venezuelan oil around the globe.A unit of CNPC chartered at least one of those tankers, meaning it was responsible for the oil aboard, the ship-tracking data show. That vessel, called the Adventure, took on Venezuelan crude on July 18 and discharged it in China on Sept. 4, the data show. No charter information was available for the other ships that offloaded crude in China.CNPC did not respond to requests for comment.Those 18 shipments represented more than 5% of Venezuela’s total exports in 2019, worth around $1 billion at market prices for the country’s flagship crude grade, known as Merey, based on OPEC figures. The sales provided much-needed support to Maduro’s government, though Reuters could not determine how much was added to state coffers; PDVSA often sells its crude at steep discounts, and some of its sales go to pay down debt rather than generate cash.The mislabeled shipments have continued into this year, Reuters found. The review used data available on financial information provider Refinitiv Eikon, photos culled from satellite imagery and Automatic Identification System (AIS) data transmitted by oil tankers. New York-based Refinitiv is part-owned by Reuters’ parent company, Thomson Reuters.The shipping method - involving the transfer of oil between tanker ships at sea – has for months been under scrutiny by the Trump administration. Washington in February slapped sanctions on Rosneft Trading SA, the Geneva-based subsidiary of Rosneft, which it alleges was helping Venezuela to export its oil using so-called ship-to-ship (STS) transfers to mask the true origin of the crude. Rosneft denied wrongdoing.“The Company has always been conducting and is conducting its business in full compliance with applicable international legislation,” Rosneft said in a June 5 statement in response to questions for this article.Russia’s energy ministry did not reply to a request for comment.China’s indirect imports of Venezuelan crude fall into something of a gray zone, according to Peter Harrell, a sanctions expert at the Center for a New American Security think tank in Washington.Harrell believes US sanctions give Washington authority to punish foreign companies that purchase PDVSA oil through a middleman - particularly if the company “knows or should have known it was Venezuelan crude.” But that does not obligate the US government to act.“At the end of the day, these sanctions are fundamentally policy calls,” Harrell said.Reuters could not independently verify if China knew the oil that reached its shores via Rosneft Trading came from Venezuela.The US Treasury Department, which enforces trade sanctions, declined to comment. Asked about the Reuters findings, Elliott Abrams, the US State Department’s special representative for Venezuela, said in an interview that potential US sanctions against Chinese companies purchasing transshipped crude were “on the table.” “We will be taking individual actions with respect to STS transfers,” Abrams said.China’s General Administration of Customs did not respond to requests for comment. The Foreign Ministry told Reuters there was nothing improper about China’s dealings with Venezuela. The ministry said US sanctions had “severely affected” relations between Venezuela and the rest of the world, but said Beijing intends to continue trading with the country.Neither PDVSA, Venezuela’s Oil Ministry, nor the Information Ministry - which responds to media inquiries on the government’s behalf - responded to requests for comment. Venezuelan officials have repeatedly described US sanctions on their country as illegal and unilateral. Oil analysts since last year have said Venezuelan oil was making its way to China by way of STS transfers. This account is the first to reveal the extent of those shipments and demonstrate how systematic the tactic has been. Reuters also reviewed internal PDVSA documents that showed the Rosneft unit was involved in moving the oil.So much PDVSA oil was shipped to China this way that the country’s total 2019 imports of Venezuelan oil averaged 283,000 barrels a day. That’s 24% higher than the 228,700 barrels a day reported by Chinese customs, according to Reuters calculations based on comparisons of the Refinitiv Eikon data to official Chinese customs data.That was not enough to offset entirely the impact that US sanctions had on PDVSA; US refiners were importing an average of 500,000 barrels per day when the sanctions were imposed in January 2019. But it helped Venezuela keep its oil industry alive at a time when the drop in demand from foreign buyers was creating a glut onshore, nearly forcing PDVSA to halt production in key oil fields.The STS maneuvers mirror tactics that Iran, whose oil industry is also under US sanctions, has used to ship its oil to China for years. As Reuters documented in reports in 2019 and 2015, Iranian oil often is labeled as coming from neighboring Iraq.A representative of the operator of a Chinese terminal where one such shipment unloaded in 2019 denied that the origin of the oil was Iranian.Alireza Miryousefi, spokesman for Iran’s mission to the United Nations in New York, said in a statement “how we sell or export our oil is no one’s business.” He said US sanctions on Iran’s oil exports are “illegal.”The Chinese shipments of Venezuelan crude were unusual for a variety of reasons, oil analysts said.STS transfers typically are used for legitimate purposes - such as offloading oil from deep-water drilling ships or pumping oil from large tankers onto smaller vessels that can navigate narrow or shallow waterways. The use of this technique to transport oil from Venezuela to China was not seen until the middle of last year, the oil analysts said.Tankers leaving Venezuela loaded with PDVSA crude did not travel straight to China as they had in the past. Instead, 15 tankers whose routes were reviewed by Reuters left Venezuela and first headed for the coast of Malaysia, tracking data show. A few miles offshore, in the Malacca Strait, each rendezvoused with a second, empty tanker that had pulled alongside. The full tanker then pumped its load into the waiting vessel, and in some cases into multiple smaller vessels. Eighteen of those receiving ships then headed to China, where the Venezuelan crude was offloaded and recorded as a product of Malaysia, Chinese customs records show.Reuters could not ascertain who changed the crude’s labeled origin before it reached Chinese customs, nor whether doing so expressly violated any maritime laws or local laws in any applicable jurisdictions.Michelle Bockmann, markets editor and analyst at Lloyd’s List, a shipping trade publication, said the relabeling was highly uncommon. With the exception of Iran, Bockmann said she could not recall any other instance of crude changing identities in this way.The imports were a break from China’s past practice. China routinely has imported oil from countries such as Brazil and Russia using STS transfers. But Chinese customs accurately recorded the true countries of origin in those cases, according to Chinese customs data and Emma Li, a Singapore-based oil analyst with Refinitiv.In addition, Malaysia is a mid-sized oil producer that has not traditionally sold crude to China in the volumes recorded by Chinese customs last year, the records show. China’s stated 2019 imports from Malaysia were 400% higher than levels recorded just three years earlier, and the highest ever recorded by Refinitiv Eikon, whose figures date to 2006.The Malaysia External Trade Development Corporation, the government agency largely in charge of foreign trade, did not respond to requests for comment, nor did Malaysia’s state-owned oil company Petronas.This triangulated trade in Venezuelan oil is now in the crosshairs of the Trump administration.The company that lifted the oil from Venezuela for the China shipments identified by Reuters was Rosneft Trading, according to internal PDVSA documents reviewed by Reuters. Until late March, it was a major player in Venezuela’s oil industry. The US Treasury on Feb. 18 hit Rosneft Trading with sanctions for allegedly helping Venezuela sidestep the US pressure campaign and sell its oil abroad. Among the tactics employed by Rosneft Trading were STS transfers, US officials allege. By using one ship to haul crude out of Venezuela, then a second to deliver it to China, Rosneft Trading attempted to blur the chain of ownership and disguise the oil’s provenance, Abrams, the State Department’s special representative for Venezuela, told Reuters, without providing further proof of Rosneft’s intentions. “The whole purpose is to evade, the whole purpose is to mislead,” Abrams said.On March 28, Rosneft announced it was ending its Venezuela operations and selling all its assets in the country to another, unnamed Russian state-owned firm.“Rosneft has no ongoing business involvement, assets or operations in Venezuela; therefore, there is no subject for providing further comments,” the company said in its June 5 statement to Reuters. The Trump administration, meanwhile, gave Rosneft Trading customers until May 20 to unwind their contracts with the company or face US sanctions. Asked whether Chinese customers were involved in hiding the Venezuelan origin of the crude, Abrams said that Asian clients often did not care “how it gets to them, what it’s labeled, as long as they’re getting what they bought.”China’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement it was not aware of the STS transfers in question. “The cooperation between China and Venezuela will be carried out normally no matter how the situation changes,” the statement read. “It’s legitimate and benefits the people of both countries and will not be affected by any unilateral sanction measures.”Reuters could not ascertain the final customers for the PDVSA crude in China. But Venezuela’s heavy Merey blend is a favored feedstock for refineries making asphalt in China, according to industry sources there. One of the earliest STS transfers involved the Adventure, a tanker chartered by a CNPC subsidiary. On July 18, it took on 1.9 million barrels of Venezuelan crude from another vessel in Malaysian waters, then headed for China, Refinitiv Eikon data show. The manager of the Adventure, Greece-based Eastern Mediterranean Maritime Ltd, said it had never entered into any agreement with PDVSA or any company sanctioned by the United States, and that it “respects and complies in full” with US sanctions. The maritime company said the cargo’s bill of lading and certificate of origin said the oil had come from Malaysia.  Pit stop in MalaysiaMalaysia is a popular location for STS transfers of crude because of its proximity to Singapore, one of the world’s largest oil trading and storage hubs. One of the STS transfers reviewed by Reuters occurred near Malaysia’s port of Kuala Linggi; the rest took place outside the country’s Tanjung Bruas port.To demonstrate how these STS transfers work, Reuters used records available on Refinitiv Eikon to reconstruct a shipment to China of 2 million barrels that left the Jose terminal in northeastern Venezuela on Aug. 5, 2019. The oil was carried aboard a Liberia-flagged vessel called the Delta Aigaion, according to Refinitiv Eikon data and an internal PDVSA document seen by Reuters. The crude was a heavy blend known as Merey 16, which is unique to Venezuela, and the customer was listed as Rosneft Trading, the PDVSA document shows. The Delta Aigaion sailed to waters off Malaysia near the port of Tanjung Bruas. There, the crew used a STS transfer to offload the Merey 16 to another tanker, the Malta-flagged Lipari, on Oct. 28, according to Refinitiv Eikon data. The Lipari then headed for China, discharging its crude on Dec. 12 at the port of Zhanjiang, the data show.Refinitiv Eikon ship-tracking data shows the location of ships and indicates how full they are. In this case, the data showed that the draft of each ship changed dramatically while the two were in the same location off Malaysia’s coast at the same time. The draft is the vertical distance between the waterline and the bottom of a vessel’s hull - a sign of how heavy a load it is carrying. The draft measurements showed that the Delta Aigaion arrived in Malaysia full and left empty, while the opposite was true for the Lipari - an indication that an oil transfer between the two took place.In a photo taken using a European Space Agency radar satellite and provided to Reuters by San Francisco-based earth imaging company Planet Labs, the Delta Aigaion and the Lipari can be seen approaching one another to start the oil transfer on Oct 28. The authenticity of that photo was verified by oil industry data provider TankerTrackers.com, which specializes in satellite image analysis for vessel tracking.Refinitiv Eikon retrieves location information from satellite images as well as from land-based sensors that collect data from ships’ transponders. Ships are required by international maritime law to carry transponders to transmit information about their position, speed and destination. The US government has accused tankers and shipping firms transporting oil from Venezuela and Iran of manipulating this data to evade authorities, either by flashing false destinations or simply turning off their transponders. The Delta Aigaion, while on its way to Venezuela in July after leaving its previous berthing in India, never indicated it was heading to the South American country, Refinitiv Eikon data show. The tanker listed its destination as “For Orders,” a message meaning it had not yet received instructions on where to go next.Delta Tankers Ltd and TMS Tankers Ltd, the shipping companies that manage the Delta Aigaion and Lipari, respectively, did not respond to requests for comment. MMC Corp Bhd and T.A.G. Marine Sdn Bhd, which operate the Tanjung Bruas and Kuala Linggi ports, respectively, did not respond to requests for comment. When the Lipari unloaded in the southwestern Chinese city of Zhanjiang, Chinese customs labeled the crude as “Singma blend,” a grade of crude that did not exist in the market before last year. Customs recorded the country of origin as Malaysia.Li, the Refinitiv analyst, said the labeling of the crude as a blend appears to be incorrect. If the crude were a blend of different grades - a practice common in the oil industry - the STS operation would have involved multiple vessels bringing crude from separate origins, Li said. Ship-tracking data show no indication that this occurred. “It doesn’t look like there’s any blending,” Li said.For 14 of the 18 tankers reviewed by Reuters, the grade of crude recorded by Chinese customs was Singma or Mal, another blend that did not exist before last year, data compiled by Li show. In other cases, the Venezuelan crude was given the names of more established Malaysian grades such as Miri or Kimanis, or was not specified, according to the data compiled by Li. Merey 16, the Venezuelan blend, was not mentioned.Roseneft exitThe arrival of Venezuelan oil in China via STS transfers continued through at least the first two months of 2020. During January and February, Chinese customs once again reported no imports of Venezuelan crude. However, nearly 130,000 barrels per day of PDVSA oil arrived at Chinese ports in those two months from seven tankers that had done STS operations, according to the Reuters review.With US pressure on Venezuela rising, it is unclear whether the tactics PDVSA and its partners employed over the past year to export Venezuelan oil will remain viable. Even before it announced its complete withdrawal from Venezuela on March 28, Rosneft had not lifted any crude from the country’s ports for around a month. Meanwhile, global oil prices have plunged in recent months due to a collapse in demand resulting from the spread of the novel coronavirus. Venezuela’s crude output has dropped by more than 20% this year to below 700,000 barrels per day. Still, there are signs the discreet trade will continue.With few established oil companies willing to buy oil directly from Venezuela over fears of provoking Trump, two little-known Mexican firms - Libre Abordo and Schlager Business Group - recently emerged as the largest intermediaries for PDVSA crude. The companies told Reuters they had a deal with Maduro’s government to supply goods, including corn and water trucks, in exchange for the oil, which they then resell. The US Federal Bureau of Investigation has been investigating the two companies, among others, as part of an inquiry into possible violations of US sanctions on PDVSA, according to three people familiar with the matter.The Mexican firms said swaps of goods for Venezuelan oil were permitted under US sanctions as long as no cash payments reached Maduro’s government. The companies said they have no knowledge of any US investigation into their practices.On Feb. 11, a Panama-flagged tanker named the Athens Voyager loaded some 700,000 barrels of crude near western Venezuela’s Amuay oil port, according to Refinitiv Eikon data. Its customer was Libre Abordo, according to an internal PDVSA document viewed by Reuters. On Sunday, April 5, the fully loaded Athens Voyager arrived at its destination: the Linggi STS hub off the coast of Malaysia. There it pumped its cargo onto a Liberia-flagged vessel named the Loyalty A on April 17.The manager of the Athens Voyager, Greece-based Chemnav Shipmanagement Ltd, deferred comment to the vessel’s owner, Marshall Islands-based Afranav Maritime Ltd. The manager of the Loyalty A, Jacinta Marine Corp of Lagos, Nigeria, did not respond to a request for comment.On June 2, the US Treasury Department announced sanctions against Afranav Shipmanagement for its alleged role in trading Venezuelan oil. It said the Athens Voyager had lifted oil from Venezuelan ports as recently as mid-February.Afranav did not respond to requests for comment.Libre Abordo, meanwhile, declared bankruptcy on May 31. It said its arrangement with Venezuela had been suspended by Maduro, and that it was the target of an international pressure campaign driven by Washington. In a June 8 email to Reuters, Libre Abordo confirmed that the oil transported aboard the Athens Voyager was registered in its name. On June 10, Libre Abordo said further that the documentation of origin reflected that the crude came from Venezuela. The company said it sent the oil to Malaysia, where it was offloaded to another ship at the behest of the final customer, whose name it would not disclose.According to Refinitiv Eikon data, the receiving vessel, the Loyalty A, is currently en route to Qingdao, China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vast-amounts-of-venezuelan-oil-are-hidden-en-route-to-china-bypassing-us-sanctions-data-documents/story-5xTMzNc9dRhDnzjKLf5vCK.html
12-06-2020||World||Covid-19: UK GDP drops record 20% as airlines challenge quarantine||The United Kingdom’s economy shrank by a record 20 per cent in April in the first month of lockdown, new figures said on Friday, as three airlines challenged the Boris Johnson government’s quarantine rules in the high court. Calling the GDP contraction “historic”, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said the fall affected virtually all areas of activity. The 20 per cent fall is thrice more than that recorded during the 2008 economic downturn.Reacting to the figures, chancellor Rishi Sunak said: “In line with many other economies around the world, coronavirus is having a severe impact on our economy”, adding that furlough scheme, grants, loans and tax cuts will help the economy recover quickly.“We’ve set out our plan to gradually and safely reopen the economy. Next week, more shops on the high street will be able to open again as we start to get our lives a little bit more back to normal,” Sunak added.Presenting the figures, Jonathan Athow, deputy national statistician at ONS, said: “April’s fall in GDP is the biggest the UK has ever seen, more than three times larger than last month and almost 10 times larger than the steepest pre-Covid-19 fall.”The ONS figure complements recent assessment by OECD that the UK economy would shrink by more than any developed country and by the Bank of England that GDP could contract by 25% in the second quarter and unemployment more than double.As analysts debated the ONS figures, British Airways, easyJet and Ryanair announced that they had launched legal action against quarantine rules that took effect on Monday. According to them, the rules will end up crippling airlines and tourism industries.Terming the rules ‘flawed’, they said there was so far no “evidence on how and when proposed ‘air bridges’ between the UK and other countries will be implemented”, adding that there was no consultation and no scientific evidence provided to support the policy.Under the rules defended by home secretary Priti Patel, most inbound travellers into UK ports need to self-isolate for 14 days, except those from Ireland, Isle of Man and the Channel Islands. Many airlines have shed thousands of jobs in recent days and weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-gdp-drops-record-20-as-airlines-challenge-quarantine/story-jh1YjWE3byTvstCZ4EsGJL.html
12-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter protests: Winston Churchill, Mahatma Gandhi statues in London covered||The statues of Winston Churchill and Mahatma Gandhi in Parliament Square have been boarded up to prevent them from being targeted during Black Lives Matter (BLM) protests that have sparked a review of historical figures in public places across the UK.The statues of Churchill and Gandhi were targeted during Sunday’s large demonstration in London, while in Bristol, the statue of 17th century slave trader Edward Colston was pulled down and thrown into the Avon river.As another major demonstration is planned for the weekend, London’s local officials boarded up statues of Churchill, Gandhi and Nelson Mandela, as well as the Cenotaph (war memorial) in nearby Whitehall.In Leicester, the local council said it would review the Gandhi statue on Belgrave Road, along with other statues, street and building names. An online petition seeking its removal was close to reaching the limit of 5,000 signatories before being submitted to the council.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday that it is “absurd and shameful” that Churchill’s statue has been so targeted, and recalled the former prime minister’s contribution to British and European history, particularly during the Second World War.He said in a series of tweets: “The statue of Winston Churchill in Parliament Square is a permanent reminder of his achievement in saving this country – and the whole of Europe – from a fascist and racist tyranny”.“It is absurd and shameful that this national monument should today be at risk of attack by violence protestors. Yes, he sometimes expressed opinions that were and are unacceptable to us today, but he was a hero, and he fully deserves his memorial”.Johnson, who wrote a biography of Churchill in 2014, added: “We cannot now try to edit or censor our past. We cannot pretend to have a different history. The statues in our cities and towns were put up by previous generations”.“They had different perspectives, different understandings or rights and wrongs. But those statues teach us about our past, with all its faults. To tear them down would be to lie about our history, and impoverish the education of generations to come”.Appealing to people to stay away from demonstrations, Johnson alleged that the protests had been hijacked by extremists intent on violence. The attacks on police in recent protests, he said, were intolerant and abhorrent.On the remove-Gandhi-statue petition in Leicester, former MP Keith Vaz said: “This is a dreadful petition that seeks to divide communities in Leicester and in the country. Those behind it know full well the consequences of what they are asking for. Gandhi’s statues in Leicester and London are an inspiration for peace, harmony and non violence”. “He was one of the greatest peacemakers in history. If this is not withdrawn I will certainly refer it to the police to consider whether it incites racial hatred. We have come a long way in 33 years on racial equality but clearly there is a long way to go. If there is any attempt to remove it I will be there to defend it personally,” he added. A Leicester City Council spokesperson said: “We are aware of an online petition, calling for a statue of Gandhi – funded by a charitable organisation and erected in Leicester in 2009 – to be removed”. “Although this petition has not yet been submitted to us, these representations will be considered as part of a wider conversation about the context, relevance and appropriateness of street names, statues and monuments in the city”.“In such a culturally-diverse city as Leicester, it’s important that we respect the histories of all our communities and understand the context for the historical references that are part of our streetscape and built environment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-protests-winston-churchill-mahatma-gandhi-statues-in-london-covered/story-RrQDZD79f36NtfvzYjpZmN.html
12-06-2020||World||Iran asks French experts to read black boxes of downed Ukrainian plane||Iranian investigators have asked France’s BEA air accident agency to read black boxes from a downed Ukrainian jetliner, Iran’s envoy to the United Nations aviation agency said.The Ukraine International Airlines flight was shot down on January 8 by an Iranian ground-to-air missile, killing 176 people in what Tehran termed a “disastrous mistake” at a time of heightened tensions with the United States.The fate of the cockpit voice and data ‘black-box’ recorders has been the subject of an international standoff eclipsed by the coronavirus crisis, which Iran says has also contributed to delays in a probe by Iran’s Air Accident Investigation Board.Progress was discussed at a council meeting of the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization on Wednesday.“Iran’s AAIB recently made a request to the BEA that the recorders should be taken by Iran to the BEA’s premises in France to be read in the presence of representatives of other involved countries and ICAO, if the BEA is in a position to accommodate this,” Farhad Parvaresh, Iran’s representative to the UN agency, told Reuters by telephone.The BEA said it had not formally received the request and remained in discussions with Iran, Canada and Ukraine on any involvement it may have. Canada had 57 citizens on board.Iran has accused the United States, which built the Boeing 737-800, of refusing to provide software to decipher the recorders, while Canada and Ukraine have accused Tehran of dragging its feet over the probe.Sources said earlier this week that Iran had told ICAO it would take the recorders to Paris once countries involved in the probe agreed.Iran had earlier said it would send them to Ukraine.Canada this week called on Iran to allow the recorders to be downloaded in a suitable facility as soon as possible.The BEA last month read black-box data from a Pakistan-operated Airbus that crashed in Karachi on May 22. Pakistani investigators are expected to issue a preliminary report soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-asks-french-experts-to-read-black-boxes-of-downed-ukrainian-plane/story-3tO8tFmIeltmuc29HOpwXO.html
12-06-2020||World||China’s capital Beijing reports new coronavirus cases for second day||China’s capital reported two new coronavirus infections on Friday, a day after it declared its first case in nearly two months, prompting officials to delay plans for some students to return school. The new cases, from a different part of Beijing than Thursday’s infection, involved two men working at a meat research centre, state media said.It was not immediately clear how they were infected. Both men, aged 25 and 37, had had no contact with people from Hubei province, where the coronavirus was first identified, or travellers from overseas in the last 14 days, state media said, though the younger man was briefly in Qingdao city in the eastern province of Shandong.The Beijing city government said it had dropped plans to reopen school on Monday for students from the first to third grades because of the new cases. It said restaurants would be inspected and checks made on seafood products and fresh and frozen meats.The research facility, the China Meat Food Comprehensive Research Centre, in Fengtai district in the south of Beijing, remained open on Friday, according to the state-run Beijing Daily. Reuters could not immediately reach the Beijing Academy of Food Sciences, which oversees the centre, for comment.Two food markets within a 7 km radius of the plant had mostly been closed. State media Beijing News said city authorities had shut down beef and mutton trading at the Xinfadi wholesale market, where they carried out tests and disinfection after Thursday’s patient was found to have visited. Beijing’s Jingshen seafood market had also closed, the Beijing News added, saying that although the market gave no reason for the closure, Friday’s patients had visited recently.The men had been to Xinfadi, and recently also visited Dongsiqu agricultural wholesale market in Pinggu district, in the northeast of Beijing, state media reported, adding that the market would be closed from Saturday until further notice. The coronavirus is believed by many to have emerged at a seafood market in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei, in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-capital-beijing-reports-new-coronavirus-cases-for-second-day/story-pukdTUgBxRIgP6vJ3q0VbL.html
12-06-2020||World||Alleged Chinese spy arrested at LA airport for visa fraud||A Chinese scientific researcher suspected of espionage was arrested in Los Angeles this week as he attempted to leave the United States, officials said Thursday.Xin Wang was taken into custody on June 7 as he prepared to board a flight to China, the US Attorney’s Office in San Francisco and the local FBI office said in a joint statement.Authorities said Wang entered the US in March 2019 posing as a medical researcher seeking to do scientific research at the University of California, San Francisco.But officials said that in reality he admitted when questioned by Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) agents at the airport that he was an officer in the Chinese People’s Liberation Army, and was employed by a military university lab.Wang, according to court documents, told CBP agents that he had been instructed by his superiors in China to observe the layout of the UCSF lab and bring back information on how to replicate it in China.“CBP received information that Wang had studies from UCSF with him which he was taking to share with his PLA colleagues, and he had sent research to his lab in China via email,” officials said in their statement.“Wang similarly told his supervising UCSF professor that he had duplicated some of the work of that professor at the lab in China,” they added.Some of the work of the UCSF lab was funded by grants from the United States Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, federal officials said.Wang, they added, also wiped his personal phone of WeChat messaging content before arriving at the airport for his flight back home.He has been charged with visa fraud and faces up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine if convicted.His arrest comes as relations between Washington and Beijing have soured in recent months over the Covid-19 pandemic and trade issues.China denied claims Friday that the man was involved in espionage.“(The US) says that Wang Xin is a PLA officer, but (...) I understand he is a researcher in cardiovascular diseases, so I don’t see that he has jeopardized the national interest or security of the US,” said foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying at a regular press briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alleged-chinese-spy-arrested-at-la-airport-for-visa-fraud/story-RAFEqsWh0Fyk4FDGYZRh9I.html
12-06-2020||World||‘Absurd and shameful’ that Churchill statue is at risk of attack: Boris Johnson||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday it was “absurd and shameful” that a statue of Winston Churchill was at risk of attack by protesters, some of whom daubed the words “was a racist” at an earlier anti-racism demonstration. “It is absurd and shameful that this national monument should today be at risk of attack by violent protesters,” the British leader wrote on Twitter.“Yes, he sometimes expressed opinions that were and are unacceptable to us today, but he was a hero, and he fully deserves his memorial. We cannot now try to edit or censor our past. We cannot pretend to have a different history,” he said, calling on people to avoid protests planned this weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/absurd-and-shameful-that-churchill-statue-is-at-risk-of-attack-boris-johnson/story-3KcwursEwZTDVvaLFuSwYK.html
12-06-2020||World||Pak news channel fires 2 journalists for showing Kashmir as part of India||Pakistan’s state-run PTV News has fired two journalists for airing an “incorrect map” of the country in which Kashmir was shown as a part of India.The Pakistan Television (PTV) management on June 7 said on social media that it was probing the issue and actions would be taken against those responsible for the blunder.The hammer fell on June 10 after it sacked two employees.“Taking strict action on the recommendations of the inquiry committee designated to probe the airing of an incorrect image of a map of Pakistan on June 6 on PTV News, the PTV management has terminated two officials found responsible for the professional oversight,” it tweeted.Also read | Imran Khan tweets a swipe at India, hits mute on Pak economy. Here is why It has not identified the employees who have been sacked but said that it has zero tolerance for negligence.Earlier, Minister for Science and Technology Fawad Chaudhry and Minister for Human Rights Shireen Mazari also demanded action.Pakistan, in its official map, shows Kashmir as its part.India maintains that Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Aksai Chin are part of India’s Jammu and Kashmir, and that Kashmir Valley is an integral part of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-news-channel-fires-2-journalists-for-showing-kashmir-as-part-of-india/story-Xxgie7lIQZGNXvjskoE8vL.html
12-06-2020||World||China’s Hubei province to further lower Covid-19 emergency response level||Government of China’s central Hubei province said on Friday it will lower its Covid-19 emergency response from level II to level III effective from Saturday.Hubei, the original epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak, has no confirmed cases over the past 24 days, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-hubei-province-to-further-lower-covid-19-emergency-response-level/story-1J8sG4hfgBskhydNm4DndO.html
12-06-2020||World||Four killed and ‘many injured’ in blast in Kabul mosque: Interior ministry||A blast in a Kabul mosque during Friday prayers killed at least four people and wounded many more, Afghanistan’s interior ministry said on Friday.“Explosives placed inside the Shir Shah-E-Suri Mosque exploded during Friday prayers,” said a Ministry of Interior statement, adding that the West Kabul mosque’s mullah was among those killed.No group immediately claimed responsibility for the attack.The United States is attempting to broker peace talks between the Afghan government and the insurgent Taliban to end 18 years of war. The Islamic State group also has a presence in the country and has carried out large-scale attacks in Kabul in recent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/four-killed-and-many-injured-in-blast-in-kabul-mosque-interior-ministry/story-BXUExIpYGnv68oVAMOgU7N.html
12-06-2020||World||UK set to U-turn on EU border checks as virus slams economy||The British government is watering down plans for full border checks on goods coming from the European Union to relieve pressure on businesses hammered by the coronavirus pandemic, U.K. media reported Friday.The U.K. left the now-27-nation bloc on Jan. 31, but remains part of its single market for trade and other economic structures during a transition period that lasts until the end of the year.The two sides are trying to negotiate a free trade deal to kick in after that, but talks have stalled amid wide differences over key issues, from fishing rights to competition rules. The U.K. insists it won’t ask to extend the transition period, even though a two-year extension is permitted under a U.K.-EU divorce agreement.Many British businesses say that will leave them facing devastating tariffs and red tape.Also read | UK economy shrank by colossal 20.4% in April due to Covid-19 shutdownIn February the U.K. government announced that goods coming from the EU would require inspections and customs declarations. But the Financial Times reported that Michael Gove, the minister in charge of Brexit preparations, will announce a more “pragmatic and flexible” approach to border checks.U.K. exports to the EU are still likely to face checks entering the bloc, however.Britain’s economy is already reeling from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Economic activity shrank by 20.4% in April, the first full month after a nationwide lockdown was introduced to slow the spread of the virus.Also read | Difference with UK narrows as India records big jump in Covid-19 cases, 357 deaths in 24 hoursCovid-19 has also set back British plans to have new customs facilities and border officials in place by the end of this year.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is due to hold talks with EU chief Ursula von der Leyen and other top officials of the bloc by video call on Monday in a bid to break the impasse in trade talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-set-to-u-turn-on-eu-border-checks-as-virus-slams-economy/story-XdWMrhOkcFqCKzOhGtbxEJ.html
12-06-2020||World||China says US should address North Korea’s concerns||China said on Friday the United States should take concrete measures to address North Korea’s concerns, amid escalating tensions between Pyongyang and Washington. Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters during a daily briefing that one reason for the deterioration in bilateral relations since a summit in Singapore in 2018 was because North Korea’s legitimate concerns had not been resolved. North Korea sees little use maintaining a personal relationship between its leader, Kim Jong Un, and U.S. President Donald Trump if Washington sticks to hostile policies, state media reported on Friday - the two-year anniversary of the leaders’ first summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-us-should-address-north-korea-s-concerns/story-X7PLCO4bizAvOyUIajgclI.html
12-06-2020||World||North Korea denounces US two years after Singapore summit||North Korea criticised Donald Trump in a stinging denunciation of the United States on Friday, the second anniversary of a landmark summit in Singapore where the US president shook hands with leader Kim Jong Un.It was the latest in a series of vitriolic statements from Pyongyang aimed at both Washington and Seoul, and came a day after the North implicitly threatened to disrupt November’s election if the US did not stay out of inter-Korean affairs. In recent days, Pyongyang has excoriated the South over defectors launching leaflets criticising Kim into the North and announced it was cutting all official communication links with Seoul.Friday’s broadside contained some of the harshest criticism Pyongyang has sent Washington’s way in recent months, and casts doubt over the future of the two sides’ long-stalled nuclear talks process.In the onslaught, the North’s foreign minister Ri Son Gwon accused Washington of hypocrisy and seeking regime change, saying that the hopes of 2018 had “faded away into a dark nightmare”.Trump and Kim were all smiles in front of the world’s cameras in Singapore as a North Korean leader met a sitting US president for the first time, and afterwards Trump proclaimed on Twitter that “There is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea.”But a second meeting in Hanoi last year to put meat on the bones of the North’s vaguely worded Singapore pledge to “work toward complete denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula” collapsed over what Pyongyang would be willing to give up in exchange for sanctions relief.- ‘Hypocritical’ - US diplomats insist that they believe Kim promised in Singapore to give up its arsenal, something Pyongyang has taken no steps to do.The North is under multiple international sanctions over its banned weapons programmes.It believes it deserves to be rewarded for its moratorium on nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile tests and the disabling of its atomic test site, along with the return of jailed US citizens and remains of soldiers killed in the Korean War.“Nothing is more hypocritical than an empty promise,” Ri said in his statement, carried by the official KCNA news agency.Trump has made much of his connection with Kim -- at one point declaring that they had fallen “in love” through their exchanges of letters.But Ri said Pyongyang now believed there was no hope for an improvement “simply by maintaining personal relations between our Supreme Leadership and the US President”.He stopped just short of criticising Trump by name, but referred to comments that “the master of the White House” had “reeled off time and time again as a boast”.“Never again will we provide the US chief executive with another package to be used... without receiving any returns.”Pyongyang’s latest comments were not an empty threat, said Rachel Minyoung Lee, a former North Korea analyst for the US government.“North Koreans know they will not be getting what they want either from South Korea or the US,” she told AFP. “Diplomacy no longer seems to be in the cards.”North Korea’s chief diplomatic ally China urged Washington to acknowledge Pyongyang’s “legitimate concerns”, with foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying insisting the North had taken denuclearisation measures that merited a commensurate US response.- Deadline passed -Trump and Kim met a third time in June 2019 in the Demilitarized Zone dividing the Korean peninsula, when Trump stepped onto North Korean soil -- a first for any American president.But the meeting produced little in terms of tangible progress.Subsequently, the North repeatedly demanded that the US offer it fresh concessions by December 31, but the deadline came and went.Kim declared the North no longer considered itself bound by its unilateral testing moratoriums. It has not yet carried out any such actions, but analysts believe it has continued to develop its arsenal throughout the discussions.Ri accused Washington of seeking regime change and said the North had decided to bolster its nuclear deterrent “to cope with the US unabated threats of nuclear war”.Pyongyang has carried out a series of tests of shorter-range weapons in recent months -- often describing them as multiple launch rocket systems, although Japan and the United States have called them ballistic missiles.The process leading to the Singapore summit was brokered by the South’s President Moon Jae-in, but his office said Friday it had no comment to make on the anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-denounces-us-two-years-after-singapore-summit/story-Zg3oNRSpwap729D148RXMI.html
12-06-2020||World||UK’s biggest airlines launch legal action over quarantine rules||The biggest airlines operating in the UK sued the government to overturn a new requirement that people arriving in Britain self-isolate for two weeks amid the Covid-19 pandemic.British Airways moved with budget carriers Ryanair Holdings Plc and EasyJet Plc to try to block the rules, which began Monday. They require travelers arriving in the UK to self-quarantine despite criticism from the airline industry that the move will stop lockdown-weary customers from booking summer vacations.The government’s plan “will have a devastating effect on British tourism and the wider economy and destroy thousands of jobs,” the airlines said Friday in an emailed statement. They’ve asked for their judicial review to be heard as soon as possible.British Airways parent IAG SA wrote to the Home Office to start a process to block the measure last week, but was left disappointed by the government response. On Friday, the Home Office declined to immediately comment on the lawsuit.Prime Minister Boris Johnson is trying to balance the need for businesses to reopen with the risks of controlling the spread of coronavirus, which has hit the UK worse than any other European country. The government, which made a series of radical moves in March including ordering many businesses to shut, is now taking measures to ease the lockdown and encourage the economy to start moving again.BA and its rivals want the government to roll its plan back to rules in force since March 10, which required only travelers from “high risk” countries to self-isolate.The new rules are tougher on travelers than on people who have been confirmed with Covid-19, the airlines said. Their challenge says the requirements weren’t properly discussed and haven’t been backed up by scientific advice. Frequent fliers from countries such as France and Germany, where infection rates have dropped, are being penalized, the airlines said.Global carriers have been some of the worst hit businesses. The International Air Transport Association on Tuesday predicted carriers will lose a combined $84 billion this year and almost $16 billion in 2021, its first estimate of the hit to earnings since the coronavirus crisis began. That compares with $31 billion during the 2008-2009 recession.With infection levels on the decline in most European countries, governments have been easing travel restrictions, and beaches are opening in Greece, Spain and Portugal. Airlines are trying to salvage the summer season when tens of millions of people generally take their vacation.The quarantine would torpedo BA’s plans to resume about 40% of its scheduled flights in July and force it to continue burning 20 million pounds ($25 million) a day, the carrier said. EasyJet is planning to resume some scheduled flights June 15, while Ryanair plans to restart flying July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-biggest-airlines-launch-legal-action-over-quarantine-rules/story-arOqUDnEhc7mqwNR1pd3fM.html
12-06-2020||World||European Union warns Covid-19 health crisis not over yet, urges vigilance||The public health crisis caused by the Covid-19 epidemic in Europe is not over yet, the European Union’s top health official warned on Friday, urging governments to remain vigilant and plough ahead with testing and tracing the population.“This is not behind us yet. We need to be vigilant,” EU Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides told EU health ministers in a videoconference, amid fears of a new surge in infections as EU states gradually reopen business and borders and after mass protests in recent days across the continent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-union-warns-covid-19-health-crisis-not-over-yet-urges-vigilance/story-PcjSS3AO7jHeJ4ryrGBXaM.html
12-06-2020||World||Beijing reports 2 new Covid-19 cases; students, staff in home quarantine after classmate’s father tests positive||Beijing reported two more confirmed cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of new infections to three in less than a week after city authorities lowered the outbreak emergency response to level three, the second lowest.The three new cases were reported in about 48 hour after Beijing went without a new domestic infection case for 55 days. Two colleagues, both male, working at the China Meat Food Comprehensive Research Centre were diagnosed with the disease in the city’s Fengtai district, Beijing health authorities said on Friday.Both patients, one 37, the other, 25, have been transferred to designated hospitals and medics are now carrying out contact tracing among the family, friends and remaining office workers who shared space with the two.One of the two patients had also travelled to the city of Qingdao in the past week, the officials said.Meanwhile, nearly 50 primary school students and teachers have been quarantined at home after a fourth-grader’s father was diagnosed with Covid-19 this week, the first locally transmitted case in Beijing reported in nearly two months.The fear of a school-based cluster infection breaking out in Beijing as the city nears normalcy means health authorities have swung back into action with contact tracing.It is still a mystery how the 52-year-old male patient Tang Moumou, resident of Beijing’s Xicheng district, was infected as he has told the authorities that he never left Beijing nor did he meet anyone from outside the city.Tang’s son and another family member have tested negative for the coronavirus, a Beijing health official said on Friday.However, the son’s classmates and teachers who have interacted with him have all been sent to home quarantine, to be spent under medical observation.Under the emergency response plan, 33 other students in the class of Tang’s child and 15 faculty members who have been in contact with the class are all being observed at home. Classrooms, toilets and other public areas in the school have been disinfectedTang’s apartment complex has been put under “closed loop” management and entry and exit are now being monitored with temperature checks made mandatory. Pang Xinghuo, deputy head of the Beijing Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said the new case had “sounded the alarm for us that the risk of another outbreak exists all the time”.“It reminds us to have a deep understanding of significance, complexity and uncertainty of the epidemic prevention and control in the capital. We must always tighten the string of epidemic prevention and control,” she said.Beijing last Saturday downgraded its Covid-19 emergency response to level three, the second lowest.However, following the new case, a meeting of the local government emphasised that the “…source of case flow tracing should be carried out strictly and quickly, the tracing time should be long enough, and the scope of close contact should be accurate enough to ensure that no one person is missed”.Meanwhile, the Chinese health authority said Friday that it received reports of seven new confirmed Covid-19 cases on the Chinese mainland Thursday, of which six were imported from overseas.Shanghai reported six new imported Covid-19 cases on Thursday including two Chinese nationals and four Pakistanis.The two Chinese nationals departed from the US and India, arriving at Shanghai Pudong International Airport on June 8 and 9.As of Thursday, according to the official news agency, Xinhua, the overall confirmed cases on the mainland had reached 83064, including 65 patients who were still being treated with no one in severe condition. Altogether 78,365 people had been discharged after recovery and 4,634 people had died of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-reports-2-new-covid-19-cases-students-staff-in-home-quarantine-after-classmate-s-father-tests-positive/story-ZpJ9TdbhgCq0qbZzwW4LsN.html
12-06-2020||World||Pakistan reports record single day spike in Covid-19 infections||Pakistan has reported 6,397 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, the highest single day spike, taking the total number of infections in the country to 1,25,933, the health ministry said on Friday.The new record single day spike was reported on a day when the Pakistan government was to present the budget for the 2020-21 fiscal year in Parliament after showing dismal negative 0.38 per cent Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth in the outgoing year, for which the officials have blamed the coronavirus outbreak among the main reasons.The Ministry of National Health Services reported that 107 patients died of coronavirus during the last 24 hours. A total of 40,247 patients have recovered from the contagious infection so far.Punjab province has reported 47,382 patients of coronavirus, Sindh 46,828, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 15,787, Balochistan 7,673, Islamabad 6,699, Gilgit-Baltistan 1,030 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir reported 534 cases till now, the health ministry said.“A total of 809,169 tests has been conducted so far, including a record 28,344 in the last 24 hours,” the ministry said in a statement. Though the government would present the Budget in Parliament on Thursday, the attendance is expected to be low as several of them have been diagnosed with the coronavirus infection, including opposition leader Shehbaz Sharif.Advisor on economic affairs Dr Abdul Hafeed Shaikh, while launching the Economic Survey on Thursday, said that Pakistan’s economy suffered more than Rs 3 trillion losses due to the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-reports-record-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-infections/story-j9dzUV97TdZ8ybcYpLPCGN.html
12-06-2020||World||Scientists looking at tuberculosis, polio vaccines to ward off coronavirus: Report||Researchers in the US are looking at the possibility of using tuberculosis and polio vaccines in providing protection from the deadly coronavirus, according to a media report. Tests are underway to see if the tuberculosis vaccine can slow the novel coronavirus, The Washington Post reported on Thursday. “This is the only vaccine in the world that can be given to combat COVID-19 right now,” Jeffrey D Cirillo, a professor of microbial pathogenesis and immunology at Texas A&M Health Science Center, was quoted as saying by the Post. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the contagion has infected over 75,00,000 people and killed more than 4,20,000 across the world. The US is the worst affected country with over 2.02 million cases and more than 1,13,000 deaths. The COVID-19, which originated in China’s Wuhan city in December last year, has also battered the world economy with the International Monetary Fund saying that the global economy is bound to suffer a “severe recession”. Scientists are racing against time to find a vaccine or medicine for its treatment. Dr Cirillo is leading a trial of the tuberculosis vaccine, called bacillus Calmette-Guérin and known by the shorthand BCG. The BCG vaccine, he said, is already approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and has a lengthy record of being used safely. Another group of scientists, according to report, have proposed using the polio vaccine to slow the COVID-19. “Vaccines developed against TB (tuberculosis) and polio have already been used in millions of people and could offer a low-risk way to rev up the body’s first line of defence — the innate immune system — against a broad array of pathogens, including the coronavirus,” the group said. Pakistani-American Azra Raza, a professor of medicine at Columbia University Medical Center, told the daily that BCG can improve people’s ability to fight off other pathogens, even for patients who are given the vaccine for another approved use, against bladder cancer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-looking-at-tuberculosis-polio-vaccines-to-ward-off-coronavirus-report/story-dL7S9Z5cxj3XXYJ6Ml6AnJ.html
12-06-2020||World||US naval buildup in Indo-Pacific seen as warning to China||For the first time in nearly three years, three American aircraft carriers are patrolling the Indo-Pacific waters, a massive show of naval force in a region roiled by spiking tensions between the US and China and a sign that the Navy has bounced back from the worst days of the coronavirus outbreak.The unusual simultaneous appearance of the three warships, accompanied by Navy cruisers, destroyers, fighter jets and other aircraft, comes as the US escalates criticism of Beijing’s response to the coronavirus outbreak, its moves to impose greater control over Hong Kong and its campaign to militarise human-made islands in the South China Sea.“There have been some indications in Chinese writings that the United States was hit hard by Covid-19, that military preparedness was low, so perhaps there is an effort by the United States to signal China that it should not miscalculate,” said Bonnie Glaser, director of the China Power Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “The Chinese will definitely portray this as an example of US provocations, and as evidence that the US is a source of instability in the region.” President Donald Trump, criticised for his own handling of the coronavirus outbreak, has condemned China for what he sees as a failure to adequately warn the world about the Covid-19 threat. The administration has also moved to ban Chinese graduate students and researchers with links to the People’s Liberation Army or other security services from the United States.The convergence of three carrier strike groups in the region is unusual because of the limited number of carriers and the fact that they are often cycling through repair schedules, port visits, training or deployments to other parts of the world. This week, however, Navy commanders said they were able to take advantage of the timing, particularly during this period of great power competition with China.The US national defense strategy cites China as a top security concern, and Pentagon leaders have been working to shift more resources and military assets to the region to battle what they see is Beijing’s growing economic influence and military might.“The ability to be present in a strong way is part of the competition. And as I always tell my guys here, you’ve got to be present to win when you’re competing,” said Rear Adm. Stephen Koehler, director of operations at Indo-Pacific Command. “Carriers and carrier strike groups writ large are phenomenal symbols of American naval power. I really am pretty fired up that we’ve got three of them at the moment.” Speaking to The Associated Press from his office in Hawaii, Koehler said China is slowly and methodically building up military outposts in the South China Sea, putting missile and electronic warfare systems on them. The US and other allies and partners in the region have beefed up operations near the human-made islands to try to blunt China’s development, but none of that has appeared to work.Koehler said that most recently China deployed aircraft to Fiery Cross Reef in the Spratly Islands and is now operating them out of there.On Thursday, the strike group warships were spread out across the Indo-Pacific. The USS Theodore Roosevelt and its strike group are operating in the Philippine Sea near Guam. The USS Nimitz strike group is in the Pacific off the US West Coast. The USS Ronald Reagan has left port in Japan and is operating in the Philippine Sea south of there. Navy commanders were quick to point out that dozens of other Navy ships had been operating around the Pacific, but the three strike groups put a bit of an exclamation point on America’s commitment to the region and its allies. The Roosevelt has just returned to duty after spending more than two months sidelined in Guam with a massive Covid-19 outbreak among its crew. And small numbers of sailors on the Nimitz and the Reagan tested positive for the virus, triggering quarantines and extensive new health and safety procedures that had to be instituted before the ships could deploy.As they deploy, sailors’ daily lives on the ships and to some degree their operations at sea have been altered by the virus and the new precautions they must take to ensure the ships remain clear of infection and able to continue operations.Onboard the Nimitz, Rear Adm. Jim Kirk said there have been no positive cases of the virus on the ship since it set out, and he is confident of all the changes put in place to keep it that way. On the Nimitz and the other Pacific ships, crew members are screened daily, they wear masks where needed, meal hours have been extended to allow for more social distancing, and specific routes are designated on the ship to prevent sailors from bumping into one another in the narrow passageways and stairs.“As we head out to stand the watch, the message that I have is that this is the end of the beginning” for the crew, said Kirk, commander of Carrier Strike Group 11. “Now it’s time to go about doing our job to the best of our abilities.” Koehler said the ships will continue to work with allies and partners in the region, conducting exercises at sea and patrolling contested regions. One key change, however, will be their ability to stop in foreign ports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-naval-buildup-in-indo-pacific-seen-as-warning-to-china/story-RzA5NHQxB2O1bpWZWhXQLK.html
12-06-2020||World||Seattle mayor tells Donald Trump to ‘go back to your bunker’||Seattle’s mayor told Donald Trump to “Go back to your bunker” Thursday, escalating a spat after the president threatened to intervene over a police-free autonomous zone protesters have set up in the western US city.The reference to a “bunker” was a nod to reports Trump was rushed by Secret Service agents to a secure area in the White House as demonstrations against racism and police brutality sparked by the death of George Floyd reached the president’s residence. Trump sparked the spat when he threatened to intervene in the neighbourhood in Seattle dubbed “Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone,” or CHAZ, which was agreed upon by demonstrators and the city’s police department.“Take back your city NOW. If you don’t do it, I will,” Trump warned mayor Jenny Durkan and Washington state governor Jay Inslee -- both Democrats -- in a tweet late Wednesday, calling the protesters “domestic terrorists” who have taken over Seattle. Radical Left Governor @JayInslee and the Mayor of Seattle are being taunted and played at a level that our great Country has never seen before. Take back your city NOW. If you don’t do it, I will. This is not a game. These ugly Anarchists must be stopped IMMEDIATELY. MOVE FAST!“This is not a game. These ugly Anarchists must be stooped (sic) IMMEDIATELY. MOVE FAST,” he continued in another tweet.Mayor Jenny Durkan replied, urging Trump to “make us all safe. Go back to your bunker”, with Inslee joining in the Twitter mockery of Trump.Make us all safe. Go back to your bunker. #BlackLivesMatter https://t.co/H3TXduhlY4||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/seattle-mayor-tells-donald-trump-to-go-back-to-your-bunker/story-LW9GruO9PbbJvEHr3cFwIJ.html
12-06-2020||World||Donald Trump considering suspending H1B, other visas: Report||US President Donald Trump is considering suspending a number of employment visas including the H1B, most sought-after among Indian IT professionals, in view of the massive unemployment in America due to the coronavirus pandemic, according to a media report. The proposed suspension could extend into the government’s new fiscal year beginning October 1, when many new visas are issued, The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday, quoting unnamed administration officials. “That could bar any new H1B holder outside the country from coming to work until the suspension is lifted, though visa holders already in the country are unlikely to be affected,” the daily reported. H1B is the most coveted foreign work visas for technology professionals from India. Such a decision by the Trump administration is likely to have an adverse impact on thousands of Indian IT professionals. Already a large number of Indians on the H1B visas have lost their jobs and are headed back home during the coronavirus pandemic. The White House, however, said that no final decision has been made and the administration is considering various proposals. “The administration is currently evaluating a wide range of options, formulated by career experts, to protect American workers and job seekers especially disadvantaged and underserved citizens — but no decisions of any kind have been made,” White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said in a statement. In addition to the H1B visas, the suspension could apply to the H-2B visa for short-term seasonal workers, the J-1 visa for short-term workers including camp counselors and au pairs and the L-1 visa for internal company transfers, the financial daily reported. Meanwhile, the US Chambers of Commerce CEO Thomas Donohue on Thursday wrote a letter to Trump, expressing concern over his reported move on temporary work visas. “As the economy rebounds, American businesses will need assurances that they can meet all their workforce needs. To that end, it is crucial that they have access to talent both domestically and from around the world,” Donohue wrote in a letter to Trump. According to The Hill newspaper, Donohue said that American businesses need L-1 visa holders, who have a work visa valid for a relatively short amount of time, for necessary expertise. He noted the importance of H1B visa holders, who have a work visa valid for multiple years, for various industries, including technology, accounting and manufacturers, the newspaper said. “Policies that would, for example, impose wide-ranging bans on the entry of nonimmigrant workers or impose burdensome new regulatory requirements on businesses that employ foreign nationals would undermine that access to talent and in the process, undercut our economy’s ability to grow and create jobs,” Donohue added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-considering-suspending-h1b-other-visas-report/story-IOMwjkhKwe6n2WF6bbOoYL.html
12-06-2020||World||On Kim-Trump summit anniversary, North Korea vows to build up military||North Korea on Friday again vowed to build up its military force to counter what it perceives as US threats and said there would be little reason for a personal relationship between leader Kim Jong Un and President Donald Trump if Washington persists with sanctions and pressure.On the two-year anniversary of the leaders’ first summit, North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Son Gwon said the North would never again gift Trump with high-profile meetings and concessions he could boast as foreign policy achievements unless it gets something substantial in return.“The question is whether there will be a need to keep holding hands shaken in Singapore, as we see that there is nothing of factual improvement to be made in the DPRK-US relations simply by maintaining personal relations between our supreme leadership and the US President,” Ri said in a statement carried by state media, referring to North Korea by its formal name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.“Never again will we provide the US chief executive with another package to be used for (political) achievements without receiving any returns. Nothing is more hypocritical than an empty promise.”In their 2018 summit in Singapore, the first-ever meeting between active leaders of the two countries, Kim and Trump agreed to improve bilateral relations and issued a vague statement on a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula without describing when and how it would occur.But negotiations faltered after the United States rejected North Korean demands for broad sanctions relief in exchange for a partial surrender of the North’s nuclear capabilities at Kim’s second summit with Trump in Vietnam in February 2019.Trump and Kim met for a third time last June at the inter-Korean border, but a subsequent working-level meeting broke down over what the North Koreans described as the Americans’ “old stance and attitude.”Kim, who unilaterally suspended nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile tests during talks with Washington and Seoul, entered the new year vowing to bolster his nuclear deterrent. The North in recent months conducted short-range missile tests while also dialing up pressure on South Korea.Ri said the past two years of diplomacy has only revealed that the United States the continues to pursue “regime change” in Pyongyang and threatens the North with the prospects of a pre-emptive nuclear strike and “isolation and suffocation.”“The secure strategic goal of the DPRK is to build up more reliable force to cope with the long-term military threats from the Us,” he said.North Korea has suspended virtually all cooperation with South Korea in recent months while pressuring Seoul to defy US-led international sanctions and restart inter-Korean economic projects that would breathe life into the North’s struggling economy.It also has threatened to end an inter-Korean military agreement reached in 2018 while expressing anger over South Korea’s inability to stop activists from floating anti-Pyongyang leaflets across the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-kim-trump-summit-anniversary-north-korea-vows-to-build-up-military/story-PwRkaB1hEDR8D0GxKLUDmL.html
12-06-2020||World||White House eyes travel from Mexico as source of Covid-19 infection||The White House is exploring the possibility that travel from Mexico may be contributing to a new wave of coronavirus infections, rather than states’ moves toward reopening their economies.The notion was discussed at some length Thursday during a meeting of the administration’s coronavirus task force in the White House Situation Room that focused on identifying commonalities between new outbreaks. Officials also considered how to surge response capabilities.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was deploying teams to Arizona and other hotspots to try to trace the outbreaks and contain them.In addition to Arizona, other states experiencing recent spikes of infections include California, Texas and North Carolina — particularly within the Hispanic community. As a result, the task force is looking at whether those spikes may be tied to legal travel between the US and Mexico, which is experiencing an ongoing severe coronavirus outbreak.Two officials familiar with the discussions described them to The Associated Press, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly describe internal conversations.While President Donald Trump has gone to great lengths to seal US borders to both legal and illegal immigrants during the outbreak, American citizens and permanent residents are still allowed entry to the US, as are agricultural workers.The White House task force was also looking at other causes for a recent uptick in numbers, noting that the issues likely differ by location. Delays in test reporting and the fact that some infected people take multiple tests in order to get an all-clear to return to work are among the other theories that are being explored.Trump has long pointed to Mexico as a source of crime and disease in the US, and has used the crisis to push forward some of his most hard-line immigration proposals, including blocking asylum at the border and limiting the issuance of green cards to those living outside the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-eyes-travel-from-mexico-as-source-of-covid-19-infection/story-g6yztZwqQIJB2LdZHfYd8K.html
12-06-2020||World||India rejects US govt report on religious freedom||India on Thursday rejected a US government report that raised concerns over alleged attacks and discrimination against religious and ethnic minorities in the country.“Our principled position remains that we see no locus standi for a foreign entity to pronounce on the state of our citizens’ constitutionally protected rights,” Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said.He was replying to a question on the report at an online media briefing.Mandated by the US Congress, the ‘2019 International Religious Freedom Report’ that documents major instances of the violation of religious freedom across the world was released by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday.“India’s vibrant democratic traditions and practices are evident to the world. The people and government of India are proud of our country’s democratic traditions,” the spokesperson said.“We have a robust public discourse in India and constitutionally mandated institutions that guarantee protection of religious freedom and rule of law,” he added.The India section of the report said that the US government officials underscored the importance of respecting religious freedom, promoting tolerance and mutual respect with the ruling and opposition parties and religious leaders belonging to various communities.In their engagement with government officials, media, interfaith harmony organizations and NGOs, US officials emphasised the need to address the legitimate concerns of the country’s religious minorities, condemn communal rhetoric, and ensure full protection of minorities, it said.The report also referred to the revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir last August and the parliament passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December as major highlights for India last year.“The report is published annually by the department of state as part of its legal requirement to the US Congress and is an internal document of the US government,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-rejects-us-govt-report-on-religious-freedom/story-biNdVHa5s7tMM7lFNpQjyH.html
12-06-2020||World||Hong Kong’s anti-government protests complete one year||One year ago, a sea of humanity — a million people by some estimates — streamed through central Hong Kong on a steamy afternoon. It was the start of what would grow into the longest-lasting and most violent anti-government movement the city has seen since its return to China in 1997. A year later, as new protests simmer, China is poised to enact a national security law to crack down on further disturbance. After 12 months of exhilaration for some, exasperation for others and exhaustion for all, Hong Kong’s future still hangs in the balance.JUNE 9, 2019: Hundreds of thousands of people demonstrate against proposed amendments to Hong Kong laws that would allow suspects to be extradited to China to face trial. Many feel the legislation would undermine the “one country, two systems” principle under which Hong Kong was returned to China by exposing residents to a murky legal system with fewer protections. An even larger march against the proposal took place the following week.JUNE 12: Protesters take over the streets around Hong Kong’s legislature, known as Legco, and prevent lawmakers from entering to debate the extradition bill. Some throw rocks and metal barricades at police. Officers use tear gas to disperse the crowds in what will become a common practice in the months ahead.JULY 1: Protesters smash their way into the legislature building on a public holiday, spray-paint slogans on the walls, tear down the portraits of legislative leaders and deface the Hong Kong city emblem in the main chamber. The legislature remains closed for repairs for a few months.AUG. 17: A large contingent of Chinese militarized police with armored vehicles mass to hold drills in Shenzhen, the mainland city bordering Hong Kong. The presence of the People’s Armed Police, whose functions include crowd and riot control, sparks speculation that they would intervene in Hong Kong’s protests.AUG. 25: Hong Kong police deploy a water cannon for the first time as clashes with protesters escalate. The water is often laced with pepper spray to cause a stinging sensation and dyed with coloring to mark the clothing of those who join protests.SEPT. 4: With no end in sight for the protests, Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam says the government will formally withdraw the extradition legislation. By then, though, the movement’s demands have expanded to include an independent investigation into alleged police brutality against protesters, the unconditional release of those detained and greater democracy in city elections.NOV. 2019: Protesters occupy and barricade several university campuses for several days and battle police outside in some of the most violent clashes in the months of protests.NOV. 24: The pro-democracy opposition wins a sweeping victory in district council elections across the city of 7.5 million people. The results buoy the protesters, but pro-Beijing parties remain in control of the legislature, where only half the members are elected by popular vote.SPRING 2020: The protests ease somewhat in the weeks following the election and are further slowed by the coronavirus outbreak. The arrest of 15 prominent pro-democracy activists in mid-April sparks small protests in shopping malls that are broken up by police, who cite virus-related limits on the size of public gatherings.MAY 28: China’s National People’s Congress ratifies a decision to develop national security laws for Hong Kong. Chinese and Hong Kong leaders say the protests created an urgent need for such laws. Pro-democracy activists and many legal experts fear a further erosion of “one-country, two systems.” The laws are expected to be enacted by the end of the summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-s-anti-government-protests-complete-one-year/story-yFt8Lzas9SVk2sPiKSenzJ.html
12-06-2020||World||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani agrees to hold talks with Taliban||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has agreed to hold a round of negotiations with the Taliban in Qatari capital of Doha, said Qatari Foreign Ministry Special Envoy Mutlaq Al-Qahtani.“President Ghani agreed to hold the negotiations with the Taliban in Qatar,” Sputnik quoted Al-Qahtani as saying. The envoy made the remarks after a meeting with Chairman of the Afghan High Council for National Reconciliation Abdullah Abdullah in Kabul.Abdullah said after the talks with Al-Qahtani that Kabul was appreciating Doha’s efforts aimed at ensuring peace and security in Afghanistan.On Sunday, the TOLOnews broadcaster reported, citing sources close to the Taliban, that the negotiations between the group and the Afghan government would be held in Doha.The exact date of the meeting has not yet been revealed, but the government has reportedly agreed to release 5,000 Taliban prisoners, as envisioned by the US-Taliban peace deal signed in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-president-ashraf-ghani-agrees-to-hold-talks-with-taliban/story-8aN4r1AW282mYqhXJqTXJL.html
12-06-2020||World||Twitter shuts down 1.7 lakh accounts for spreading Chinese govt narratives||Twitter has removed a vast network of accounts that it says is linked to the Chinese government and were pushing false information favourable to the country’s communist rulers. Beijing denied involvement Friday and said the company should instead take down accounts smearing China. The US social media company suspended 23,750 accounts that were posting pro-Beijing narratives, and another 150,000 accounts dedicated to retweeting and amplifying those messages.The network was engaged “in a range of coordinated and manipulated activities” in predominantly Chinese languages, including praise for China’s response to the coronavirus pandemic and “deceptive narratives” about Hong Kong pro-democracy protests, the company said.The accounts also tweeted about two other topics: Taiwan and Guo Wengui, an exiled billionaire waging a campaign from New York against China’s president and party leader Xi Jinping and his administration. Most had little to no followers and failed to get much attention. The accounts were suspended under Twitter’s manipulation policies, which ban artificial amplification and suppression of information.Twitter and other social media services like Facebook and YouTube are blocked in China.“While the Chinese Communist Party won’t allow the Chinese people to use Twitter, our analysis shows it is happy to use it to sow propaganda and disinformation internationally,” said Fergus Hanson, director of the Australian Strategic Policy Institute’s International Cyber Policy Centre, which worked with the company on the takedown.China denied involvement.“It holds no water at all to equate China’s response to the epidemic with disinformation,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a daily news briefing on Friday.“If Twitter wants to make a difference, it should shut down those accounts that have been organized and coordinated to attack and discredit China,” she added.Twitter also removed more than 1,000 accounts linked to a Russian media website engaging in state-backed political propaganda in Russian, and a network of 7,340 fake or compromised accounts used for “cheerleading” the ruling party in Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-shuts-down-1-7-lakh-accounts-for-spreading-chinese-govt-narratives/story-FZGZjw6aq2DWEEdwcsArzL.html
12-06-2020||World||Canada’s foreign minister faces heat over $1mn loan from Chinese bank||Canada’s seniormost diplomat finds himself embroiled in a controversy, facing questions in the country’s parliament and from the media over a debt of more than 1 million Canadian Dollars to a state-owned Chinese bank. According to a report in the daily Globe and Mail, foreign minister Francoise-Philippe Champagne had taken out a mortgage with the Bank of China to purchase two residences in London. Those loans were taken before he was first elected an MP in 2015, and have been partly repaid, with approximately CA $ 1.2 million outstanding. Champagne’s office also clarified to the daily that these loans were disclosed to the country’s Ethics Commissioner and other relevant agencies.However, critics have argued that circumstances changed after Champagne became the foreign minister, and were particularly relevant since two Canadians, including a former diplomat, remain in Chinese custody in a move seen as retaliation for the detention of a senior Huawei executive in Vancouver in 2018.The matter was raised in a sitting of the House of Commons by Opposition leader Andrew Scheer who asked the government whether Champagne’s mortgage had come up for renewal after he was elected to Parliament and at what interest rate he had secured the loans. Canada’s Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland responded those personal details were not available with the Government at the time. Scheer later tweeted, “This is incredible. The person who should be representing Canada’s interests is indebted to a bank run by the Chinese Communist Party. How did Justin Trudeau think he was an acceptable pick for Minister of Foreign Affairs?”Columnist John Ivison wrote in the newspaper, National Post: “When you owe someone more than $1 million, the potential for influence and abuse is ever-present.” He also cited Margaret McCuaig Johnston, a senior fellow at the China Institute at the University of Alberta, as saying, “It is inconceivable that this is not at the back of his mind as he deals with the government of China, his most difficult file.”As the matter roils Canadian politics, it comes at a time when there is anger in the country over Beijing virtually rescinding the special status of Hong Kong, where nearly 300,000 Canadian citizens live and work. John Higginbotham, who was Canada’s Commissioner to Hong Kong, a role equivalent to that of an Ambassador, was quoted by the Globe and Mail as demanding that Canada boycott the Winter Olympics scheduled to take place in China in February 2022. He was backed by former Canadian Ambassador to Beijing David Mulroney, who tweeted, “For China, the Olympics is an opportunity for Beijing to summon foreign leaders to pay tribute. Hong Kong is only the latest reason why shouldn’t attend. Consider the detention of 1 million Uighurs – and 2 innocent Canadians.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-s-foreign-minister-faces-heat-over-1mn-loan-from-chinese-bank/story-4KYbqiKMNC7417XiZFj4yI.html
12-06-2020||World||Trump authorises sanctions against International Criminal Court officials||President Donald Trump on Thursday authorised U.S. economic and travel sanctions against International Criminal Court employees involved in an investigation into whether American forces committed war crimes in Afghanistan.In announcing the president’s executive order, Trump administration officials said the Hague-based tribunal threatens to infringe on U.S. national sovereignty and accused Russia of manipulating it to serve Moscow’s ends.“We cannot, we will not stand by as our people are threatened by a kangaroo court,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in announcing the move.“I have a message to many close allies in the world. Your people could be next, especially those from NATO countries who fight terrorism in Afghanistan right alongside us,” he said.In a statement, the ICC said Washington’s move was the “latest in a series of unprecedented attacks on the court.”“These attacks constitute an escalation and an unacceptable attempt to interfere with the rule of law and the Court’s judicial proceedings,” the ICC said.Foreign Minister Stef Blok of the Netherlands, a member of the Western security alliance, wrote on Twitter he was “very disturbed” by the U.S. stance, saying his nation supported the ICC, which he described as “crucial in the fight against impunity.”The sanctions that can be imposed under the order include freezing the U.S. assets of those who help the ICC investigate or prosecute American citizens without U.S. consent, as well as barring them and their families from visiting the United States.Neither Pompeo nor any of the top officials who were present at the announcement - Defense Secretary Mark Esper, national security adviser Robert O’Brien and Attorney General William Barr - took questions from reporters.ICC prosecutor Fatou Bensouda wants to investigate possible crimes committed between 2003 and 2014, including alleged mass killings of civilians by the Taliban, as well as the alleged torture of prisoners by Afghan authorities and, to a lesser extent, by U.S. forces and the CIA. The ICC investigation was given the go-ahead in March.The ICC decided to investigate after a preliminary examination by prosecutors in 2017 found reasonable grounds to believe war crimes were committed in Afghanistan and that the court has jurisdiction.Rights activists assailed Trump’s move. Andrea Prasow, the Washington director for Human Rights Watch, said the action “demonstrates contempt for the global rule of law” and represents a “blatant attempt at obstruction.”‘LOW POINT’The ICC was established in 2002 by the international community to prosecute war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. It has jurisdiction only if a member state is unable or unwilling to prosecute atrocities itself. The United States has never been a member of the court.The U.S. action is the latest under Trump taking aim at an international body. Trump, who has promoted an “America First” policy, late last month said he would end the U.S. relationship with the World Health Organization.Afghanistan is a member of the ICC, though Kabul has argued that any war crimes should be prosecuted locally.Speaking at the U.S. announcement, Barr said the Justice Department “has received substantial credible information that raises serious concerns about a long history of financial corruption and malfeasance” in the ICC prosecutor’s office. He provided no details.He also said the court was being manipulated by Russia, but did not elaborate on how.John Bellinger, the State Department’s former top lawyer under Republican former President George W. Bush, said the two sides could have avoided the conflict but chose not to.“It’s unfortunate that the long-running U.S. dispute with the ICC has reached this new low point. ... It’s not surprising that the Trump administration has reacted forcefully with threatened sanctions, especially in an election year,” he said.The Trump administration imposed travel restrictions and other sanctions against ICC employees a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-authorises-sanctions-against-international-criminal-court-officials/story-2VIEKDuCh1DQdtnMLatKaM.html
12-06-2020||World||Covid-19 crisis could see number of extreme poor rise to 1.1 bln worldwide: Study||The economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic could plunge an extra 395 million people into extreme poverty and swell the total number of those living on less than $1.90 a day worldwide to more than 1 billion, researchers said in a report on Friday.The report - published by UNU-WIDER, part of the United Nations University - played through a number of scenarios, taking into account the World Bank’s various poverty lines - from extreme poverty, defined as living on $1.90 a day or less, to higher poverty lines of living on less than $5.50 a day.Under the worst scenario - a 20% contraction in per capita income or consumption - the number of those living in extreme poverty could rise to 1.12 billion. The same contraction applied to the $5.50 threshold among upper-middle income countries could see more than 3.7 billion people - or just over half the world’s population - live below this poverty line.Also Read | Covid-19 may push millions of children into underage labour, warns UN“The outlook for the world’s poorest looks grim unless governments do more and do it quickly and make up the daily loss of income the poor face,” said Andy Sumner, one of the report’s authors.“The result is progress on poverty reduction could be set back 20-30 years and making the UN goal of ending poverty look like a pipe dream.”The researchers from King’s College London and Australian National University also found that poverty would shift in its geographic distribution.Also Read | World Bank warns of drop in Indian GDP due to Covid-19 pandemicThe region expected to see the biggest number of people at risk of plunging into extreme poverty was South Asia, mainly driven by populous India. This was followed by Sub-Saharan Africa where around a third of the rise would come from.On Monday, the World Bank said it expected 70-100 million people to be pushed into extreme poverty by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-crisis-could-see-number-of-extreme-poor-rise-to-1-1-bln-worldwide-study/story-mTN9kCyHdpW8zXqUh7bLFI.html
12-06-2020||World||Covid-19 may push millions of children into underage labour, warns UN||The coronavirus pandemic has put millions of children at risk of being pushed into underage labor, reversing two decades of work to combat the practice and potentially marking the first rise in child labor since 2000, the United Nations warned on Friday.As the pandemic pummels the global economy, pushing millions of people into poverty, families may be under pressure to put their children to work for survival, the UN said, marking the World Day Against Child Labor.“As the pandemic wreaks havoc on family incomes, without support, many could resort to child labour,” said Guy Ryder, director-general of the International Labour Organization (ILO), a UN agency, in a statement.“Social protection is vital in times of crisis, as it provides assistance to those who are most vulnerable.”Due to global shutdowns, the world economy is forecast to shrink 3.2% this year, according to a Reuters poll of more than 250 economists.Forecasts for global economic growth had tended to range from 2.3% to 3.6% before the pandemic struck.The number of child labourers worldwide has dropped significantly to 152 million children from 246 million in 2000, according to the ILO.To prevent a rise in exploitation, the UN called upon governments to integrate child labour concerns into broader pieces of legislation, including policy on education, labour markets and human rights protections.Some countries have begun to do so.This month, Brazilian labour authorities launched a national campaign to help combat potential child labor, commissioning a song about child slavery to be written by well-known rappers Emicida and Drik Barbosa.The recent death of an 8-year-old maid in Pakistan prompted the government to propose legislative changes to make it illegal for children to do domestic work.Advocates also warn that children are susceptible to being put to work while schools are closed in the effort to stop the spread of coronavirus.“As poverty rises, schools close and the availability of social services decreases, more children are pushed into the workforce,” said Henrietta Fore, executive director of UNICEF, the UN children’s agency.A non-profit group in Ethiopia launched a novel way to keep thousands of children reading while school was out of session - deploying camels carrying wooden boxes filled with storybooks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-may-push-millions-of-children-into-underage-labour-warns-un/story-636PP70HNvNBKKVTGvJS9O.html
12-06-2020||World||North Korea says little reason to maintain Kim-Trump ties on summit anniversary :State Media||North Korea sees little use maintaining a personal relationship between leader Kim Jong Un and U.S. President Donald Trump if Washington sticks to hostile policies, state media reported on Friday - the two-year anniversary of the leaders’ first summit.U.S. policies prove Washington remains a long-term threat to the North Korean state and its people and North Korea will develop more reliable military forces to counter that threat, Foreign Minister Ri Son Gwon said in a statement carried by state news agency KCNA.Trump and Kim exchanged insults and threats during 2017 as North Korea made large advances in its nuclear and missile programme and the United States responded by leading an international effort to tighten sanctions.Relations improved significantly around the Singapore summit in June 2018, the first time a sitting American president met with a North Korean leader, but the statement that came out of the meeting was light on specifics.A second summit in February 2019 in Vietnam failed to reach a deal because of conflicts over U.S. calls for North Korea to completely give up its nuclear weapons, and North Korean demands for swift sanctions relief.Ri said in retrospect the Trump administration appears to have been focusing on only scoring political points while seeking to isolate and suffocate North Korea, and threatening it with preemptive nuclear strikes and regime change.“Never again will we provide the U.S. chief executive with another package to be used for achievements without receiving any returns,” he said. “Nothing is more hypocritical than an empty promise.”The U.S. State Department and the White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment.On Thursday, a State Department spokesperson told South Korea’s Yonhap news agency the United States remains committed to dialogue with North Korea, and is open to a “flexible approach to reach a balanced agreement.”Election PressureOn Thursday North Korea criticized the United States for commenting on inter-Korean affairs, and said Washington should stay quiet if it wants the upcoming presidential election to go smoothly.North Korea is likely to try to increase pressure on the United States ahead of the upcoming election, said Daniel Russel, the top U.S. diplomat for East Asia until early in the Trump administration.“Trump’s claim to have ‘solved’ the North Korea problem gives them leverage,” he said.Ramon Pacheco Pardo, a Korea expert at King’s College London, said Ri’s statement shows North Korea still sees all options on the table, from a proper diplomatic process to further developing its nuclear programme.“North Korea continues to need a proper deal more than the U.S.,” Pacheco Pardo said on Twitter. “That hasn’t changed.”Ri said North Korea’s desire to open a new cooperative era runs as deep as ever, but that the situation on the Korean peninsula is daily taking a turn for the worse.“The U.S. professes to be an advocate for improved relations with the DPRK, but in fact, it is hell-bent on only exacerbating the situation,” Ri said.The official name of North Korea is the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-says-little-reason-to-maintain-kim-trump-ties-on-summit-anniversary-state-media/story-wwL2YUDSDMCtu5R22L6MeK.html
12-06-2020||World||Donald Trump plans poll rally as anti-racism protesters topple statues of Columbus||Haunted by sagging poll numbers, US President Donald will relaunch his election campaign next week ending a nearly three-month-long pause even as the country is tormented by the coronavirus pandemic and a wave of anti-racism protests. “We’re going to be starting our rallies. The first one, we believe, will probably... be in Tulsa, Oklahoma,” he said on Wednesday.Trump didn’t say what kind of anti-pandemic precautions will be taken at the June 19 rally. Oklahoma has one of the lowest infections rates, with a total of around 7,500. “They’ve done a great job with Covid, as you know, in the state of Oklahoma,” Trump said.Meanwhile, protests raged across the country in the aftermath of George Floyd’s killing. Statues of Italian explorer Christopher Columbus were beheaded and vandalised as calls to remove sculptures commemorating colonisers and slavers swept the US.While most rallies were relatively peaceful, crowds in Portland, Oregon, threw bottles at police. Thomas Lane, one of the former cops charged in Floyd’s killing, was released on bail. Despite the US military’s openness to rename bases christened after Confederate generals who defended slavery, Trump nixed the move. Calling them “monumental and very powerful”, Trump tweeted that the bases are part of a “Great American Heritage, and a history of Winning, Victory and Freedom”. Trump’s spirited defence of the base names came as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ordered the removal of statutes of confederate figures in the Capitol. And auto-racing company NASCAR outlawed the display of the confederate flag at its events. On Thursday, chairman of the chiefs of staff Mark Milley expressed regret for accompanying Trump on his controversial walk through a park outside the White House violently cleared of peaceful protesters on June 1. Trump had gone on to pose for pictures in front of a church damaged in protests. “I should not have been there. As a commissioned uniformed officer, it was a mistake that I have learned from, and I sincerely hope we all can learn from it,” Milley said in a pre-recorded video address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-plans-poll-rally-as-anti-racism-protesters-topple-statues-of-columbus/story-NkA2LLBljHPqF0aNmGsjQI.html
12-06-2020||World||Pakistan opposition chief Shahbaz Sharif tests positive for Covid-19||Pakistan’s leader of opposition Shahbaz Sharif has tested positive for Covid-19, a spokesperson of his PML-N party said on Thursday.Sharif has isolated himself at home, Marriyum Aurangzeb added. PML-N blamed the infection on frequent court appearances that he had to make. Sharif had appeared before the National Accountability Bureau on Tuesday in connection with a money laundering investigation. He had also appeared before the Lahore High Court to obtain a pre-arrest bail in similar cases. He had repeatedly refused to appear before NAB citing health reasons. In a statement, he said: “It has been widely reported in the media that some NAB officials have tested positive for Covid-19. Please appreciate I am a cancer survivor and 69 years old.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-opposition-chief-shahbaz-sharif-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-9Cv8lMlXCjdwO0LyfylWEI.html
12-06-2020||World||Donald Trump and Joe Biden hit campaign trail to tout plans for US economic recovery||President Donald Trump and his Democratic opponent, Joe Biden, headed to must-win election battlegrounds on Thursday, seeking to make their cases to voters about who is best positioned to help the economy recover from coronavirus shutdowns.Trump was expected to host a roundtable in Dallas on the economic recovery. Recent opinion polls have shown him in a dead heat with Biden in Texas, which the Republican won by 9 percentage points in 2016.Biden held a similar event in Philadelphia, the largest city in Pennsylvania, a state his campaign regards as crucial in the Nov. 3 election. Trump’s narrow victory there over Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016 helped propel him to the White House.Trump, who has made his economic stewardship a key pillar of his re-election campaign, has seen his support in polls drop after his much-criticized handling of the coronavirus pandemic and mass protests against police brutality and racism.But polls have still shown him with an edge in voters’ minds as stronger than Biden on economic issues.Biden rolled out a plan on Thursday to reopen the economy, calling for expanded coronavirus testing and protective equipment for people who go back to work, paid sick leave, small-business grants, fines for businesses that do not abide by safety standards, and hiring a workforce to test the spread of the disease.Meeting with an eyeglass store owner and a union cleaning worker, Biden reiterated his criticism of Trump’s failure “to deal with this crisis.”The US economy is showing only early signs of recovery from a sharp downturn. Stocks slumped on Thursday as investors fretted over a new wave of coronavirus infections and a gloomy economic forecast from the Federal Reserve.The jobless claims report from the Labor Department on Thursday showed the number of Americans seeking jobless benefits fell last week, but millions laid off because of Covid-19 continued to receive unemployment checks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-and-joe-biden-hit-campaign-trail-to-tout-plans-for-us-economic-recovery/story-nnrCnqDIWxSyXuHdiloWdI.html
