28-06-2020||World||Russian nickel producer admits pollution in Arctic tundra||A Russian metallurgical company said Sunday that it improperly pumped wastewater into the Arctic tundra and that it has suspended the responsible employees.The statement from Nornickel is the second time in a month the company has been connected to pollution in the ecologically delicate region.In May, around 21,000 tons of diesel fuel leaked after a reservoir at a Nornickel-operated power plant collapsed; some of the fuel entered a lake that feeds into an arm of the Arctic Sea.The statement came hours after the independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta reported that water tainted with heavy metals from the tailings at a nickel-processing plant were being pumped into a river.Nornickel said the water was improperly pumped because of an overflowing sump; it said the water was “clarified” and there is no threat of waste leakage.Both facilities are near Norilsk, north of the Arctic Circle, 2,900 kilometers (1,800 miles) northeast of Moscow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-nickel-producer-admits-pollution-in-arctic-tundra/story-tBJAJuyWpFfUdJqjaFK8aL.html
28-06-2020||World||Trump denies being told about Russian bounties to kill US troops in Afghanistan||President Donald Trump on Sunday said he was never briefed about Russian efforts to pay bounties to Taliban-linked militants to kill U.S. troops in Afghanistan, blasting a New York Times report that he had been told about Moscow’s cash rewards but had not moved to respond. The White House and the Director of National Intelligence on Saturday denied the report.“Nobody briefed or told me, @VP Pence, or Chief of Staff @MarkMeadows about the so-called attacks on our troops in Afghanistan by Russians, as reported through an ‘anonymous source’ by the Fake News @nytimes. Everybody is denying it & there have not been many attacks on us,” Trump tweeted, calling on the newspaper to reveal its source. The Times on Friday reported that U.S. intelligence had concluded that a Russian military intelligence unit linked to assassination attempts in Europe had offered rewards for successful attacks last year on American and coalition soldiers, and that Islamist militants or those associated with them were believed to have collected some bounty money.Russia’s foreign ministry dismissed the report. Democrats, including Trump’s likely challenger Democratic former Vice President Joe Biden, cited the report and Trump’s denial as more evidence of the president ignoring allegations against Russia in a bid to accommodate President Vladimir Putin. “There is something very wrong here. But this must have an answer,” U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi told ABC News, adding that Trump has already given “gifts” to Putin by diminishing U.S. leadership in NATO, reducing U.S. forces in Germany and inviting Russia back into the G8.U.S. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said at a news conference in New York on Sunday that the report showed the need for tough sanctions against Russia in the defense bill that the Senate will debate this week. Meanwhile, the U.S. State Department said Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad and U.S. International Development Finance Corporation chief executive Adam Boehler had departed on Sunday for Doha, Islamabad and Tashkent to “urge support for all Afghans” ahead of Afghan peace talks and would also conduct video meetings with Afghan officials during the trip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-denies-being-told-about-russian-bounties-to-kill-us-troops-in-afghanistan/story-oR25amHsUPyXPegN0mLszN.html
28-06-2020||World||US is going to have strong rebound from coronavirus depression: White House official||The US is going to have a strong rebound from the depths of the China virus depression, but the country needs to work its way through for years with structural headwinds, a top White House official on trade and manufacturing said.The US is under a deep economic recession as a result of coronavirus pandemic that killed more than 120,000 Americans and infected over 2.5 million people, the highest in the world. The lockdown along with social distancing measure brought the economy to a standstill. The country is now gradually opening up and have given jobs; to a small section of the millions of Americans who lost their jobs during this pandemic.US President Donald Trump’s administration has accused China of cover-ups and lack of transparency regarding the pandemic, that originated from the central Chinese city of Wuhan. “We are going to have a strong rebound from the depths of the China virus depression. But it’s also true that we are going to face many years of working our way through these structural adjustments that are going to happen in our urban areas, as well as in key sectors like hospitality, entertainment, sports, and education,” Peter Navarro, Assistant to the US President for Trade and Manufacturing told Fox News in an interview. With a little over 120 days left for the November 3 presidential elections, Trump is trailing by nearly 10 points against his Democratic rival Joe Biden.Responding to questions, Navarro said that it is essential to re-elect Trump in November. “It’s so essential to have a man in the White House here who knows how to rebuild an economy,” he said. “It’s very clear. We’re going to finish what this president started. And let me just run down the list. This is the jobs president, the greatest jobs president in history. This is all about jobs. What that means is, all those jobs and supply chains that Joe Biden offshored during his 40 years of failure, we’re going to continue to bring them home,” he said. “Second thing, endless wars. All the endless wars that Joe Biden, Barack Obama, George Bush and others helped start, this president is going to put an end to the endless wars,” he added. The US is going to have a merit-based system of immigration that’s going to protect American workers from the depressive effects of cheap foreign labour, Navarro said. “So, that’s where we’re at. Now, the big thing here is going to be the SpaceX economy, the SpaceX fourth industrial revolution, that we’re going to need to work our way through these structural headwinds, as the China virus has had its way with just killing certain sectors, like hospitality and transportation, now even our education system at risk,” said the top White House official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-is-going-to-have-strong-rebound-from-coronavirus-depression-white-house-official/story-pjrSG2C6IXFPC6u4vxpcnK.html
28-06-2020||World||Trump tweets - then deletes - video of supporter yelling ‘white power’||US President Donald Trump on Sunday shared a video of a stand-off between anti-Trump protesters and his supporters in which a man chants “white power” -- before deleting it amid an outcry. “Thank you to the great people of The Villages,” Trump tweeted above the video clip. “The Radical Left Do Nothing Democrats will Fall in the Fall.”The footage, apparently shot in a Florida retirement community, shows a man driving a golf-cart bearing “Trump 2020” and “America First” signs, being heckled by a roadside protester chanting “racist.”As they yell at each other, the driver repeatedly mouths the words “white power” with a raised fist.“White power! There you go, white power. Did you hear that?” the protester yells back at him.Trump tweeted the video shortly after 7:30 am. At 11 am it had been removed from his account -- and the White House shortly after issued a statement saying the president had not heard the “white power” chant before sharing the footage.“President Trump is a big fan of The Villages. He did not hear the one statement made on the video,” said White House spokesman Judd Deere.“What he did see was tremendous enthusiasm from his many supporters.”Trump has long been accused of fanning racial tensions, including during the nationwide reckoning over racial inequality triggered by the death-in-custody of African American George Floyd a month ago.Infamously, after deadly violence pitted neo-Nazis against counter-protesters in the Virginia city of Charlottesville in 2017, he declared there to be “very fine people on both sides.”The “Villages” video triggered an immediate backlash on social media, and Trump allies were pressed to defend it on the Sunday morning talk shows.The Republican Party’s only black senator, Tim Scott, interviewed on CNN’s “State of the Union,” called the entire video “offensive.”“We can play politics with it or we can’t. I’m not going to. I think it’s indefensible. We should take it down. That’s what I think.”Also questioned on CNN, Trump’s Health Secretary Alex Azar claimed he had not seen the footage or Trump’s tweet.“But obviously neither the president, his administration nor I would do anything to be supportive of white supremacy or anything that would support discrimination of any kind,” Azar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-tweets-video-of-fan-yelling-white-power/story-z4BxW0FPMSPHjHsl7BJVYK.html
28-06-2020||World||China deployed martial art trainers along Tibet during border tension with India: Reports||China earlier this month had deployed martial art trainers and members of a mountain club in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), which borders India, state media reports said Sunday.No specific reason was given in the state media reports about the new deployment but it was done during the ongoing border tension with India, which began in early May, and escalated into a deadly brawl earlier this month.Incidentally, bilateral agreements between India and China prevent the use of guns along the line of actual control (LAC).On the night of June 15 – the day the new troops presented themselves in Lhasa, the capital of TAR – at least 20 Indian army soldiers were killed in a clash with PLA troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.China has admitted that PLA suffered casualties but is yet to reveal the numbers.No guns were used in the clash but soldiers from both sides fought hand-to-hand with rocks, batons and clubs. Among the newly deployed personnel and five new militia divisions are former members of a Mount Everest Olympic torch relay team and fighters from a mixed martial arts club.Interestingly, a leading Chinese military had recently praised the Indian mountain army as the best in the world.“Mountaineering is an essential skill for almost every member of the Indian mountain army. To this end, India even recruited a large number of professional mountaineers and amateur mountaineers from the private sector,” wrote Huang Guozhi, senior editor of Modern Weaponry magazine in an article this month.The new troop deployment was reported by national broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV) and the PLA’s official military newspaper China National Defence News.Tibet commander Wang Haijiang said the Enbo Fight Club recruits would “greatly raise the organisation and mobilisation strength” of troops and their “rapid response and support ability,” the newspaper reported.The new troops were recruited with the aim of “strengthening the border and stabilising Tibet,” the Chinese newspaper reported.Wang had visited India in 2018 for the Sino-India “Hand-in-Hand” counter-terrorism exercise in Pune.In his comments, Wang did not confirm the new deployment was linked to the ongoing border tensions.Chinese state media have in recent weeks highlighted PLA’s drills held in TAR.An infantry battalion, for example, had carried out extensive drills with tanks and armed airborne personnel at heights over 15000 feet in TAR, the PLA had reported earlier in June.The rare announcement by PLA did not specify when the drill was held but said it was the armed forces’ Xizang (Tibet) Military Command that organised the exercise at heights over 4700 metres.The Xizang Military Command falls under the Chengdu Military region.New Delhi has rejected Beijing’s accusations that it was the Indian army, which provoked the tension and the violent clash.Explaining the context of the standoff and the issues the two sides are trying to address, external affairs ministry spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava said in a statement: “At the heart of the matter is that since early May, the Chinese side has been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC. This is not in accordance with the provisions of our various bilateral agreements, especially the key 1993 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquility along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-deployed-martial-art-trainers-along-tibet-during-border-tension-with-india-reports/story-wf9kJluUhDHpkMPYTgDSAP.html
28-06-2020||World||Record Covid-19 single-day highs in 5 US states, Mike Pence cancels campaign events||Five US states have reported record single-day infections as the new surge in Covid-19 cases continued unabated in the south with yet another day of more than 40,000 new infections countrywide on Saturday.The Trump campaign has in grudging recognition of a deepening crisis cancelled some upcoming political events with Vice-President Mike Pence in some of the states with spiking numbers. President Donald Trump, who has been loathe to acknowledge the new crisis, recently held two rallies in states hit by the surge. One of them, at Tulsa, Oklahoma, which was thinly attended continues to make news days after. The Washington Post has reported that two campaign staffers had removed cards — saying “Do Not Sit Her, Please” — placed in alternate seats to enforce social distancing. Many members of the campaign staff who worked on the rally have since tested positive and at least one news correspondent who covered it.Undeterred, Trump had simply moved on to hold a rally in Arizona, another state hit by the surge, at yet another indoor event and also with complete disregard for social distancing norms. Arizona is among the 16 states identified by the White house coronavirus task force where Covid-19 cases have been shooting up. And it was among the five that reported record single-day highs Saturday.Florida led the five with 9,585 new cases. Arizona was next with 3,591; followed by Georgia with 1,990, South Carolina with 1,604. and Nevada with 1,099. Texas, which has revived some of the social distancing norms because of the surge, reported 5,700 new cases.The countrywide total of new infections was 42,597 for Saturday, taking the cumulative total to 2.51 million. Fatalities went up to 125,538 with 500 deaths in the past 24 hours.Vice-President Pence was scheduled to travel to Texas for a “Celebrate Freedom Rally” later Sunday, but had postponed similar events in Tuscan, Arizona and Florida. scheduled for next week “out of an abundance of caution” due to the spike in cases in these states, the campaign has said.Pence, who also heads the White House task force on coronavirus, will still visit these states as he had said Friday to get a “ground report” on the Covid-19 outbreak there. He will meet their governors — all three are Republican — and officials, but won’t hold political events.The Biden campaign lashed out at Pence for his Texas visit. “Vice President Pence’s trip to Dallas epitomizes the dismissive attitude this administration has taken in addressing this crisis from the onset,” Communications Director Kate Bedingfield said in a statement. “Our leaders should be tackling this pandemic head on and laying out concrete recovery plans for the American people -- not jet setting across the country to hold events that go against basic public health guidance. Families in the Lone Star state and across the country deserve better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/record-covid-19-single-day-highs-in-5-us-states-mike-pence-cancels-campaign-events/story-1hBtDbn7RmQYV43WvHFFsJ.html
28-06-2020||World||‘Conspiracy, people trying to topple me’: Nepal’s PM accuses India after border map row||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Sunday accused India of being behind a conspiracy to topple him for publishing the country’s new map that depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory.Oli made the remarks while addressing a meeting held in Kathmandu to mark the birth anniversary of late communist leader Madan Bhandari. The comments come at a time when Oli is facing intense criticism from within the ruling Nepal Communist Party for his governance and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.“A conspiracy is being hatched to remove me for releasing the country’s new map and getting it adopted through Parliament. In light of these discussions, the media reports from New Delhi, [the Indian] embassy’s activities and meetings in different hotels in Kathmandu, it’s not difficult to understand how people are openly active to topple me,” Oli said, speaking in Nepali.He added, “There is a race to remove me. It has been said people who commit such crimes should not be allowed to stay. Printing a map is called a crime.”Also read: Nepal-India border tensions rise, one killed. Explained in 10 pointsThere was no immediate reaction to Oli’s remarks from Indian officials. The Indian side has described Nepal’s new map as an “artificial enlargement of territorial claims” and said the onus is on the Nepalese side to create a positive atmosphere for talks to resolve the border row.On June 18, Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari signed the bill to give legal backing to the new map after it was approved by both houses of Parliament.During an ongoing meeting of the standing committee of the Nepal Communist Party, Oli has faced withering criticism from the faction led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda”. A majority of members of the committee are with Prachanda and Oli skipped the committee’s session on Friday. Oli has also said several times that his stance on a nationalistic issue such as the new map will lead to efforts to oust him.“Nepal’s nationalism is not so weak that someone can dream of removing the country’s prime minister for publishing the new map and making it part of the Constitution...It is unthinkable,” Oli said on Sunday.Nepal hadn’t made a mistake as it has only asked for its own land back, and it has not claimed or tried to grab anyone else’s land, he said.Also read: As Nepal preps to vote on new map, a hint about India’s stance from Army chiefOli also contended he had been removed as the premier in 2016 for signing a transport and transit agreement with China. “Now, they’re having the same dream because the constitutional amendment has been passed and the map has been issued. They are upset on the inside for this crime being committed,” he said.He added that he didn’t covet the post but it was essential for him to remain. If he stepped down at this juncture, it would set a wrong precedent and any other premier who spoke in favour of Nepal would also be forced to quit, he said.The new map became a popular issue among the public and gained widespread backing from all political parties. However, experts said Oli himself doesn’t enjoy the same sort of popularity within his own party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/conspiracy-people-trying-to-topple-me-nepal-s-pm-accuses-india-after-border-map-row/story-g3X72DM4FV0xW4QLG361KO.html
28-06-2020||World||Summer may decide fate of leading shots in vaccine race||People on six continents already are getting jabs in the arm as the race for a Covid-19 vaccine enters a defining summer, with even bigger studies poised to prove if any shot really works -- and maybe offer a reality check.Already British and Chinese researchers are chasing the coronavirus beyond their borders, testing potential vaccines in Brazil and the United Arab Emirates because there are too few new infections at home to get clear answers.The U.S. is set to open the largest trials -- 30,000 people to test a government-created shot starting in July, followed about a month later with another 30,000 expected to test a British one.Those likely will be divided among Americans and volunteers in other countries such as Brazil or South Africa, Dr. Anthony Fauci of the National Institutes of Health told The Associated Press.While he’s optimistic, “we’ve been burned before,” Fauci cautioned.Multiple successes, in multiple parts of the world, are vital.“This isn’t a race of who gets there first. This is, get as many approved, safe and effective vaccines as you possibly can,” Fauci said.Vaccine experts say it’s time to set public expectations. Many scientists don’t expect a coronavirus vaccine to be nearly as protective as the measles shot.If the best Covid-19 vaccine is only 50% effective, “that’s still to me a great vaccine,” said Dr. Drew Weissman of the University of Pennsylvania.“We need to start having this conversation now,” so people won’t be surprised, he added.And for all the government promises of stockpiling doses in hopes of starting vaccinations by year’s end, here’s the catch: Even if a shot pans out -- and it’s one that your country stockpiled -- only some high-risk people, such as essential workers, go to the front of a very long line.“Will you and I get vaccinated this year? No way,” said Duke University health economist David Ridley.THE HOME STRETCHVaccines train the body to rapidly recognize and fend off an invading germ. About 15 experimental Covid-19 vaccines are in various stages of human studies worldwide.And while there’s no guarantee any will pan out, moving three different kinds into final testing offers better odds -- especially since scientists don’t yet know just how strong an immune reaction the shots must spark to protect.Measuring that with the first proven vaccine will “really help us understand for all the other vaccines in development, do they also have a chance?” said Oxford University lead researcher Sarah Gilbert.Only China is pushing out “inactivated” vaccines, made by growing the new coronavirus and killing it. Vaccines by Sinovac Biotech and SinoPharm use that old-fashioned technology, which requires high-security labs to produce but is dependable, the way polio shots and some flu vaccines are made.Most other vaccines in the pipeline target not the whole germ but a key piece -- the “spike” protein that studs the surface of the coronavirus and helps it invade human cells. Leading candidates use new technologies that make shots faster to produce but haven’t yet been proven in people.Oxford’s method: Genetically engineer a chimpanzee cold virus so it won’t spread but can carry the gene for that spike protein into just enough cells to trick the immune system that an infection’s brewing.Another vaccine made by the NIH and Moderna Inc. simply injects a piece of the coronavirus genetic code that instructs the body to produce harmless spike copies that the immune system learns to recognize.CHASING THE VIRUSResearchers must test thousands of people not where Covid-19 is surging -- because then it’s too late -- but where it’s smoldering, Fauci said.Only if the virus starts spreading through a community several weeks after volunteers receive either a vaccine or a dummy shot -- time enough for the immune system to rev up -- do scientists have the best chance at comparing which group had more illness.Lacking a crystal ball, the NIH has vaccine testing networks in the U.S., South America and South Africa on standby while finalizing decisions on the summer tests.“We’re going to be doing it in multiple sites with a degree of flexibility” so researchers can rapidly shift as the virus moves, Fauci said. “Nothing is going to be easy.”The Oxford shot, with a 10,000-person study underway in England, already encountered that hurdle. Gilbert told a Parliament committee last week that there’s “little chance, frankly” of proving the vaccine’s effectiveness in Britain after infections plummeted with the lockdown.So her team looked abroad. In addition to the planned U.S.-run study, Brazil last week began a last-stage test of the Oxford shot in 5,000 health workers, the first experimental Covid-19 vaccinations in South America. In another first, South Africa opened a smaller safety study of the Oxford shot.With few new infections in China, Sinovac next month will begin final tests in 9,000 Brazilian volunteers. And SinoPharm just signed an agreement with the United Arab Emirates; that study’s size isn’t clear.EXPECT IMPERFECT PROTECTIONAnimal research suggests Covid-19 vaccines could prevent serious disease but may not completely block infection. One study that dripped the coronavirus into monkeys showed vaccinated animals avoided pneumonia but had some virus lurking in their noses and throats. Whether it was enough to spread to the unvaccinated isn’t known.Still, that would be a big win.“My expectations have always been that we’ll get rid of symptomatic disease. From what we’ve seen of the vaccines so far, that’s what they do,” said Penn’s Weissman.The initial vaccines might be replaced with later, better arrivals, as historically happens in medicine, noted Duke’s Ridley.And while shots in the arm are the fastest to make, those for respiratory diseases require virus-fighting antibodies to make their way into the lungs. Gilbert said Oxford eventually will explore nasal delivery.WARNING AGAINST SHORTCUTSSome U.S. lawmakers worry about pressure from the Trump administration to push out an unproven shot during the fall election season.“We want a vaccine, not a headline,” Sen. Jack Reed, a Democrat from Rhode Island, said at a recent Senate committee hearing.Dr. Stephen Hahn, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, pledged to a House committee last week that any decision would be based on science.Different countries have different rules about when to release a vaccine. For the U.S., Fauci insisted there will be no safety shortcuts, a key reason NIH is investing in such huge studies.Regardless of how and when a vaccine arrives, each country also will prioritize who’s first in line as doses become available. Presumably they’ll start with health workers and those most vulnerable to severe disease — as long as each shot is proven to work in at-risk groups such as older adults.Because each vaccine works differently, “which population group it will protect, we don’t know yet,” said Dr. Mariangela Simao of the World Health Organization, which is advising countries on how to choose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/summer-may-decide-fate-of-leading-shots-in-vaccine-race/story-dhZ0YQ6ETJohKsawDtMGJJ.html
28-06-2020||World||Trump dismisses virus, polls and recession to tell winning story||The America that President Donald Trump describes is a place where the coronavirus outbreak is only surging because of increased testing, the economy is on the verge of roaring back to life and polls showing him losing re-election in a landslide are fiction.In the president’s telling, many of the Americans protesting police brutality are terrorists, anarchists and looters, and concerns about systemic racism are overblown. He claims that his is the most accomplished presidency in history, outshining all his predecessors but Abraham Lincoln on achievements for Black people.Four months before Americans decide whether to return Trump to the White House, the president has constructed a narrative of the U.S. under his leadership that veers far from reality. In fact, the coronavirus outbreak is resurgent, driven in part by hasty reopenings and an emerging political divide over wearing a mask. The economy may not recover until 2021 or later. Protests against police brutality have been largely peaceful -- though there has been some looting and violence -- and more political leaders in both parties publicly acknowledge the reality of pervasive racism in police departments and American society.And most importantly for his political future, polls show the president is rapidly losing ground to his presumptive re-election opponent, Democrat Joe Biden.Presidential candidates often describe an aspirational vision of the country. Ronald Reagan’s “Morning in America” is held up as the model of the hopeful message voters want to hear. Trump has called himself “a cheerleader,” but his detailed descriptions of life in America today run so counter to reality that even some of his allies are urging him to change course.Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, acknowledged that “there’s been a dip” in Trump’s support, adding it’s early yet. The president needs “a little more message discipline,” and to focus on subjects like the economy, he said.“Eventually, just make it more about policy, and less about your personality,” he told reporters in the Capitol.Senator Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican who chairs the Finance Committee, publicly pleaded last week for Trump’s advisers to show the president a Wall Street Journal editorial warning that he faces a “repudiation” from voters.Grassley said Saturday on Twitter that Biden might “sit in his basement and not campaign and be elected president.”There’s little sign Trump will change direction. At the White House on Friday, Trump touted historic stock market gains, even with tens of millions of Americans still out of work and benchmark indices well below their February highs. Earlier this week he said in an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network that President Barack Obama had committed “treason” in the course of a Federal Bureau of Investigation probe of Trump’s 2016 campaign.On Thursday, Trump’s administration asked the Supreme Court to throw out the Affordable Care Act, including its protections for people with pre-existing health conditions, in its entirety -- despite the president’s frequent insistence that he will always protect such patients. He has never offered a plan to replace the law known as Obamacare.“The administration’s decision to submit this new brief is the wrong policy at the worst possible time as our nation is in the midst of a pandemic,” Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican facing a difficult re-election contest in November, said in a statement.On Saturday, Trump said on Twitter that he’d win re-election, once again proclaiming that a “silent majority” supports him. He boasted about high television ratings for his recent campaign events and said “these are the real polls, the Silent Majority, not FAKE POLLS!”In an interview published Saturday by The Federalist, a conservative website, Trump said he expects to be kicked off Twitter and mused about moving to a start-up platform that’s marketed itself to disaffected conservatives, Parler.Later, he tweeted a series of 15 Wanted posters for people alleged to have vandalized a statue near the White House. One wore a “Black Lives Matter” shirt.Trump v. CoronavirusNo issue has pitted Trump more squarely against reality than the coronavirus. U.S. cases have hit a new daily high, with the epicenter of the outbreak shifting from New York to the southern Sunbelt states from California to Florida. Republican governors there have backtracked on reopening their economies, closing bars and restricting other activities as the president urges Americans to put the pandemic behind them.Trump has repeatedly said, falsely, that the U.S. has more cases of Covid-19 because it’s conducting more testing for the disease. He’s also expressed skepticism that some of the reported cases are real. Trump’s aides have said they’re watching deaths more closely than total cases; deaths are still trending down but are a lagging indicator.“You’re going to have a kid with the sniffles, and they’ll say it’s coronavirus,” he said Thursday.Trump has pledged that a vaccine will soon be available. But even without one, the virus will “fade away,” he told Fox’s Sean Hannity earlier this month.During a White House coronavirus task force briefing Friday -- its first in two months, held at Health and Human Services headquarters and without Trump -- the president tweeted a wanted poster for 15 people who allegedly vandalized a statue.Meanwhile, the message at the briefing was muddled. Vice President Mike Pence both acknowledged the increase in cases and downplayed the threat.“There may be a tendency among the American people to think we are back to that place we were two months ago” when U.S. deaths peaked at more than 2,500 per day, Pence said. “The reality is we’re in a much better place.”He avoided saying whether Americans should wear masks. But reality intervened in the form of Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.“We are facing a serious problem in certain areas,” Fauci said. “We are all in it together and the only way we’re going to end it is by ending it together.”‘Defined’ BidenTrump’s campaign has said he remains competitive against a “defined” Biden, meaning when the former vice president is portrayed in a negative light.“Americans know that President Trump has been leading the nation through the coronavirus crisis and that Joe Biden has tried to use it as a political weapon,” communications director Tim Murtaugh said in a statement.Mick Mulvaney, Trump’s former chief of staff, said a Biden contrast is crucial.“The thing that the campaign is not doing extraordinarily well is drawing those comparisons,” Mulvaney said in a Fox News interview on Thursday.The top House Republican, Kevin McCarthy of California, acknowledged in a Fox News interview that Trump and his party are in a rut.“Look, if the election was today, yes, you’re concerned,” he said. “Can we do better? Yes, we can.”Trump canceled plans to travel to his New Jersey golf club this weekend, but otherwise hasn’t shifted course.“The president is very good at rejecting criticisms he doesn’t want to hear,” John Bolton, Trump’s former national security adviser who has published a book that paints an unflattering portrait of the president, told the Washington Post this week.Lack of DirectionThe president pressed ahead with a trademark campaign rally, brushing aside concern from public health authorities. But his supporters have shown they may be more alarmed about the disease than Trump; his first rally in three months in Tulsa, Oklahoma, drew far fewer people than he predicted.Pence defended the decision to hold rallies, saying Friday that “even in a health crisis, the American people don’t forfeit our constitutional rights.”The campaign hasn’t announced any more rallies, but Trump has turned his official schedule into a series of de facto campaign speeches. In a packed Phoenix church on Tuesday, the crowd cheered Trump calling the virus the “Kung Flu.”“No more masks!” someone shouted. Arizona currently is suffering one of the worst outbreaks in the U.S.The ongoing protests against police brutality, broadcast live for all to see, have been equally difficult for Trump to re-cast in his favor. Trump has searched for scapegoats, at one point, he declared that “Antifa,” an unorganized leftist protest movement that sometimes engages in violence, would be declared a terrorist organization. It wasn’t.On Thursday, as he flew to Wisconsin, he seized on a Fox News interview with a person the network purported to be a leader of Black Lives Matter -- which isn’t an organization, and has no leadership -- to brand the movement “Treason, Sedition, Insurrection!” in a tweet.He appears frustrated by Biden’s relative obscurity and elusiveness as a target. The former vice president last held a press conference on April 2, when he took a handful of questions from reporters over a Zoom call. He responded to two shouted questions from reporters on Memorial Day, May 25, but has not otherwise taken questions at virtual or in-person appearances.Biden has largely avoided network and cable news interviews in recent weeks while stepping up local TV appearances in battleground states.Trump’s path forward is clouded by an absence of direction. On Thursday, a participant in Hannity’s town hall asked Trump what he’s most proud of doing in his first term. Appointing judges, Trump answered. But when asked by Hannity what’d he do in a second term, Trump struggled to answer.“You know, the word ‘experience’ is still good,” he said, before recalling how infrequently he’d been to Washington before his election and calling Bolton an “idiot.”“In terms of the president and his message, he is haunted by this virus,” Geraldo Rivera, a Fox contributor and former Celebrity Apprentice contestant said after the interview. “I think it is the president’s fate that he will be judged by how America fares during the midst of this pandemic.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-dismisses-virus-polls-and-recession-to-tell-winning-story/story-m8EFcnUZAoxS8Qgjsq3foM.html
28-06-2020||World||Covid-19: UK’s ‘Little India’ town Leicester facing first local lockdown||The town of Leicester in the east Midlands – known as ‘Little India’ due to its large population of Indian heritage – is facing the first local lockdown due to growing infections in recent days, while public places elsewhere in England are due to re-open on July 4.According to Health secretary Matt Hancock, there has been an ‘outbreak’ in Leicester, but local mayor Peter Soulsby on Sunday said data was yet to be shared before the decision to impose local lockdown could be implemented.There was concern over messaging by the Boris Johnson government that continues to caution people about the prevalence of coronavirus, but has also announced re-opening several sectors of the economy from July 4. Quarantine plans for air passengers are also due to be relaxed next week.Home secretary Priti Patel on Sunday confirmed reports that Leicester could be placed under a local lockdown, while Claudia Webbe, Labour MP from Leicester East that has a large concentration of Asians, called for the lockdown due to a “perfect storm” of poverty, positive tests and higher ethnic diversity.She told BBC: “I don’t know why they’re not enforcing a lockdown - the evidence suggests there should be one.”Local businessman Uday Dholakia told HT: “Considering the diverse majority communities in Leicester, communication and conveyance of trust has been short of expectation. In a real global crisis, the local media , politicians and community stalwarts have been preoccupied with issues like the Gandhi statue, important though that is”.“The public intervention, although commendable at national level, has been patchy locally. Many of the business and community support networks have been systematically destroyed. Exclusion in all facets of life is obvious to see; Covid-19 has brutally exposed it”, he added.Four mobile testing units have been pressed into service in the town, as Soulsby called for more tests to be carried out. Reports said nearly 25 per cent of 2,494 cases there had been reported in two weeks before June 16.Ethnicity-wise figures for Leicester are not available, but latest figures from NHS England put the category of ‘Indian’ patients who died from the virus at the top of non-white casualties: 763. The figure would include those from London and other areas.Patel and other ministers continued to caution people over gathering in large numbers after reports of illegal music parties and Liverpool football fans congregating in large numbers to celebrate the club’s win last week.Wales first minister Mark Drakeford criticised the Johnson government’s messaging for England: “My concerns with the UK Government are sometimes less with the substance where I think we are all broadly trying to do the same things. I’m more concerned at the messaging”.“Here in Wales, I am very keen to continue to say to Welsh citizens: Coronavirus has not gone away. It remains something that kills people in Wales every day. If you don’t stay on top of it you will see things going backwards. And everything we have done together thrown away”.“And that’s a very different message I think to the message across the border. Where the message seems much more, you know, that it’s all over and you can go back to doing everything as you did before”, he told Sky News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-s-little-india-town-leicester-facing-first-local-lockdown/story-Bh2zwvegCPAcLXfYOlZo5I.html
28-06-2020||World||Global Covid-19 cases hit 10 million as pandemic gains momentum||Confirmed coronavirus cases across the globe surged past 10 million, a chilling reminder that the deadliest pandemic of the modern era is stronger than ever.The milestone is a rebuff to health experts and global leaders -- including U.S. President Donald Trump -- who had hoped early in the pandemic that it would fade away with the summer heat. Instead, infections are multiplying faster than ever.It took four months after the pathogen first surfaced in the Chinese city of Wuhan to reach 1 million infections. The spread of the coronavirus has steadily accelerated, compressing the time frame to a million additional cases every week now. And the latest milestone may serve only as a relative marker, as many believe the true number of infections to be higher given the difficulty of tracking infections.The daily official count reached 150,000 cases in mid-June, prompting World Health Organization Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to warn that the pandemic has entered “a new and dangerous phase.” The death toll is equally sobering, at almost 500,000, and some health officials predict 1 million fatalities may not be far off.“We haven’t seen the end of Covid-19, and we haven’t seen the full scope of it yet, either,” said Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the University of Washington in Seattle. “This will be as dangerous as the Spanish flu in many ways,” he said, referring to the 1918 pandemic that infected an estimated 500 million people.U.S. ResurgenceThe global epicenter of the coronavirus is continuing to shift. First it was China, then Europe -- and now developing countries with weaker health-care systems like Brazil and India are reeling. Since late March, the U.S. has had the most cases globally and is still adding infections at a record daily pace as a resurgence overwhelms states like Texas, Arizona and Florida, forcing many to reverse plans to open their economies.Health officials and governments are increasingly accepting there may be no quick return to what life was like before the pandemic, as economies have been battered by prevention measures that restricted people’s movements and put a damper on consumption.“You will see the long impact of Covid-19 above and beyond the mortality we are counting right now,” said Mokdad. “Already the impact on our economies means that one year from now there will be less aid to poor countries, less money to buy vaccines or HIV medicines.”More LockdownsPeople are still trying to get on with interrupted lives. But more lockdowns and social distancing measures may not be out of the question.“Going back into a lockdown is a terrible option, but we do need to be flexible,” said Caroline Buckee, associate director of the Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. “The question for policy makers is how much of a rise are they willing to tolerate.”A recent outbreak in Beijing is a reminder that even places that had shown success in controlling the virus can’t keep it out indefinitely. The best hope lies in the development of a vaccine, which is unlikely to be ready this year despite a global race to come up with an effective shot.In the early stages of the outbreak, officials in the northern hemisphere pointed to the potential that the virus would go away in the summer with warm weather. Those hopes have been dashed.“It doesn’t look like there’s any significant impact right now from the weather,” Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in the U.S., said this month. He had earlier noted that hot weather tends to slow lung infections.The situation may worsen when autumn comes. The U.S. and other northern countries will need to prepare for a flu season that will be complicated by the coronavirus pandemic, adding more stress on already stretched health-care systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-cases-hit-10-million-as-pandemic-gains-momentum/story-83iqx9JHiZUkXecgpOVTlK.html
28-06-2020||World||Majority of China’s BRI projects abroad adversely affected by Covid-19: Official||Majority of the projects under China’s ambitious multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) are either adversely or partially affected by the coronavirus pandemic, according to a Chinese official.About a fifth of the projects under the BRI, which aims to boost trade and investment across Asia, Africa and Europe to further China’s global influence, had been “seriously affected” by the pandemic, according to Wang Xiaolong, director-general of the foreign ministry’s international economic affairs department.About 40 per cent of the projects were “adversely affected”, and a further 30-40 per cent were “somewhat affected”, Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post quoted Wang as saying.The BRI was launched by Chinese President Xi Jinping when he came to power in 2013. It aims to link Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Gulf region, Africa and Europe with a network of land and sea route. The CPEC, which connects Gwadar Port in Pakistan’s Balochistan with China’s Xinjiang province, is the flagship project of the BRI.China last week held the first video conference of the BRI as part of its efforts to kick start the projects.The projects which were disrupted included USD 60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), the report said. India has protested to China over the CPEC as it is being laid through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.Some Asian countries, including Malaysia, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Pakistan, Cambodia, and Sri Lanka have in the recent past either slammed the brakes on or reported delays for Chinese-funded projects, the Post reported.For instance, Covid-19 disruptions have affected the CPEC, Cambodia’s Sihanoukville Special Economic Zone and Indonesia’s Jakarta-Bandung high-speed rail, it said.Many projects under BRI are either on hold or receiving minimal works.The BRI is seen as an attempt by China to further its influence abroad with infrastructure projects funded by Chinese investments all over the world. The initiative also led to allegations of smaller countries reeling under mounting Chinese debt after Sri Lanka gave its Hambantota port in a debt swap to China in 2017 on a 99-year lease.By early January, 2,951 BRI-linked projects valued at USD 3.87 trillion were planned or underway across the world, the Post quoted research and publishing firm Oxford Business Group.Many countries in Africa and Asia have not been able to continue with mega projects, mostly funded by Beijing, because they are struggling to service debts, the report said.In Nigeria, a USD 1.5 billion rail project is facing delays because of coronavirus disruptions, while many Chinese funded projects in Zambia, Zimbabwe, Algeria and Egypt have been put on hold or may be delayed as the countries fight to control the spread of Covid-19, it said.Many of the countries that took billions of dollars in loans from China to build mega projects – including motorways, ports, dams and railways – are knocking on Beijing’s door, asking for debt repayment freezes or some debt cancellations, according to the Post report.Earlier, President Xi promised African countries to write off all their interest-free loans due this year and asked Chinese financial institutions “to conduct consultations with African countries on commercial sovereign loan arrangements”, it said.China’s overall lending to Africa stood at USD 152 billion worth of loan commitments between 2000 and 2018, the report said, citing data compiled by the China Africa Research Initiative at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies.Further, China’s policy banks – including China Exim Bank and China Development Bank – which fund most of the BRI projects, are now more cautious in their lending.Even before the pandemic, China’s policy banks were already reducing new belt and road loans. The lenders cut funding to energy projects to the lowest level in more than a decade last year, it said.Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in his address to the meeting pushed for early resumption of the projects.“It is important to get key Belt and Road infrastructure projects restarted as early as possible, keep industrial and supply chains secure to provide a solid underpinning for the economic recovery of all countries,” he said.Bradley Parks, executive director of AidData, a research lab at the College of William and Mary in the US state of Virginia, said given that coronavirus cases were still rising, it was difficult and dangerous to continue doing this kind of on-site construction work.“I think we’re going to see a significant slowdown in the implementation of (belt and road) projects,” he said.James Crabtree, associate professor in practice at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore, said the belt and road’s glory days might be over.“Facing a crunching post-pandemic slowdown, China has far less money to splash out on expensive infrastructure in Africa and elsewhere,” Crabtree said.He said President Xi was also facing severe political pressure on two fronts: from poor countries wanting loans cancelled and from his citizens who did not want the money sent abroad that could be used to aid recovery at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/majority-of-china-s-bri-projects-abroad-adversely-affected-by-covid-19-pandemic-official/story-SlwBqAoFISeSnZ7M7Gs8AL.html
28-06-2020||World||UK plans localised lockdowns as Covid-19 deaths among Indian-origin people remain high||The UK government on Sunday said it is planning to impose localised lockdowns in some regions showing a spike in coronavirus infections, as latest figures showed that Indian-origin people remain in the category of those hardest hit from the deadly virus among Britain’s ethnic minorities.Home Secretary Priti Patel confirmed as “correct” the reports of the first such local lockdown for Leicester, a region in eastern England with a large Indian-origin population.“We have seen flare-ups across the country already, just in the last three or four weeks in particular. There will be support going into Leicester,” said Patel.“With local flare-ups it is right we have a localised solution in terms of infection control, social distancing, testing and many of the tools actually within the Public Health England space that will come together to control the virus and to stop the spread so we can get on top of the infection,” she said.Patel’s confirmation came as England has seen an overall fall in the daily death toll and prepares to substantially lift its lockdown restrictions from July 4, when bars, restaurants and cinemas will begin to open up to public access amid Covid-secure guidelines of safe distancing and hygienic conditions.Meanwhile, the latest NHS England statistics revealed that 763 people identifying with Indian heritage have died so far in the pandemic, according to data collated until last Thursday. This continues to reflect three per cent of the total deaths officially recorded by the National Health Service (NHS) from coronavirus, first reported in April at the peak of the pandemic, followed by those of Pakistani and Caribbean heritage as the second-hardest hit ethnic groups at two per cent each.The UK government had conducted a review into the disparity in the impact from the coronavirus pandemic among the country’s black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) groups and Public Health England (PHE) said it is exploring further measures required to address the disproportionately adverse impact on some ethnicities.As part of some targeted measures, new official guidance was put in place earlier this week which requires pregnant women from BAME backgrounds to be fast-tracked to hospital because of their increased risk of coronavirus.“While Public Health England is continuing to assess and advise on the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak on ethnic groups, I want to make sure that the NHS is doing everything we can to reach out, reassure and support those pregnant women and new mums most at risk,” said Jacqueline Dunkley-Bent, the Chief Midwifery Officer for England.All hospitals have also been instructed to complete risk assessments for staff who are perceived at being at a higher risk of coronavirus, including those from a BAME background and with underlying health conditions. The UK has so far reported 311,739 coronavirus cases and 43,598 fatalities due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-plans-localised-lockdowns-as-covid-19-deaths-among-indian-origin-people-remain-high/story-fev8QFBeUNJMcmrQr88twL.html
28-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter: Church of England orders ‘very careful’ review of statues||The Church of England has joined the growing reviews of monuments and public spaces prompted by the Black Lives Matter (BLM) campaign that has seen major protests in the UK and elsewhere, besides demands to pull down statues of individuals with links to slavery.The Church of England said it has more than 16,000 churches and 42 cathedrals, almost all of which are home to memorials and monuments to individuals from a period spanning more than a thousand years. The histories of the individuals are being examined.Justin Welby, archbishop of Canterbury, has said the review will be conducted “very carefully” to assess if they should be retained in their places or not. The very image of Jesus as a ‘white Jesus’ will need to be reconsidered, since every culture has a different image of him, he added.The church said that the events of the past weeks in response to the death of George Floyd in the United States have brought into focus the question of monuments to individuals who have participated in systemic and targeted discrimination or exploitation based on race.Church of England’s director of church buildings and cathedrals, Becky Clark, said: “Action is being taken by parishes and cathedrals across England to consider monuments which have links to slave trading or the exploitation of people”.“Some churches have previously acknowledged and exposed this legacy, but many are just beginning this work in response to the spotlight shone on these questions by the Black Lives Matter movement”.Welby told BBC: “Some will have to come down, some names will have to change,” adding that the historical acts of those memorialised could be forgiven “only if there’s justice”, and that forgiveness can only be granted “if we change the way we behave now and say this was then and we learn from that and change how we are going to be in the future”.Clark added that the decision about retaining or removing statues will be taken locally by dioceses as they confront the complex challenges of the past and the reality of the present and how the past impacts people living today.The Greater London Authority, councils across the UK and organisations such as the National Trust have initiated reviews of public spaces under their jurisdiction, following major protests in London and elsewhere and the pulling down of slave trader Edward Colston’s statue in Bristol earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-church-of-england-orders-very-careful-review-of-statues/story-Q0mEuZKjlB8x6TQ3kawHqJ.html
28-06-2020||World||China lawmakers review draft of Hong Kong’s national security bill: Report||China’s lawmakers have reviewed a draft of the national security bill for Hong Kong during a meeting held by the standing committee of the National People’s Congress (NPC), state media Xinhua reported on Sunday. In the meeting, Shen Chunyao, director of the Legislative Affairs Commission of the NPC’s standing committee, presented a report on the bill, Xinhua said. The NPC’s Standing Committee usually meets every two months, but the three-day meeting starting on Sunday is the second meeting in June to review the bill. The committee is widely expected to pass the bill into law before the meeting ends on Tuesday. The proposed bill has raised concerns among Hong Kong democracy activists and some foreign governments that Beijing is further eroding the extensive autonomy promised when Britain handed the territory back to China under a “one country, two systems” formula in 1997. China has said, however, the bill will target only a small group of troublemakers as it tackles separatism, subversion, terrorism and foreign interference in Hong Kong. Full details of the legislation have not been made public. Hundreds of Hong Kongers marched silently through the city’s streets on Sunday to protest the bill. Riot police armed with shields were present and used pepper spray on protesters when scuffles broke out in Mong Kok during the event. China’s Global Times editor-in-chief, Hu Xijin, said in a tweet on Sunday the Hong Kong national security bill will “overwhelm HK Human Rights & Democracy Act, which US uses to interfere in HK affairs. In HK, people who’ve harmed nat’l security have shown fear of the upcoming law. It’s good.”He said the bill “could be passed within days” and is “expected to be enforced powerfully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-lawmakers-review-draft-of-hong-kong-s-national-security-bill-report/story-4HhLmcA8gQjY3DAgwX58QK.html
28-06-2020||World||Children more resilient against Covid-19: Lancet study||The majority of children with Covid-19 in 26 countries fared well clinically compared to adults, according to a review of studies which assessed research published during the first four months of the pandemic. Scientists, including those from The University of Texas in the US, performed the largest systematic review to date of children and young adults with Covid-19, assessing the clinical data of more than 7,500 individuals.  In the findings, published in the journal EClinicalMedicine, a journal of The Lancet, they said nearly a fifth of the pediatric population with Covid-19 did not exhibit any symptoms, and 21 per cent of the children exhibited patchy marks of tissue injury on lung X-rays. The researchers said 5.6 per cent of the children assessed in the studies suffered from co-infections, such as flu, on top of Covid-19, and a little more than 3 per cent were admitted to intensive care units. Seven deaths were reported, according to the review research. “Our data is compiled from 131 studies and encompasses 7,780 patients who span the pediatric age spectrum,” said study senior author Alvaro Moreira from UT. The research reported the most common symptoms, quantified laboratory findings, and described X-ray scan characteristics of children with Covid-19. “Furthermore, we summarise treatments that were administered and offer an initial glimpse of a handful of patients who met the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) criteria for multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children,” Moreira said. According to the study, the most frequent symptoms, similar to the adult population, were fever and cough -- found in 59 and 56 per cent of the pediatric population, respectively. In 233 individuals, the scientists said a past medical history was noted with 152 children in the group presenting with compromised immune systems, or had underlying respiratory or cardiac disease. “Although we are hearing about severe forms of the disease in children, this is occurring in very rare circumstances,” Moreira said.Based on laboratory measures noted in the reviewed studies, the scientists said pediatric Covid-19 patients had abnormal levels of molecules signifying inflammation in the body like creatine kinase, interleukin-6, and procalcitonin. According to the scientists, only a small number of patients met inclusion for multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. They said the disease condition in these children paralleled the extreme forms of Covid-19 seen in adults. “Children with systemic inflammation had a significant decrease in the amount of lymphocytes in their blood,” Moreira said. Covid-positive children who didn’t have the extreme form of the disease had 42 per cent of the immune cells called lymphocytes in their blood, versus 11 per cent in children with the multisystem syndrome, he added.The scientists said kidney failure was seen in nine pediatric patients, liver failure also in nine, and shock in 19. They said mechanical ventilation was required by 42 patients. While the review research provides evidence that children with COVID-19 have an overall better prognosis, the scientists said further studies are needed to confirm the findings, and “better understand which patients are at increased risk for developing severe inflammation and multiorgan failure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/children-more-resilient-against-covid-19-lancet-study/story-xRCj6qpmD4pKPJuF4qmV7J.html
28-06-2020||World||China top lawmakers discussed Hong Kong security law: Report||China’s top legislative body discussed Hong Kong’s security legislation on Sunday, Radio Television Hong Kong reported, signaling Beijing may soon hand down a measure that pro-democracy activists and business groups say could erode the city’s unique freedoms.At a three-day meeting that started Sunday, the National People’s Congress Standing Committee considered the legislation to punish acts of secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces, RTHK said, citing Hong Kong non-voting delegate Ip Kwok-him. The NPC has received various opinions about the proposed law and will make “some adjustment,” but the change will not be substantial, he said.Ip said he believed the proposed law for Hong Kong was included on the voting agenda, but details will not be published before the vote has taken place.Stanley Ng Chau-pei, another Hong Kong delegate who attended the meeting with no voting rights, told local television TVB that he had seen the latest draft of the legislation, and that the group discussion he sat in formed “consistent opinion” on the bill. He declined to elaborate on the contents of the legislation and wasn’t sure if the three-day meeting would pass the bill.Chinese President Xi Jinping’s government announced plans in late May to impose the legislation on the former British colony following an unprecedented wave of protests last year. If the proposed law passes during this NPC session, it could come into effect in time for the symbolic July 1 anniversary of the city’s return to Chinese rule in 1997.Pro-democracy politicians and foreign governments including the U.S. have criticized the proposed law as a blow to the “one country, two systems” principle that keeps Hong Kong’s legal system separate from the mainland. About 56% of residents oppose the legislation, compared with 34% who support it, according to a Reuters/Hong Kong Public Opinion Research Institute poll released Friday.Hong Kong officials have defended the new law as necessary to maintain social stability after last year’s protests, despite acknowledging they haven’t seen the full proposal. Details released by state media last week showed that Beijing planned to set up a local intelligence bureau, take control of some sensitive cases and remove the court’s ability to select judges on security matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-top-lawmakers-discussed-hong-kong-security-law-report/story-M5phyvdCK3H606V0HIZL2K.html
28-06-2020||World||China places half a million in lockdown near Beijing over new Covid-19 cases||China imposed a strict lockdown on nearly half a million people near the capital to contain a fresh coronavirus outbreak on Sunday, as authorities warned it was soon to “relax” over the new cluster of cases.After China largely brought the virus under control, hundreds have been infected in Beijing and cases have emerged in neighbouring Hebei province.Health officials said Sunday that Anxin county -- about 150 kilometres (90 miles) from Beijing -- will be “fully enclosed and controlled”, the same strict measures imposed at the height of the pandemic in the city of Wuhan earlier this year.Now, only one person from each family will be allowed to go out once a day to purchase necessities such as food and medicine, the county’s epidemic prevention task force said in a statement.Earlier the county had been subject to some travel restrictions, but now individuals are only allowed to leave their homes to seek medical treatment, the notice said.The move comes after another 14 cases of the virus were reported in the past 24 hours in Beijing, taking the total to 311 since mid-June.The outbreak was first detected in Beijing’s sprawling Xinfadi wholesale food market, which supplies much of the city’s fresh produce and sparked concerns over the safety of the food supply chain.Businesses in Anxin county had supplied freshwater fish to the market, state news agency Xinhua reported.Some 12 cases of the novel coronavirus were found in the area, including 11 linked to Xinfadi market, the state-run Global Times reported.The new cases in Beijing have prompted fears of a resurgence of the virus in China.The capital has mass-tested wholesale market workers, restaurant workers, residents of medium and high-risk neighbourhoods and delivery couriers over the past week. Testing has now expanded to include all employees of the city’s beauty parlours and hair salons, the Global Times said.Beijing city official Xu Hejian told reporters Saturday: “There is no room for us to relax.”City officials have urged people not to leave the city, closed schools again and locked down dozens of residential compounds to stamp out the virus.But Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiology expert at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, told reporters last week the new outbreak had been “brought under control”, and officials lifted a weeks-long lockdown imposed on seven communities in Beijing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-places-half-a-million-in-lockdown-near-beijing-over-new-covid-19-cases/story-m6N0BRvrf62AQaesCURqEO.html
28-06-2020||World||Pakistan to hold general elections in Gilgit-Baltistan on August 18||Pakistan will hold general elections in Gilgit-Baltistan on August 18, the government has announced after the country’s top court allowed holding of polls in the region, notwithstanding India’s strong protest to Islamabad for its efforts to bring “material change” to the territories under its “illegal and forcible” occupation.The Pakistan Supreme Court on April 30 allowed the government to amend a 2018 administrative order to conduct general elections in the region. President Arif Alvi on Saturday approved August 18, 2020 as the poll day for general elections to the Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) Legislative Assembly, according to a statement from the President House.The GB Election Commission will hold the elections in 24 constituencies, according to the statement.The Gilgit-Baltistan order of 2018 provided for administrative changes, including authorising the Prime Minister of Pakistan to legislate on an array of subjects. India last month issued a demarche to a senior Pakistani diplomat in New Delhi and lodged a strong protest over the apex court ruling. India also clearly conveyed to Pakistan that the entire Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of the country.The Ministry of External Affairs said the government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories “illegally and forcibly” occupied by it.President Alvi last month promulgated an order to form a caretaker government and for extension of the Elections Act 2017 of Pakistan to Gilgit-Baltistan. The GB legislative assembly was dissolved on completion of its term on June 24.The federal government has appointed Mir Afzal, a former deputy inspector general of police, as the “caretaker chief minister”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-to-hold-general-elections-in-gilgit-baltistan-on-august-18/story-cZZ3SKfRZRKTn3zjEN89TO.html
28-06-2020||World||Chinese firm CNBG says Covid-19 vaccine candidate shows promise in human test||China National Biotec Group (CNBG) said on Sunday that early human test results for a coronavirus vaccine candidate suggested it could be safe and effective, the second vaccine candidate from the firm to show encouraging results in a clinical trial.The experimental shot, developed by a Beijing-based unit of CNBG, has induced high-level antibodies in all the inoculated participants in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial involving 1,120 healthy people, according to preliminary data of the trial, CNBG said in a posting on the social media platform WeChat, without disclosing specific readings.Chinese companies and researchers have been allowed to test eight vaccine candidates in humans at home and abroad, making China a major front-runner in the race to develop a shot against the virus that has killed nearly 500,000 people globally.CNBG, affiliated to the state-owned China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm), said earlier this month that another vaccine candidate produced by its Wuhan-based unit also triggered high-level antibodies safely in clinical trial participants based on preliminary results.A vaccine has to prove its effectiveness in “Phase 3” human test where thousands of participants are recruited in order to be cleared for sale. CNBG said on Tuesday it will run a Phase 3 for its vaccine candidate in the United Arab Emirates, without specifying which shot will be tested. (Reporting by Roxanne Liu and Ryan Woo; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-firm-cnbg-says-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-shows-promise-in-human-test/story-NfSJBkfu6Cdmxh7D8RrMWM.html
28-06-2020||World||Israeli court releases anti-Benjamin Netanyahu activist after arrest||A Jerusalem court early on Sunday ordered the release of a leading activist opposed to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s rule and whose arrest prompted hundreds to protest outside the Israeli leader’s residence.Retired Brig. Gen. Amir Haskel has been a leader of the protest movement against Netanyahu, demanding that the long-time leader step down while facing charges of fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes. Haskel and several others were detained on Friday in what police said was an “illegal” demonstration because the protesters blocked roads.Haskel, a former top Israeli air force general, has become a symbol of the protest movement that opposes Netanyahu’s continued rule. Demonstrations have been held regularly around the country, with protesters waving signs reading “crime minister” and calling for Netanyahu to resign.“No one will prevent us from protesting anywhere,” Haskel said upon his release, adding a barb toward Netanyahu about his own brief experience in jail. “We were in Hadarim prison for 15 hours. It wasn’t pleasant, but it wasn’t terrible.”The arrests drew angry denunciations from prominent Israelis and sent hundreds out to protest outside Netanyahu’s residence on Saturday, with many slamming the police for making what they viewed as politically-motivated arrests.Police said they offered to release Haskel and others if they agreed to refrain from returning to the scene of the protests. Haskel and two others refused.Gabi Lasky, the lawyer representing Haskel, told Israeli Army Radio that the court eventually released him without conditions, saying protesting was the foundation of democracy.The country’s acting police chief said the force would learn a lesson from the incident.“The role of the police is to allow freedom of expression and demonstration to every person and to keep the public peace and security, this regardless of the protest’s subject, the identity of the protesters or their opinions,” acting commissioner Motti Cohen said.Netanyahu is on trial for a series of scandals in which he allegedly received lavish gifts from billionaire friends and traded regulatory favours with media moguls for more palatable coverage of himself and his family. The trial is set to resume next month.Netanyahu has denied wrongdoing, calling the charges a witch-hunt against him by a hostile media and a biased law enforcement system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-court-releases-anti-benjamin-netanyahu-activist-after-arrest/story-WqFIwn7OKFEGqjCKthLYsI.html
28-06-2020||World||Poland votes in critical moment for Europe’s post-Covid-19 future||Polish citizens are voting in a presidential election that will determine the fate of the east European country’s nationalist makeover.After voiding a ballot in May due to the coronavirus pandemic, Poland on Sunday holds the first of an expected two rounds of voting to determine whether to re-elect President Andrzej Duda. Polling stations will close at 9 p.m. (3 p.m. EST), when an exit poll will be published.The campaign has been tough for the incumbent as the Covid crisis pushes Poland into its first recession in three decades. Leading opposition candidate Rafal Trzaskowski, the mayor of Warsaw, tapped into the discontent with his “We’ve had enough!” rally cry, while Duda turned to familiar tactics when his popularity dipped.The president picked on gay people, praised Catholic family values and cozied up to Donald Trump. Duda’s Poland is no stranger to divisive politics but as he seeks a second term, the question is whether the us-against-them narrative of the governing Law & Justice party will yield another victory and raise the alarm again for Europe.Problem ChildThe vote is a critical moment for a nation that until recently was hailed as a model of transformation from communism to a thriving democracy. By clashing with the European Union over everything from LGBT rights to the independence of courts and control of the media, Poland turned into a problem child.Now the country will decide whether the leadership will get carte blanche to complete its project by re-electing a president whose job has been to endorse its power grab. The risk for an EU grappling with the coronavirus pandemic and its economic fallout is that Poland goes the way of Hungary, already seen by many in Brussels as a lost cause.US think tank Freedom House said that given Poland’s current trajectory, it may not even be considered a functioning democracy by the end of Duda’s potential second term. “If this continues for another five years it’s very likely that Poland will find itself outside the democracy category,” said Zselyke Csaky, a Freedom House research director.The vote is Duda’s to lose. Polls show he still has a healthy lead and should win the first round, followed by Trzaskowski. If no candidate wins at least half of the votes on Sunday, polling for a run-off -- slated for July 12 -- suggests the result would be too close to call.Duda has accused the LGBT community of threatening Polish families and championed the government’s social-security handouts. This week, he visited the White House for talks with Trump. The American president has praised Warsaw’s spending on military equipment and the drive to chart its own “Poland first” path within the EU.Turning PointWhile the meeting failed to produce a sweeping defense agreement long advocated by Poland, public television hailed the visit as a resounding success and a turning point in the country’s history.The network -- the main source of news for many Poles -- has “abandoned any pretence of being a public-service broadcaster” in the run-up to the election, acting almost exclusively as the mouthpiece of the government and of the president, according to global media watchdog Reporters Without Borders.A Duda loss would jeopardize Law & Justice’s ability to push through some legislation. The party has enough seats in parliament to pass laws, though not enough to override a presidential veto.The party built power by attacking “corrupt elites” and promising a fairer, safer country for ordinary citizens after decades of fast-paced changes following communism. But its five-year rule has been marred by unprecedented EU lawsuits detailing how it’s eroding democratic values and removing the checks and balances on its power.The Covid crisis disrupted the ruling party’s narrative as frustration rises along with unemployment. Voter expectations for government relief are growing and exposing the limits of the party’s media machine.“The masks have fallen,” said Adam Bodnar, Poland’s ombudsman for human rights. “The line dividing those in power and the rest of the society is much clearer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/poland-votes-in-critical-moment-for-europe-s-post-covid-19-future/story-xTBIjvUChZWLxRMCh5yTrN.html
28-06-2020||World||Taiwan celebrates Pride Month with world’s only public parade||Taipei will be the only city in the world to celebrate Pride Month with a march Sunday, highlighting Taiwan’s success in keeping the coronavirus outbreak largely under control.The parade is scheduled to begin Sunday afternoon close to the Presidential Office in Taipei. Coming just over a year after Taiwan became the first place in Asia to legalize same-sex marriage, the event cements the island’s status as one of the most LGBTQ-friendly places in the region.Taipei hosts one of Asia’s largest Pride parades every October, attended by tens of thousands of people from all over the world. The community is holding an additional event Sunday during Pride month, which marks the anniversary of the Stonewall riots in New York in 1969, a key moment in the early fight for LGBTQ rights.More than 500 Pride events originally scheduled for June have been canceled around the world due to the pandemic, according to the organizers of the Taipei march. Some will still go ahead but remain online only.The Taipei celebration is taking place as life gets back to normal in Taiwan. The island has reported fewer than 450 cases of the coronavirus in total since the outbreak began, with seven deaths. The government has eased regulations on large-scale events, social distancing and business travel over the past month after registering no domestic transmission of the virus since early April.As China Fights Second Wave, Taiwan Starts Stockpiling AgainTaipei has established itself as a center for LGBTQ rights in East Asia. Around 80,000 people come to the Taiwanese capital every year for the annual Pride march. Openly gay and transgender presenters have been a fixture on Taiwanese television for much of the past two decades. In 2016, the government appointed Audrey Tang as a minister without portfolio, one of the few cabinet-level transgender officials in the world.Since the government legalized gay marriage in May last year, more than 3,500 same-sex couples have tied the knot in Taiwan, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-celebrates-pride-month-with-world-s-only-public-parade/story-wOD4M6Sad7l1U2wJEe4ccL.html
28-06-2020||World||1-year-old killed in Chicago drive-by shooting||A one-year-old boy was killed and his mother wounded in a Chicago drive-by shooting that has stunned authorities accustomed to rampant gun violence in America’s third-largest city. The 22-year-old mother was driving home on Saturday afternoon when the attacker pulled up next to her car and fired around eight shots, striking the infant in the chest and grazing her head, police said. “This is happening far too often,” Chicago police operations chief Fred Waller told reporters near where the shooting took place in the city’s south. “When is this going to stop? When are we gonna say enough is enough?”The incident came a week after the shooting death of three-year-old Mekhi James, who died in similar circumstances while traveling in a car with his father on the city’s west side. “We’ll catch the person that killed that three-year-old. We’ll catch the person who killed this kid,” Waller said.Chicago mayor Lori Lightfoot and police superintendent David Brown asked the city’s residents to speak up if they had information on Saturday’s attack. “We ALL need to be outraged by the violence we are seeing in our city. This baby, and all of our residents, deserve better,” Brown said.No arrests have been made and police are continuing to investigate both cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/1-year-old-killed-in-chicago-drive-by-shooting/story-HWjl682JffyQE4u5VcZViP.html
28-06-2020||World||Iran’s central bank injects cash to stabilise currency market, says bank governor||Iran’s Central Bank has injected hundreds of millions of dollars to stabilise the currency market, bank governor Abdolnaser Hemmati said on Saturday, after the Iranian currency fell to historic lows this week.“Over the past few days, hundreds of millions of dollars entered the market through (Central Bank-linked) brokers and thwarted many of the plans of those trying to destabilise the foreign exchange market,” Hemmati said in an Instagram posting.The rial currency sank to its lowest-ever level on Tuesday before recovering slightly. It has been under pressure from US sanctions and the coronavirus crisis.After saying on Friday that the central bank would not “‘spray’ its resources onto the market”, Hemmati said that he did not mean the bank would hold back from supporting the ailing rial. “Our market intervention will be prudent and goal-oriented,” he said. Iranian officials have said in the past that they have largely abandoned a policy of injecting large amounts of hard currency to support the rial since 2018, when it lost about 75 percent of its value after the United States withdrew from a nuclear deal and re-imposed sanctions. The rial was trading at around 200,000 per US dollar on the unofficial market on Saturday, according to foreign exchange websites including Bonbast.com.The currency gained slightly against the US dollar earlier, trading at around 192,000 per dollar on Friday, after falling to a historic low of 205,000 on Tuesday. The official exchange rate is 42,000 rials per dollar and is used mostly for imports of state-subsidised food and medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-s-central-bank-injects-cash-to-stabilise-currency-market-says-bank-governor/story-yCykEXfVsjueMl8TjMIGkK.html
28-06-2020||World||Retirement plans put aside, Russia’s Putin aims to be president till 83||After two decades in power, Vladimir Putin’s approval ratings are at an all-time low as Russia’s economy reels under the impact of the coronavirus epidemic and the slump in oil prices. What better time for him to seek to extend his presidency for potentially 16 more years?It’s a measure of how tightly Putin has controlled the operation to amend Russia’s constitution that there’s little suspense about the result of a referendum on the changes, despite the economic pain unleashed by the virus. Approval in the vote that concludes July 1 will allow him to seek two more six-year terms after his present one ends in 2024, staying in power until 2036, when he’d be 83.Still, amid rising public discontent, officials are pulling out all the stops to ensure a high turnout in a vote Putin wasn’t obliged to call. While a simple majority in favor and a turnout exceeding 50% of eligible voters is all that’s required, the Kremlin won’t be happy with anything less than an overwhelming endorsement. It’s sought to woo Russians with populist sweeteners such as an effective constitutional ban on gay marriage.“People are disenchanted with the ‘presidential republic’ and iron fist they believed in 20 years ago,” said Sergei Belanovsky, a Moscow sociologist who helped to produce polling that predicted the biggest protests of Putin’s rule in 2011-2012 and is now tracking a renewed increase in negative attitudes toward the leadership of the country.Putin caught even many in his inner circle by surprise in January when he announced plans to carry out the most extensive reform of the constitution since it was adopted in 1993. But the clause allowing him to sidestep term limits didn’t appear until March, even if many officials later suspected that had been his plan all along.Putin is already the longest-serving leader of the world’s largest country by landmass since Soviet dictator Josef Stalin. After a 2018 backlash over a pension-age increase, the former KGB colonel has found it harder to maintain public support as falling living standards stir increased resentment.His popularity rating at 59% - though still respectable by western standards - is the lowest since he became president in 2000, and has fallen to the level of regional governors whom Putin routinely used to out-poll, according to the Levada Center, an independent pollster in Moscow.Putin, who delegated the main responsibility for combating the spread of Covid-19 to regional chiefs, has seen his ratings fall because of people’s unhappiness at the current economic crisis, said Levada analyst Denis Volkov. At the same time, the authorities for now remain in greater control than they were at the time of the mass demonstrations almost a decade ago with most Russians still hopeful the country will emerge from the crisis, he said.After years of stagnation, Russia’s economy may shrink by 6.6% this year, the worst contraction since 2009 in the wake of the global financial crisis, according to the International Monetary Fund. Growth has averaged under 2% in the past decade, far down on the more than 7% annual expansion that helped incomes soar during Putin’s first two terms as president. The Russian central bank sees little room for improvement in coming years without structural reform.Real incomes are falling after stagnating over the past six years, while unemployment climbed to 6.1% in May from 4.7% in March.Putin stirred patriotic sentiments before the referendum with a massive military parade in Red Square on June 24 to mark the 75th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, a commemoration delayed by the virus from May 9. He also sought to win over ordinary Russians on the eve of the vote by unveiling fresh cash payments for families and the unemployed and a tax increase for the rich.Levada’s latest poll conducted late last month showed fewer than half of people support the constitutional reform. State employees are being pressured into voting, according to election monitoring group Golos, which said that the use of large-scale online voting for the first time and the week-long balloting process made it harder for independent observers to uncover any violations.State pollster VTsIOM puts support for Putin at a much higher level, reporting trust in the president ranging between 66% and 73% in 2020. It published a June 23 forecast showing between 67% and 71% of voters will back the amendments in the referendum.Sense of SecurityThe authorities’ calculation is that people, whatever their reservations, will mostly rally behind at a time of national crisis out of recognition that the government offers a sense of security, said an official with knowledge of Kremlin political planning.Belanovsky, the sociologist, said his most recent research of public opinion conducted this month shows that a majority supports aspects of the constitutional changes aimed at upholding traditional values but only a minority backs Putin’s wish to reset his term limits to zero at the end of his current mandate.Interviews with focus groups from March to May have pointed to a sharp sense of disillusionment both with the president personally and the government as a whole, according to Belanovsky. People are angry about falling living standards, corruption and a lack of help from the authorities to counter the economic fall-out of the lockdown during the pandemic, he said.VTsIOM’s head Valery Fyodorov dismissed Belanovsky’s research as “pseudo-polling” that is “not based on scientific sampling” in a commentary on Wednesday.Putin’s rule has become “far less legitimate,” according to Tatiana Stanovaya, head of R. Politik, a political consultancy. “Social dissatisfaction is building up, but we won’t see the consequences until later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/retirement-plans-put-aside-russia-s-putin-aims-to-be-president-till-83/story-PuB9lmmv2L4anOdaQ4qzSO.html
28-06-2020||World||NORAD fighter jets intercept Russian military aircraft off Alaska||US F-22 stealth fighter aircraft scrambled on Saturday to intercept four Russian reconnaissance jets off Alaska, said NORAD, the U.S and Canadian defense organization.The interception of the Russian Tu-142s marks the 10th time this year that Russian military aircraft have been intercepted off Alaska, the North American Aerospace Defense Command, or NORAD, said in a statement. The Russian aircraft did not enter US or Canadian sovereign airspace, NORAD said.The intercepting aircraft are based at Elmendorf Air Force Base in Alaska, said a NORAD spokesman, Captain Cameron Hillier.The incident is one of a series of back-and-forth probes by Russia and the United States this year. On June 19, Russia scrambled fighter jets to intercept two U.S. B-52 bombers flying over the Sea of Okhotsk, off Russia’s far eastern coast, the Interfax news agency reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/norad-fighter-jets-intercept-russian-military-aircraft-off-alaska/story-LANQ6E4mIFQCiHr3mkRF2H.html
28-06-2020||World||What doctors have learned about fighting Covid-19||In the six months since an entirely new coronavirus began spreading around the world, doctors and hospitals have learned a lot about how to treat patients with Covid-19, the potentially deadly disease caused by the virus.What doctors have learned about fighting Covid-19:• Patients are at increased risk of blood clots, and blood thinning agents can help.• “Proning” - putting patients on their stomachs to relieve pressure on the lungs - can stave off the need for mechanical ventilation.• Besides the respiratory system and lungs, the coronavirus can attack many other organs, including the heart, liver, kidneys, and brain.• The most promising treatments so far seem to be the anti-viral remdesivir; dexamethasone, a steroid to treat the body’s inflammatory response to Covid-19; and plasma donated by patients who have antibodies to the disease.• More widespread testing and quicker results helps relieve pressure on hospitals.• Information-sharing among health professionals worldwide is crucial.• Prevention is critical. Doctors are relying on the public to do their part with good hygiene, masks and social distancing.Some of the biggest unknowns:• Exactly which treatments will work for which patients.• How quickly some treatments will gain widespread distribution, especially remdesivir.• How long it will take for Covid-19 patients to recover.• The long-term effects of the infection.“If the best lesson we’ve learned is to turn patients onto their stomachs instead of their backs,” said Valory Wangler, chief medical officer at Rehoboth McKinley Christian Health Care Services, in Gallup, New Mexico, “it means we’re far from a miracle cure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-doctors-have-learned-about-fighting-covid-19/story-zyUEQdQWwgqtbKHcJbGD8L.html
28-06-2020||World||371 test positive for Covid-19 at chicken processing plant in United States||Tyson Foods has announced that 371 employees at its chicken processing plant in the far southwestern corner of Missouri have tested positive for Covid-19.The company said in a news release Friday that it tested 1,142 employees at the plant in Noel from June 17 to June 19, and 291 tested positive for Covid-19. Of those 291, Tyson said 249, or 85%, were asymptomatic. Tyson said an additional 80 Noel employees tested positive for Covid-19 in separate tests that were performed by their health care providers or the state’s Department of Health and Senior Services.The announcement confirms suspicions that the large spike in McDonald County’s reported Covid-19 numbers starting this past weekend was the result of large-scale testing at the plant, the Springfield News-Leader reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/371-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-chicken-processing-plant-in-united-states/story-UwFjFHZpXUGXCB5sPTuXXP.html
28-06-2020||World||Princeton dumps Woodrow Wilson’s name over ‘racist thinking’||Princeton University is removing Woodrow Wilson’s name from its public policy school and one of its residential colleges after trustees concluded that the 28th US president’s “racist thinking and policies” made him “an inappropriate namesake.”The Ivy League school’s trustees made the decision Friday, according to a statement released on Saturday.It comes at a time of widespread rethinking of America’s racial legacy. The Black Lives Matter movement, energized by a series of high-profile deaths of Black Americans, have resulted in the removal of Confederate monuments, flags, and symbols of racism across the US. Deleting Wilson’s name at Princeton may be the most high-profile act to date. The policy school will now be known as “The Princeton School of Public and International Affairs.”Wilson was president of Princeton from 1902 to 1910 and, as a Democrat, served as governor of New Jersey before winning the 1912 presidential election. Wilson, born in Virginia in 1856, spent his early years in the South, including in Georgia and South Carolina.“Wilson’s racism was significant and consequential, even by the standards of his own time,” Princeton President Christopher L. Eisgruber said in the statement.Civil Service“He segregated the federal civil service after it had been racially integrated for decades, thereby taking America backward in its pursuit of justice,” he added. “He not only acquiesced in but added to the persistent practice of racism in this country, a practice that continues to do harm today.”Princeton established its School of Public and International Affairs in 1930, in the spirit of Wilson’s interest in preparing students for leadership. It was named in honor of Wilson in 1948, according to the Princeton website.Wilson’s “Fourteen Points” speech to Congress in 1918 laid down a statement of principles for peace later used to end World War One. He was known for his role in the Paris Peace Conference, the signing of the Treaty of Versailles that ended war between Germany and the Allied Powers, and establishment of the post-war League of Nations.During his first term in office, Wilson oversaw the creation of the modern U.S. central bank, signing the Federal Reserve Act in 1913.Fraught HistoryChartered in 1746, Princeton says it is the fourth-oldest college in the US. It’s been led by only 20 presidents, dating back to Colonial times. It’s also among the richest colleges.As one of America’s oldest universities, Princeton has a fraught history with race and gender. It admitted its first black undergraduates in 1945, decades after other Ivy League schools. It didn’t accept women as undergrads until 1969 -- and even then, did so over opposition from some alumni.Former First Lady Michelle Obama, one of the school’s most well-known Black alumus, recalled Princeton as “extremely white and very male” in her autobiography, “Becoming.”“If in high school I’d felt as if I were representing my neighborhood, now at Princeton I was representing my race,” she wrote. “Anytime I found my voice in class or nailed an exam, I quietly hoped it helped make a larger point.”The university had discussed removing Wilson’s name before, following student protests at the New Jersey school in November 2015. At the time, a committee that studied Wilson’s legacy at Princeton decided to retain the name.Princeton student and alumni interest in the issue has persisted, and the trustees returned to the subject this month as the U.S. struggled profoundly with the injustice of racism, the university said in its statement.Kudos to All“As a Princeton alumni, I am THRILLED,” Keisha Blain, president of the African American Intellectual History Society, said on Twitter. “Kudos to the courageous faculty, students, and staff.”Student activists renewed their effort to call for removal of Woodrow Wilson’s name in recent weeks, as BLM protests took on a global scale, sparking changes across corporations, governments, the sports world and beyond. Two groups of students at the school this week submitted demands for anti-racist action to administrators.“This question has been made more urgent by the recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, George Floyd, and Rayshard Brooks, which have served as tragic reminders of the ongoing need for all of us to stand against racism and for equality and justice,” the trustees said. “Our commitment to those values must be clear and unequivocal.”Protest organizers said changing the name was only “one small part” of their demands, and urged more “transformative change” at the school.New Diplomas?Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson, who holds a master’s degree from the public policy school, applauded the decision on Twitter and asked, “will we be getting new diplomas.”The U.S. is seeing a paradigm shift in what’s acceptable in terms of public memorialization and representation, said Leslie Harris, a professor of history at Northwestern University.Harris added, “I am concerned that this decision was made only after the loss of Black life through extraordinary violence, rather than through reasoned discussion and debate, which is supposedly the hallmark of the university.”“Nothing has changed in Woodrow Wilson’s record in the interim between which the university decided to keep the name, and today’s decision,” said Harris, whose research includes the history of US slavery.Eric Yellin, an associate professor at the University of Richmond, said Princeton “is trying to signal that it wants to be a place where students of color and historically marginalized students feel at home.”“I don’t know what it means for reality on the ground for students of color at Princeton -- for Black students in particular. There’s a long history of finding Princeton a difficult place to be,” said Yellin, the author of “Racism in the Nation’s Service: Government Workers and the Color Line in Woodrow Wilson’s America.” “It certainly is a powerful signal of an intent to make change.”Trustees at another New Jersey school, Monmouth University in West Long Branch, voted this month to remove Wilson’s name from its marquee building. It’s unclear how Princeton’s decision may affect other institutions in the US that bear Wilson’s name, including high schools and elementary schools in several states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/princeton-dumps-woodrow-wilson-s-name-over-racist-thinking/story-9RTtg9h4LlJdIStCw4D4wJ.html
28-06-2020||World||Polish presidential poll could reshape relations with EU and domestic agenda||Poland holds a closely-fought presidential election on Sunday that could reshape its tense relationship with the EU and determine the nationalist Law and Justice (PiS) government’s ability to make progress on its socially conservative agenda.Incumbent Andrzej Duda, 48, has vowed to be a guardian of PiS’s economic programmes, which include generous social spending, and its pledge to safeguard traditional family values in the predominantly Catholic country.“We don’t see the same standard of living as in western Europe and this is what I would like to achieve,” Duda said in the southwestern town of Rybnik on Friday during one of his last campaign stops before the election, delayed by seven weeks due to the coronavirus pandemic.A PiS ally, Duda has rejected some Western influences including sexual education programmes that he says can perpetuate “LGBT ideology”, which he argues is worse than communism.His main challenger, centrist Warsaw mayor Rafal Trzaskowski, also 48, seeks to provide a progressive alternative, promising to fight Poland’s isolation in the EU after five years of conflict between the government and Brussels.Since PiS came to power in 2015, the European Commission, the EU executive, has launched an unprecedented legal action against Warsaw following criticism that Poland is subverting democratic norms by politicising its courts.SECOND ROUNDAs mayor, Trzaskowski has proposed sexual education programmes in line with World Health Organization recommendations for schools, a move criticised by PiS as an effort to sexualise children.Polling stations open at 7.00 a.m. (0500 GMT) and close at 9.00 p.m., when exit polls will be published. If no candidate wins more than 50% of the votes, the two with the biggest share will compete in a second round on July 12.Poland imposes an “election silence” starting at midnight the day before the election which bans discussing opinion polls and campaigning.Poland’s presidency carries some responsibilities in defense and foreign affairs as well as the right to veto legislation.If Duda fails to secure a second five-year mandate, his successor could hamper the government’s ability to deepen its justice reforms by vetoing laws or refusing to nominate judges picked by PiS allies.This would likely fuel tensions within PiS’ fragile parliamentary coalition and could force the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to govern as a minority cabinet. An early national election can’t be ruled out.Nine other candidates are competing, including independent Catholic journalist Szymon Holownia, leftist Robert Biedron - Poland’s most prominent openly gay politician - and Krzysztof Bosak of the far-right Confederation party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/polish-presidential-poll-could-reshape-relations-with-eu-and-domestic-agenda/story-IkYih6e9R2DPybvO98cWJO.html
28-06-2020||World||1 fatally shot at Breonna Taylor protest park in Kentucky||Authorities were investigating a fatal shooting Saturday night at a park in downtown Louisville, Kentucky, where demonstrators had gathered to protest the death of Breonna Taylor.Reports of shots fired at Jefferson Square Park came in around 9 p.m., Louisville Metro police said in a statement, followed by calls that the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Department was performing life-saving measures on a male who died at the scene. Shortly after, police were told of a shooting victim across the street at the Hall of Justice. That person was hospitalized with non-life-threatening injuries.Video posted on social media appeared to show a man opening fire into the park as people scrambled for cover. The footage later showed at least one person bleeding profusely on the ground.Officers cleared the park and police “are trying to gather as much information as possible in order to identify all who were involved in the incident,” the statement said. No information about arrests, possible suspects and the victims’ identities and ages was immediately released. Officials did not immediately release additional information.The park has for weeks been the epicenter for protests in the city after the police killings of Taylor and George Floyd. The Saturday night shooting was at least the second during nearly a month of protests in Louisville over Taylor’s death. Seven people were wounded May 28 when gunfire erupted near City Hall, prompting a statement from Taylor’s mother asking people to demand justice “without hurting each other.”“Praying for our city,” tweeted Kentucky state Rep. Charles Booker of Louisville late Saturday. The Democrat is running for his party’s nomination to challenge Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell in the fall.Taylor, a 26-year-old Black woman, was killed in her Louisville home in March by police who were serving a no-knock warrant. Protesters have been calling for the officers involved in her death to be charged. One of the officers was recently fired.Kenneth Walker, Taylor’s boyfriend, was originally charged with attempted murder after he fired a shot at one of the officers who came into the home. Walker has said he thought he was defending from an intruder.The no-knock search warrant that allows police to enter without first announcing their presence was recently banned by Louisville’s Metro Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/1-fatally-shot-at-breonna-taylor-protest-park-in-kentucky/story-9vSfPqF80pGg91NzrTQ5EM.html
28-06-2020||World||Massive protest in Karachi against enforced disappearances in Sindh||Police, paramilitary rangers and other law enforcement agencies arrested several men and women, including students protesting against enforced disappearances in Sindh from Karachi press club on Saturday.According to sources, the late crowd including family members of the victims gathered at the Karachi press club to hold a peaceful protest against illegal arrests and enforced disappearances of their loved ones.According to details when protesters started chanting slogans against enforced disappearances, a large number of Police, Paramilitary Rangers, and plainclothes personnel of intelligence agencies attacked peaceful protesters. They baton charged and tortured elderly men, women, young girls and students.Many were injured. Security forces manhandled girls and threw them into police mobile vehicles and were shifted to an unknown place.It is learned that since the last two weeks, more than 200 Sindhis and Mohajirs belonging to MQM and different groups of Jiye Sindh have been arrested by Paramilitary Rangers and other law enforcement agencies in Karachi, Hyderabad and other cities of Sindh.No arrested person was presented before any court of law, said sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/massive-protest-in-karachi-against-enforced-disappearances-in-sindh/story-2pn2D1h2wmARfHZf2oV52H.html
28-06-2020||World||Two killed in Wal-Mart shooting: Report||At least two people were killed and four wounded in a shooting at a Wal-Mart distribution center in California, US media reported Saturday.A local newspaper, the Record Searchlight, quoted a witness who said he heard what sounded like gunfire from a semi-automatic weapon at the facility in the city of Red Bluff.The Searchlight and other media including CNN cited hospital officials on the toll.Red Bluff city Rick Crabtree manager told CNN that a car rammed the facility around 3:00 pm local time, causing a fire which he said was not significant.“There was an active shooter, he was shot, last I heard he was on his way to the hospital,” Crabtree was quoted as saying.A Wal-Mart spokesman told CNN they were aware of the situation and working with law enforcement to investigate, but could offer no further details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-killed-in-wal-mart-shooting-report/story-hLxOISis60UTBRxknelPXN.html
28-06-2020||World||4 men charged in attack on Andrew Jackson’s statue near White House||Federal authorities have charged four men in connection with a failed effort last week to pull down the statue of President Andrew Jackson near the White House.In a complaint unsealed Saturday, authorities allege that the men damaged and attempted to tear down the Jackson statue, which is located in Lafayette Square, last Monday. The square has been the site of protests in the aftermath of George Floyd’s death while in police custody in Minneapolis.Those charged are Lee Michael Cantrell, 47, of Virginia; Connor Matthew Judd, 20, of Washington, D.C.; Ryan Lane, 37, of Maryland; and Graham Lloyd, 37, of Maine.Judd was arrested on Friday and appeared in Superior Court of the District of Columbia on Saturday, authorities said. The other three have not been apprehended. The FBI and the US Park Police have been investigating the incident.A statement from the US Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia says the complaint alleges that Cantrell was captured on video attempting to pry the statue off its base with a wooden board and trying to pull the statue down with the aid of a yellow strap. Judd is seen on video trying to pull down the statue while Lane is seen on video affixing a rope to one part of the statue and then pulling on another rope tied to the statue, the complaint alleges.The video also shows Lloyd as he breaks off and destroys the wheels of cannons located at the base of the statue, pulling on ropes in an effort to topple the statue, and handing a hammer to an unidentified individual involved in the incident, the complaint alleges.“The United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia will not stand idly by and allow our national monuments to be vandalized and destroyed,” Acting US Attorney Michael R. Sherwin said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4-men-charged-in-attack-on-andrew-jackson-s-statue-near-white-house/story-cSsHJ1Y4VqLjwRRXOPQVWI.html
28-06-2020||World||Colombian woman with Covid-19 gives birth to non-infected child in coma||Diana Angola was fighting for her own life when she gave birth to son Jefferson. The 36-year-old had been put into a coma having contracted the novel coronavirus, which left her lungs barely able cope.Doctors performed a caesarian section due to the state of her lungs and Jefferson was born at least 14 weeks prematurely.The case generated “a lot of shock,” Paula Velasquez, a doctor specializing in internal medicine at the Versalles clinic in the southeastern city of Cali, told AFP.“We knew that there were few reported cases of survival in a context as severe as our patient,” said Velasquez.Angola, who also has a daughter, was taken to hospital on May 15 with a terrible fever.Three days later she was put into an induced coma and kept that way until surgery.Because of her pregnancy, she was kept sitting up at a 45 degree angle, when those suffering from pneumonia are normally laid down flat to help their breathing.Jefferson, though premature, was born without the coronavirus -- but doctors said he struggled to breathe, and that they had to revive him.“We had to go through the whole procedure of a critical patient,” pediatrician Edwin Olivo, who was one of the specialists involved in the birth, said.But, he added, though the baby remains in an incubator he quickly started putting on weight and breathing more easily.“A human being can survive from 24 weeks with a good weight, but with a lot of technology and an effect on neurological development and the lungs,” said Velasquez.Painful memoriesNow recovered from the virus, Angola is desperate to be discharged with her son.“It’s really emotional knowing that we fought, that the doctors helped us survive,” she said, her voice faint.She says she doesn’t know how she contracted the virus and her family insists she complied rigidly with the lockdown, first imposed on March 25 but which has been easing recently.In the hospital corridors, her sister Angela breathes a sigh of relief.Hospitals bring back painful memories: two years ago her mother and another sister died in intensive care, where Diana was for several weeks.Angela remembers her sister screaming: “Don’t let them put me on artificial ventilation, get me out of here, I don’t want to die,” after doctors told her what treatment they were proposing.With Latin America now the epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic, Angela wants her sister and nephew’s case to act as a lesson for others.“There are many people who go around without face masks, who go to parties, because they don’t know anyone (with the virus) they don’t realize” how dangerous it is.With more than 2,600 deaths and 80,000 cases, Colombia is the sixth most affected country in Latin America in terms of fatalities and fifth worst for infections.However, the virus is spreading quickly in the country of 50 million, with a quarter of those deaths and cases reported just last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colombian-woman-with-covid-19-gives-birth-to-non-infected-child-in-coma/story-JHJowO6PxjDP7UlvxkiWxN.html
28-06-2020||World||3 Iranian vessels intercepted entering Saudi territorial waters in Persian Gulf||Saudi Arabian border guards have intercepted three Iranian vessels that were spotted entering Saudi territorial waters in the Persian Gulf, state-run media reported on Saturday, adding that the ships eventually retreated.According to the state-run Saudi Press Agency, a Border Guard spokesperson said that the incident took place on Thursday.Three Iranian boats were seen entering Saudi territorial waters and failed to adhere to warnings from border guards, the agency cited the spokesperson as saying.Border guards fired warning shots, which forced the vessels to retreat, the spokesperson said, adding that no violations would be tolerated in the country’s territorial waters, as reported by the agency.The Iranian state-run Mehr news agency cited a prominent fisheries official who said the three boats involved were fishing vessels that were pushed off course by waves.The official added that no-one on board suffered injuries after the Saudi border guards opened fire, the agency reported.Saudi Arabia and Iran broke off diplomatic relations in 2016 after the Saudi authorities executed a prominent Shia cleric. The execution prompted a wave of protests in Tehran that led to the Saudi Embassy being overrun and ransacked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-iranian-vessels-intercepted-entering-saudi-territorial-waters-in-persian-gulf/story-QCHTtG13LVpB2YGXK0EOjN.html
28-06-2020||World||South China Sea is not China’s maritime empire: Pompeo||The United States has welcomed the statement by members of the ASEAN countries that South China Sea disputes should be resolved in line with the international law, US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said on Saturday (local time).“The United States welcomes ASEAN Leaders’ insistence that South China Sea disputes be resolved in line with international law, including UNCLOS (United Nations Convention for the Law of the Sea). China cannot be allowed to treat the SCS as its maritime empire. We will have more to say on this topic soon,” Pompeo tweeted.The United States welcomes ASEAN Leaders’ insistence that South China Sea disputes be resolved in line with international law, including UNCLOS. China cannot be allowed to treat the SCS as its maritime empire. We will have more to say on this topic soon. https://t.co/IUmzD7OksCAfter the 36th ASEAN summit on Friday, a joint statement was issued by the members of the bloc expressing concerns over the current situation in the South China Sea.The ASEAN leaders stressed the importance of maintaining and promoting peace, security, stability, safety and freedom of navigation and over-flight above the South China Sea, as well as upholding international law, including the 1982 UNCLOS, in the South China Sea, working actively towards the full and effective implementation of the 2002 Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea (DOC) in its entirety, and the early conclusion of an effective and substantive Code of Conduct in the South China Sea (COC), consistent with international law, including the 1982 UNCLOS.They also laid emphasis on the “importance of non-militarisation and self-restraint in the conduct of activities that would complicate or escalate disputes and affect peace and stability, and avoid actions that may further complicate the situation.”“Pursue the peaceful resolution of disputes in accordance with universally recognised principles of international law, including the 1982 UNCLOS, while enhancing mutual trust and confidence,” the statement said.Several islands and territories in the South China Sea are claimed by Beijing, but other countries including Indonesia, the Philippines and Brunei also have their territorial claim in the hotly contested region.Earlier, Pompeo tweeted on June 2 that the US has sent a letter to the UN Secretary-General to protest China’s “unlawful South China Sea maritime claims”. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-china-sea-disputes-should-be-resolved-in-line-with-international-law-pompeo/story-Hsg6yHzX4yvNASJ702nqGK.html
28-06-2020||World||‘Crime Minister’: Hundreds of Israelis protest in Jerusalem against Netanyahu||Hundreds of Israelis protested on Saturday evening against Benjamin Netanyahu outside his Jerusalem residence as the Israeli prime minister faces corruption charges.The demonstration was fuelled by the detention of seven protesters on Friday who held a smaller rally against Netanyahu’s continuation as premier despite being under indictment.The demonstrators held banners describing Netanyahu as “crime minister”.Among the seven detainees was a former top Israeli air force general.On Saturday, Israeli police said the protest a day earlier was “illegal” because demonstrators blocked the roads.Three of the protesters, including retired Brig. Gen. Amir Haskel, remained in detention for refusing the police’s release terms and insisting on participating in Saturday’s protest, Israeli media reported.Last month, Netanyahu’s trial on charges of fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes opened in a Jerusalem court. It is scheduled to resume next month.Netanyahu’s new government took office last month, ending more than a year of political stalemate.Under a power sharing deal, Netanyahu was permitted to remain as prime minister, while his rival, Benny Gantz, was named defence minister and alternate prime minister.The two men have agreed to switch posts after 18 months, though many analysts do not expect the government to last that long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/crime-minister-hundreds-of-israelis-protest-in-jerusalem-against-netanyahu/story-59EghcflpapEM7w1OKk5fM.html
28-06-2020||World||France returns to polls for municipal elections; Prez Macron faces drubbing||France emerges from months of coronavirus lockdown to vote on Sunday in a delayed second round of municipal elections, with opinion polls suggesting a dire outcome for President Emmanuel Macron, whose party could fail to win in any big city.A year ago Macron had hoped the local elections would help anchor his young party in towns and cities across France, including Paris, ahead of an anticipated 2022 re-election bid. But more recently, presidential aides have been playing down expectations.In the capital, the election’s biggest prize, the sitting socialist mayor Anne Hidalgo is on track for a comfortable win after a shambolic campaign by Macron and his La Republique en Marche (LaRem) party.Meanwhile, the Greens are projected to do well in cities such as Lyon, Marseille and Bordeaux, sometimes in alliance with the Left, building on momentum they created in 2019’s European elections. In Perpignan, Marine Le Pen’s far-right party may take control of its first city with a population over 100,000.France pressed ahead with the first round of the municipal elections in mid-March, less than 48 hours before Macron imposed one of Europe’s strictest lockdowns, forcing a long delay before the second round.“We’ll be careful. We can always bring our own pen, wear a mask and use sanitizer gel,” remarked Paris pensioner Christian Courtot.Macron has said he will “reinvent” his presidency and present a detailed plan next month for the final two years of his mandate.A government reshuffle is widely expected, with the biggest question-mark over the future of Macron’s popular prime minister, Edouard Philippe. Philippe is running for his old job as mayor of Le Havre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-returns-to-polls-for-municipal-elections-prez-macron-faces-drubbing/story-Klg2vdTsxdCywlgKfsAafL.html
28-06-2020||World||Global coronavirus cases exceed 10 million||Global coronavirus cases exceeded 10 million on Sunday according to a Reuters tally, marking a major milestone in the spread of the respiratory disease that has so far killed almost half a million people in seven months. The figure is roughly double the number of severe influenza illnesses recorded annually, according to the World Health Organisation.The milestone comes as many hard-hit countries are easing lockdowns while making extensive alterations to work and social life that could last for a year or more until a vaccine is available. Some countries are experiencing a resurgence in infections, leading authorities to partially reinstate lockdowns, in what experts say could be a recurring pattern in the coming months and into 2021. North America, Latin America and Europe each account for around 25% of cases, while Asia and the Middle East have around 11% and 9% respectively, according to the Reuters tally, which uses government reports. There have been more than 497,000 fatalities linked to the disease so far, roughly the same as the number of influenza deaths reported annually.The first cases of the new coronavirus were confirmed on Jan. 10 in Wuhan in China, before infections and fatalities surged in Europe, then the United States, and later Russia. The pandemic has now entered a new phase, with India and Brazil battling outbreaks of over 10,000 cases a day, putting a major strain on resources. The two countries accounted for over a third of all new cases in the past week. Brazil reported a record 54,700 new cases on June 19. Some researchers said the death toll in Latin America could rise to over 380,000 by October, from around 100,000 this week.The total number of cases continued to increase at a rate of between 1-2% a day in the past week, down from rates above 10% in March. Countries including China, New Zealand and Australia have seen new outbreaks in the past month, despite largely quashing local transmission.In Beijing, where hundreds of new cases were linked to an agricultural market, testing capacity has been ramped up to 300,000 a day. The United States, which has reported the most cases of any country at more than 2.5 million, managed to slow the spread of the virus in May, only to see it expand in recent weeks to rural areas and other places that were previously unaffected.In some countries with limited testing capabilities, case numbers reflect a small proportion of total infections. Roughly half of reported infections are known to have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-coronavirus-cases-approach-10-million/story-r8pToDW55wqTrt3bHI5WeI.html
28-06-2020||World||Mexico City’s police chief recovering from bullet wounds in cartel ambush||Mexico City’s security chief, who was caught in a deadly ambush Friday, is “doing well” after his surgery, according to Mayor Claudia Sheinbaum.Omar Garcia Harfuch, head of public security, was shot three times when at least two dozen hit-men with high-caliber weapons opened fire in a leafy, upscale neighborhood of Mexico’s capital on Friday morning. Two people in Garcia Harfuch’s security detail died, along with a woman who was driving to work, the mayor said.Garcia Harfuch was rushed into surgery after being shot in the shoulder, collarbone and knee. He was recovering Saturday, with “more energy than ever,” Sheinbaum said in a briefing Saturday on her Twitter account. She later posted a photo of him smiling from his hospital bed.A powerful drug cartel has been accused of trying to assassinate the city’s top cop, marking a new escalation in the years-long war between the government and organized crime.Garcia Harfuch also said in a tweet he’s recovering well and urged the city to continue working to maintain security and peace.The bloody confrontation turned the normally quiet street into a war zone, with shattered glass littering the ground and an SUV riddled with bullet holes. As police tried to make sense of exactly what happened, details emerged adding to the mystery, including that the attack may have been foretold in intercepted phone calls and a recent newspaper column. Federal Public Security Minister Alfonso Durazo confirmed that threats had been made and said in a press conference that initial information points to the Jalisco New Generation Cartel.“The Jalisco cartel has become public enemy No. 1,” said Falko Ernst, a researcher at the International Crisis Group, a Brussels-based NGO for conflict resolution. “This administration didn’t want to engage in open warfare, but it isn’t being left up to them.”Garcia Harfuch was attacked by as many as 28 gunmen, and sniper rifles and grenades were confiscated on the scene, said Ulises Lara, a spokesman for the city’s Attorney General’s Office. Authorities arrested 12 suspects shortly after the attack and a total of 19 people were detained by the end of the day, including the intellectual authors, Sheinbaum said.President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador is facing increased pressure to change his national security policies to crack down on worsening violence. The president, who is known as AMLO, emphasizes economic development over heavy-handed law enforcement as the only long-term solution. But he’s also been criticized for militarizing the country’s policing through the newly created National Guard without a plan to deal with underlying corruption.On Saturday, Lopez Obrador said he would not “declare war on anyone” in response to the attack.“We’re not going to violate human rights. We’re not going to permit massacres,” he said in a video posted to Twitter. “But we’re going to act and prevent these attacks from being committed, and we’re not going to make any agreements with organized crime like before.”Brookings Institution security expert Vanda Felbab-Brown said the attack represented a “massive tactical failure” by the government given that officials had been threatened. She compared the attack in the capital, which had been off limits before in the country’s drug war, to when Colombia’s kingpins took on the government with targeted assassinations.“This is going to be a wake up call to get serious about violent crime,” Felbab-Brown said. “It may be too late.”El Universal columnist Raul Rodriguez Cortes wrote last week that the government had intercepted calls by organized crime groups, which said they were planning to target a top official. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency confirmed the calls were legitimate, Cortes said. Mexico then beefed up the security on four top officials that the cartel had reason to target, including Garcia Harfuch, Foreign Affairs Minister Marcelo Ebrard, head of the Financial Intelligence Unit Santiago Nieto and Durazo.Jalisco New Generation, known by its Spanish acronym CJNG, is infamous for extreme violence and was responsible for one of the nation’s deadliest attacks on security forces, when 15 police officers were killed in an ambush in 2015. The U.S. has offered a $10 million bounty on information leading to the capture of the group’s leader, Nemesio Oseguera Ramos -- better known by his alias El Mencho.Military-Style AmbushesWhile military-style ambushes and gunfights are common throughout Mexico, it’s rare that the bloodshed spills over into the capital city. Cartels have been escalating their attacks in recent months and some experts point to the extradition of El Mencho’s son to the U.S. in February as one catalyst. This week, a car loaded with explosives was seized by authorities in the vicinity of a refinery in the central state of Guanajuato.Earlier this month, a federal judge and his wife were killed in the state of Colima. In October, Mexican Forces were overpowered by members of Sinaloa Cartel as they attempted to take in the son of Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman, the world’s most notorious drug lord. And in November, at least nine members of a Mormon family, all U.S. citizens, were killed in northern Mexico in a suspected attack by cartels.Three police officers were wounded in Friday’s confrontation, which broke out in the neighborhood of Lomas de Chapultepec at a little past 6:30 a.m. and was caught on cameras. Residents reported hearing rapid-fire shots that lasted almost a full minute. The attackers arrived in trucks, including one that bore the Grupo Carso logo. Carso, a Mexican conglomerate founded by billionaire Carlos Slim, said in a statement that the truck didn’t belong to the company.Cross-Country TourOn Friday, AMLO was wrapping up a cross-country tour that started June 1 and held his morning press conference in Morelia, in Michoacan state. AMLO often travels and goes to events without security.“The president has decided to operate under a model of no security,” Durazo said in the press conference. “We are trying to look after his safety, regardless of his tours.”According to researchers at InSight Crime, the cartel is rapidly expanding and has contacts throughout the U.S. and Latin America. It primarily sells marijuana, cocaine and synthetic drugs.Morning AMLO: Homicides Rise 8% in April From Year Earlier“This comes after a wave of other concerning attacks that we’ve seen since last year,” said Maureen Meyer, Mexico director at the think tank Washington Office on Latin America. Recent attacks suggest Lopez Obrador’s strategy “hasn’t put a dent in the violence.”(Updates with president’s comments in 10th and 11th paragraphs)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-city-s-police-chief-recovering-from-bullet-wounds-in-cartel-ambush/story-JXH9d4NI73V52MZgajqrMJ.html
28-06-2020||World||Biden says Trump did nothing as Russia placed bounties on US Army personnel||The White House on Saturday denied that President Donald Trump was briefed on reported U.S. intelligence that Russia’s military offered bounties to Taliban-linked militants to kill U.S. troops in Afghanistan, with Democratic rival Joe Biden criticizing Trump for failing to take action against Moscow.White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said in a statement that “neither the president nor the vice president (Mike Pence) were briefed on the alleged Russian bounty intelligence.” The statement, McEnany said, did not address the “merit of the alleged intelligence” reported on Friday by the New York Times.A Russian military intelligence unit linked to assassination attempts in Europe offered rewards for successful attacks last year on American and coalition troops, the Times reported. The newspaper reported that Islamist militants, or armed criminal elements closely associated with them, were believed to have collected some bounty money.Trump was told about the intelligence but had not authorized steps to retaliate, the Times reported.Biden, the Democratic presidential candidate set to challenge Trump in the Nov. 3 election, said during a virtual town hall on Saturday that the Times report, if true, represents a “truly shocking revelation,” noting in particular Trump’s reported failure to retaliate.“Not only has he failed to sanction or impose any kind of consequences on Russia for this egregious violation of international law, Donald Trump has continued his embarrassing campaign of deference and debasing himself before Vladimir Putin,” Biden said, referring to the Russian president.Biden pledged retaliation if he becomes president.“If I’m elected president, make no mistake about it, Vladimir Putin will be confronted and we’ll impose serious costs on Russia,” Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-says-trump-did-nothing-as-russia-placed-bounties-on-us-army-personnel/story-9BVcv8aanUtsZnDZQsjwsN.html
28-06-2020||World||Pak rejects domicile certificates granted by India to non-natives of J-K||Pakistan on Saturday “rejected” the grant of domicile certificates by India to the people not originally from Jammu and Kashmir.As per the new domicile law, non-permanent residents who have residency proof of at least 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir are entitled to get domicile certificates.Over 30,000 people have till now received domicile certificates online in Jammu and Kashmir after the Indian government changed laws to grant residency to different categories of non-residents in the Union territory.The Foreign Office “rejected” the grant of domicile certificates by India to the people not originally from Jammu and Kashmir.“The certificates issued to non-Kashmiris including, among others, the Indian government officials under ‘Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure), 2020’ are illegal, void and in complete violation of the relevant UN Security Council Resolutions, and International law including the 4th Geneva Convention,” the FO said.It asked the international community to intervene to stop India from what it called “changing the demographic structure of Kashmir”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-rejects-domicile-certificates-granted-by-india-to-non-natives-of-j-k/story-lBHuF8Ox37cw8TbJqPmdYM.html
28-06-2020||World||UK police charge suspect with murder of 3 in Reading park||UK counter-terrorism police have charged a 25-year-old man with three counts of murder and three counts of attempted murder for a stabbing attack in an English park that killed three men a week ago.British prosecutors authorized the charges filed Saturday against Khairi Saadallah, of Reading. The attack happened June 20 at Forbury Gardens park in Reading, a town of 200,000 people some 40 miles (64 kilometers) west of London.The three victims, friends who were identified by police as teacher James Furlong, 36, scientist David Wails, 49, and pharmaceutical worker Joseph Ritchie-Bennett, 39, were enjoying a warm Saturday evening at the park when they were stabbed. Police said Friday that each man had received a single fatal blow.Three other people also were wounded and have since been released from the hospital. Police declared the stabbings as a terrorist incident the day after the attack, but they have not said what they think the motive was and noted the investigating is ongoing.The local Reading Borough Council has organized an online vigil later Saturday for the three friends.Britain’s Press Association reported that Furlong’s family released a statement Saturday thanking other park-goers and police officers who rushed to help the wounded men.“James was passionate about creating a more loving and caring society. His time with us was cut far too short but the impact he made will live on, long long into the future,” the new agency quoted the statement as saying.Saadallah is due to appear in court on Monday. (AP) NSA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-police-charge-suspect-with-murder-of-3-in-reading-park/story-HMY85bF8aC9OOnfseUBkHJ.html
