29-06-2020||World||After racist chant post, Trump retweets white couple waving guns at protestors||A day after President Donald Trump sparked outrage by re-tweeting and deleting a post in which a supporter chanted “white power”, a racist slogan, he retweeted Monday a video of a white couple brandishing guns as anti-racism protestors marched by their upscale home in St Lous, Missouri.The couple Mark and Patricia McCloskey, both personal injury lawyers, can be seen walking around in the video posted Sunday with their weapons — the man was carrying an AR-51 rifle and the woman had a small handgun — and waving them at protestors. One time, they accidentally pointed their weapons at each other.“Private property!” Mark McCloskey shouted repeatedly at the crowd, the St Louis Post-Dispatch reported. “Get out! Private property, get out!”Protesters were marching to the mayor’s home a block away, to demand her resignation for revealing names and addresses of people who had been calling for defunding the police, which has been one of the key demands at anti-racism demonstration across the country triggered by the killing of George Floyd, an African American man who died in police custody in Minneapolis.President Trump did not add a comment to the retweet but he has been raging about these protests and the pulling down of statutes of confederate figures and those with any history of racism. Positioning himself as a “law and order” president, he has called for punishing them and has retweeted lookout notices released of suspects involved by law enforcements agencies.The president has appeared to be siding with racist, which he has and his aides have strenuously denied, but has continued to telegraph support for them through actions that are later rolled back, clarified or denied, such as the retweet of a video of a supporter chanting a racist slogan on Sunday.The video was posted by a neighborhood for seniors in Florida, the president’s adoptive home state. Just few seconds into it, a man is seen riding a golf cart with Trump campaign slogans written on it. He chanted an unmistakably racist slogan, “White Power, White Power”. And raised a fist.Trump retweeted it with a brief comment thanking the neighborhood. And he let it be online for four hours.It was pulled down only after Rick Scott, the only African American Republican in US senate, demanded its removal in an interview to CNN. “There’s no question that he should not have retweeted it and he should just take it down,” Scott said, adding, “It was so profanity laced, the entire thing was offensive. Certainly, the comment about the white power was offensive. It’s indefensible. We should take it down.”It was taken down immediately after. And the White House, like so many times before, sought to absolve the president of any responsibility for it, arguing he did not entirely know the content of the post. A spokesperson said in a statement the president “did not hear the one statement made on the video”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-racist-chant-post-trump-retweets-white-couple-waving-guns-at-protestors/story-6PtGpXoLmsJ7zIiNXSruhJ.html
29-06-2020||World||Covid-19: No death on fourth day in a row in Scotland||Pursuing a strategy to ‘eliminate’ coronavirus, Scotland first minister Nicola Sturgeon on Monday reported in Edinburgh that there was no new death for the fourth day in a row, while UK-wide figures released in London showed another low day-rise of 25 deaths.Prime Minister Boris Johnson is due to announce plans for a multi-billion-pound economic stimulus on Tuesday to recover from what he called a ‘disaster’ cased by the pandemic. Moves to ease lockdown and re-open economy from July 4 include abolishing quarantine curbs for some air passengers.Sturgeon said: “I can report today, that an additional 5 positive cases were confirmed yesterday - which takes the total now in Scotland to 18,241 confirmed cases…A total of 10 people last night were in intensive care with confirmed or suspected Covid”.“And in the past 24 hours, I’m pleased to report that no deaths were registered of a patient confirmed through a test as having Covid-19 – the total number of deaths in Scotland, under that measurement, therefore remains at 2,482”.“This is the fourth day in a row when no deaths of patients confirmed through a test have been recorded in Scotland”, she added.According to Devi Sridhar, professor of public health at the University of Edinburgh and an adviser to the Sturgeon government, Scotland is on course to be virus-free by the end July if the rate of decrease of new cases is maintained.“But we are going to see little bumps, so it’s a question of how small can you keep those bumps. July is a crucial month for people to follow the rules and guidance, and be sensible because the virus is still around and can still increase quite fast within days and weeks,” she told BBC.According to the Department of Health, the UK-wide figures were: 43,575 deaths (25 in last 24 hours) and 311,965 cases (day rise of 815 cases). Re-opening of the economy prompted by the dwindling figures is expected to happen from July 4 along with local lockdowns based on new spreads.One such local lockdown is being considered in the east Midlands town of Leicester, which has a large population of Indian origin. Current restrictions are to continue there for two more weeks, unlike the rest of England that will largely re-open later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-no-death-on-fourth-day-in-a-row-in-scotland/story-UsPjlBW2Rfdn2hsiDvC2iM.html
29-06-2020||World||Gilead prices Covid-19 drug candidate remdesivir at $2,340 per patient||Gilead Sciences Inc has priced its Covid-19 drug candidate remdesivir at $2,340 for a five-day treatment in the United States and some other developed countries, potentially reflecting looming competition from a cheap steroid. The price tag is below the $5,080 per course recommendation by U.S. drug pricing research group, the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER), last week.But it is more in line with a lower range suggested by ICER of around $2,520 to $2,800, if cheap steroid dexamethasone, which is not patent protected, is cleared for use in Covid-19.Remdesivir is at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 after the anti-viral treatment helped shorten hospital recovery times in a clinical trial. It has been approved for emergency use in some patients in the United States.But dexamethasone has since been hailed as a potential breakthrough treatment. The remdesivir price for U.S. private insurance companies will be $520 per vial, Gilead said, which equates to $3,120 per patient for a treatment course of six vials.The per-vial price outside of private insurance will be $390, Gilead added.Analysts at Royal Bank of Canada said they saw revenue potential of $2.3 billion from the drug in 2020, helping offset more than $1 billion in development and distribution costs.Still, the potential to lift Gilead shares was limited because vaccines and better treatments were on the horizon longer term, they added.Gilead has entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), with the agency and states set to manage allocation to hospitals until the end of September.HHS has secured more than 500,000 treatment courses of the drug for U.S. hospitals through September, the agency said on Monday.This represents 100% of Gilead’s projected production for July of 94,200 treatment courses, 90% of production in August and September, in addition to an allocation for clinical trials, HHS said.After this, once supplies are less constrained, HHS will stop managing the allocation, Gilead said.Remdesivir’s price has been a topic of intense debate since U.S. regulators approved its emergency use in some COVID-19 patients in May. Experts have said Gilead would need to avoid appearing to take advantage of a health crisis for profits.The European Union’s healthcare regulator last week recommended conditional approval of the drug when used in the critically ill. The formal go-ahead by the European Commission is expected to follow soon.Gilead has linked up with generic drugmakers based in India and Pakistan, including Cipla Ltd and Hetero Labs Ltd, to make and supply remdesivir in 127 developing countries.Cipla’s version is priced at less than 5,000 Indian rupees ($66.24), while Hetero Lab’s version is priced at 5,400 rupees.($1 = 75.4825 Indian rupees)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gilead-prices-covid-19-drug-candidate-remdesivir-at-2-340-per-patient/story-MEvmMo9aCom4Bz7n3YTxXM.html
29-06-2020||World||French’s former PM Francois Fillon, wife found guilty of embezzling public funds||Former French Prime Minister Francois Fillon was found guilty Monday in a fraud case of having used public funds to pay his wife and children more than 1 million euros ($1.13 million) since 1998 for work they never performed.The couple’s lawyers immediately appealed Monday’s verdict from the Paris court.Fillon, 66, was sentenced to five years in prison, three of which were suspended, and a 375,000-euro (more than $423,000) fine. He is also banned from seeking elected office for 10 years. He remains free pending appeal.His 64-year-old wife, Penelope Fillon, was found guilty as an accomplice. She was given a three-year suspended sentence and fined the same amount.In addition, the couple was requested to reimburse the National Assembly more than 1 million euros that correspond to the salaries and payroll charges that were paid. The penalty is suspended pending appeal.The scandal broke in the French media just three months before the country’s 2017 presidential election, as Fillon was the front-runner in the race. It cost him his reputation. Fillon sank to third place in the election, which was won by Emmanuel Macron.The Paris court considered that Fillon “elaborated and established an organization enabling to misappropriate money for his personal use.”In a statement, the court said that “nothing concrete has been proven in court regarding the work of Madam Fillon.”“She did not have any professional activity alongside her husband,” the court added. “Nothing justifies the paid salaries.”Fillon and his wife have denied any wrongdoing.Fillon’s lawyer Antonin Levy told reporters “there will be a new trial ... We will be able to get a full and serene debate that will finally allow justice to be made.”Penelope Fillon’s role alongside her husband drew all the attention during the February-March trial, which focused on determining whether her activities were in the traditional role of an elected official’s partner — or involved actual paid work.Prosecutors denounced “fraudulent, systematic practices.”Fillon was accused of misuse of public funds, receiving money from the misuse of public funds and the misappropriation of company assets. His wife was charged mostly as an accomplice.During the trial, Penelope Fillon explained how she decided to support her husband’s career when he was first elected as a French lawmaker in 1981 in the small town of Sable-sur-Sarthe, in rural western France.Over the years, she was offered different types of contracts as a parliamentary assistant, depending on her husband’s political career.She described her work as mostly doing reports about local issues, opening the mail, meeting with residents and helping to prepare speeches for local events. She said working that way allowed her to have a flexible schedule and raise their five children in the Fillons’ countryside manor.Prosecutors pointed at the lack of actual evidence of her work, including the absence of declarations for any paid vacations or maternity leave, as her wages reached up to nine times France’s minimum salary.Francois Fillon insisted his wife’s job was real and said that, according to the separation of powers, the justice system can’t interfere with how a lawmaker organizes work at his office.A former lawmaker, Marc Joulaud, also went on trial in the case for misuse of public funds after he allegedly gave Penelope Fillon a fake job as an aide from 2002 to 2007, while her husband was minister. He was found guilty and sentenced to a three-year suspended prison sentence.In addition, charges also cover a contract that allowed Penelope Fillon to earn 135,000 euros in 2012-2013 as a consultant for a literary magazine owned by a friend of her husband — also an alleged fake job. The magazine owner, Marc de Lacharriere, already pleaded guilty and was given a suspended eight-month prison sentence and fined 375,000 euros in 2018.Fillon, once the youngest lawmaker at the National Assembly at the age of 27, served as prime minister under President Nicolas Sarkozy from 2007 to 2012. He was also a minister under two previous presidents, Francois Mitterrand and Jacques Chirac.He left French politics in 2017 and now works for an asset management company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-s-former-pm-francois-fillon-wife-found-guilty-of-embezzling-public-funds/story-HaMsNlSDLapK8zpM3XZuKM.html
29-06-2020||World||No Indian visitor as Pakistan reopens Kartarpur Corridor after 3 months||Pakistan on Monday reopened the Kartarpur Corridor more than three months after it was temporarily closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but no Indian pilgrim visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, a top official said.India temporarily suspended the pilgrimage and registration for the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara in Pakistan on March 16 in view of the coronavirus outbreak.“Pakistan today opened the Kartarpur Corridor. However, no Indian pilgrim visited it,” Evacuee Trust Property Board Deputy (ETPB) Director Imran Khan told PTI.The ETPB looks after the holy places of minorities in the country.He said a “special Ardas” was held at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur.“Pilgrims from Pakistan and India are allowed to visit the Darabar Sahib by following the SOPs of social distancing. The ETPB and Pakistan Sikh Gurdawara Parbhandhik Committee have made special arrangements for the safety of pilgrims,” he said. Earlier, Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi said Pakistan was reopening the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor for all Sikh pilgrims. “I convey to the Indian side our readiness to reopen the corridor on 29 June 2020, the occasion of the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjeet Singh,” he said. Sources in the government of India in New Delhi last week said Pakistan is trying to create a mirage of goodwill by proposing to reopen the corridor on June 29. They said India will take a decision on the matter after consulting health authorities and other concerned stakeholders. The sources also wondered why Pakistan proposed to reopen it in such a short notice while a bilateral agreement on the corridor provided for information to be shared by both sides at least seven days before the date of travel.In November last year, the two countries threw open the corridor linking Dera Baba Sahib in Gurdaspur in India and Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, in a historic people-to-people initiative as part of commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev. Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across the river Ravi, about four kilometres from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine. It is the final resting place of Guru Nanak Dev, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur. Indian pilgrims of all faiths are allowed to undertake round the year visa-free travel to the historic gurdwara. The relations between India and Pakistan nosedived after India scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two union territories. Pakistan downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner. On Tuesday, India told Pakistan to slash its embassy staff in New Delhi by half - saying it would do the same in Islamabad amidst allegations of spying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-indian-visitor-as-pakistan-reopens-kartarpur-corridor-after-3-months/story-p9H9L6jYqnlssE6FjioeJK.html
29-06-2020||World||Bomb, mortars kill 23 civilians including children in Afghanistan’s Helmand||A car bombing and mortar shells fired at a busy market in southern Afghanistan’s Helmand province on Monday killed 23 people, including children, a statement form a provincial governor’s office said.Both the Taliban and the Afghan military blame each other for the attack in Sangin district. Details of the reported attack could not be independently confirmed as the area, which is under Taliban control, is remote and inaccessible to reporters.The statement from the office of the governor, Gen. Mohammad Yasin, did not provide further details and there was no claim of responsibility for the attack.A Taliban spokesman, Qari Yusouf Ahmadi, denied the insurgents were involved in the bombing. The Taliban claimed the military fired mortars into the market while the military said a car bomb and mortar shells fired by the insurgents targeted the civilians.The army also said there was no military activity in the area on Monday and that two Taliban fighters were also killed when the car bomb detonated at the marketplace. Livestock that the locals were selling on the market, sheep and goats, were also killed.The United Nations in recent reports and statements has asked both sides in the conflict to be more careful of civilian casualties, saying they are on the increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bomb-mortars-kill-23-civilians-including-children-in-afghanistan-s-helmand/story-dFoiXuVT3r1roJP0iTb5mL.html
29-06-2020||World||Panic at Beijing’s border as county locked down, 7.69 million tested||Neighbouring areas of Beijing could be put on high alert for fresh outbreaks of Covid-19 a day after China imposed a strict lockdown on a county with hundreds of thousands of people close to Beijing where a small surge in cases was linked to the new infections in the Capital city.The set of restrictions were put on Anxin county in the Xiongan New Area in Hebei province, which borders Beijing, and logged 12 cases of Covid-19.The county of Anxin lies around 150 kilometers south of Beijing and a group of traders from the county did business at the fresh food market in Beijing where the new infections emerged in June.The new restrictions were being tightened on Monday as a leading respiratory expert made a grim warning.“In the foreseeable future, Covid-19 cannot be eradicated and a regional outbreak is still possible,” Wang Guangfa, a respiratory expert at Peking University First Hospital, told state media, adding that the possibility made it important for local governments to prepare for a long and protracted battle. In Anxin, officials announced that “all villages, communities and buildings will be fully closed”.Families will be permitted to send one person per household outside to purchase supplies once a day.All vehicles from outside the county are banned from entering it.As per the announcement, only essential workers are allowed to leave their homes,Following the lockdown rules that were implemented in the first pandemic epicentre, the central Chinese centre of Wuhan, no non-residents will be allowed to enter communities or villages.Violating the rules will attract police action.“Hanging out with friends, gathering, and visiting others will not be allowed. Those who disobey management and refuse dissuasion will be dealt with by the public security organ according to the law,” a state media report said.The new outbreak in Beijing began when the city reported its first case at Xinfadi market on June 11 and 318 people in the city of over 21 million have tested positive for the virus since then.The capital has simultaneously ramped up its testing capacity.As of Sunday noon, Beijing had collected 8.29 million patient samples for testing and completed 7.69 million tests, Zhang Qiang, an official from Beijing’s municipal committee, told a press conference.“This means we have already tested all the people that need to be tested. We are also rolling out large scale screening to key regions and key populations (of the city) and improve our capability of testing,” said Zhang, adding that Beijing was also receiving medical support from other provinces.The number of new cases in Beijing is small compared to the Covid-19 numbers that are emerging from the US, South America or India.But it’s an indication that the coronavirus could reemerge in a locality, which didn’t report a single case for days – in Beijing’s case, the city didn’t have a domestically transmitted case for nearly two months.As of Sunday, the overall confirmed cases on the mainland had reached 83,512, including 418 patients who were still being treated, with eight in severe conditions, the national health commission (NHC) said in its daily report on Monday.Altogether 78,460 people had been discharged from hospitals after recovery and 4,634 people had died of the disease, the NHC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/panic-at-beijing-s-border-as-county-locked-down-7-69-million-tested/story-6LTcgq8jWKJMf7MIDExDbJ.html
29-06-2020||World||As UK prepares to reopen, PM Boris pledges ‘Rooseveltian’ strategy to recover from Covid ‘disaster’||Terming the coronavirus pandemic a ‘disaster’ for the UK, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday said the way to recover from the ‘profound shock’ will be to spend big on infrastructure, transport and other sectors, as the UK prepares to re-open from July 4. “This has been a disaster, let’s not mince our words, this has been an absolute nightmare for the country. The country has gone through a profound shock. But in those moments you have the opportunity to change and to do things better”, he said in an interview to the newly-launched Times Radio.“We really want to build back better, to do things differently, to invest in infrastructure, transport, broadband - you name it. I think this is the moment for a Rooseveltian approach to the UK”, he added. The legacy of recovery of Franklin D Roosevelt, the 32nd president of the US, from a decade of troubles that included World War II, has become something of a guiding force for the Johnson government, reflected in a speech by cabinet minister Michael Gove over the weekend.Johnson is due to outline his recovery vision in a major speech on Tuesday, expected to include promises to spend billions of pounds. The government is also due to announce this week easing quarantine curbs on air travel, allowing holidays in some EU countries.Johnson tweeted over the weekend: “We want to build our way back to health. If Covid was a lightning flash, we’re about to have the thunderclap of the economic consequences. We’re going to be ready.” Borrowing more to pay for the big spend will pay off in the long run, he added.Johnson, who had a brush with death after being infected by coronavirus in April, said in the radio interview that the government owed it to those who have died and suffered to look at exactly what went wrong in dealing with the crisis, and when.He said: “I totally understand that and we will. I happen to think that the moment is not right now, when everybody is flat out, I don’t think the moment is right now for consecrating a huge amount of official time to all of that. But we are learning lessons the whole time.”As of June 28, the UK recorded 43,550 deaths from coronavirus (the worst in Europe) and 311.151 cases. The incidence of new cases has slowed in recent days and weeks, prompting the government to kick-start its dwindling economy by re-opening some sectors from July 4.Gove said in the Ditchley Annual lecture about Roosevelt (often mentioned by his initials as FDR): “FDR managed to save capitalism, restore faith in democracy, indeed extend its dominion, renovate the reputation of Government, set his country on a course of increasing prosperity and equality of opportunity for decades – and enabled America to emerge from a decade of peril with the system, and society, that the free citizens of the rest of the world most envied”.“He succeeded on such a scale, of course, because he was a remarkable leader. But there were principles underpinning his approach which I think we should learn from now, as we seek to overcome our own crises of authority”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-uk-prepares-to-reopen-pm-boris-pledges-rooseveltian-strategy-to-recover-from-covid-disaster/story-D8yKPrhT0bNLqfnyIJyCXP.html
29-06-2020||World||UN seeks more food funds as Covid-19 pushes millions into hunger||Millions of people have been pushed into hunger by the coronavirus pandemic, the UN World Food Program said Monday as it appealed for nearly $5 billion to help feed the growing numbers in poor and middle-income countries.“The frontline in the battle against the coronavirus is shifting from the rich world to the poor world,” said David Beasley, WFP’s executive director. “Until the day we have a medical vaccine, food is the best vaccine against chaos.”He said without access to enough food, the world could see “increased social unrest and protests, a rise in migration, deepening conflict and widespread under-nutrition among populations that were previously immune from hunger.”To tackle the rising tide of hunger, WFP is undertaking the biggest humanitarian response in its history, aiming to assist 138 million people, up from from a previous record of 97 million in 2019. The agency says sustained funding is needed to support its work in 83 countries, to provide food to the most vulnerable and to support governments working to curb the spread of Covid-19.The number of hungry people in the countries where it operates could increase to 270 million before the end of 2020 — an 82% increase from before the pandemic took hold, said WFP.The fallout from the pandemic is being felt hardest in Latin America, which has seen an almost three-fold rise in the number of people requiring food assistance, and among urban communities in low- and middle-income countries, which are being dragged into destitution by job losses and a precipitous drop in remittances.Spikes in hunger are also evident in West and Central Africa,which has seen a 135% jump in the number of food insecure as well as in Southern Africa where there has been a 90% rise.Coronavirus infection levels are climbing when food stocks in some parts of the world are already low. At this time of year, many farmers are awaiting crops from new harvests. Hurricane and monsoon seasons are getting underway, while record locust invasions in East Africa and outbreaks of conflict are adding to an already challenging outlook for the world’s hungry.“This unprecedented crisis requires an unprecedented response. If we do not respond rapidly and effectively to this viral threat, the outcome will be measured in an unconscionable loss of life, and efforts to roll back the tide of hunger will be undone,” said Beasley.The new challenge requires a big increase in the use of cash-based transfers. Over half of WFP’s new response plan will be delivered in cash and vouchers — allowing urban communities to purchase their food needs in local markets, which boosts local economies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-seeks-more-food-funds-as-covid-19-pushes-millions-into-hunger/story-BiZNmagoD7Kw1bXeNw1jsI.html
29-06-2020||World||Iran issues arrest warrant for US President Trump, asks Interpol to help||Iran has issued an arrest warrant and asked Interpol for help in detaining President Donald Trump and dozens of others it believes carried out the drone strike that killed a top Iranian general in Baghdad, a local prosecutor reportedly said Monday.While Trump faces no danger of arrest, the charges underscore the heightened tensions between Iran and the United States since Trump unilaterally withdrew America from Tehran’s nuclear deal with world powers.Tehran prosecutor Ali Alqasimehr said Trump and more than 30 others whom Iran accuses of involvement in the Jan. 3 strike that killed Gen. Qassem Soleimani in Baghdad face “murder and terrorism charges,” the semiofficial ISNA news agency reported.Watch | Arrest warrant against Donald Trump by Iran over killing of top general Alqasimehr did not identify anyone else sought other than Trump, but stressed that Iran would continue to pursue his prosecution even after his presidency ends.Interpol, based in Lyon, France, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Alqasimehr also was quoted as saying that Iran requested a “red notice” be put out for Trump and the others, which represents the highest level arrest request issued by Interpol. Local authorities end up making the arrests on behalf of the country that request it. The notices cannot force countries to arrest or extradite suspects, but can put government leaders on the spot and limit suspects’ travel.After receiving a request, Interpol meets by committee and discusses whether or not to share the information with its member states. Interpol has no requirement for making any of the notices public, though some do get published on its website.It is unlikely Interpol would grant Iran’s request as its guideline for notices forbids it from “undertaking any intervention or activities of a political” nature.The U.S. killed Soleimani, who oversaw the Revolutionary Guard’s expeditionary Quds Force, and others in the January strike near Baghdad International Airport. It came after months of incidents raising tensions between the two countries and ultimately saw Iran retaliate with a ballistic missile strike targeting American troops in Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-issues-arrest-warrant-for-us-president-trump-asks-interpol-to-help/story-DkQVGrKxboq7s389YAC7ZP.html
29-06-2020||World||Reports of me looking ‘wraithlike’ are nonsense, says British PM Boris Johnson||Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Monday that reports of him looking wraithlike were complete nonsense.“When I came out of hospital I did notice there were occasional pieces in the papers saying I was looking a bit wraithlike, or something someone said,” Johnson told Times Radio. “Complete nonsense I want you to know.”“I am feeling very well, yes thank you, again thanks to our National Health Service,” he said.Asked whether he thought every day about the high level of total deaths and infection rates in Britain from the novel coronavirus, Johnson said: “Every day ... What we’ve got is the curve going in the direction roughly that they thought it would. It is very slowly coming down.”“The crucial thing is to make sure that we’re ready to crack down on local flare ups and that’s why we have the wack-a-mole strategy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/reports-of-me-looking-wraithlike-are-nonsense-says-british-pm-boris-johnson/story-cSugmq9SeQ5bjCIVCgbrsN.html
29-06-2020||World||196 people dying of Covid-19 every hour, one every 18 sec; global toll tops 5 lakh||The death toll from Covid-19 surpassed half a million people on Sunday, according to a Reuters tally, a grim milestone for the global pandemic that seems to be resurgent in some countries even as other regions are still grappling with the first wave.The respiratory illness caused by the new coronavirus has been particularly dangerous for the elderly, although other adults and children are also among the 501,000 fatalities and 10.1 million reported cases.Follow latest updates on coronavirus coverage While the overall rate of death has flattened in recent weeks, health experts have expressed concerns about record numbers of new cases in countries like the United States, India and Brazil, as well as new outbreaks in parts of Asia. More than 4,700 people are dying every 24 hours from Covid-19-linked illness, according to Reuters calculations based on an average from June 1 to 27.That equates to 196 people per hour, or one person every 18 seconds. About one-quarter of all the deaths so far have been in the United States, the Reuters data shows. The recent surge in cases has been most pronounced in a handful of Southern and Western states that reopened earlier and more aggressively. US officials on Sunday reported around 44,700 new cases and 508 additional deaths. Case numbers are also growing swiftly in Latin America, on Sunday surpassing those diagnosed in Europe, making the region the second most affected by the pandemic, after North America. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage On the other side of the world, Australian officials were considering reimposing social distancing measures in some regions on Monday after reporting the biggest one-day rise in infections in more than two months.The first recorded death from the new virus was on Jan. 9, a 61-year-old man from the Chinese city of Wuhan who was a regular shopper at a wet market that has been identified as the source of the outbreak.In just five months, the Covid-19 death toll has overtaken the number of people who die annually from malaria, one of the most deadly infectious diseases.The death rate averages out to 78,000 per month, compared with 64,000 AIDS-related deaths and 36,000 malaria deaths, according to 2018 figures from the World Health Organization.Changing burial rites The high number of deaths has led to changes to traditional and religious burial rites around the world, with morgues and funeral businesses overwhelmed and loved ones often barred from bidding farewell in person.In Israel, the custom of washing the bodies of Muslim deceased is not permitted, and instead of being shrouded in cloth, they must be wrapped in a plastic body bag. The Jewish tradition of Shiva where people go to the home of mourning relatives for seven days has also been disrupted.In Italy, Catholics have been buried without funerals or a blessing from a priest. In New York, city crematories were at one point working overtime, burning bodies into the night as officials scouted for temporary interment sites. In Iraq, former militiamen have dropped their guns to instead dig graves for coronavirus victims at a specially created cemetery. They have learned how to conduct Christian, as well as Muslim, burials.Elderly at risk Public health experts are looking at how demographics affect the death rates in different regions. Some European countries with older populations have reported higher fatality rates, for instance.An April report by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control looked at more than 300,000 cases in 20 countries and found that about 46% of all fatalities were over the age of 80. In Indonesia, hundreds of children are believed to have died, a development health officials have attributed to malnutrition, anemia and inadequate child health facilities.Health experts caution that the official data likely does not tell the full story, with many believing that both cases and deaths have likely been underreported in some countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/196-people-dying-of-covid-19-every-hour-one-every-18-sec-global-toll-tops-5-lakh/story-KrJRifvFKh5Xa7clMfzHEL.html
29-06-2020||World||23 dead, dozens missing as ferry capsizes in Bangladesh’s Dhaka: Report||Twenty-three people drowned and dozens more were missing on Monday after a ferry capsized in the Bangladeshi capital Dhaka following a collision with another vessel, rescue officials said.“We have so far recovered 23 bodies from the sunken ferry,” fire brigade official Enayet Hossain told AFP, adding that there were believed to be around 50 people on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/23-dead-dozens-missing-as-ferry-capsizes-in-bangladesh-s-dhaka-officials/story-SjV8fhl3ec0Xg2PB8w1QMN.html
29-06-2020||World||Gunmen storm into stock exchange in Pakistan’s Karachi, six dead||Four gunmen stormed into Pakistan’s largest and oldest stock exchange in the southern port city of Karachi on Monday morning killing at least two people, according to local media reports. The four attackers have also been eliminated, the Karachi police said.At least four people have been reported injured in the attack, some of them seen on video being wheeled out of the stock exchange into waiting ambulances.The attackers drove to the barricaded entrance of the stock exchange in a silver Corolla car a little before 10 am, got off and hurled a grenade at security personnel before opening fire from automatic firearms. Police officer Rizwan Ahmed said the gunmen opened fire at the entrance and entered the stock exchange grounds. The complex was soon surrounded by heavily armed special forces, according to news agency AP.Press Trust of India said four security guards and a police sub-inspector were killed in the attack apart from the four gunmen.Sindh Governor Imran Ismail condemned the attack that he insisted was aimed at what he described as “tarnishing our relentless war on terror”. Ismail said he had ordered security agencies to catch the attackers alive and deliver “exemplary punishment” to their handlers.Karachi police chief Ghulam Nabi Memon told Reuters that four attackers had been killed. Karachi was once a hotspot for crime and political and ethnic violence, with heavily armed groups tied to politicians frequently gunning down opponents and launching attacks on residential areas. News agency AFP said the situation has largely stabilised in recent years following operations by security agencies against armed political outfits and Islamist militants.The stock exchange is located in the heart of Karachi’s financial district, where the Pakistan State Bank is located as well as the headquarters of several national and international financial institutions.As security personnel tried to stop the attackers, broker Yaqub Memon said he and others stayed huddled inside their offices.Monday’s attack comes more than a week after a grenade was thrown at a line of people waiting outside a government welfare office in the city, killing one and injuring eight others, according to a statement from municipal authorities. In 2018, separatist militants launched a brazen daylight attack on the Chinese consulate in Karachi that killed four people, AFP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunmen-attack-pakistani-stock-exchange-four-killed-report/story-HDc1LD6Yla7S440CzUPNHO.html
29-06-2020||World||Timeline: How the global coronavirus pandemic unfolded||Here are some key developments as the novel coronavirus spread around the world:December 31, 2019: China alerts the World Health Organization of 27 cases of “viral pneumonia” in the central city of Wuhan. Authorities shut down a wet market in Wuhan the next day, after discovering some patients were vendors or dealers.Jan. 11, 2020: A 61-year-old man is reported as the first death. Preliminary lab tests cited by Chinese state media point to a new type of coronavirus.Jan. 13: A Chinese woman is quarantined in Thailand, the first detection of the virus outside China.Jan. 15: Japan confirms its first case.Jan. 20: South Korea confirms its first case.Jan. 22: The WHO convenes an emergency meeting with health authorities around the world. Director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus says the new coronavirus does not yet constitute an international emergency.Jan. 23: China issues a lockdown for millions of people in Wuhan and Hubei as the death toll rises to 18.Jan. 24: The first cases in Europe are reported in France.Jan. 25: China bans wildlife trade after the virus was traced to a Wuhan animal market. The Lunar New Year holiday is extended for workers and schools. Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam announces measures to limit links with China.Jan. 27: The United States warns against travel to China, a day after five people who had been in Wuhan become the first confirmed cases in America.Jan. 30: The WHO declares the outbreak a public health emergency of international concern. Feb. 1: The United States, Singapore, Russia and Australia ban foreign travelers who were recently in China.Feb. 2: A 44-year-old man dies in the Philippines, the first death outside China. Feb. 3: Investors erase $393 billion from China’s benchmark stock index, selling the yuan and dumping commodities on the first day of trade after the Lunar New Year break.Feb. 4: Hong Kong reports its first death. Macau shutters casinos. American Airlines Group and United Airlines Holdings Inc suspend flights to Hong Kong.Feb. 5: About 3,700 passengers are quarantined aboard the Diamond Princess, a Carnival Corp cruise liner, off the coast of Japan after 10 people test positive. More than 700 passengers eventually test positive and 14 die. The ship is quarantined for nearly a month.Feb. 7: Li Wenliang, a Chinese ophthalmologist who had been reprimanded for issuing an early warning about the Wuhan outbreak, dies, triggering wide public mourning and rare expressions of anger against the government.Feb. 7: Hong Kong supermarket shelves are stripped bare as residents hoard toilet paper and other supplies.Feb. 11: The Chinese government’s senior medical adviser tells Reuters the outbreak may be over by April.Feb. 12: An Iranian woman dies of a suspected coronavirus infection, according to the state daily newspaper IRAN, the first in the Islamic Republic.Feb. 15: An elderly Chinese tourist hospitalized in France is the first fatality reported in Europe.Feb. 19: A spike in infections in South Korea linked to a church congregation is declared a “super-spreading event.” South Korea later seeks murder charges against leaders of the Shincheonji Church.Feb. 22: Italy seals off its hard-hit northern regions of Lombardy and Veneto.Feb. 24: Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman and Iraq record their first cases, all people who had been in Iran. The WHO says the outbreak can still be beaten, insisting it is premature to declare COVID-19 a pandemic. Feb. 25: The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warns Americans to begin preparing for the virus to spread, signaling a change in tone. Austria, Switzerland and Croatia report their first cases.Feb. 26: The number of new infections inside China is overtaken by those elsewhere for the first time. Italy and Iran emerge as new epicenters.Feb. 28: The S&P 500 suffers its biggest weekly drop since the 2008 financial crisis on fears of a global recession. More than $5 trillion is wiped from global market value.March 1: A nursing home near Seattle is locked down after two deaths are reported in Washington state, thought to be the first in the United States at the time. March 2: The new coronavirus appears to be spreading much more rapidly outside China than inside, but it can still be contained, says the WHO chief, Tedros. March 3: In a surprise move, the U.S. Federal Reserve cuts interest rates by half a percentage point to try to stem the economic fallout from the epidemic. Markets continue to fall. March 4: A pet dog is quarantined in Hong Kong, the first suspected case of human-to-animal transmission. March 5: California declares a state of emergency. Friday prayers are canceled in the Shi’ite holy city of Kerbala after Iraq’s first death in Baghdad.March 6: The number of infected people exceeds 100,000 globally. Deaths top 3,400.March 9: Crude prices plunge 25%, the biggest daily rout since the 1991 Gulf War, as Saudi Arabia and Russia begin a price war. Moscow refuses a deeper oil cut by OPEC+ to cope with tumbling demand.March 10: “The whole of Italy is closed now,” reads a headline in the Corriere della Sera newspaper after Rome imposes the most severe controls on a Western nation since World War Two.March 11: The Bank of England slashes interest rates by half a percentage point. The British government unveils a budget splurge designed to stave off a recession.March 12: Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, 48, goes into quarantine for two weeks after his wife, Sophie, tests positive.March 13: U.S. President Donald Trump declares a national emergency to free up $50 billion in federal aid.March 14: France and Spain join Italy in imposing lockdowns on tens of millions of people, Australia orders foreign travelers to self-isolate, and other countries extend entry bans to try to stop the spreading virus.March 15: New York and Los Angeles, the two largest U.S. cities, order restaurants, bars, theaters and movie houses to close. The Fed cuts interest rates again. March 17: Trump proposes to help Americans by mailing checks of up to $1,000 each. Brazil reports its first death. The European Union bars outside travelers. March 19: Italy’s death toll overtakes China. Russia records its first death. The virus has spread to more than 170 countries.March 20: California issues an unprecedented state-wide “stay at home order” and New York state orders non-essential businesses to shut.March 24: The International Olympic Committee and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announce the postponement of the 2020 Summer Games. India goes under lockdown.March 25: A $2 trillion coronavirus aid package, dubbed “the largest rescue package in American history,” is approved by Congress.March 27: South Africa starts nationwide lockdown. Kenya, the Democratic Republic of Congo and other African countries try to ringfence cities.April 2: Global cases shoot past 1 million as deaths soar in the United States and western Europe.April 5: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, 55, is admitted to hospital with coronavirus after suffering a fever and a cough for more than 10 days. He remains in hospital until April 12. April 6: Carnival Corp’s Ruby Princess cruise liner, the biggest single source of infections in Australia and the target of a criminal investigation, docks south of Sydney to get help for sick crew members.April 7: Early data shows COVID-19 is killing African Americans at a higher rate than the general U.S. population, underscoring disparities in healthcare access.April 8: Wuhan reopens. Its 11 million citizens can leave their homes for the first time in months.April 10: Global deaths reaches 100,000 and confirmed cases exceed 1.6 million.April 13: A handful of European countries begin to ease restrictions. Spain restarts construction and manufacturing, while Austria and Italy allow certain stores to reopen. Danish children can return to school.April 14: Trump halts funding to the WHO over its handling of the pandemic, drawing condemnation from infectious disease experts.April 23: Trump says scientists should explore whether injecting disinfectant might help COVID-19 patients, horrifying medical professionals who worry that some people will poison themselves with bleach. April 25: Global deaths exceed 200,000 and confirmed cases near 3 million.May 4: J. Crew Group Inc files for bankruptcy protection after temporary store closures cost it almost $900 million in sales. In the following weeks, Neiman Marcus Group and J.C. Penney Co Inc would also be pushed to the brink.May 8: The U.S. economy lost 20.5 million jobs in April, the steepest plunge since the Great Depression. The unemployment rate surges to 14.7%. May 9: Avianca Holdings, Latin America’s second-largest airline, files for bankruptcy. It would be followed by LATAM Airlines Group, the continent’s largest carrier, on May 26.May 11: Thousands of visitors stream into Shanghai Disneyland, the first reopened by Walt Disney Co. May 13: The virus could become endemic like HIV and never go away, the World Health Organization says.May 14: The United Nations warns of a looming mental illness crisis as millions of people are surrounded by death and disease and forced into isolation, poverty and anxiety.May 15: Global deaths exceed 300,000 and confirmed cases approach 4.5 million. May 18: Trump says he is taking hydroxychloroquine as a preventive medicine despite medical warnings against the use of the malaria drug. Subsequent studies, including a large multi-country trial by the WHO, would find little benefit in COVID-19 patients treated with the drug.May 22: Hertz Global Holdings Inc files for bankruptcy protection. Brazil overtakes Russia to become the world No. 2 in cases.May 23: Johnson resists calls from British opposition parties to sack his senior adviser, Dominic Cummings, who had traveled 400 km (250 miles) with his son and wife during the lockdown even though she was sick at the time. May 24: Hong Kong police fire tear gas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people protesting against China’s plan to impose national security laws on the city, in defiance of curbs imposed to contain the coronavirus. The public returns to St Peter’s Square to receive Pope Francis’s blessing from his window for the first time in nearly three months. May 25: George Floyd, a 46-year-old African American, dies after a police officer kneels on his neck for nearly 9 minutes. The incident triggers weeks of protests against racism and police brutality around the world, and health experts warn the activity may help spread the virus. Brazil surpasses the United States in daily coronavirus deaths.May 29: Trump says he is terminating the U.S. relationship with the WHO over its handling of the outbreak, accusing the UN agency of becoming a puppet organization of China.June 7: Global deaths exceed 400,000 and confirmed cases approach 7 million.June 8: New Zealand lifts all social and economic restrictions except border controls, one of the first countries to return to pre-pandemic normality. June 12: Beijing shuts six major wholesale food markets and delays plans for some students to return to school after reporting new infections for a second day running. June 15: After 83 days of lockdown, England allows retail stores to reopen.June 16: Honduras President Juan Orlando Hernandez says he has been diagnosed with the coronavirus, as has his wife and two aides. June 19: Brazil cases top 1 million and deaths approach 50,000, a new nadir for the world’s second worst-hit country. June 23: After more than 100 days of lockdown, New York City residents can get haircuts, shop at reopened stores and dine at outdoor cafes. Russia has 599,705 cases, the third highest in the world.June 25: Nigeria’s outbreak may push 5 million people into poverty as it triggers the worst recession in the African powerhouse since the 1980s, the World Bank said.June 26: Amid a spike in infections, Texas and Florida halt efforts to reopen their economies, ordering bars to close again and tightening restrictions on restaurants.June 28: Global deaths exceed 500,000 and confirmed cases top 10 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/timeline-how-the-global-coronavirus-pandemic-unfolded/story-IEe31EwqvuEwnE6DKIC5EN.html
29-06-2020||World||US official defends Donald Trump stepping outdoors without mask||Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar says President Donald Trump’s “unique” circumstances are why he doesn’t wear a mask even as the government is urging people to do so.Addressing spikes in reported coronavirus cases in some states, Azar said people “have to take ownership” of their own behaviours by social distancing and wearing masks if possible.He says Trump doesn’t have to follow his own administration’s guidance because as a leader of the free world he’s tested regularly and is in “very different circumstances than the rest of us.” Azar declined to say whether he’s ever asked Trump to wear a mask. He told CNN and NBC that his own message to the people is to take precautions for “public health.” Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee says Trump should spend more time tweeting about wearing masks instead of monuments.Inslee tells CBS: “We need a president who will care more about living Americans and less about dead Confederates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-official-defends-donald-trump-stepping-outdoors-without-mask/story-PfINJ61daHLujmcFNC83EO.html
29-06-2020||World||At least 12 killed in flooding in southwestern China||Authorities in southwestern China’s Sichuan province say at least 12 people have died and 10 are missing following heavy rains, adding to a grow toll from summer flooding across the country. Sichuan’s Mianning county was battered by storms on Friday and Saturday, with flooding especially bad in Yihai township, the county government reported. Two vehicles plunged into a river along a flood-damaged highway, and 7,705 people were evacuated in the area. The area lies on a plain at the foot of steep hills that eventually rise to the Tibetan Plateau, the source of China’s major rivers. Nationally, flooding since the start of June has left 78 people dead or missing, destroyed or damaged more than 100,000 homes and caused direct economic losses estimated at more than 25 billion yuan (USD 3.5 billion), the Ministry of Emergency Management said on Sunday. Seasonal flooding hits much of China each year, and authorities have sought to mitigate the damage through the use of dams, particularly the massive Three Gorges structure on the Yangtze. China’s worst floods in recent years were in 1998, when more than 2,000 people died and almost 3 million homes were destroyed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-12-killed-in-flooding-in-southwestern-china/story-hoigylC0EnoYygDJhKd09K.html
29-06-2020||World||In single-day record, global Covid-19 cases surge to 189,077: WHO||The global Covid-19 case total has surged past 9.8 million after a single-day record of 189,077 cases were registered worldwide over the past 24 hours, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Sunday (local time).“Today, we report a record number of new cases in the last 24 hours globally (189,077 cases), with several countries reporting their highest number of new cases in a 24-hour period,” the WHO said in its daily statistical bulletin.The latest rise to the overall case count is a significant increase from the 179,316 new positive tests reported on Saturday by the WHO.The bulk of the new cases were reported in Brazil and the United States, which confirmed 46,860 and 44,458 new positive tests over the past 24 hours, respectively. A further 19,906 new cases were also reported in India over the past day.The WHO confirmed on Sunday that 4,612 people died from complications related to the coronavirus disease over the past 24 hours, a drop of 2,254 compared to the corresponding rise to the death toll on Saturday.Earlier in the day, the US-based Johns Hopkins University, whose Coronavirus Response Centre also tallies Covid-19 figures, reported that the global case count has already surpassed 10 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-single-day-record-global-covid-19-cases-surge-to-189-077-who/story-EEpS8MPF8RWXlsW19qrUXK.html
29-06-2020||World||China’ security law to establish ‘red lines’ for Hong Kong, adviser says||The national security law that China could impose on Hong Kong as early as this week won’t need to be used if the financial hub’s residents avoid crossing certain “red lines,” according to a top adviser to Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam.“It really is to warn people: Do not cross those red lines, you cannot ask for Hong Kong independence and we do not tolerate terrorist acts like what happened last year during the social unrest,” Bernard Chan, a convener of Hong Kong’s advisory Executive Council, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Monday.“As long as people abide by the law, I suppose we never have to use this piece of legislation,” said Chan, who is also one of Hong Kong’s deputies to the National People’s Congress, which is drafting the law.Chan, who hasn’t seen a draft of the law, said it will not be retrospective and that Hong Kong’s foreign judges will still be able to rule on sensitive cases. Any US sanctions issued in response to the new law would be “lose-lose,” he said.Chinese lawmakers are meeting in Beijing to discuss the national security legislation, which would bar subversion, secession, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces in the former British colony. A vote could come Tuesday morning, the day before the anniversary of the city’s handover to China in 1997, Now TV News reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-security-law-to-establish-red-lines-for-hong-kong-adviser-says/story-bTvDUOagxeTF641CtS1kiO.html
29-06-2020||World||Starbucks latest to say it will pause social media ads on Facebook||Starbucks is the latest company to say it will pause social media ads after a campaign led by civil rights organisations called for an ad boycott of Facebook, saying it doesn’t do enough to stop racist and violent content. Starbucks said on Sunday that its actions were not part of the “#StopHateforProfit” campaign, but that it is pausing its social ads while talking with civil rights organisations and its media partners about how to stop hate speech online. The coffee chain’s announcement follows statements from Unilever, the European consumer-goods giant behind Ben & Jerry’s ice cream and Dove soap; Coca-Cola; cellphone company Verizon and outdoors companies like Patagonia, Eddie Bauer and REI; film company Magnolia Pictures; jeans maker Levi’s and dozens of smaller companies. Some of the companies will pause ads just on Facebook, while others will refrain from advertising more broadly on social media. In response to companies halting advertising, Facebook executive Carolyn Everson said earlier this week the social networking platform is committed to purging hateful content from its services. “Our conversations with marketers and civil rights organisations are about how, together, we can be a force for good,” said Everson, vice president of Facebook’s global business group. Facebook’s market value dropped on Friday by more than 8 per cent, or about USD 50 billion, as more companies said they would pause ads. Twitter stock also dropped more than 7 per cent on Friday. Sarah Personette, vice president of global client solutions at Twitter, said on Friday the company’s “mission is to serve the public conversation and ensure Twitter is a place where people can make human connections, seek and receive authentic and credible information, and express themselves freely and safely”. She added that Twitter is “respectful of our partners’ decisions and will continue to work and communicate closely with them during this time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/starbucks-latest-to-say-it-will-pause-social-media-ads-on-facebook/story-wmDY0zcM8mpkJAXyPKOVJK.html
29-06-2020||World||Covid-19 death toll drops to 5 in New York, once the US epicenter||Five people died Saturday from the coronavirus in New York state, the lowest daily death toll the state has reported since March 15.Saturday’s total compared to 13 fatalities the day before as the number of fatalities caused by the virus continues to plummet in the state. During the peak of the pandemic in April, nearly 800 people were dying a day from coronavirus.Click here for full US-19 coverage“We are on the exact opposite end,” Gov. Andrew Cuomo said in an interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press.”New York still leads the nation in Covid-19 deaths with nearly 25,000, according to the state’s official tally, which doesn’t include people who likely died of the disease.Meanwhile, fewer than 900 patients were hospitalized Saturday for Covid-19, down from a peak of over 18,000 in April.The governor cautioned that the numbers could spike again if New Yorkers let down their guard down and fail to follow social distancing and mask-wearing requirements.“I’m now afraid of the spread coming from other states because we are one country and people travel,” Cuomo said. “I’m afraid the infection rate in the other states will come back to New York and raise that rate again.”Confirmed daily infections in the US hit an all-time high of 40,000 on Friday, prompting officials in Texas and Florida to reverse course and close down bars in their states again.US Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar stressed that “the window is closing” for the US to take action to effectively curb the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-death-toll-drops-to-5-in-new-york-once-the-us-epicenter/story-w2jA6jknOf2nQdxi5ZkHzJ.html
29-06-2020||World||US coronavirus surge likely to continue for weeks, experts say||A surge in coronavirus that has seen record numbers of new U.S. cases in recent days is likely to continue for weeks after states moved too soon to reopen their economies, two of the country’s leading public health experts said Sunday.The warnings by Tom Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control from 2009 to 2017, and Scott Gottlieb, the former head of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, came as a new poll showed confidence in how the U.S. is dealing with Covid-19 has fallen.In an interview with Fox News Sunday, Frieden said the virus continued to have the “upper hand,” even as he acknowledged Americans had become tired of the restrictions needed to contain it.“We’re all sick and tired of staying home. But you know what? The virus is not tired of making us sick,” he said.“We are moving too fast,” Frieden said of states that remained eager to continue phased re-openings as cases continue to rise. “It’s like leaning into a left hook. You are going to get hit hard. And that’s what is happening.”2.5 Million CasesUS coronavirus cases now exceed 2.5 million, with over 125,000 reported fatalities -- in both cases the world’s highest. The country’s inability to control the spread of the virus seems likely to result in US citizens being banned from traveling to Europe, for example, where cases are down in some cases 90% from their peak.A move by the EU to restrict travel from the US was the inevitable result of the continuing spread in America, Gottlieb said. Growing restrictions on travel within the US could come next, he said.A CBS poll released on Sunday showed 62% of those surveyed said US efforts to deal with the virus are “going badly,” up from 57% in early June. The percentage who said President Donald Trump was doing a “good job” on the virus was 41%, the lowest of five polls taken since late March.The survey of 2,009 US adults was taken June 23-26. It had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.Alex Azar, the US Health and Human Services Secretary, said on CNN’s “State of the Union” that the “window is closing” to control the spread of the virus.“This is a very, very serious situation,” Azar said, a downbeat assessment contradicted by Vice President Mike Pence in a later interview.‘Much Better Place’Pence, who’s visiting Texas on Sunday, played down the current surge in states, stressing that it affected just 4% of US counties and had been caused by more cases in young people, who were less likely to suffer serious health consequences.“We’re in a much better place to respond to these outbreaks than we were four months ago,” Pence told CBS’s “Face the Nation,” noting that the nation is testing about 500,000 people a day and has a greater capacity for surveillance and community testing.“We’ve also expanded our health-care capacity across the country, literally seeing delivered billions in personal protective equipment, ventilators,” he said. “And most importantly in this moment is we’ve seen the development and distribution of therapeutics that have literally been saving lives around the country.”Pence also dismissed concerns that the increase in new infections had been driven by the rapid easing of public health restrictions and the Trump administration’s push to reopen the economy rapidly with November’s election in mind.‘Simplest Intervention’“There’s a temptation to associate the new cases in the Sunbelt with reopening, but it’s important to remember” that states including Florida and Texas actually began to open up in early May and avoided a spike in infections “for the better part of six weeks,” he said.Also on “Face the Nation,” Gottlieb said the spread of the virus was likely to continue growing in the absence of requirements for the “universal masking” of people in affected states.Requiring people to wear masks is “the simplest intervention that we could take” to stop the spread of the virus, Gottlieb said. Polls, including the CBS survey, show the issue of wearing masks has become highly politicized in the USWhile the virus has ebbed in the Northeast, states like Florida, Texas and Arizona have seen virus cases spike in recent days. Other measures, including hospitalizations and deaths, haven’t risen as much.On Sunday, Florida officials said the state’s coronavirus cases rose 6.4% from a day earlier. Cumulative hospitalizations of Florida residents rose 0.8%. Cases in Arizona jumped by 5.5%, above the state’s average of a 4.4% daily increase over the past week.The current record rates of newly reported cases at 40,000 or more in recent days likely reflected a far bigger outbreak, Gottlieb said.Encouraging SignsBy the CDC’s own reckoning, the real number of infections was 5 to 10 times that being reported, Gottlieb said, and that meant the real rate of new infections was likely to be a “quarter-million” each day.Frieden said that while there were potentially encouraging signs in the growing share of younger people -- who are less likely to suffer severe complications -- among new reported cases, that shouldn’t be a reason to grow complacent.“What starts in the young doesn’t stay in the young,” he said, since younger people, often asymptomatic, can spread the coronavirus to more-vulnerable individuals including family members and co-workers.It was false to dismiss the recent surge in daily cases as a function of a ramping up in testing, Frieden said. A lower death rate was also potentially misleading, he said, with reported deaths likely to lag a surge in cases by about a month.(Frieden is currently chief executive of Resolve to Save Lives, which is funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies, whose founder, Michael Bloomberg, is also founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-surge-likely-to-continue-for-weeks-experts-say/story-cNnBe6ecVblK5XPvjnPgmJ.html
