30-06-2020||World||‘Fatwa’ issued over temple in Islamabad||A leading religious school in Pakistan has issued a “fatwa”, or religious edict, against the construction of a Hindu temple in Islamabad. Last week, Prime Minister Imran Khan had approved a grant of 100 million rupees for building the first Hindu temple in the capital. The fatwa from Jamia Ashrafia said that while it is permitted to spend government funds on the upkeep and repair of prevailing houses of worship of minority communities, this did not allow for building new houses of worship for non-Muslims.It questioned the decision of the government to spend tax-payer money on houses of worship of minority communities. Minorty MP Lal Malhi has said that the construction would go ahead regardless. He noted that the Hindu population in Islamabad had reached to around 3,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fatwa-issued-over-temple-in-islamabad/story-zUO0zgCyZNBMZ0FKeURUUK.html
30-06-2020||World||Growing bipartisan support among US lawmakers for India in conflict with China||Bipartisan support for India in its military standoff with China in Ladakh has been growing among US lawmakers. Mitch McConnell, the leader of the Republican-ruled US senate, kicked off floor debate on next year’s defense budget Monday by slamming China for “picking deadly fights” with India.McConnell appealed for the chamber’s bipartisan support to pass the National Defense Authorization Act 2021with remarks highlighting recent threats from adversarial nationals China, Russia, North Korea and Iran.“China has resumed its submarine intrusions into Japanese contiguous zones and picked deadly fights with India at high altitude,” McConnell said.In a floor speech on June 18, just days after the deadly slash in which 20 Indian soldiers had died, Leader McConnell had said the Chinese military had appeared to have “instigated the worst violent clash between China and India since those nations went to war way back in 1962.”Also on Monday, another Republican senator, Marco Rubio, came out in India’s support. “Today I spoke to @SandhuTaranjitS to express our solidarity with the people of #India as they firmly confront unwarranted & lawless armed aggression by the Communist Party of #China.” He was referring to a conversation with Taranjit S Sandhu, the Indian ambassador to the United States.“India has made it clear, they will not be bullied by Beijing.,” the senator added. He is a member of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, a powerful congressional panel with oversight of the State Department and the country’s foreign policy.The State Department, it must be noted, has also been clear it holds Chinese aggression responsible for the borer clashes, and denounced in a statement echoed later by the White House. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has referred to the clashes several times. “The PLA has escalated border tensions – we see it today in India, the world’s most popular – populous democracy,” he said on June 18. He had also conveyed his condolences on the death of the Indian soldiers.President Trump had offered to mediate May end, but was turned down by both countries.In a TV interview past Sunday, Tom Cotton, a Republican senator who is a close ally of President Donald Trump, denounced China’s aggression on the border with India to illustrate the growing threat the Asian giant poses to the United States and its allies and partners around the world. “The Chinese Communist Party is certainly using the pandemic to try to assert claims and take very aggressive action against almost all of its neighbors,” Cotton said, adding, “high up in the Himalayas, China has essentially invaded India, an ally of ours. And they have killed 20 Indian soldiers.”The senator went on to draw attention to a proposed law that “violates” China’s international commitment regarding Hong Kong — the new national security law — and its aggression against Taiwan and the rim nations of the South China Sea, Vietnam, Philippines and Malaysia.“China is becoming more aggressive than ever. That’s why it’s so important that we support all of our allies and partners,” he added.There has been bipartisan support for India in this conflict. The Democratic-led House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman, Eliot Engel, had denounced Chinese aggression early June, before the June 15 clashes in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. “I am extremely concerned by the ongoing Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control on the India-China border.,” Engel had said in a statement. “China is demonstrating once again that it is willing to bully its neighbors rather than resolve conflicts according to international law.”“I am concerned by continued Chinese aggression along its border with India,” Ami Bera, the Indian-descent chair of the Asia subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, had written in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/growing-bipartisan-support-among-us-lawmakers-for-india-in-conflict-with-china/story-3jyiJHNO8VAPXZKWUuCraI.html
30-06-2020||World||UK says only matter of time before Huawei exits 5G network||Huawei Technologies Co. will not be part of the U.K.’s 5G telecoms networks in the long term, Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden told Parliament, adding that he welcomes approaches from alternative vendors including South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. and Japan’s NEC Corp.Questioned by Parliament’s Defence Committee on Tuesday, Dowden conceded that “ultimately” Huawei equipment wouldn’t be used. “But there is a big difference as to the path to getting to that point,” he said.Boris Johnson’s government announced in January that Huawei would be allowed to supply equipment for the U.K.’s 5G networks. At the time, officials argued that bans on Huawei’s use in sensitive geographic areas and “core” technical components would sufficiently mitigate any risks, while still allowing Britain to take advantage of the new technologies it will enable.The decision to allow the Chinese company into the networks outraged not just U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration but also Members of Parliament in Johnson’s own Conservative Party.Also read | FCC designates China’s Huawei, ZTE as national security threatsChina’s behavior since then over both coronavirus and Hong Kong has done nothing to allay those concerns, meaning Johnson faces defeat in Parliament if he tries to push the decision through. The U.S. has also imposed sanctions “designed to make 5G designed by Huawei very hard to do,” Defence Secretary Ben Wallace, sitting alongside Dowden, told the committee. Shortly after the two men finished giving evidence in London, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission designated Huawei and ZTE Corp as national security threats.The U.S. sanctions, introduced in May, put Huawei’s microchip supply in jeopardy. They’re “likely to have an impact on the viability of Huawei as a provider for the 5G network,” Dowden said, but he wouldn’t comment on potential changes to the company’s legal status. He also wouldn’t commit to a deadline for removing Huawei.But he did say the government is considering trade and financial incentives for rivals, which could bolster a push to diversify the U.K. supply chain away from its reliance on Huawei and its Nordic rivals Nokia Oyj and Ericsson AB. Officials are holding “constructive” talks with potential new market entrants, he said.“Both Samsung and NEC are obvious vendors that we would like to get into the U.K. market” and officials are examining ways to cut costs for new entrants, Dowden said. “We’re looking at things such as trade incentives for incoming vendors, financial incentives. We’re looking at all those ways of trying to ease a pathway in for them.”The caps on Huawei introduced in January will already cost about 1.5 billion pounds ($1.9 billion) to implement and entail a year-long delay to network deployment, and stricter rules would mean further costs, Dowden said.The National Cyber Security Centre has now reviewed the likely impact of those U.S. sanctions, paving the way for a decision on the future role for the Chinese company from the National Security Council, chaired by Johnson. Ministers and officials are now considering their next steps.“No decisions have been made,” Dowden said. “If national security requires it, we won’t hesitate in applying restrictions which will impose higher costs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-says-only-matter-of-time-before-huawei-exits-5g-network/story-nHYOZQAsJ8qTglFI7ZhVaL.html
30-06-2020||World||Daily Covid-19 infections could go up to 100,000 in US, says Anthony Fauci||Top US epidemiologist Anthony Fauci on Tuesday told lawmakers if the current surge in Covid-19 cases in the southern states did not change, it could get “very bad”.Fauci said he would “not be surprised” if daily infections, which are currently averaging 40,000, go as high as 100,000. He refused to give his estimation of fatalities.Fauci was testifying at a US senate hearing along with other top public health of the the country, Robert Redfield of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Stephen Hahn of the Food and Drug Administration and Admiral Brett Giroir of the heath and human services. All four are members of the White house task force on coronavirus, which is headed by Vice-President mike Pence.“I think it is important to tell and you the American public that I’m very concerned because it could get very bad,” said Fauci, who has headed the US National Institute for Allergies and Infectious Diseases for decades. He went on to state,“Clearly, we are not in total control right now.” And warned that the surge in southern states had put other parts of the country at risk as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/daily-covid-19-infections-could-go-up-to-100-000-in-us-says-anthony-fauci/story-LRQ6MoQEsMTBGnSAJfZlrL.html
30-06-2020||World||How Eva, a $1.8 million portrait, became a symbol of protest||Arms folded and her lips sardonically askew, Eva makes an unlikely icon for the protest movement that’s shaking Belarus leader Alexander Lukashenko ahead of presidential elections. For starters, “she” is an almost century-old oil painting.Yet the portrait by the Jewish expressionist painter Chaim Soutine has swirled into the eye of a political storm. The banker responsible for buying it in 2013 -- for a cool $1.8 million at auction in New York -- is running for president from jail to try to end Lukashenko’s 26-year rule.As chief executive of Belgazprombank, the Belarusian lender owned by Russia’s natural gas giant Gazprom PJSC and Gazprombank JSC, Viktor Babariko spent a decade hunting for paintings by Belarus-born artists to bring home and display to the public. He resigned from the bank in May to announce his candidacy for the Aug. 9 elections and was detained on June 18 amid a state security service probe into tax evasion and money laundering.Shortly before his arrest, the authorities also seized the $20 million art collection built up by Babariko at the bank’s gallery in the capital, Minsk. When protests erupted, social media exploded with Eva’s image and more and more people began to wear it on T-shirts.Lukashenko has routinely crushed public dissent since winning power in 1994 and he retains an iron grip on the former Soviet republic’s institutions and security services. While defeat at the polls is all but inconceivable as he seeks a sixth presidential term, he’s facing unusually robust opposition this time that prompted him to complain last week of a “foreign” plot to foment revolution.On Monday, state-owned media cited the five-time president’s warning of the dangers surrounding the country and by implication the risks involved in handing power to less experienced hands.“If we take just one incautious step, we will collapse under the rubble of disagreements, conflicts and empires,” Lukashenko told officials at a televised meeting in Soligorsk, 80 miles south of the capital Minsk, according to the Belta news agency.Geopolitical StruggleThere’s a growing perception within Belarus that something significant has changed in the nation of 9.4 million bordering Russia, Ukraine and the European Union that’s long been known for its political docility. Strategically located between Russia and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization states of Poland, Lithuania and Latvia, Belarus risks becoming the latest focus of a geopolitical struggle between Russian President Vladimir Putin and the West.Previous dips in Lukashenko’s popularity never coincided “with elections, economic recession, a coronavirus pandemic and lack of money to appease angry voters who are rapidly becoming politically active,” says Artyom Shraibman, founder of Minsk-based political consultancy Sense Analytics. He added that the government was doing all it could to suppress the current wave of discontent before August.The belief, long held even among many opponents, that Lukashenko would win free and fair elections if he ever let them be held is no longer taken as a given. Protest slogans declare “3%” or “We Are The 97%” after -- highly self-selecting -- online surveys found minimal popular support for the president. Confronting a group of opposition protesters in person recently, Lukashenko asked them to stop using the “3%” figure, suggesting they must know it to be false.Another presumption now questioned is that Belarusians would never go into the streets to topple a leader in the way that other ex-Soviet nations -– from Armenia to Ukraine -– have done since gaining independence in 1991.Actress Yulia Shevchuk says that she’d finally had enough when she saw Eva and the other paintings had been replaced by posters with QR codes on the walls of Belgazprombank’s gallery. She Googled Soutine’s portrait and doctored it with a painting app to post on Facebook. Eva was now showing her middle finger.“It was so hard for me to see all this lawlessness, so painful to see the people and the country being appropriated by a single person,” says Shevchuk. Eva’s picture, tweaked by other Belarus netizens to show her looking from behind bars, dressed in prison uniform or led away by the security services (the main branch is still called KGB) began to pop up everywhere.Lukashenko hinted after Babariko’s arrest that unfriendly circles in Russia were behind his candidacy. The claim’s impact was undermined by the fact that arresting the president’s opponents has become routine ahead of elections in Belarus, even if in the past they were alleged to have been in cahoots with Western powers, rather than Russia.“Someone thinks that Belarusians are his serfs, who can be pushed around,” Babariko said in a video statement before he was arrested together with his son, who was helping to run his campaign. He denies any ties to Moscow.In another change, this time it isn’t just the usual suspects in the urban middle classes who appear fed up with their president.Lukashenko’s other main election challenge comes from a blogger named Sergei Tikhonovskiy, who calls Lukashenko a cockroach -- an insect best known locally for the Soviet-era children’s poem in which it terrorizes an animal kingdom. Tikhonovskiy took to touring small-town Belarus communities that are traditionally loyal to the president with a giant bug-killing slipper on his car roof.He was jailed before he could even officially register his election campaign team. His wife Svetlana now aims to register and run for office on his behalf. She posted an emotional video address on June 16 alleging threats were made against her children unless she pulled out of the race.Lukashenko has been fighting fires for some time. First came a dispute with Russia last year which demanded he agree to a closer political union in return for economic support, including discounted oil and gas. For more than a quarter-century, those de facto subsidies allowed him to avoid the kinds of wrenching post-Soviet economic reforms that contributed to political upheaval elsewhere.The two countries are again arguing over a natural-gas price and Russia effectively halted oil deliveries in January, prompting Belarus to look for alternative supplies as far away as the U.S., Saudi Arabia, and Norway.Belarus had made a profitable industry out of processing cheap Russian crude for export at world market prices, but proceeds from sales of petroleum products plunged by 62% in the first four months of 2020 amid slumping oil demand. With the economy in recession, Lukashenko this month swapped his banker prime minister for a weapons chief, heralding military-style mobilization for an economy that faces multiple challenges.Vodka, SaunasLukashenko’s approach to the coronavirus outbreak was the final straw for some. Belarus never declared a lockdown and people were left to choose whether to wear masks, self-isolate or live their lives as usual. The president consistently downplayed the risks, at one point advocating vodka and saunas to combat the disease, and he insisted on holding a May 9 military parade to mark the end of World War II even as Russia postponed its own event.Babariko has campaigned on the economy, warning that Belarus has grown so reliant on foreign support it may soon lose its independence. He has also floated the possibility of seeking military neutrality for a country that’s currently part of a defense alliance with Russia, the Collective Security Treaty Organization. He pledges to revitalize the state-owned sector, support private business and restore the balance of power between branches of government.In a nation anxious to avoid the kind of hostilities with Moscow seen across the border in Ukraine, Lukashenko’s portrayals of Babariko as a puppet for outside forces seem to have had little impact. Belarus has no reliable public opinion polls, so the true extent of a candidate’s support is hard to measure. Yet Babariko quickly collected 435,000 signatures to register his candidacy, more than four times the number required.Lukashenko himself has always stressed Russia’s position as a strategic ally even at times of strain. He joined Putin in Moscow to watch Russia’s delayed WWII parade on June 24, but on returning promptly accused Russia of meddling in his country’s elections, a charge the Kremlin denied.With Babariko himself cut off from the world and unable to campaign, his team have called on Belarusians to show support for him and other detainees by writing letters to them in prison. The call, issued on Instagram, was illustrated with a postcard of Eva.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-eva-a-1-8-million-portrait-became-a-symbol-of-protest/story-7mR8ESiahhQj7AO0ps2hXI.html
30-06-2020||World||Pakistani pilots question government list of 262 pilots, call it ‘dubious’||Pakistani airline pilots and their union have raised questions about a government list of 262 pilots with “dubious” credentials, saying it is full of discrepancies.Aviation Minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan announced last week the grounding of 262 airline pilots suspected of dodging their exams, a move that caused global concern.The minister said the pilots included 141 from Pakistan International Airlines (PIA), nine from Air Blue, 10 from Serene Airline, and 17 from Shaheen Airlines.The PIA said the list showed discrepancies once the airlines received it. Thirty-six of the 141 had either retired or moved out, it said. Air Blue said seven of the pilots on the list no longer worked for the airline.The pilots and their union have rejected the list and demanded a judicial investigation. “We don’t have full details of the discrepancies with us,” said Abdul Sattar Khokhar, a spokesman at Pakistan’s civil aviation ministry. “The issue is being sorted out in consultation with airlines and civil aviation authorities.” The Pakistan Airlines Pilots Association (PALPA) has also raised doubts about the list. “It contains names of highly educated and qualified pilots who have passed all the tests,” its president, Chaudhry Salman, told Reuters. “We want a fair and impartial resolution to this matter.” The action on the “dubious” licences was prompted by the preliminary report on an airliner crash in Karachi that killed 97 people last month. It found the plane’s pilots failed to follow standard procedures and disregarded alarms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-pilots-question-government-list-of-262-pilots-call-it-dubious/story-L9uWMuItfdmPMH0bneD2OM.html
30-06-2020||World||Ban on Pakistan International Airline from flying to Europe for 6 months over pilots’ exam controversy||The European Union’s aviation safety agency said Tuesday that Pakistan’s national airline will not be allowed to fly into Europe for at least six months after the country’s aviation minister revealed that nearly a third of Pakistani pilots had cheated on their pilot’s exams.Pakistan International Airlines spokesman Abdullah Hafeez says PIA has not been flying to Europe because of the pandemic. But the airline had hoped to resume its flights to Oslo, Copenhagen, Paris, Barcelona and Milan within the next two months.“It is hurting us really bad,” he said of the pilots scandal.An inquiry into a May 22 PIA crash that killed 97 people at the southern port city of Karachi resulted in the stunning revelation that 260 of 860 pilots in Pakistan had cheated on their pilots exams but were still given licences by the Civil Aviation Authority.The government has since fired four officials of the regulatory agency and criminal charges are being considered.The European Union Aviation Safety Agency “is concerned about the validity of the Pakistani pilot licenses and that Pakistan, as the State of operator, is currently not capable to certify and oversee its operators and aircraft in accordance with applicable international standards,” the organization said in its letter announcing the ban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ban-on-pakistan-international-airline-from-flying-to-europe-for-6-months-over-pilots-exam-controversy/story-wObgxyfoxjqG8cvlLNi5RO.html
30-06-2020||World||Donald Trump’s H1-B visa suspension leaves many US workers stuck in India||Natasha Bhat learned in late February that her father-in-law had suddenly died. Bhat, 35, recently recalled how she grabbed a backpack and hustled her US -born 4-year-old son to the San Francisco airport to catch a midnight flight to India, her home country. She didn’t anticipate being stuck there indefinitely. Bhat works at a tech company in Silicon Valley on an H-1B visa, and her documents were due for renewal. So she threw them in the bag, knowing she’d have to get the chore taken care of before flying back to the US in a few weeks. But she said her mid-March appointment at the US consulate in Kolkata was canceled when it shut down due to Covid-19 concerns. Her return home was delayed further when President Donald Trump signed an executive order last week barring many people on several types of visas, including H-1Bs, from entering the country until 2021.Trump’s executive order is the latest step in his years-long tightening of US immigration policy. The president has argued since taking office the visa programs allow employers to undercut native-born workers on wages, over the objections of companies that say they need highly skilled workers to fill crucial job openings. The latest restrictions, said Greg Siskind, an immigration lawyer in Memphis, “use the pandemic as an excuse to achieve anti-immigration goals the administration has wanted to do for years.”H-1B holders, about three-quarters of whom work in the tech sector, have felt a creeping sense of unease since Trump took office. Still, thousands of them continued to fly back and forth between the US and their home countries, for weddings or funerals—or for work assignments or to get mundane paperwork taken care of. (Some visas require people to leave the country briefly after approval to get their passports stamped.) Many of those who left the US this spring, as Bhat did, found the world as they knew it changed mid-trip.About 375,000 temporary visaholders and green card applicants will now be banned from entering the US until next year, according to Julia Gelatt, a senior policy analyst with the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group. A significant number of those are now stuck in India, which has long had a close connection to Silicon Valley. The technology industry has consistently objected to the administration’s immigration restrictions, and Amazon.com Inc., Alphabet Inc. and Twitter Inc. immediately condemned the latest executive order, along with trade groups representing hundreds of other technology firms. The objections haven’t spared people like Bhat and her husband, who have worked in Silicon Valley for the last nine years, she as a manager for a software firm and he as an engineer at a bank. Her husband flew back to the US in early March for work and has spent the past four months of lockdown alone. Bhat is now working overnight to support her US based clients, and trying to convince their son Adhrit to eat Indian food like chapati for breakfast over his complaints that he misses his standard Californian breakfast of avocado toast.The prospect of a wave of people stranded abroad began worrying Siskind several weeks ago when he first caught wind of the planned order. On Twitter, he warned workers on non-immigrant visas not to leave the US. He urged those abroad to come back as soon as possible.Once the order took effect, Siskind set up an online form for people to share their stories, and asked his followers on social media to fill it out. Within 24 hours, he had over 500 responses. There was the scientist researching coronavirus-testing products who flew to India to get married, the Atlanta-based IT consultant who may miss the birth of his child, the 2-year-old girl who was born in the US and has developed severe allergic skin reactions to mosquito bites in India, the Intel Corp. employee who is now running critical projects from afar.Siskind fielded calls from husbands separated from wives, parents from children. People told him they were worried about keeping up with mortgage payments on houses, car loans and jobs. Some had US-born children who are American citizens enrolled in US schools. Many have valid visas and assumed all they would need to get back in the country was a routine stamp in their passport.Narendra Singh, an Indian-born software architect who has lived in Dallas for nine years, took his family back to Kolkata, India, in February. Their return was delayed when the consulates closed and they were advised to wait out the worst of the pandemic. Now Singh is working remotely. His wife, a software engineer, lost her job in April. Their daughter, a US citizen, was slated to start preschool in the fall, but they’ve been preparing her for the possibility that won’t happen. Singh, 36, said he knew there was always a chance of his visa not being extended, but assumed he was secure until his current visa was set to expire in 2022. “We took specialized jobs, we followed the rules, we got the visas,” he said. “I just feel betrayed.”Mili Widhani Khatter, 39, who has lived in the US with her husband and two US-born children for the past 12 years, flew back to Delhi, India, without her family to say goodbye to her dying mother. She hasn’t seen her children in nearly four months, and said her 2-year-old son has forgotten how to say “mama” since they’ve been apart. “This is the worst punishment you can give to a mom,” Khatter said. “It’s not humane.”Now families worry what another six months of uncertainty will do to their kids—and to the futures they thought they were charting. “I have a valid visa. I’ve been living in the Bay Area for eight years. I have a life there and a home there, and my husband is there,” Bhat said. “Will I ever be able to go back?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-h1-b-visa-suspension-leaves-many-us-workers-stuck-in-india/story-k2yaCAHxf5ZtRHGkGRz2BJ.html
30-06-2020||World||European Union reopens borders to 14 nations; US, Indian tourists among those barred||The European Union announced Tuesday that it will reopen its borders to travelers from 14 countries, but most Americans have been refused entry for at least another two weeks due to soaring coronavirus infections in the USTravelers from other big countries like Russia, Brazil and India will also miss out.As Europe’s economies reel from the impact of the coronavirus, southern EU countries like Greece, Italy and Spain are desperate to entice back sun-loving visitors and breathe life into their damaged tourism industries.More than 15 million Americans are estimated to travel to Europe each year, while some 10 million Europeans head across the Atlantic.Citizens from the following countries will be allowed into the EU’s 27 members and four other nations in Europe’s visa-free Schengen travel zone: Algeria, Australia, Canada, Georgia, Japan, Montenegro, Morocco, New Zealand, Rwanda, Serbia, South Korea, Thailand, Tunisia and Uruguay.The EU said China is “subject to confirmation of reciprocity,” meaning it must lift all restrictions on European citizens entering China before it will allow Chinese citizens back in.Countries considered for the safe list are also expected to lift any bans they might have in place on European travelers. The list is to be updated every 14 days, with new countries being added and some even dropping off depending on whether they are keeping the disease under control.Still, many people both inside and outside Europe remain wary of travel in the coronavirus era, given the unpredictability of the pandemic and the possibility of second waves of infection that could affect flights and hotel bookings. Tens of thousands of travelers had a frantic, chaotic scramble in March to get home as the pandemic swept across the world and borders slammed shut.The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the United States has surged over the past week, and President Donald Trump also suspended the entry of all people from Europe’s ID check-free travel zone in a decree in March.In contrast, aside from a notable recent outbreak tied to a slaughterhouse in western Germany, the virus’s spread has generally stabilized across much of continental Europe.European Union countries hastily slapped restrictions on who could cross their borders in February as the virus spread in Italy. Then in mid-March the Europeans limited all non-essential travel to the 27 EU member states plus Liechtenstein, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland..Non-EU citizens who are already living in Europe are not included in the ban.The EU list does not apply to travel to Britain, which left the EU in January. Britain now requires all incoming travelers — bar a few exceptions like truck drivers — to go into a self-imposed 14-day quarantine, although the measure is under review and is likely to ease in the coming weeks. The requirement also applies to U.K. citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-union-reopens-borders-to-14-nations-us-indian-tourists-among-those-barred/story-uXse3NjNAIeGAyiEKzQDcM.html
30-06-2020||World||Chinese President Xi Jinping signs bill that could mean jail for dissent in Hong Kong||China’s President Xi Jinping on Tuesday signed into law the Hong Kong national security bill in a closed-door meeting of the elites of the Communist Party of China (CPC) in Beijing, formalising a legislation that critics fear could crush the city’s freedom. Official news agency Xinhua said Chinese lawmakers had voted to adopt the law and decided the “national security law would be included” in Hong Kong’s mini constitution known as the Basic Law.Hong Kong’s pro-democracy activists could potentially face prison terms if found guilty under the new law.Beijing says the law will be enforced to tackle separatism and foreign interference but critics say it will outlaw dissent and curb the various freedoms enjoyed by Hong Kong’s citizens under the “one country, two systems” mechanism under which it has been governed since 1997.It will come into effect on Wednesday, July 1, the anniversary of Hong Kong’s handover to China from the British.Hong Kong activist Joshua Wong announced he is stepping down as leader of his pro-democracy group Demosisto, soon after Beijing had passed the controversial national security law.“After much internal deliberation, we have decided to disband and cease all operations as a group given the circumstances,” Demosisto said on Twitter.Wong, 23, had previously said he would be a “prime target” of the law.“We hope the law will serve as a deterrent to prevent people from stirring up trouble,” Tam Yiu-Chung, Hong Kong’s only representative on the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, China’s rubber-stamp Parliament, which approved the law on Tuesday morning.“Don’t let Hong Kong be used as a tool to split the country,” he said.“The national security law that targets a tiny minority of people who commit acts of secession, subversion and terrorism, and aims to protect the legitimate rights of the vast majority including law-biding citizens and companies, could not be better to safeguard Hong Kong’s stability and development in the long run,” Xinhua said in a commentary on Tuesday.“In fact, Beijing is trying to protect the interests of foreign investors in Hong Kong, including those of American businesses. The turbulence since last June has seriously eroded the city’s security and harmed its sound and stable business environment,” the report added.In Beijing, the Chinese foreign ministry said it will take necessary countermeasures to “firmly safeguard” its national interests in response to the US’s decision to end special treatment for Hong Kong over the new law.Spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a daily ministry briefing said “the so-called sanctions” by the US side cannot stop China’s determination to promote the law on safeguarding national security in the city.Zhao said that establishing national security law to safeguard the country’s national security is a representation of the “one country, two systems” principle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-president-xi-jinping-signs-bill-that-could-mean-jail-for-dissent-in-hong-kong/story-Pbk8ZenT3cPb3UWVXIx99O.html
30-06-2020||World||‘Will take measures to prevent any virus outbreak’: China on new influenza variant G4||China on Tuesday said it will “take all necessary measures to prevent the outbreak of any virus” following a new study that has revealed a variant of swine flu capable of triggering a pandemic.The new influenza variant has been named G4 and is genetically linked and descended from the H1N1 strain that caused a pandemic that killed thousands in 2009.It possesses “all the essential hallmarks of being highly adapted to infect humans,” say the authors who are scientists at Chinese universities and at the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The study was published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) on Monday.“The virus is a unique blend of three lineages: one similar to strains found in European and Asian birds, the H1N1 strain that caused the 2009 pandemic, and a North American H1N1 that has genes from avian, human, and pig influenza viruses,” the American Association for the Advances of Sciences (AAAS) said in a report on the findings.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian, when asked to comment on the study at Tuesday’s press conference said China was closely following developments.“We will take all necessary measures to prevent the spread and outbreak of any virus,” he said. The WHO will read the Chinese study carefully, spokesperson Christian Lindmeier told a Geneva briefing on Tuesday, saying it was important to collaborate on findings and keep tabs on animal populations.“It also highlights we cannot let our guard down on influenza and need to be vigilant and continue surveillance even in the coronavirus pandemic,” he added.A team led by Liu Jinhua from the China Agricultural University (CAU) analysed nearly 30,000 nasal swabs taken from pigs at slaughterhouses in 10 Chinese provinces, and another 1,000 swabs from pigs with respiratory symptoms seen at their school’s veterinary teaching hospital between 2011 and 2018.The swabs yielded 179 swine influenza viruses, the vast majority of which were G4 or one of five other G strains from the Eurasian avian like lineage.“G4 virus has shown a sharp increase since 2016 and is the predominant genotype in circulation in pigs detected across at least 10 provinces,” the researchers wrote.Sun Honglei, the paper’s first author, says G4’s inclusion of genes from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic “may promote the virus adaptation” that leads to human-to-human transmission.Therefore, “It’s necessary to strengthen the surveillance” of Chinese pigs for influenza viruses, says Sun, who is also at CAU.“It is of concern that human infection of G4 virus will further human adaptation and increase the risk of a human pandemic,” the researchers wrote. Estimates say at least 40 percent of China’s pig population was decimated last year because of the spread of a separate viral disease, the deadly African swine fever, driving up pork prices and badly damaging business.More than 10.3 million people have been infected and over 500,000 killed in the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, which first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-take-measures-to-prevent-any-virus-outbreak-china-on-new-influenza-variant-g4/story-GzEGL1XdQ4r9GxVVfCjFEI.html
30-06-2020||World||Deeply concerned at China passing Hong Kong law: UK PM Boris Johnson||Reiterating “deep concern” over China passing a security law applicable to Hong Kong, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday said its text will now be scrutinised, recalling his earlier decision to offer a path to citizenship to residents of the former British colony.Johnson’s remarks following reports from Beijing that the law had been passed revived concerns about the UK allowing the Chinese company Huawei in its forthcoming 5G infrastructure. There is growing opposition to the company after the US banned it.Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and Johnson have previously committed to offering nearly 2 million holders in Hong Kong of British Nationals (Overseas) status a path to full British citizenship if Beijing passed and implemented the law.According to the British perspective, the new law goes against guarantees in the Sino-British agreements before the 1997 handover that political and other freedoms of the citizens will be preserved for 50 years.Johnson said: “I am deeply concerned at the law being passed. We will be looking at it carefully and scrutinise it if it is in conflict with the declaration with China. We have a duty to BNOs in Hong Kong as I said earlier”.On the UK keeping Huawei away from the 5G infrastructure as part of its response to the law, he added: “I am not a Sinophone, I won’t be drawn into Sinophobia, but we need to strike a balance to protect critical infrastructure from hostile vendors”.Raab previously announced the path to British citizenship in a statement to the House of Commons: “The House will recall that BNO status was conferred on British Dependent Territories Citizens connected with Hong Kong as part of the package of arrangements that accompanied the Joint Declaration in 1984, in preparation for the handover of the territory”.“And under that status, currently, BNO passport holders are already entitled to UK consular assistance in third countries. And the British government also provides people with BNO passports visa-free entry into the UK for up to six months as visitors”.“If China follows through with its proposed legislation, we will put in place new arrangements to allow BNOs to come to the UK without the current 6 month limit, enabling them to live and apply to study and work for extendable periods of 12 months, thereby also providing a pathway to citizenship”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deeply-concerned-at-china-passing-hong-kong-law-uk-pm-boris-johnson/story-k4n63XU11G04ryhf4Nnu7K.html
30-06-2020||World||PM Boris Johnson stays upbeat as UK’s ‘Little India’ is in new lockdown||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday announced a £5 billion-economic package to recover from what he called the ‘disaster’ of the cornavirus pandemic, as the east Midlands town of Leicester with a large population of Indian origin went into the UK’s first local lockdown.Harping on the mantra of ‘Build, build, build’, Johnson drew comparisons with former US President Franklin D Roosvelt’s ‘New Deal’ that took the country out of depression in the 1930s, and set out plans for major capital investment while keeping an eye on the virus.England is due to ease lockdown restrictions on Saturday, but Leicester will be excluded due to an increase in infections in recent days and weeks, particularly among the younger population. The infections are particularly high in areas of pre-existing economic deprivation, such an Evington.Considered the UK’s poster town of multiculturalism for its record in assimilating migrants of Indian heritage from Uganda and other places over the decades, the town has been placed out of bounds for anyone visiting, leaving or travelling within its limits.Delivering a speech in Dudley, about 90 km from Leicester, Johnson said: “Too many parts of this country have felt left behind, neglected, unloved, as though someone had taken a strategic decision that their fate did not matter as much as the metropolis”.“It (economic package) sounds positively Rooseveltian. It sounds like a New Deal. All I can say is that if so, then that is how it is meant to sound and to be, because that is what the times demand”, he added.Critics panned Johnson comparing the economic package with the much bigger ‘New Deal’ of Roosvelt, with some pointing out that some elements had already been announced and were being brought forward. The plans also include promises made to usually Labour-voting areas that voted for the Conservatives in the December 2019 election.The announcement includes building new homes, schools, more funding for the National Health Service, tackling skills crisis and bridging gaps in connectivity, productivity and opportunity. Chancellor Rishi Sunak is expected to announce details of the package shortly.Johnson said: “If we deliver this plan together, then we will together build our way back to health. We will not just bounce back, we will bounce forward – stronger and better and more united than ever before”.“To that end we will build build build. Build back better, build back greener, build back faster and to do that at the pace that this moment requires”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-boris-johnson-stays-upbeat-as-uk-s-little-india-is-in-new-lockdown/story-GfEXdNuyDTYx9zacgUKQgJ.html
30-06-2020||World||China’s President Xi signs Hong Kong national security law: Report||China’s President Xi Jinping has signed the Hong Kong national security law, state media reported Tuesday, putting into effect legislation critics fear will curb the city’s freedoms.Official news agency Xinhua said Chinese lawmakers had voted to adopt the law and decided the “national security law would be included” in Hong Kong’s mini-constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-president-xi-signs-hong-kong-national-security-law-report/story-UOALRpM91zvcrUksKSZsVN.html
30-06-2020||World||Britain says China has made ‘grave step’ by passing Hong Kong security law||Britain said it was deeply concerned by reports that China’s parliament had passed national security legislation for Hong Kong, describing it as a “grave step”.“We are deeply concerned by unconfirmed reports that Beijing has passed the national security law,” Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said. “This would be a grave step.”“Once we have seen the full legislation, we will make a further statement,” Raab said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-says-china-has-made-grave-step-by-passing-hong-kong-security-law/story-EeQHY0z1cZcl4p4wunGWnL.html
30-06-2020||World||Citing India border clash, UK MPs flay China’s ‘bullying behaviour’||Terming China’s recent actions on India’s border an example of Chinese ‘aggressive expansionism’, British MPs on Monday night demanded a review of the UK’s dependence on China and highlighting the issue of human rights of Uyghur Muslims in international fora. China was the focus of an extended debate in the House of Commons based on a new report by the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China that said there is new evidence suggesting that China is pursuing a birth-prevention programme targeted at Muslim minorities in the Xinjiang region.Iain Duncan-Smith, former Conservative leader, who tabled the urgent question, said it cannot be “business as usual” with China given what he called “bullying behavior” in relation to India, Hong Kong and elsewhere.Citing figures from the report of falling birth rates among the minorities in Xinjiang, he said: “Of course the world wants to deal with China, but we cannot continue with business as usual while this sort of blatant activity continues”.He added: “(Given) the Chinese Government’s appalling record on human rights, their attack on freedoms in Hong Kong, their bullying behaviour in border disputes from the South China seas to India, their blatant breaching of the rules-based order governing the free market and their delayed declaration on Covid-19, will the Government now initiate an internal review of the UK’s dependence on China, with a view to significantly reducing that dependence, and call on the free world to come together to ensure that this growing threat from China is dealt with together before, as history teaches us, it is too late?”Nigel Adams, minister for Asia, responded that the Boris Johnson government had raised concerns with China at many levels. Britain was pressing China for access to Xinjiang; the last time British diplomats visited the region was in November 2019.He said: “Our approach to China remains clear-eyed and is rooted in our values and interests. It has always been the case that when we have concerns we raise them, and that where we need to intervene we will”.“We have consistently led international efforts to highlight concern about the worsening human rights situation in Xinjiang, and I assure my right hon. Friend that the United Kingdom will continue to do so”.Labour’s Stephen Kinnock wanted the Johnson government to recognise that the actions of the Chinese authorities in Xinjiang “reflect a wider pattern of behaviour of increasingly authoritarian policies at home and aggressive expansionism abroad, including in Hong Kong, Ladakh and the South China sea”.Calling upon China to allow the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights unfettered access to the region, Adams reiterated that London had “concerns about the detention and human rights abuses, with more than a million Uyghur Muslims and other minorities detained in political re-education camps”.The Johnson government has recently strongly criticised Beijing for enacting a security law applicable to the former British colony of Hong Kong that, according to the British perspective, goes against international law and agreements signed before the 1997 handover to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-mps-cite-india-china-clash-demand-review-of-dependence/story-jXbFac3LiAzv1uk42Ss6MM.html
30-06-2020||World||‘Demographic genocide’: China cuts Uighur births with IUDs, abortion, sterilisation||The Chinese government is taking draconian measures to slash birth rates among Uighurs and other minorities as part of a sweeping campaign to curb its Muslim population, even as it encourages some of the country’s Han majority to have more children.While individual women have spoken out before about forced birth control, the practice is far more widespread and systematic than previously known, according to an AP investigation based on government statistics, state documents and interviews with 30 ex-detainees, family members and a former detention camp instructor. The campaign over the past four years in the far west region of Xinjiang is leading to what some experts are calling a form of “demographic genocide.”The state regularly subjects minority women to pregnancy checks, and forces intrauterine devices, sterilization and even abortion on hundreds of thousands, the interviews and data show. Even while the use of IUDs and sterilization has fallen nationwide, it is rising sharply in Xinjiang.The population control measures are backed by mass detention both as a threat and as a punishment for failure to comply. Having too many children is a major reason people are sent to detention camps, the AP found, with the parents of three or more ripped away from their families unless they can pay huge fines. Police raid homes, terrifying parents as they search for hidden children.After Gulnar Omirzakh, a Chinese-born Kazakh, had her third child, the government ordered her to get an IUD inserted. Two years later, in January 2018, four officials in military camouflage came knocking at her door anyway. They gave Omirzakh, the penniless wife of a detained vegetable trader, three days to pay a $2,685 fine for having more than two children.If she didn’t, they warned, she would join her husband and a million other ethnic minorities locked up in internment camps — often for having too many children.“God bequeaths children on you. To prevent people from having children is wrong,” said Omirzakh, who tears up even now thinking back to that day. “They want to destroy us as a people.”The result of the birth control campaign is a climate of terror around having children, as seen in interview after interview. Birth rates in the mostly Uighur regions of Hotan and Kashgar plunged by more than 60% from 2015 to 2018, the latest year available in government statistics. Across the Xinjiang region, birth rates continue to plummet, falling nearly 24% last year alone — compared to just 4.2% nationwide, statistics show.The hundreds of millions of dollars the government pours into birth control has transformed Xinjiang from one of China’s fastest-growing regions to among its slowest in just a few years, according to new research obtained by The Associated Press in advance of publication by China scholar Adrian Zenz.“This kind of drop is unprecedented....there’s a ruthlessness to it,” said Zenz, a leading expert in the policing of China’s minority regions. “This is part of a wider control campaign to subjugate the Uighurs.”U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo denounced the policies in a statement Monday.“We call on the Chinese Communist Party to immediately end these horrific practices,” he said.China’s foreign minister derided the story as “fabricated” and “fake news,” saying the government treats all ethnicities equally and protects the legal rights of minorities.“Everyone, regardless of whether they’re an ethnic minority or Han Chinese, must follow and act in accordance with the law,” ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said Monday when asked about the AP story.Chinese officials have said in the past that the new measures are merely meant to be fair, allowing both Han Chinese and ethnic minorities the same number of children.For decades, China had one of the most extensive systems of minority entitlements in the world, with Uighurs and others getting more points on college entrance exams, hiring quotas for government posts and laxer birth control restrictions. Under China’s now-abandoned ‘one child’ policy, the authorities had long encouraged, often forced, contraceptives, sterilization and abortion on Han Chinese. But minorities were allowed two children — three if they came from the countryside.Also read | China warns of countermeasures in response to US Uighurs lawUnder President Xi Jinping, China’s most authoritarian leader in decades, those benefits are now being rolled back. In 2014, soon after Xi visited Xinjiang, the region’s top official said it was time to implement “equal family planning policies” for all ethnicities and “reduce and stabilize birth rates.” In the following years, the government declared that instead of just one child, Han Chinese could now have two, and three in Xinjiang’s rural areas, just like minorities.But while equal on paper, in practice Han Chinese are largely spared the abortions, sterilizations, IUD insertions and detentions for having too many children that are forced on Xinjiang’s other ethnicities, interviews and data show. Some rural Muslims, like Omirzakh, are punished even for having the three children allowed by the law.State-backed scholars have warned for years that large rural religious families were at the root of bombings, knifings and other attacks the Xinjiang government blamed on Islamic terrorists. The growing Muslim population was a breeding ground for poverty and extremism which could “heighten political risk,” according to a 2017 paper by the head of the Institute of Sociology at the Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences. Another cited as a key obstacle the religious belief that “the fetus is a gift from God.”Outside experts say the birth control campaign is part of a state-orchestrated assault on the Uighurs to purge them of their faith and identity and forcibly assimilate them. They’re subjected to political and religious re-education in camps and forced labor in factories, while their children are indoctrinated in orphanages. Uighurs, who are often but not always Muslim, are also tracked by a vast digital surveillance apparatus.“The intention may not be to fully eliminate the Uighur population, but it will sharply diminish their vitality,” said Darren Byler, an expert on Uighurs at the University of Colorado. “It will make them easier to assimilate into the mainstream Chinese population.”Some go a step further.“It’s genocide, full stop. It’s not immediate, shocking, mass-killing on the spot type genocide, but it’s slow, painful, creeping genocide,” said Joanne Smith Finley, who works at Newcastle University in the U.K. “These are direct means of genetically reducing the Uighur population.”For centuries, the majority was Muslim in the arid, landlocked region China now calls “Xinjiang” — meaning “New Frontier” in Mandarin.After the People’s Liberation Army swept through in 1949, China’s new Communist rulers ordered thousands of soldiers to settle in Xinjiang, pushing the Han population from 6.7% that year to more than 40% by 1980. The move sowed anxiety about Chinese migration that persists to this day. Drastic efforts to restrict birth rates in the 1990s were relaxed after major pushback, with many parents paying bribes or registering children as the offspring of friends or other family members.That all changed with an unprecedented crackdown starting in 2017, throwing hundreds of thousands of people into prisons and camps for alleged “signs of religious extremism” such as traveling abroad, praying or using foreign social media. Authorities launched what several notices called “dragnet-style” investigations to root out parents with too many children, even those who gave birth decades ago.“Leave no blind spots,” said two county and township directives in 2018 and 2019 uncovered by Zenz, who is also an independent contractor with the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation, a bipartisan nonprofit based in Washington, D.C. “Contain illegal births and lower fertility levels,” said a third.Officials and armed police began pounding on doors, looking for kids and pregnant women. Minority residents were ordered to attend weekly flag-raising ceremonies, where officials threatened detention if they didn’t register all their children, according to interviews backed by attendance slips and booklets. Notices found by the AP show that local governments set up or expanded systems to reward those who report illegal births.In some areas, women were ordered to take gynecology exams after the ceremonies, they said. In others, officials outfitted special rooms with ultrasound scanners for pregnancy tests.“Test all who need to be tested,” ordered a township directive from 2018. “Detect and deal with those who violate policies early.”Abdushukur Umar was among the first to fall victim to the crackdown on children. A jovial Uighur tractor driver-turned-fruit merchant, the proud father considered his seven children a blessing from God.But authorities began pursuing him in 2016. The following year, he was thrown into a camp and later sentenced to seven years in prison — one for each child, authorities told relatives.Also read | US Congress approves China sanctions over ethnic crackdown“My cousin spent all his time taking care of his family, he never took part in any political movements,” Zuhra Sultan, Umar’s cousin, said from exile in Turkey. “How can you get seven years in prison for having too many children? We’re living in the 21st century — this is unimaginable.”Sixteen Uighurs and Kazakhs told the AP they knew people interned or jailed for having too many children. Many received years, even decades in prison.Leaked data obtained and corroborated by the AP showed that of 484 camp detainees listed in Karakax county in Xinjiang, 149 were there for having too many children - the most common reason for holding them. Time in a camp — what the government calls “education and training” — for parents with too many children is written policy in at least three counties, notices found by Zenz confirmed.In 2017, the Xinjiang government also tripled the already hefty fines for violating family planning laws for even the poorest residents — to at least three times the annual disposable income of the county. While fines also apply to Han Chinese, only minorities are sent to the detention camps if they cannot pay, according to interviews and data. Government reports show the counties collect millions of dollars from the fines each year.In other efforts to change the population balance of Xinjiang, China is dangling land, jobs and economic subsidies to lure Han migrants there. It is also aggressively promoting intermarriage between Han Chinese and Uighurs, with one couple telling the AP they were given money for housing and amenities like a washing machine, refrigerator and TV.“It links back to China’s long history of dabbling in eugenics….you don’t want people who are poorly educated, marginal minorities breeding quickly,” said James Leibold, a specialist in Chinese ethnic policy at La Trobe in Melbourne. “What you want is your educated Han to increase their birth rate.”Sultan describes how the policy looks to Uighurs like her: “The Chinese government wants to control the Uighur population and make us fewer and fewer, until we disappear.”Once in the detention camps, women are subjected to forced IUDs and what appear to be pregnancy prevention shots, according to former detainees. They are also made to attend lectures on how many children they should have.Seven former detainees told the AP that they were force-fed birth control pills or injected with fluids, often with no explanation. Many felt dizzy, tired or ill, and women stopped getting their periods. After being released and leaving China, some went to get medical check-ups and found they were sterile.It’s unclear what former detainees were injected with, but Xinjiang hospital slides obtained by the AP show that pregnancy prevention injections, sometimes with the hormonal medication Depo-Provera, are a common family planning measure. Side effects can include headaches and dizziness.Dina Nurdybay, a Kazakh woman, was detained in a camp which separated married and unmarried women. The married women were given pregnancy tests, Nurdybay recalled, and forced to have IUDs installed if they had children. She was spared because she was unmarried and childless.One day in February 2018, one of her cellmates, a Uighur woman, had to give a speech confessing what guards called her “crimes.” When a visiting official peered through the iron bars of their cell, she recited her lines in halting Mandarin.“I gave birth to too many children,” she said. “It shows I’m uneducated and know little about the law.”“Do you think it’s fair that Han people are only allowed to have one child?” the official asked, according to Nurdybay. “You ethnic minorities are shameless, wild and uncivilized.”Nurdybay met at least two others in the camps whom she learned were locked up for having too many children. Later, she was transferred to another facility with an orphanage that housed hundreds of children, including those with parents detained for giving birth too many times. The children counted the days until they could see their parents on rare visits.“They told me they wanted to hug their parents, but they were not allowed,” she said. “They always looked very sad.”Another former detainee, Tursunay Ziyawudun, said she was injected until she stopped having her period, and kicked repeatedly in the lower stomach during interrogations. She now can’t have children and often doubles over in pain, bleeding from her womb, she said.Ziyawudun and the 40 other women in her “class” were forced to attend family planning lectures most Wednesdays, where films were screened about impoverished women struggling to feed many children. Married women were rewarded for good behavior with conjugal visits from their husbands, along with showers, towels, and two hours in a bedroom. But there was a catch – they had to take birth control pills beforehand.Some women have even reported forced abortions. Ziyawudun said a “teacher” at her camp told women they would face abortions if found pregnant during gynecology exams.A woman in another class turned out to be pregnant and disappeared from the camp, she said. She added that two of her cousins who were pregnant got rid of their children on their own because they were so afraid.Another woman, Gulbahar Jelilova, confirmed that detainees in her camp were forced to abort their children. She also saw a new mother, still leaking breast milk, who did not know what had happened to her infant. And she met doctors and medical students who were detained for helping Uighurs dodge the system and give birth at home.In December 2017, on a visit from Kazakhstan back to China, Gulzia Mogdin was taken to a hospital after police found WhatsApp on her phone. A urine sample revealed she was two months pregnant with her third child. Officials told Mogdin she needed to get an abortion and threatened to detain her brother if she didn’t.During the procedure, medics inserted an electric vacuum into her womb and sucked her fetus out of her body. She was taken home and told to rest, as they planned to take her to a camp.Months later, Mogdin made it back to Kazakhstan, where her husband lives.“That baby was going to be the only baby we had together,” said Mogdin, who had recently remarried. “I cannot sleep. It’s terribly unfair.”The success of China’s push to control births among Muslim minorities shows up in the numbers for IUDs and sterilization.In 2014, just over 200,000 IUDs were inserted in Xinjiang. By 2018, that jumped more than 60 percent to nearly 330,000 IUDs. At the same time, IUD use tumbled elsewhere in China, as many women began getting the devices removed.A former teacher drafted to work as an instructor at a detention camp described her experience with IUDs to the AP.She said it started with flag-raising assemblies at her compound in the beginning of 2017, where officials made Uighur residents recite “anti-terror” lessons. They chanted, “If we have too many children, we’re religious extremists....That means we have to go to the training centers.”Police rounded up over 180 parents with too many children until “not a single one was left,” she said. At night, she said, she lay in bed, stiff with terror, as officers with guns and tasers hauled her neighbors away. From time to time police pounded on her door and searched her apartment for Qurans, knives, prayer mats and of course children, she said.“Your heart would leap out of your chest,” she said.Then, that August, officials in the teacher’s compound were told to install IUDs on all women of childbearing age. She protested, saying she was nearly 50 with just one child and no plans to have more. Officials threatened to drag her to a police station and strap her to an iron chair for interrogation.She was forced into a bus with four armed officers and taken to a hospital where hundreds of Uighur women lined up in silence, waiting for IUDs to be inserted. Some wept quietly, but nobody dared say a word because of the surveillance cameras hanging overhead.Also read | All is well with Muslims in Xinjiang, Beijing tells Islamic countriesHer IUD was designed to be irremovable without special instruments. The first 15 days, she got headaches and nonstop menstrual bleeding.“I couldn’t eat properly, I couldn’t sleep properly. It gave me huge psychological pressure,” she said. “Only Uighurs had to wear it.”Chinese health statistics also show a sterilization boom in Xinjiang.Budget documents obtained by Zenz show that starting in 2016, the Xinjiang government began pumping tens of millions of dollars into a birth control surgery program and cash incentives for women to get sterilized. While sterilization rates plunged in the rest of the country, they surged seven-fold in Xinjiang from 2016 to 2018, to more than 60,000 procedures. The Uighur-majority city of Hotan budgeted for 14,872 sterilizations in 2019 — over 34% of all married women of childbearing age, Zenz found.Even within Xinjiang, policies vary widely, being harsher in the heavily Uighur south than the Han-majority north. In Shihezi, a Han-dominated city where Uighurs make up less than 2% of the population, the government subsidizes baby formula and hospital birth services to encourage more children, state media reported.Zumret Dawut got no such benefits. In 2018, the mother of three was locked in a camp for two months for having an American visa.When she returned home under house arrest, officials forced her to get gynecology exams every month, along with all other Uighur women in her compound. Han women were exempted. They warned that if she didn’t take what they called “free examinations”, she could end up back in the camp.One day, they turned up with a list of at least 200 Uighur women in her compound with more than two children who had to get sterilized, Dawut recalled.“My Han Chinese neighbors, they sympathized with us Uighurs,” Dawut said. “They told me, ‘oh, you’re suffering terribly, the government is going way too far!’”Dawut protested, but police again threatened to send her back to the camp. During the sterilization procedure, Han Chinese doctors injected her with anesthesia and tied her fallopian tubes — a permanent operation. When Dawut came to, she felt her womb ache.“I was so angry,” she said. “I wanted another son.”Looking back, Omirzakh considers herself lucky.After that frigid day when officials threatened to lock her up, Omirzakh called relatives around the clock. Hours before the deadline, she scraped together enough money to pay the fine from the sale of her sister’s cow and high-interest loans, leaving her deep in debt.For the next year, Omirzakh attended classes with the wives of others detained for having too many children. She and her children lived with two local party officials sent specially to spy on them. When her husband was finally released, they fled for Kazakhstan with just a few bundles of blankets and clothes.The IUD still in Omirzakh’s womb has now sunk into her flesh, causing inflammation and piercing back pain, “like being stabbed with a knife.” For Omirzakh, it’s a bitter reminder of everything she’s lost — and the plight of those she left behind.“People there are now terrified of giving birth,” she said. “When I think of the word ‘Xinjiang,’ I can still feel that fear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-cuts-uighur-births-with-iuds-abortion-sterilization/story-7jFK0fCwrdIm9aMwKlIOhJ.html
30-06-2020||World||China to reiterate over US ban on military exports to Hong Kong||China said Tuesday it will retaliate after the US announced it was ending the export of sensitive military items to Hong Kong in response to a controversial national security law for the city. Beijing passed the sweeping law for Hong Kong on Tuesday, which critics and many western governments fear will smother the finance hub’s freedoms and hollow out its autonomy.“US attempts to obstruct China advancing the Hong Kong national security legislation through so-called sanctions will never prevail,” said foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian.“In response to the US’s wrongful actions, China will take necessary countermeasures.”Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Monday that the US was ending the export of sensitive military items to Hong Kong because Washington “can no longer distinguish between the export of controlled items to Hong Kong or to mainland China”.The State Department will end all exports to Hong Kong on its controlled list, which includes items ranging from advanced ammunition to military hardware that already need the green light from the administration and Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-reiterate-over-us-ban-on-military-exports-to-hong-kong/story-7TlyEKWymU0grbrTgP8lpL.html
30-06-2020||World||Iran journalist who fueled 2017 protests sentenced to death||Iran sentenced a once-exiled journalist to death over his online work that helped inspire nationwide economic protests that began at the end of 2017, authorities said Tuesday.Ruhollah Zam’s website and a channel he created on the popular messaging app Telegram had spread the timings of the protests and embarrassing information about officials that directly challenged Iran’s Shiite theocracy. Those demonstrations represented the biggest challenge to Iran since the 2009 Green Movement protests and set the stage for similar mass unrest last November.The details of his arrest still remain unclear. Though he was based in Paris, Zam somehow returned to Iran and found himself detained by intelligence officials. A series of a televised confessions have aired in recent months over his work.Judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Esmaili announced Zam’s death sentence on Tuesday, saying he had been convicted of “corruption on Earth,” a charge often used in cases involving espionage or attempts to overthrow Iran’s government. It was not immediately clear when the sentence was handed down.Zam is able to appeal his sentence, issued by a Revolutionary Court. The name of his public defender wasn’t immediately known.Zam had run a website called AmadNews that posted embarrassing videos and information about Iranian officials. He highlighted his work on a channel on Telegram, the secure messaging app that remains incredibly popular among Iranians.The initial spark for the 2017 protests was a sudden jump in food prices. Many believe that hard-line opponents of Iranian President Hassan Rouhani instigated the first demonstrations in the conservative city of Mashhad in eastern Iran, trying to direct public anger at the president. But as protests spread from town to town, the backlash turned against the entire ruling class.Soon, cries directly challenging Rouhani and even Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei could be heard in online videos shared by Zam. Zam’s channel also shared times and organizational details for the protests as well.Telegram shut down the channel over Iranian government complaints it spread information about how to make gasoline bombs. The channel later continued under a different name. Zam, who has said he fled Iran after being falsely accused of working with foreign intelligence services, denied inciting violence on Telegram at the time.The 2017 protests reportedly saw some 5,000 people detained and 25 killed.Zam is the son of Shiite cleric Mohammad Ali Zam, a reformist who once served in a government policy position in the early 1980s. The cleric wrote a letter published by Iranian media in July 2017 in which he said he wouldn’t support his son over AmadNews’ reporting and messages on its Telegram channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-journalist-who-fueled-2017-protests-sentenced-to-death/story-hWZYyd91SaDU4k97qR8BzK.html
30-06-2020||World||China Muslim sterilization reports ‘shocking’ and ‘disturbing’: Mike Pompeo||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Monday labeled as “shocking” and “disturbing” reports that China’s ruling Communist Party is using forced sterilization, forced abortion and coercive family planning against minority Muslims.Pompeo highlighted a report about the situation in China’s Xinjiang region by German researcher Adrian Zenz published by the Washington-based Jamestown Foundation think tank.Pompeo, a persistent critic of China, including its treatment of Muslims in Xinjiang, said in a statement the findings were consistent with decades of Chinese Communist Party practices “that demonstrate an utter disregard for the sanctity of human life and basic human dignity”. “We call on the Chinese Communist Party to immediately end these horrific practices and ask all nations to join the United States in demanding an end to these dehumanizing abuses.”In his report, Zenz said his findings represented the strongest evidence yet that Beijing’s policies in Xinjiang met one of the genocide criteria cited in the U.N. Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, namely “imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group.”Zenz said analysis of Chinese government documents showed natural population growth in Xinjiang had fallen “dramatically.” He said that in its two largest Uighur Muslim prefectures, growth rates fell by 84% between 2015 and 2018 and further in 2019.The Chinese Embassy in Washington referred to a statement by Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian, saying that “some institutions are bent on cooking up disinformation on Xinjiang-related issues. ... Their allegations are simply groundless and false.”Documents from 2019 revealed plans for a campaign of mass female sterilization targeting 14% and 34% of all married women of childbearing age in two Uighur counties, Zenz wrote. The campaign, he said, likely aimed to sterilize rural minority women with three or more children, as well as some with two children - equivalent to at least 20% of all women of childbearing age.“Budget figures indicate that this project had sufficient funding for performing hundreds of thousands of tubal ligation sterilization procedures in 2019 and 2020,” he wrote.Zenz said that by 2019, Xinjiang planned to subject at least 80% of women of childbearing age in its four southern minority prefectures to intrusive birth prevention surgeries - placement of intrauterine devices or sterilizations.He said that in 2018, 80% of all new IUD placements in China were performed in Xinjiang, while only 1.8% of the population live there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-muslim-sterilization-reports-shocking-and-disturbing-mike-pompeo/story-N2s5blfbIWTEUsuRc4Y1bL.html
30-06-2020||World||Xi Jinping takes control of China’s military reserve forces||China’s military reserve forces will be formally placed under the centralised and unified command of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and Central Military Commission (CPC), both headed by President Xi Jinping, from July 1 to ensure the ruling party’s “absolute leadership” over it and build a world-class army.Currently, the reserve forces are under the dual leadership of military organs and local Communist Party committees and they would be brought under the control of the ruling party and the CMC from July 1, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported.China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in 2017 announced plans to reduce the strength of the reserve forces and bring them under the control of the central leadership as part of the reforms of the military.The reforms included cutting down the size of the military by three lakh troops reducing the size of the PLA, the world’s largest military force, to two million personnel.An official announcement on Sunday said the reserve forces are “an important part of the PLA and the adjustment in the leadership structure is aimed at upholding the CPC’s absolute leadership over the army and building a strong military in the new era.” It calls on relevant military and civilian units to take active and coordinated measures to implement the changes to the leadership structure.Since he took over power in 2013, Xi, 67, has ordered all PLA ranks to strictly under the CPC leadership. Xi is also the General Secretary of the CPC.China watchers have called Xi the most powerful Chinese leader since Chairman Mao Zedong, especially since he managed to amend the Constitution to end the two-term presidential limit in 2018. According to the reforms process announced in 2017, the CMC will take charge of the overall administration of the PLA, the Chinese People’s Armed Police and the militia and reserve forces. This meant that all forces would work directly under central leadership headed by Xi. The thrust of the reforms included a reduction of the ground forces and an increase in the role and scope of the Navy and the Air Force as part of China’s push to expand its global influence.The structure of the reserve forces will adapt to information warfare from traditional combat-oriented and mechanised ones, the PLA announced in 2017. China’s current reserve forces are mainly composed of reserve military officers and soldiers as well as a small number of active-service military personnel. Reserve military officers are selected from eligible veteran officers, local officials, and officers in the people’s armed force, militia cadres and related technical personnel. “Centralising the leadership of reserve forces will make it easier to mobilise and manage reserve forces. They are important supplementary parts of active-duty military units,” Li Daguang, a professor at the National Defense University of the PLA, told the Global Times.Many reserve forces have their specialities. Military news outlet 81.cn reported on June 15 that Tibet has five militia groups involved in patrols, communication, engagements and rapid response. Twenty personnel, who are good at wrestling and unarmed combat from a fighting club, are reportedly enrolled as members of the militia.Li said that reserve forces in China would not be normally mobilised until a large-scale local war breaks out. Song Zhongping, a Chinese mainland military expert and TV commentator, told the daily that China has always kept a close watch on the developments of reserve forces in the border areas, especially in the Tibet Autonomous Region and the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, as they are important parts of local military preparedness and battles against separatism. The PLA Tibet Military Command’s reserve forces are an example. The militia has adjusted to the cold and thin air environment, and are superior in high-altitude warfare. Their special abilities will greatly help the PLA, Song said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-takes-control-of-china-s-military-reserve-forces/story-lyq20Ny0pb8psWB1hBOERN.html
30-06-2020||World||Pompeo calls Taliban leader amid Russian bounty scandal||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has called and spoken with the Taliban’s chief negotiator, a spokesman for the insurgents said Tuesday, amid a raging controversy in Washington over when President Donald Trump was told about US intelligence that Russia was paying the Taliban to kill US and NATO soldiers in Afghanistan.However, it was not known whether there was any mention during the call of allegations that some Taliban militants received money to kill US and NATO soldiers in Afghanistan.Pompeo and Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar held a video conference late on Monday in which Pompeo pressed the insurgents to reduce violence in Afghanistan and discussed ways of moving a peace deal signed between the US and the Taliban in February forward, Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted.The call comes as the US peace envoy, Zalmay Khalilzad, is touring the region in efforts to advance the deal. He was in Uzbekistan on Tuesday and was expected in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, later in the day or on Wednesday, and was also to travel to Doha, Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office.Khalilzad is also holding video conferences with Kabul leaders rather than travelling to the Afghan capital because of the dangers of COVID-19, according to a US State Department statement. Afghanistan’s dilapidated health system is grappling with the pandemic, with the number of infections thought to far outnumber the official tally of over 31,000 cases, including 733 deaths.The implementation of the US-Taliban deal has reached critical stage, with the Taliban and Kabul’s leaders expected to hold negotiations on a framework for a post-war Afghanistan that would end the fighting and bring the insurgents into the country’s political arena.The talks are expected to begin sometime in July — if both sides abide by a promise laid out in the US-Taliban deal to release thousands of prisoners. The agreement calls for Kabul to release 5,000 imprisoned Taliban while the insurgents would release 1,000 government and military personnel they hold captive. But the prisoner releases have been marked by delays; Kabul has so far released 3,500 and the Taliban have freed about 700.Shaheen tweeted that Pompeo and Baradar discussed the “implementation of the agreement, foreign troop withdrawal, prisoner release, start of intra-Afghan dialogue and reduction in (military) operations.” The US State Department has not commented on the video conference.Baradar complained about new Afghan military checkpoints in areas under Taliban control while Pompeo said Washington wanted to see a reduction in violence, according to the tweet.A US official close to the peace process, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with journalists, said Pompeo emphasized in Monday night’s video call the imperative that the Taliban abide by their commitment to battle other militants operating in Afghanistan — specifically terror groups that could threaten the US or its allies, a reference that alludes to the Islamic State group.The Taliban have denied the allegations that they were paid by Russia to kill Americans in Afghanistan. The Associated Press has reported that Russia began paying the bounties back in early 2019, even as Khalilzad was trying to finalize the deal with the insurgent group to end Washington’s longest war and withdraw US soldiers.Violence in Afghanistan has continued to spike since a three-day cease-fire in May for a major Muslim holiday. As civilian casualties rise, both the Taliban and the government blame each other. On Monday, 23 civilians were killed in an attack on a busy market in the southern province of Helmand, a Taliban heartland.In a tweet early Tuesday, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid invited foreign and Afghan journalists to visit the area, which is controlled by the Taliban and has been off-limits to reporters, to independently check out claims about the attack.The Afghan government said a powerful bomb and mortar fire by the Taliban caused the deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-calls-taliban-leader-amid-russian-bounty-scandal/story-hjUBjY7Rikr782dz7kg5UI.html
30-06-2020||World||‘Strongly concerned, verifying situation’: China after India bans TikTok, 58 other apps||China has strongly reacted to India’s move to ban 59 mobile applications, most of which are linked to China. The Indian government’s decision was based on security concerns.“China is strongly concerned, and we are verifying the situation,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Tuesday during a press briefing.He further said that India has a responsibility to uphold the rights of Chinese businesses.India on Monday banned the apps in its strongest move yet targeting China in the online space since a border crisis erupted between the two countries earlier this month. Also Watch | Chinese apps banned: Alternatives to TikTok, CamScanner, ES File ExplorerThe apps banned by India include ByteDance’s popular video sharing platform TikTok and Tencent’s WeChat.Also Read: India’s decision becomes trending topic on social media in ChinaIn a statement on Tuesday, TikTok said that it did not pass on any information about its users to any foreign government including the Chinese government and would not do so in the future too.“TikTok continues to comply with all data privacy and security requirements under Indian law and has not shared any information of our users in India with any foreign government, including the Chinese government,” the statement from TikTok India head Nikhil Gandhi said.The other Chinese apps which have been banned are Club Factory, SHAREit, Likee, Mi Video Call (Xiaomi), Weibo, Baidu and Bigo Live. They have been removed from the Google Play Store and Apple App Store for India.The order came after India toughened its stance against China following the border skirmish. Home Minister Amit Shah, officials told Hindustan Times, had powered the decision that had been under discussion for weeks within the bureaucracy.The government’s move has been welcomed by the industry. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said that the ban will be a big support to its ‘Boycott Chinese Goods’ campaign.ShareChat Director Public Policy Berges Malu also welcomed the move.Internet Service Providers Association of India (ISPAI) also lauded the move.“This should have done long back, good step... ISPAI will act very swiftly to block these apps once the order comes,” its president Rajesh Chharia said.Naveen Tewari, Founder and CEO of InMobi Group, said, “This is the digital Aatmanirbhar moment that most Indians have been rooting for”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strongly-concerned-verifying-the-situation-china-on-india-s-move-to-ban-tiktok-58-other-apps/story-GjwmW1xFNwnWuzUbJw2WGJ.html
30-06-2020||World||Israel’s annexation of West bank can only be stopped from within||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appears determined to carry out his pledge to begin annexing parts of the occupied West Bank, possibly as soon as Wednesday.His vision of redrawing the map of the Holy Land, in line with President Donald Trump’s Mideast plan, has been welcomed by Israel’s religious and nationalist right wing and condemned by the Palestinians and the international community.But with opponents offering little more than condemnations, there seems little to prevent Netanyahu from embarking on a plan that could permanently alter the Mideast landscape.Here’s a closer look at annexation:WHY ANNEXATION, AND WHY NOW?Israel’s right wing has long favored annexing parts or all of the West Bank, saying the territory is vital for the country’s security and an inseparable part of the biblical Land of Israel. But most of the world considers the West Bank, captured by Israel from Jordan in the 1967 Mideast war, to be occupied territory, and Israel’s dozens of settlements, now home to nearly 500,000 Jewish Israelis, as illegal.Surrounded by a team of settler allies, Trump has upended US policy, recognizing contested Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, moving the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, recognizing Israel’s 1981 annexation of the Golan Heights and announcing that Jewish settlements are not illegal.Seeking to court hard-line voters on the campaign trail, Netanyahu last year began talking about annexation. After Trump released his Mideast plan in January envisioning permanent Israeli control over 30% of the West Bank, including all of Israel’s settlements and the strategic Jordan Valley region, Netanyahu quickly jumped on board. Israel and the US have formed a joint committee to map out precisely which areas Israel can keep.Netanyahu made sure that under the coalition agreement, he can bring a proposal to the new government anytime after July 1. He appears eager to move forward before the November presidential election, possibly with a limited move billed as a first stage, especially with Trump’s re-election prospects in question.WHY IS THERE SO MUCH OPPOSITION?The Palestinians seek the entire West Bank as the heartland of a future independent state and believe the Trump plan would deliver a fatal blow to their fading hopes of statehood.Among the plan’s components: The Palestinians would only have limited autonomy in a fraction of territory they seek. Isolated Israeli settlements deep inside Palestinian territory would remain intact, and the Israeli military would retain overall security control over the Palestinian entity.The international community has invested billions of dollars in promoting a two-state solution since the interim Oslo peace accords of the 1990s. The UN secretary general, the European Union and leading Arab countries have all said that Israeli annexation would violate international law and greatly undermine the prospects for Palestinian independence.WILL ANYTHING CHANGE ON THE GROUND?Not immediately. Israel has controlled the entire West Bank for more than 50 years. Palestinians will remain in their towns and villages, while Israelis will live in their newly annexed settlements. The Palestinian Authority is protesting annexation but has ruled out any kind of violent response.But over time, there is a larger risk of conflict.Netanyahu has said he opposes granting citizenship to Palestinians living on annexed lands, presumably because it would undercut Israel’s Jewish majority. But failing to grant equal rights to Palestinians in annexed areas opens Israel up to charges of establishing an apartheid system that would draw heavy international condemnation.Palestinians who are not living on annexed lands could face other challenges. Moving between Palestinian population centers — or even reaching their own properties and farmlands — could become difficult if they have to cross through Israeli territory. Critics say that Israel could also use its sovereignty to expropriate Palestinian lands.The Palestinian Authority has already cut off its ties with Israel to protest the looming annexation. In the absence of any peace prospects, the Palestinian Authority could see its international funding dry up or decide to close.The collapse of the authority could force Israel, as an occupying power, to pick up the tab for governing the Palestinians. In the long term, it could lead to Palestinian and international calls to establish a single binational state with voting rights for all — a scenario that could spell the end of Israel as a Jewish-majority state.WHY DOESN’T THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY STOP THIS?UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said annexation would mark a “most serious violation of international law.” The EU’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, has warned of “significant consequences.” Jordan and Egypt, the only Arab states at peace with Israel, have condemned the annexation plan. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, powerful Arab players with informal relations with Israel, have said warming ties will be in danger.But Israel and the US appear to be banking on the international community’s poor record of translating rhetoric into concrete action. Days after the UAE warned Israel against annexation, for instance, two Emirati companies reached cooperation deals with Israeli partners in the fight against the coronavirus.Thanks to the US veto over UN Security Council decisions, international sanctions appear to be out of the question. Divisions within the EU make concerted European reaction unlikely as well.Individual countries might seek to impose limited sanctions against Israel, and the International Criminal Court in the Hague could take annexation into account as it weighs whether to launch a war crimes investigation into Israeli policies.CAN ANYTHING STOP ANNEXATION?The biggest obstacle to Netanyahu appears to be from within. US officials say they are unlikely to allow Israel to move forward unless Netanyahu and his coalition partner, Defense Minister Benny Gantz, are in agreement.Gantz, a former military chief and bitter rival of Netanyahu, has said Israel should move carefully and in coordination with regional partners. Gantz laid the groundwork for further delays Monday when he said his top priority is guiding the country through the coronavirus crisis.“Anything unrelated to the battle against the coronavirus will wait,” he said.Ironically, some hard-line settler leaders have also opposed the plan, saying they cannot accept any program that envisions a Palestinian state.If the issue remains frozen, time could run out on Netanyahu. The presumptive Democratic nominee, Joe Biden, has said he opposes annexation. A Biden victory in November could mean that any Israeli annexation will be short-lived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-s-annexation-of-west-bank-can-only-be-stopped-from-within/story-VHnYvI9l8BoCfuLqdRE4GM.html
30-06-2020||World||Singapore PM’s brother backs opposition but won’t seek election||Lee Hsien Yang, the estranged younger brother of Singapore’s Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, will not contest in the city-state’s July 10 general elections, deflating the hype built up after he joined the opposition as the nine-day campaigning period kicked off Tuesday.“I have chosen not to stand for political office because I believe Singapore does not need another Lee,” he said in a Facebook post after the nomination deadline passed. “I do not seek power, prestige or financial rewards of political office. I hope to be a catalyst for change.”The younger Lee’s entry into the opposition Progress Singapore Party, announced last week, fueled speculation he could stand as a candidate against the incumbent People’s Action Party, led by his elder brother, which has won every contest since independence in 1965.While Singapore doesn’t allow opinion polls, most analysts expect the PAP to easily win again. Still, any narrowing of its victory margin could reflect an erosion of confidence in its new generation of leaders, particularly regarding how they are handling the pandemic.Despite declining to run himself, Lee, 62, will campaign against the ruling party co-founded and built up by his father Lee Kuan Yew, the nation’s founding prime minister, which his older brother now leads. The siblings have been sparring over the estate of their father since his death in 2015, and the rivalry has spilled over into other conflicts.Campaigning ahead of the July 10 vote will likely focus on Singapore’s response to Covid-19 and its economic fallout. The PAP’s election manifesto hails its ability to steer the country through the coronavirus crisis, while numerous opposition parties will surface issues such as the expected increase in the goods-and-services tax and retrenchment insurance.Family DramaLee Hsien Loong, who turns 70 in 2022, has signaled his intent to make way for his successor, widely expected to be current Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat. While the prime minister has largely avoided government scandals since he took office in 2004, the family drama has been brewing in recent years. He said on Monday that the election isn’t about him or any family disputes, but about Singapore’s future at a critical juncture, according to the Straits Times.The siblings have clashed over Lee Kuan Yew’s will, and in particular, his famous Oxley Road house. Lee Hsien Yang’s wife is in a legal tussle over accusations that she mishandled the will, and his son -- an assistant professor of economics at Harvard University -- faces a court charge for disparaging remarks about the judicial system that were posted on a private Facebook post.This will be the first election for the Progress Singapore Party, which was founded last year by former ruling party members who became disgruntled with the government. It has seen a surge in donations in recent days, with its leader Tan Cheng Bock -- a former PAP lawmaker and presidential candidate -- describing it as the “Lee Hsien Yang effect.”“People must get away from that notion that his coming into this particular political journey is just to hope to talk more about what happened about Oxley and so on,” Tan said on Monday during a briefing. “It’s nothing to be connected to his family, because he believed in what we started out, our party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-pm-s-brother-backs-opposition-but-won-t-seek-election/story-zQAez6bp0OWriD7dzh6lPO.html
30-06-2020||World||China reports 19 new Covid-19 cases, including 7 in Beijing||China on Tuesday reported 19 new coronavirus cases in the mainland for June 29, up from 12 a day earlier, the health authority said. There were no new deaths. Of the new infections, seven were in Beijing, the National Health Commission said in a statement. The capital city, which is battling a fresh outbreak, had also reported seven new infections for June 28. Mainland China reported four new asymptomatic patients, who tested positive for Covid-19 but showed no clinical symptoms such as a fever, down from six a day earlier. As of June 29, mainland China had a total of 83,531 confirmed coronavirus cases, while the death toll stands at 4,634.Beijing has been carrying out mass testing for the coronavirus since the city reported its first case in the latest outbreak on June 11. The infections were linked to Beijing’s sprawling Xinfadi wholesale food centre.The State Post Bureau, which oversees the country’s postal service, said on Tuesday that as of June 27, 104,807 workers from major delivery firms in the city had been tested and no positive results were found, according to a report by state broadcaster CCTV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reports-19-new-covid-19-cases-including-7-in-beijing/story-smahlwI3NnQYMiOekxpaRO.html
30-06-2020||World||Trump visa freeze endangers India tech industry’s talent model||Indian and US technology companies are urging the Trump administration to reconsider an executive order freezing access to many work visas, warning the move would undermine a business model used to supply high-skill talent to clients from Wall Street to Silicon Valley.Donald Trump’s order last week halts approvals of a range of visas through year-end, including those for intra-company transfers and study-abroad programs, and is aimed at giving Americans preference after record job losses from the coronavirus pandemic. Key for the tech industry are H-1B visas used by workers from India and other countries to fill key roles.Visa processing is an elaborate, months-long affair so any disruption could hurt the ability of critical workers to travel to clients sites for an extended period. Already, the virus lockdowns have blocked consulate visits essential to the process and forced hundreds of thousands of workers into challenging work-from-home situations.India’s technology trade group, Nasscom, called Trump’s order “misguided and harmful to the US economy” and warned it would exacerbate the country’s economic pain. Indian companies provide technology staff and services to US hospitals, drugmakers and biotechnology companies, Nasscom pointed out. In addition, the industry may send more workers to Canada or Mexico without access to the US market.“These are highly-skilled workers who are in great demand and they will be mobile no matter what,” said Shivendra Singh, president of global trade development at Nasscom.Among the other critics of the order were Alphabet Inc. Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai, Microsoft Corp. President Brad Smith and Tesla Inc. founder Elon Musk. Pichai, himself a beneficiary of the H-1B visa system in the 1990s, tweeted, “Immigration has contributed immensely to America’s economic success making it a global leader in tech, and also Google the company it is today.”Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., Infosys Ltd. and Wipro Ltd., among the largest outsourcing companies in Asia, declined to comment.India accounts for about 70% of the 85,000 H-1B visas issued annually, according to immigration data. Of this total, 65,000 visas are issued to foreign talent with bachelor’s degrees, while the remaining 20,000 can be allotted to workers who have more advanced degrees.The visa system was conceived so companies could hire overseas workers to fill a shortage of high-skilled talent in technology services and product development. The fact that Indian outsourcers collect a substantial share of the visas each year has made the program controversial, with critics arguing that companies abuse the system by replacing American workers with cheaper foreign labor.Soon after taking office, Trump vowed he would crack down on work visas and reform the “broken” immigration system. One longer-term concern for outsourcers is the administration’s planned revamp of the current H-1B visa program, which would replace the current lottery system for determining who gets visas with a merit-based system that prioritizes applicants based on wages. That would mean more workers with high salaries would likely receive visas.Now, outsourcing companies are dealing with the unpredictability of the visa situation and the prospect that an H-1B revamp could make it difficult to send anyone but the most critical of talent overseas.Trump Orders Freeze on Many Work Visas Through End of Year The most recent visa curbs could hammer outsourcers’ current model of talent deployment. Companies are beginning to question whether so much onsite travel is necessary, and some are ramping up local hiring or local subcontractors. The pandemic has prompted companies to look at worker clusters away from client sites but close enough to collaborate on projects. For instance, if a company has 20,000 employees spread across 40 cities, these could be aggregated in a few clusters and if the visa restrictions continue, the clusters may not be in Texas or New Jersey but in Canada or Mexico.“Offshoring could increase because, for clients, the virus lockdowns have already driven home the merits of remote working,” said Singh, speaking over the phone from New Delhi.Indian companies could see an impact on their margins because of increased worker salaries, higher costs of local hiring and subcontracting and the collateral damage from visa rejections and prolonged processing times. “The temporary suspension of H-1B visa programme till December 2020 will hamper execution of pipeline and new projects coupled with margin impact resulting from higher onshore hiring,” credit rating company ICRA said in a note last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-visa-freeze-endangers-india-tech-industry-s-talent-model/story-NZ6cjutnpJiqd4N918rnPL.html
30-06-2020||World||‘Things moving in right direction but fight not over’: Justin Trudeau on Canada’s Covid-19 battle||Canada is moving in the right direction as far as combatting the Covid-19 pandemic is concerned, but the fight is not yet over, the country’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has warned. His statement came as health authorities released new projections that indicate that coronavirus infections are sharply tapering off.“After a very challenging spring, things are continuing to move in the right direction,” Trudeau said during a daily media briefing. However, that came with the proviso that Canadians continue to “follow local public health guidelines to keep each other safe.” Canada is gradually opening up and there is some concern that could contribute to the disease bouncing back.Among those who have voiced that worry is Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam. She said they “expect to see some resurgence of cases” as restrictive measures were lifted across the nation.She expanded on that warning, as she said, “Dynamic models are telling us that if we relax too much or too soon the epidemic will most likely rebound with explosive growth as a distinct possibility.”Latest modelling was also released and it indicates that Canada will record between 1,04,000 and 1,08,000 cases by July 12, with deaths ranging between 8,545 and 8,865. On Monday, the total fatalities due to Covid-19 was at 8,566, and overall cases at 1,03,799.Among the matters being taken into consideration is the increase in cases in the United States after lockdowns were lifted in several states. Trudeau said that “highlights” to Canadian authorities that “even as our economy is re-opening, we need to make sure we are continuing to remain vigilant, individually and collectively.”Tam underscored that the coronavirus had yet to be eliminated and no effective vaccine was available. “The epidemiology indicates that transmission is largely under control, while also showing us that cases can reemerge at any time or place,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/things-moving-in-right-direction-but-fight-not-over-justin-trudeau-on-canada-s-covid-19-battle/story-iPhtXUhX5p4H6hEyR1erlM.html
30-06-2020||World||China passes Hong Kong security law amid global opposition||China’s parliament passed national security legislation for Hong Kong on Tuesday, setting the stage for the most radical changes to the former British colony’s way of life since it returned to Chinese rule almost exactly 23 years ago.State media is expected to publish details of the law - which comes in response to last year’s often-violent pro-democracy protests in the city and aims to tackle subversion, terrorism, separatism and collusion with foreign forces - later on Tuesday.Amid fears the legislation will crush the global financial hub’s rights and freedoms, and reports that the heaviest penalty would be life imprisonment, prominent pro-democracy activist Joshua Wong said he would quit his Demosisto group.“It marks the end of Hong Kong that the world knew before,” Wong said on Twitter.The legislation pushes Beijing further along a collision course with the United States, Britain and other Western governments, which have said it erodes the high degree of autonomy the city was granted at its July 1, 1997, handover.The United States began eliminating Hong Kong’s special status under US law on Monday, halting defence exports and restricting the territory’s access to high technology products.Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam, speaking at her regular weekly news conference, said it was not appropriate for her to comment on the legislation as the meeting in Beijing was still going on, but she threw a jibe at the United States.“No sort of sanctioning action will ever scare us,” Lam said.Lau Siu-kai, vice-president of a think-tank under the Beijing cabinet’s Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, told Reuters the internationally criticised law was passed unanimously with 162 votes. The editor-in-chief of the Global Times, a tabloid published by the People’s Daily, the official newspaper of China’s ruling Communist Party, said on Twitter the heaviest penalty under the law was life imprisonment, without providing details.Authorities in Beijing and Hong Kong have repeatedly said the legislation is aimed at a few “troublemakers” and will not affect rights and freedoms, nor investor interests.It comes into force as soon as it is gazetted in Hong Kong, which is seen as imminent.‘REGRETTABLE’ This month, China’s official Xinhua news agency unveiled some of the law’s provisions, including that it would supersede existing Hong Kong legislation and that the power of interpretation belongs to China’s parliament top committee.Beijing is expected to set up a national security office in Hong Kong for the first time to “supervise, guide and support” the city government. Beijing could also exercise jurisdiction on certain cases.Judges for security cases are expected to be appointed by the city’s chief executive. Senior judges now allocate rosters up through Hong Kong’s independent judicial system.It is unclear which specific activities are to be made illegal, how precisely they are defined or what punishment they carry.Police have banned this year’s July 1 rally on the anniversary of the 1997 handover, citing coronavirus restrictions. It is unclear if attending the rally would constitute a national security crime if the law came into force by Wednesday.South China Morning Post, citing “police insiders”, said about 4,000 officers will be on stand-by on Wednesday to handle any unrest if people defy the ban.Hong Kong is one of many developing conflicts between China and the United States, on top of trade, the South China Sea and the coronavirus pandemic.Britain has said the security law would violate China’s international obligations and its handover agreement. A Japanese official said that if China had passed the law, it was “regrettable”. Democratically ruled and Chinese-claimed Taiwan said it “strongly condemns” the legislation, while the European Union has said it could take China to the International Court of Justice in The Hague over it.China has hit back at the outcry, denouncing “interference” in internal affairs.Hong Kong stocks were up 0.9% on Tuesday, in line with Asian markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-passes-hong-kong-security-law-amid-global-opposition/story-bAwJeFmohsHtIPUXZHmViL.html
30-06-2020||World||US eager to work with India on 6GHz band for wireless, says Ajit Pai||The US is eager to work with India to harness the benefits of the powerful 6 GHz band for Wi-Fi and towards global harmonisation of this spectrum, Ajit Pai, the top American communications regulatory official has said. Addressing to the US-India Business Council webinar on creating alignment in the 5G Ecosystem, Pai, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said, “during my visit to India in February, I had a good discussion with Indian officials about our 6 GHz efforts, so I know that India is interested in exploring the possibilities of unlicensed use in this band.” “I’m eager to work with my Indian counterparts and other leaders around the world to harness the benefits of the 6 GHz band for Wi-Fi and then work together toward global harmonisation of this spectrum,” the senior Indian-American official said.Ultimately, Wi-Fi 6 and 5G will complement each other nicely and form a powerful 1-2 punch of licensed and unlicensed innovation, he told the virtual audience.Asserting that the partnership between the US and India will be the defining one of the 21st century, Pai said that over the past three-plus years, it’s been gratifying to see the bonds between the US and India grow stronger and stronger.“We saw the vitality of this special friendship on full display this past February,” he said, referring to the historic visit of the US President Donald Trump to India in February. He was part of the US delegation.“From my bilateral visits with my counterparts in the Indian government to the state banquet at Rashtrapati Bhavan and conversations with Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi, the energy and excitement was incredible,” he said.“The trip left me with an even deeper appreciation of the common values our countries share and an even stronger determination to help bring the world’s oldest and largest democracies even closer together,” Pai said.Reiterating that the US and India share not only a set of common values, he said the two countries also share strategic interests.“We are both deeply committed to harnessing the power of communications technology to promote mutual growth and prosperity for our people. And we both deeply value the importance of connecting all of our citizens. That means, in part, unlocking the power and potential of 5G technology,” he said.Pai said that Wi-Fi 6, the next generation of Wi-Fi, has already started rolling out. “Wi-Fi 6 will be over two-and-a-half times faster than the current standard, and it will offer better performance for connected devices. But in order to fully take advantage of the benefits of Wi-Fi 6, we need to make more mid-band spectrum available for unlicensed use,” he said.In April, he said the commission unanimously approved his proposal to make the entire 6 GHz band available for unlicensed use.“By doing this, we are creating a massive 1,200 megahertz testbed for innovators and innovation. This is a big deal. We’ve effectively increased the amount of mid-band spectrum available for Wi-Fi by almost a factor of five,” he said.During the webinar, discussions around the development of product and services veered around the prowess of software professionals in India and the business opportunity for gadgets and equipment in the US.“Massive technology expertise is available in India, and it can be turned into an advantage for new technology services in next-generation architecture, not only in 5G but also in Wi fi,” said Shekhar Ayyar, executive vice president and general manager of VMware’s Telco and Edge Cloud business unit.Stressing the importance of spectrum available for commercial use, Rajan S Mathews, director general of Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), India’s leading industry association of mobile service providers and telecom equipment companies said, “It’s mind-blowing that in 5G spectrum the US is talking about 100 Mhz and saying that is not enough whereas in India we are struggling with 45 Mhz.” Mathew Oommen, president Reliance-Jio cautioned both US and India from the Chinese telecom gears.He reiterated the point recently made by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo about Clean Telco and clean infrastructure. “It is critical how we ensure that we don’t contaminate digital infrastructure,” he said.“The knowledge coming from the US on 5G is very useful. India is not looking at 5G only for cellular networks. There is growing proximity between India and US, and it’s interesting to see India exporting handsets to the US and going forward we see the transfer of knowledge and expertise on network side from the US to India, it’s going to be two-way transactions in this relationship,” said Rajen Vagadia, vice president and president- Qualcomm India and SAARC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-eager-to-work-with-india-on-6ghz-band-for-wireless-says-ajit-pai/story-QmFjzjaufHLqsoL1H3giUO.html
30-06-2020||World||Boeing begins crucial certification test flights for grounded 737 MAX||Boeing Co began a series of long-delayed flight tests of its redesigned 737 MAX with regulators at the controls on Monday, hoping to win approval and rebuild its reputation after fatal crashes that toppled its leaders and grounded the jet worldwide.Pilots from the U.S. FAA and Boeing landed around 2:15 p.m. local time at King County International Airport, also known as Boeing Field, after a round trip to eastern Washington that included a high-speed system test and other maneuvers over about three hours.Reuters first reported the long-awaited certification test flights, scheduled over three days, were set to start on Monday, a pivotal moment in Boeing’s worst-ever corporate crisis triggered by twin crashes that killed 346 people in Ethiopia and Indonesia.Boeing shares closed 14.4% higher at $194.49 on Monday, helping boost the Dow Jones Industrial Average. After the flights are completed, the FAA must analyze reams of test data and approve new pilot training procedures, among other reviews, and would not likely approve the plane’s ungrounding until September, industry and government sources say. If that happens, the jet is on a path to resume U.S. service before year-end, though the process has been plagued by delays for more than a year. Boeing did not publicize Monday’s take off, saying the FAA was leading the 737 MAX testing process. The business-as-usual atmosphere at Boeing Field illustrated a shift in Boeing’s communications strategy on the 737 MAX since last year when it strained its relationship with the Federal Aviation Administration by issuing public statements that predicted the timeline for the jet’s return. The crisis has cost Boeing billions of dollars, slashed production and hobbled its supply chain, with criminal and congressional investigations still playing out. In December, Boeing fired Chief Executive Dennis Muilenburg after scrutiny into the jet’s design and development tarnished its reputation with airlines and regulators. The 737 MAX gaining FAA approval to return to commercial service is expected to spark a scramble by Boeing to determine the fate of hundreds of parked jets. There are some 450 jets that Boeing is eager to deliver once the MAX is cleared to fly, though experts say the prospect of moving those quickly has been diminished by the coronavirus crisis. Airlines have also grounded a further 385 jets in their fleets, and U.S. carriers have said it will take them between 30 and 60 days after regulatory approval to prepare their jets and pilots for flight.A central task for the FAA is to validate Boeing’s upgrades to the MCAS anti-stall system faulted in both crashes, as well as perform a wide array of flight maneuvers and emergency procedures, the FAA said. The agency said it will “lift the grounding order only after we are satisfied that the aircraft meets certification standards.”After taking off from Boeing Field, the crew, which included Boeing Commercial Airplanes Chief Pilot Jim Webb, tested slow flight conditions between 12,000 feet and 15,000 feet, a person familiar with the flight said. Later, they boosted airspeed to 470 knots at 14,000 feet to conduct high-speed system tests, a person familiar with the flight said. The goal was likely a test of whether pilots were able to manually adjust the tail’s horizontal stabilizer at high speeds - a key focus during crash investigations because pilots struggled to make adjustments at high speeds while also trying to counteract MCAS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-begins-crucial-certification-test-flights-for-grounded-737-max/story-4KpZpo6WMFvOuiWEFZ7P8N.html
30-06-2020||World||‘No excuse’ for countries that fail in contact tracing: WHO chief||Tracing contacts of people with coronavirus infections is the most important step in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, and countries that are failing to do so have no excuse, the World Health Organization chief said on Monday.“Although many countries have made some progress, globally the pandemic is actually speeding up,” Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a briefing.“We all want this to be over. We all want to get on with our lives. But the hard reality is that this is not even close to being over,” he said. “Most people remain susceptible, the virus still has a lot of room to move.”Countries such as South Korea had managed to contain the disease by tracking down the contacts of those carrying infection, Tedros said. This was possible even under extreme conditions, as the WHO itself had shown by halting an outbreak of Ebola in eastern Congo, tracing 25,000 contacts a day in a remote area where some 20 armed groups were fighting, he added.“No excuse for contact tracing. If any country is saying contact tracing is difficult, it is a lame excuse.”TEAM TO INVESTIGATE ORIGINS IN CHINAIn a move sought by the WHO’s biggest critic, the United States, Tedros announced that a team would be sent to China next week to investigate the origins of the outbreak.“We can fight the virus better when we know everything about the virus, including how it started,” Tedros said. “We will be sending a team next week to China to prepare for that.”U.S. President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have both said the disease could have escaped from a lab in Wuhan, although they have presented no evidence of this, and China denies it. Scientists say the virus emerged in nature.Trump has announced plans to quit the WHO, which he says is too close to China. He has repeatedly emphasised the Chinese origins of the virus, calling it “Kung Flu” at two rallies this month, a term the White House had previously described as unacceptable and which Asian-American groups say is racist.Asked about Trump’s use of the term, the director of the WHO’s emergencies program, Mike Ryan, called for an “international discourse that is based on mutual respect”.“Many people around the world have used unfortunate language in this response,” he said.Ryan said there had been tremendous progress towards finding a vaccine, but there was no guarantee of success. In the meantime countries must use the strategies available, such as social distancing and contact tracing.“Many, many countries through applying a comprehensive strategy have reached a very low level of virus transmission in their countries but always have to remain vigilant in case there are clusters or small outbreaks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-excuse-for-countries-that-fail-in-contact-tracing-who-chief/story-2ruRIALzGaoqAgI8WjXCUL.html
30-06-2020||World||US Republicans, Democrats want to question Trump aides over Russia bounty reports||Both Democrats and President Donald Trump’s fellow Republicans in Congress demanded more information from the White House on Monday after reports that Russian military intelligence offered militants bounties for killing US troops in Afghanistan.“Congress and the country need answers now. I therefore request an interagency brief for all House Members immediately,” Democratic House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a letter to Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe and CIA Director Gina Haspel.“The questions that arise are: was the President briefed, and if not, why not, and why was Congress not briefed?” Pelosi wrote.Representative Mac Thornberry, the top Republican on the House Armed Services Committee, joined the panel’s chairman, Democratic Representative Adam Smith, in asking the Department of Defense for a briefing.“The American people – and our service members – deserve to know the truth about what the White House knew about these Russian operations that may have directly resulted in the deaths of American service members,” Smith said.Thornberry told reporters on Monday that any delay “will not be acceptable.”Seven Republican House members, including Thornberry and Representative Michael McCaul, the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, attended a meeting at the White House on the issue on Monday afternoon.There was no word on whether the administration would brief more lawmakers or any non-Republicans.Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer called for an immediate briefing for all 100 senators.Trump has dismissed the reports as “fake news” and took to Twitter to suggest the reports were being spread by media outlets trying to make Republicans look bad.Senator Marco Rubio, the Republican acting intelligence committee chairman, declined to comment on the reports, saying on Twitter the committee would “continue to conduct vigorous oversight” of threats facing the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-republicans-democrats-want-to-question-trump-aides-over-russia-bounty-reports/story-xFdDRObbVMoG8776UB1PaP.html
30-06-2020||World||‘Hateful conduct not allowed’: Twitch, Reddit crackdown targets Donald Trump, supporters||Reddit on Monday said it yanked a forum used by supporters of President Donald Trump as part of a crackdown on hateful posts at the popular online bulletin board while the game streaming platform Twitch briefly suspended the president.“r/The_Donald” was among some 2,000 forums or “subreddits” banned as tightening of rules at the news-focused social website, Reddit said.Twitch, the gaming platform owned by Amazon, said Trump’s channel was suspended over rules violations and that the offending content was removed.“Hateful conduct is not allowed on Twitch,” a spokesperson said.“We do not make exceptions for political or newsworthy content, and will take action on content reported to us that violates our rules.”Twitch said the offending comments aired on the channel included Trump’s remarks from 2015 saying that Mexicans coming into the United States were “bringing drugs,” “bringing crime” and were “rapists.”Also cited were his statements from a recent Tulsa rally that “a very tough hombre is breaking into the window of a young woman whose husband is away.”Reddit last year “quarantined” the pro-Trump forum for promoting violence and on Monday removed it.“Ultimately, it’s our responsibility to support our communities by taking stronger action against those who try to weaponize parts of Reddit against other people,” Reddit said in a post about its policy update.The longtime pro-Trump subreddit used by “has consistently hosted and upvoted more rule-breaking content than average, antagonized us and other communities, and its (moderators) have refused to meet our most basic expectations,” Reddit added.Reddit’s new content policy specifically bans promoting hate based on identity or vulnerability, and calls for posts to be personal and authentic to prevent spam.“All communities on Reddit must abide by our content policy in good faith,” Reddit said.“We banned r/The_Donald because it has not done so, despite every opportunity.”“To be clear, views across the political spectrum are allowed on Reddit -- but all communities must work within our policies and do so in good faith, without exception.”The move comes with online platforms facing pressure to crack down on hateful content, including from the president, amid a broad movement to address racial equity in the wake of police killings of African-Americans.Trump has complained that Silicon Valley platforms are biased against conservatives, despite his own large social media following.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hateful-conduct-not-allowed-twitch-reddit-crackdown-targets-donald-trump-supporters/story-4AcPuynssBgdTNckBeyrYK.html
30-06-2020||World||Thousands flee in expectation of Myanmar military operation||Thousands of people in an area of western Myanmar where there have been clashes between the government and ethnic rebels have been fleeing from their villages over the past week after an evacuation order from officials.The Rakhine state government in an order last Tuesday instructed village administrators in Rathedaung township to tell residents to stay away from their homes due to military plans to conduct a “clearance operation” against the rebels. “Clearance operation” is Myanmar military parlance for counter insurgency action.The exodus from more than 40 villages is continuing almost a week later, even though the order was revoked last Friday Rakhine state’s security and border affairs minister.“Since the day the order was issued, more than 10,000 people from the operation area fled their villages,” Khin Maung Latt, an upper house member of parliament for Rathedaung township, said Monday.The government has been embroiled for more than a year in an intermittent conflict with the Arakan Army, a well-trained and well-armed guerrilla force representing members of the area’s Rakhine ethnic group.The guerrilla force is posing the strongest military challenge to the central government of the many ethnic minority groups who for decades have sought greater autonomy.Human rights advocates have accused Myanmar’s army of using undue force and targeting civilians in their operations fighting the guerrillas.In Rakhine in 2017, the military carried out counter insurgency operations against insurgents from the Muslim Rohingya minority, but critics charge they employed a campaign of terror to drive the Rohingya out of the country. An estimated 740,000 Rohingya fled to neighbouring Bangladesh, where they remain in refugee camps.The Rakhine are Buddhist, the religion of almost 90% of Myanmar’s people.During the past week’s exodus, some people fled to villages out of the designated area, and others to Sittwe, the capital of Rakhine.“We have to flee the village as we don’t want to face the soldiers from the military. They were shooting into the village, arresting the villagers to use as human shields,” said Aye Mg, a 58-year-old resident of Rathedaung township’s Kyauktan village, where the government previously detained dozens of suspected Rakhine militants.Civil society organizations and Buddhist monks are helping the newly displaced villagers find shelter.“People can’t live in their places any longer due to the fighting. We are hosting over 300 displaced people at our monastery; around 100 of them have arrived recently,” Okkahta, a monk, said from the Tahtipati Sipintharyar Monastery in Rathedaung town.“It’s like doomsday for them,” lawmaker Khin Maung Lat said, explaining why villagers fled. “They are in fear. This is the impact of the evacuation order to stay away from the village during the military operation.”“Even most of the village administrators are fleeing from the villages,” he said. “Even they are scared to go back to their villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-flee-in-expectation-of-myanmar-military-operation/story-92cXxu0MmTN1yz1YmPcU5N.html
30-06-2020||World||US Hong Kong sanctions threaten $1.1 trillion in China funding||China’s largest banks have $1.1 trillion in dollar funding at stake and face potentially steep fines from US legislation that targets penalizing lenders doing businesses with Chinese officials involved in Hong Kong’s controversial security law, according to Bloomberg Intelligence.The bipartisan measure, which was passed by the US Senate and still needs to go through the House and be signed by the US President, bars financial institution from providing accounts to sanctioned officials, many of whom may be assumed to use the services of China’s biggest banks, Francis Chan, a senior analyst at BI in Hong Kong, said in a June 30 note. Banks in violation risk being cut off from accessing the US financial system, he said.Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp., Bank of China Ltd. and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s four largest state-backed lenders, had a combined 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) equivalent of US dollar liabilities at the end of 2019, of which 47% were deposits, according to their annual reports. The rest came from the interbank borrowing and issuing securities to global investors.The legislation would apply penalties against financial institutions only if a bank knowingly does business with an official under sanction. The bill is intended to keep the penalties from capturing a broad swath of US companies, an administration official familiar with the discussions said earlier. Banks will be informed of what entities are on the sanctions list before penalties are imposed, the person said.Global banks could also be at risk since Chinese officials, their relatives and associates may also be their customers, Chan said. Standard Chartered Plc paid more than $600 million in fines in 2019 for breaching sanctions against Burma, Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. BNP Paribas SA was fined $8.9 billion by the US in 2014, the largest ever on an individual bank, for transactions with Sudan and other blacklisted nations.The Trump administration overnight escalated pressure on China over its crackdown on Hong Kong by making it harder to export sensitive technology to the city as Beijing is poised on Tuesday to pass the security law. The Commerce Department said it’s suspending regulations allowing special treatment to Hong Kong over things including export license exceptions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-hong-kong-sanctions-threaten-1-1-trillion-in-china-funding/story-hVrgbqahfEaNEOixMs6PPO.html
30-06-2020||World||China passes controversial Hong Kong security law||China’s parliament passed national security legislation for Hong Kong on Tuesday, setting the stage for the most radical changes to the former British colony’s way of life since it returned to Chinese rule almost exactly 23 years ago.Cable TV, citing an unidentified source, said the law was passed unanimously by the Chinese parliament’s top decision-making body.The legislation pushes Beijing further along a collision course with the United States, Britain and other Western governments, which have said it erodes the high degree of autonomy the global financial hub was granted at its July 1, 1997 handover.The United States began eliminating Hong Kong’s special status under US law on Monday, halting defence exports and restricting the territory’s access to high technology products.Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam, speaking at her regular weekly news conference, said it was not appropriate for her to comment on the legislation as the meeting in Beijing was still ongoing, but threw a jibe at Washington.“No sort of sanctioning action will ever scare us,” Lam said.A draft of the law has yet to be published. Beijing says the law, which comes in response to last year’s often-violent pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, aims to tackle subversion, terrorism, separatism and collusion with foreign forces.This month, China’s official state agency Xinhua unveiled some of its provisions, including that it would supersede existing Hong Kong legislation and that the power of interpretation belongs to China’s parliament top committee.Beijing is expected to set up a national security office in Hong Kong to “supervise, guide and support” the city government. Beijing could also exercise jurisdiction on certain cases.Judges for security cases are expected to be appointed by the city’s chief executive. Senior judges now allocate rosters up through Hong Kong’s independent judicial system.It is still unclear which specific activities are to be made illegal, how precisely they are defined or what punishment they carry.The South China Morning Post (SCMP), quoting an unnamed source, said Xinhua will publish details of the law on Tuesday afternoon and Hong Kong officials will gather at Beijing’s top representative office in the city later in the day for a meeting on the legislation.Authorities in Beijing and Hong Kong have repeatedly said the legislation is aimed at a few “troublemakers” and will not affect rights and freedoms, nor investor interests.The law comes into force as soon as it is gazetted in Hong Kong, which is seen as imminent. Police have banned this year’s July 1 rally on the anniversary of the 1997 handover, citing coronavirus restrictions. It is unclear if attending the rally would constitute a national security crime if the law came into force by Wednesday.The SCMP, citing “police insiders”, said about 4,000 officers will be on stand by on Wednesday to handle any unrest if people defy the ban.INTERNATIONAL CONDEMNATIONHong Kong is one of many developing conflicts between Beijing and Washington, on top of trade issues, the South China Sea and the coronavirus pandemic.Britain has said the security law would violate China’s international obligations and its handover agreement, which promised Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy for 50 years under a “one country, two systems” formula.Japan’s chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga said on Tuesday that if China had passed the security law for Hong Kong, it was “extremely regrettable”.The European Parliament earlier in June passed a resolution saying the European Union should take China to the International Court of Justice in The Hague if Beijing imposed the law.Foreign ministers of the Group of Seven countries have called on China not to push the legislation.China has hit back at the outcry from the West, denouncing what it called interference in its internal affairs.Hong Kong stocks were up 0.9% on Tuesday, in line with Asian markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-passes-controversial-hong-kong-security-law/story-bse1UEaBusJprQBT8zz77H.html
30-06-2020||World||New influenza virus G4 can trigger pandemic, needs close monitoring: Chinese scientists||Chinese pigs are more and more frequently becoming infected with a strain of influenza that has the potential to jump to humans, could mutate further so that it can spread easily from person to person and trigger a global outbreak, a new study has found.The study, which was published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, focuses on an influenza virus named G4. G4 is genetically descended from the H1N1 strain that caused a pandemic in 2009.Scientists at Chinese universities and China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention say it possesses “all the essential hallmarks of being highly adapted to infect humans” and needs close monitoring.“It is of concern that human infection of G4 virus will further human adaptation and increase the risk of a human pandemic,” the researchers have said.The virus is a unique blend of three lineages: one similar to strains found in European and Asian birds, the H1N1 strain that caused the 2009 pandemic, and a North American H1N1 that has genes from avian, human, and pig influenza viruses.The G4 variant is especially concerning because its core is an avian influenza virus—to which humans have no immunity—with bits of mammalian strains mixed in.A team led by Liu Jinhua from the China Agricultural University (CAU) analysed nearly 30,000 nasal swabs taken from pigs at slaughterhouses in 10 Chinese provinces and 1,000 swabs from pigs with respiratory symptoms seen at their school’s veterinary teaching hospital from 2011 to 2018.It was a part of a project to identify potential pandemic influenza strains.The swabs collected yielded 179 swine influenza viruses, the vast majority of which were G4 or one of five other G strains from the Eurasian avianlike lineage.The researchers carried out various experiments including on ferrets, which are widely used in flu studies because they experience similar symptoms to humans such as fever, coughing and sneezing.They found that G4 was highly infectious, replicating in human cells and causing more serious symptoms in ferrets than other viruses. Tests also showed that any immunity humans gain from exposure to seasonal flu does not provide protection from G4.According to blood tests, which showed up antibodies created by exposure to the virus, 10.4% of swine workers had already been infected. The tests showed that as many as 4.4% of the general population also appeared to have been exposed.The virus has therefore already passed from animals to humans but there is no evidence yet that it can be passed from human to human -- the scientists’ main worry.They have called for strengthening the surveillance of Chinese pigs for influenza viruses and for urgent measures to monitor people working with pigs.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-influenza-virus-g4-can-trigger-pandemic-needs-close-monitoring-chinese-scientists/story-HYZdiz9eKlWO4QcmymZT6O.html
30-06-2020||World||Indian websites not accessible in China as Xi Jinping govt blocks VPN||While Indian newspapers and TV channels continue to pick up reports about the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from Chinese Communist propaganda sites, the Indian newspapers and websites cannot be accessed in Beijing now without Virtual Private Network (VPN) server.According to diplomatic sources in Beijing, the Indian TV channels can be accessed through IP TV as of now. However, ExpressVPN had not been working in the Communist state for the past two days on iPhone as well as desktops.VPNs are powerful tools which allow users to overcome blocking of censorship and visit a particular website. But China has created such a technologically advanced firewall that it blocks even the VPNs.China is infamous for its repressive online censorship and the Xi Jinping government has refined it into an art with high-tech interventions. For example, anytime the word Hong Kong protest is mentioned on either CNN or BBC, the screens in Beijing go blank and news only returns after the topic is over.The blocking of Indian websites is the latest amid the ongoing tension between India and China after the Ladakh stand-off on June 15. The latest development coincides with the Indian government’s move to ban 59 applications, most of them Chinese.The popular apps which have been banned include TikTok, UC Browser, SHAREiT and WeChat. The government has cited concerns that these applications are “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.The move comes after weeks of discussions within the government that began before the border dispute with China flared up earlier this month, but was expedited in the aftermath of the deadly June 15 confrontation in Galwan Valley, officials aware of the discussions told HT on the condition of anonymity.Officials cited above said Union home minister Amit Shah extended his support to the move to block the applications, and signed off on a recommendation by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday before the order was formally issued by the IT ministry as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-websites-not-accessible-in-china-as-xi-jinping-govt-blocks-vpn-report/story-Q8KM5ZRP8dMFceCghGGJeI.html
30-06-2020||World||Google removes misleading ads in voting-related searches||Alphabet Inc’s Google said on Monday that it had removed search ads that charged users searching for voting information large fees for voter registration or harvested their personal data.A Google spokeswoman told Reuters that the company’s misrepresentation policy barred such ads, which were found by the nonprofit watchdog Tech Transparency Project when searching for terms such as “register to vote,” “vote by mail,” and “where is my polling place.”Tech Transparency Project said in a report on Monday that nearly a third of the more than 600 ads generated by its Google searches took users to sites that try to charge large fees for voter registration services, extract personal data for marketing purposes, install deceptive browser extensions, or serve other misleading ads.The report said that the first ad in a Google search for “register to vote” directed users to a site from PrivacyWall.org that charged $129 for “same-day processing” of voter registration. US voters do not need to pay to register to vote.PrivacyWall did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment.A Google spokeswoman said the company did not yet know how the ads had got through its approval process, which uses a combination of automated and manual review.“We have strict policies in place to protect users from false information about voting procedures, and when we find ads that violate our policies and present harm to users, we remove them and block advertisers from running similar ads in the future,” the spokeswoman said.“Some people may find it difficult to distinguish Google ads from other kinds of content because as of January, search ads on Google feature the same type face and colour scheme as organic search results,” the TTP report said.Social media companies and online platforms, including Facebook Inc and Twitter are under pressure to curb misinformation on their sites in the run-up to the US presidential election in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-removes-misleading-ads-in-voting-related-searches/story-hKHQf03iph9oYfwF3vYIrM.html
30-06-2020||World||Millions of Syrians go to sleep hungry: Aid organizations||A staggering 9.3 million Syrians are now going to sleep hungry and more another two million are at risk of a similar fate, international NGOs said in a joint statement Monday.Signed by the Norwegian Refugee Council, Oxfam, CARE, Mercy Corps, and others, the statement warned that “Syrians who have already endured almost a decade of war and displacement are now facing unprecedented levels of hunger leaving millions of people acutely vulnerable to Covid-19.”“Covid-19 restrictions, the collapse of the Syrian pound, and the displacement of millions of people have led to an unprecedented number of families in Syria who are no longer able to put food on the table,” it said.The statement said the number of Syrians facing food insecurities has risen by 42 per cent since last year.It noted that “unless funding and humanitarian access are increased, many Syrians, including those living as refugees in the region, will be pushed to the brink of starvation.”The statement further said that after nine years of war in Syria, the Syrians have been thrown into a spiral of despair and destruction that worsens every year.“International assistance is needed now more than ever,” it said.Separately, the International Committee of the Red Cross said Monday that 80 percent of Syrians survive on less than 1.25 US dollars a day, adding that the price of bread doubled in a few weeks.It further said that 50 percent of Syrians don’t have enough food to eat every day.The Syrian war has been dragging on for over nine years, killing more than 380,000 people and displacing nearly half of the pre-war population of 23 million Syrians either internally or externally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-of-syrians-go-to-sleep-hungry-aid-organizations/story-zTJj4Ya7rHHE1uWWDOQWEK.html
30-06-2020||World||‘I did it all’: Ex-police officer pleads guilty to dozens of rapes, 13 murders||A former police officer who terrorized California as a serial burglar and rapist and went on to kill more than a dozen people while evading capture for decades pleaded guilty Monday to murders attributed to the Golden State Killer.Joseph James DeAngelo Jr. had remained almost silent in court since his 2018 arrest until he repeatedly uttered the words “guilty” and “I admit” in a hushed and raspy voice as part of a plea agreement that will spare him the death penalty for a life sentence with no chance of parole.DeAngelo, 74, did not cooperate with authorities, but muttered a confession of sorts after his arrest that cryptically referred to an inner personality named “Jerry” that he said forced him to commit the wave of crimes that appeared to end abruptly in 1986.“I did all that,” DeAngelo said to himself while alone in a police interrogation room after his arrest in April 2018, Sacramento County prosecutor Thien Ho said.“I didn’t have the strength to push him out,” DeAngelo said. “He made me. He went with me. It was like in my head, I mean, he’s a part of me. I didn’t want to do those things. I pushed Jerry out and had a happy life. I did all those things. I destroyed all their lives. So now I’ve got to pay the price.”The day of reckoning had come for DeAngelo, Ho said.“The scope of Joseph DeAngelo’s crimes is simply staggering,” Ho said. ”Each time he escaped, slipping away silently into the night.”There’s no escaping now. DeAngelo, seated in a wheelchair on a makeshift stage in a university ballroom that could accommodate more than 150 observers at a safe distance during the coronavirus pandemic, pleaded guilty to 13 counts of murder and dozens of rapes that were too old to prosecute.The large room at Sacramento State University was made to look like a state courtroom with the seal of the Sacramento County Superior Court behind the judge’s chair and U.S. and state flags on the riser that served as a sort of stage for a daylong proceeding that had a theater-like feel. Large screens flanked the stage so spectators could follow the livestreamed hearing.Temperatures were taken of everyone in the room and even the judge wore a mask when he wasn’t speaking.DeAngelo, who wore orange jail scrubs and a plastic face shield to prevent possible spread of the virus, listed to one side and his mouth appeared agape as prosecutors read graphic details of the crimes, where he raped and killed then snacked before leaving.Family members wept as the proceeding went on most of the day. A pile of used tissues sat on the floor next to Jennifer Carole, whose father, attorney Lyman Smith, was slain in 1980 with his wife, Charlene Smith, who was raped before being killed.“This is much harder than I thought it was going to be. And I thought it was going to be hard,” Carole said. “I feel a lot of anger, which I don’t think I’ve felt so powerfully before.”DeAngelo, a Vietnam veteran and a grandfather, had never been on investigators’ radar until about a decade after the crimes seemed to end. Investigators connected a series of assaults in central and Northern California to slayings in Southern California and settled on the umbrella Golden State Killer nickname for the mysterious assailant.Police used DNA from crime scenes to find a distant relative through a popular genealogy website database then built a family tree that eventually led them to him. They tailed DeAngelo and secretly collected DNA from his car door and a discarded tissue to get an arrest warrant.The retired truck mechanic was arrested at his home in the Sacramento suburbs — the same area he terrorized in the mid-1970s, earning the title East Area Rapist.Prosecutors detailed sadistic acts he committed after slipping into homes undetected and surprising couples in bed by shining a flashlight in their faces and threatening to kill everyone in the house — including young children — if they didn’t follow his orders.The masked prowler initially said he only wanted their money to earn their cooperation. He would have the women bind their husbands or boyfriends face down in bed with shoelaces, and then he would bind the women. Victims described being prodded by the barrel of a gun or the point of a knife.He piled dishes on the backs of men and said they would both be killed if he heard the plates crash while he raped the women.At a home in Contra Costa County in the fall of 1978, he told a woman he would cut her baby boy’s ear off if she didn’t perform oral sex after he had raped her.“I admit,” DeAngelo said after the prosecutor read the description of that crime.He stole whatever he could find, sometimes a few bottles of Budweiser and some cash, other times diamond rings. He slipped off into the dark on foot or by bicycle and even evaded police who at times believed they came close to catching him.DeAngelo knew the territory well.He started on the police force in the San Joaquin Valley farm town of Exeter in 1973, where he is believed to have committed his first break-ins and first killing.DeAngelo was among the officers trying to find a serial burglar in the neighboring city of Visalia responsible for about 100 break-ins.Community college professor Claude Snelling was killed by the suspected “Visalia Ransacker” after trying to prevent him from kidnapping his 16-year-old daughter.After three years on the force, DeAngelo moved back to the Sacramento area, where he worked for the Auburn Police Department in the Sierra foothills until 1979 when he was caught shoplifting dog repellent and a hammer — two items that could be of use to a burglar.DeAngelo killed a couple walking their dog in a Sacramento suburb in 1978, but the majority of murders came after he moved to Southern California.Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer choked up as family members of the victims stood during his description of each of the four killings there. Spitzer, who wiped a tear at one point, diverged from other prosecutors to address DeAngelo directly when discussing the May 5, 1986, rape and slaying of Janelle Cruz, 18 — the final killing.“You attacked her, you beat her and you raped her,” Spitzer said. “You murdered her in the first-degree, bludgeoning her in the face.”A guilty plea and life sentence avoids a trial and even a planned weeks-long preliminary hearing. Victims will be able to confront DeAngelo at length during an August sentencing expected to last several days.Victims began to stand in the audience as accounts of their attacks were read. Nearly two dozen were on the their feet in solidarity as the prosecutor from Sacramento — where most of his sexual assaults took place — detailed each case. They cheered and laughed when Deputy District Attorney Amy Holliday noted victims consistently reported DeAngelo had a small penis.One man, Victor Hayes, who was held at gunpoint while his girlfriend was raped in 1977 shouted out that he wanted his name read aloud.“I’ve been waiting for 43 years. I’m not ashamed of what happened. I’ve never been John Doe in my life,” Hayes said. “I want accountability and accountability starts with my name.”Among the questions that remain is whether DeAngelo actually stopped his life of crime and, if so, why?Ho cast doubt on DeAngelo’s statement in the interrogation room, saying he had “feigned feeble incoherence” to detectives despite appearing sharp while under surveillance. Ho said DeAngelo had acted crazy when he was arrested for shoplifting three decades earlier.James Alan Fox, a criminologist at Northeastern University, said most serial killers do not have dual personalities or inner voices, though movies often portray them that way.He said serial killers who get away with attacks for years are usually cunning and organized. Someone who suffers from a serious mental illness isn’t capable of that. Serial killers who blame an alter-ego for their crimes are usually faking it, he said.“It’s self-serving for someone to suggest that they did all of these things because of this voice: ‘Don’t blame me, blame the voice,’” Fox said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-did-it-all-ex-police-officer-admits-to-dozens-of-rapes-murders/story-LyzmducDvmh6wx8LBtuZtK.html
30-06-2020||World||New swine flu found in China has pandemic potential||Researchers in China have discovered a new type of swine flu that is capable of triggering a pandemic, according to a study published Monday in the US science journal PNAS.Named G4, it is genetically descended from the H1N1 strain that caused a pandemic in 2009.It possesses “all the essential hallmarks of being highly adapted to infect humans,” say the authors, scientists at Chinese universities and China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention.From 2011 to 2018, researchers took 30,000 nasal swabs from pigs in slaughterhouses in 10 Chinese provinces and in a veterinary hospital, allowing them to isolate 179 swine flu viruses. The majority were of a new kind which has been dominant among pigs since 2016.The researchers then carried out various experiments including on ferrets, which are widely used in flu studies because they experience similar symptoms to humans -- principally fever, coughing and sneezing. G4 was observed to be highly infectious, replicating in human cells and causing more serious symptoms in ferrets than other viruses.Tests also showed that any immunity humans gain from exposure to seasonal flu does not provide protection from G4.According to blood tests which showed up antibodies created by exposure to the virus, 10.4 percent of swine workers had already been infected.The tests showed that as many as 4.4 percent of the general population also appeared to have been exposed.The virus has therefore already passed from animals to humans but there is no evidence yet that it can be passed from human to human -- the scientists’ main worry.“It is of concern that human infection of G4 virus will further human adaptation and increase the risk of a human pandemic,” the researchers wrote.The authors called for urgent measures to monitor people working with pigs.“The work comes as a salutary reminder that we are constantly at risk of new emergence of zoonotic pathogens and that farmed animals, with which humans have greater contact than with wildlife, may act as the source for important pandemic viruses,” said James Wood, head of the department of veterinary medicine at Cambridge University.A zoonotic infection is caused by a pathogen that has jumped from a non-human animal into a human.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-swine-flu-found-in-china-has-pandemic-potential/story-9Lz2fjtTb6MRmEF5H56qhN.html
30-06-2020||World||EU finalising virus ‘safe list,’ US unlikely to make the cut||The European Union is edging toward finalising a list of countries whose citizens will be allowed to enter Europe again in coming days, with Americans almost certain to be excluded in the short term due to the number of US coronavirus cases.Spain’s foreign minister said that the list could contain 15 countries that are not EU members and whose citizens would be allowed to visit from July 1. EU diplomats confirmed that the list would be made public on Tuesday. The diplomats spoke on condition of anonymity because the procedure is ongoing and politically very sensitive.EU envoys in Brussels worked over the weekend to narrow down the exact criteria for countries to be included, mostly centered on their ability to manage the spread of the disease. Importantly, the countries are also expected to drop any travel restrictions they have imposed on European citizens.The number of confirmed cases in the United States has surged over the past week, and President Donald Trump also suspended the entry of all people from Europe’s ID check-free travel zone in a decree in March, making it highly unlikely that U.S. citizens would qualify.Infection rates in Brazil, Russia and India are high, too, and their nationals are also unlikely to make the cut.Spanish Foreign Minister Arancha González Laya said the EU is considering whether to accept travelers from China if Beijing lifts restrictions on European citizens. Morocco is another possibility, although its government doesn’t plan to open borders until July 10. (AP) NSA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-finalising-virus-safe-list-us-unlikely-to-make-the-cut/story-Bf4C4AsBVHQVqBaLB7Vm6J.html
30-06-2020||World||Egypt hospital fire kills 7 coronavirus patients||An intensive care unit at an Egyptian hospital caught fire on Monday, killing seven COVID-19 patients, according to the country’s public prosecutor. The blaze erupted in the coronavirus ward of a private hospital in Alexandria, along Egypt’s north coast. Six men and one woman were killed, said Gov. Mohamed el-Sharif. The Department of Civil Protection blamed an electric short-circuit for the fire. Police are still investigating but preliminary reports indicate the fire started in the room’s air-conditioner, according to a statement from public prosecutors. After hearing the air-conditioner unit explode, nurses scrambled to stem the flames, but the victims were already overcome by the thick, billowing smoke. “In just seconds, there was a massive fire and none of the workers were able to control the situation because of the rapid spread,” Badrawy Hospital said in a statement. Safety standards and fire regulations are poorly enforced in Egypt and have been linked to many deaths. One patient was injured in the blaze and the rest were evacuated, the prosecutors added. Firefighters doused the blackened remains of ventilators, beds and other medical supplies in the coronavirus ward. The fire did not spread to other parts of the hospital. A similar blaze erupted at a coronavirus isolation centre in the capital, Cairo, last month without causing casualties. The accidents highlight the risks in Egypt’s struggle to fight the virus, which has overwhelmed hospitals in recent weeks. The country lifted a variety of coronavirus restrictions on Saturday, reopening cafes, gyms and clubs, even as its case count soars. On Monday, the Egyptian Health Ministry reported 1,566 infections, including 83 deaths, bringing the total to 66,754 and 2,872 fatalities -- the highest death toll in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-hospital-fire-kills-7-coronavirus-patients/story-DGRRGsdsmtKuOehsoVNmmJ.html
30-06-2020||World||Pandemic curtails most pride events, but some march on||The coronavirus pandemic forced the cancellation of most in-person Pride events this year, but a march in Manhattan on Sunday drew thousands to the streets in solidarity with protesters demanding an end to racial injustice and police brutality. Similar parades were held in a handful of cities in the US and around the world, with attendence reduced due to the coronavirus pandemic.The second annual Queer Liberation March in New York capped a month of Pride events, virtual and live, during which the celebration of LGBTQ lives has merged with the nationwide demonstrations ignited by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis last month. People chanted “No justice, no peace” as the crowd snaked through Manhattan, while techno music blasted from a pickup truck carrying two DJs, one of whom chanting “Black lives matter.”Taipei, the Taiwanese capital held its annual LGBT Pride parade on Sunday, making it one of the few places in the world to proceed with such an event in the face of the coronavirus pandemic.Participant numbers on Sunday were reduced by both virus concerns and heavy rain. Taiwan’s Central News Agency said that over 1,000 attended. Taiwan is the only place in Asia where same-sex marriage is legal. Hundreds participated in a Gay Pride event in Jerusalem, with numbers limited because of coronavirus rules. Police tried to secure the event that took place just under five years after a person at an LGBT rally was murdered by a Jewish religious extremist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-curtails-most-pride-events-but-some-march-on/story-OTuekb336YhoXRcocO8aoK.html
30-06-2020||World||Coronavirus pandemic is not even close to being over: WHO||The Covid-19 pandemic is not even close to being over, World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a briefing on Monday.Tedros noted that, six months after China first alerted the WHO to a novel respiratory infection, the grim milestones of 10 million confirmed infections and 500,000 deaths had been reached.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We all want this to be over. We all want to get on with our lives. But the hard reality is that this is not even close to being over. Although many countries have made some progress globally, the pandemic is actually speeding up,” he said.New York mayor Bill de Blasio said on Monday that officials are reconsidering a plan to allow indoor dining July 6, as other states experience a surge in Covid-19 cases after reopening restaurants and bars.De Blasio cited surges of the virus in Texas, Florida and California as reasons to consider a slowdown in reopening restaurants . Florida reported 146,341 Covid-19 cases on Monday, up 3.7% from a day earlier, compared with an average increase of 5.5% in the previous seven days. Deaths among Florida residents reached 3,447. Florida’s new cases reached 46,124, the highest level ever.Meanwhile in California, residents hoping to celebrate Independence Day in a bar will now have to change their plans.Bars are required to shut in seven counties - including Los Angeles - and they’re recommended to close in eight others, including Sacramento and Santa Barbara, following a surge in coronavirus cases, according to an order by Governor Gavin Newsom on Sunday.Meanwhile, Iran recorded the highest daily number of fatalities since the start of the outbreak, with 162 deaths in the past 24 hours. The death toll reached 10,670 from a total of 225,205 cases.The level of infections is high or alarming in 11 of 31 Iranian provinces, health ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari said on state television.In China, 400,000 residents of a northern county were put under lockdown at the weekend after at least a dozen coronavirus cases associated with the Beijing outbreak were reported there.Hebei province’s Anxin county has been sealed off and each household can assign only one person to go out for necessities daily, state media reported. Vehicles cannot enter the county and only those with special passes can leave.The containment measures in Anxin, 140 kilometres from Beijing, are more severe than in the capital itself, where the cluster has grown to 311 people since it was first detected June 12.The WHO is sending a team to China next week to investigate the origins of the novel coronavirus, Ghebreyesus said. South Korea’s health authorities called on Monday for citizens to stagger vacation schedules ahead of the holiday season and avoid gatherings at workplaces and religious facilities, as coronavirus infections from small clusters persist.  As of midnight Sunday, the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) reported 42 new coronavirus cases, for a total of 12,757 cases with 282 deaths. On June 20, the daily tally reached 67, its highest since in more than three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-is-not-even-close-to-being-over-who/story-02MPFgrR9fEXQmvRvVbPhJ.html
