01-07-2021||India||Vaccine: All states will be taken care of, says Finance Minister||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman assured on Thursday that everybody in the country will be vaccinated against Covid-19 even as states reported a shortage of the jabs. According to a Hindustan Times report, Sitharaman while speaking in Bengaluru said, "Every state gets allocation as per the density of the population/number of the vulnerable population. Centre supplies vaccines well in advance to the states… All states will be taken care of.” Her comments come as the Odisha government halted the vaccination drive in 16 districts due to a "shortage" of Covishield doses. Meanwhile, Assam on Thursday said it could vaccinate only 16.63 lakh people in the last 10 days, almost 45% less than the target set by state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, due to a massive shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. As per state officials, the figure is way below the ambitious 30-lakh target set during Sarma's meeting with all the stakeholders of the districts on June 19. In Maharashtra, the administration suspended the vaccination drive across 281 civic-run centres and 20 government-run centres in Mumbai due to shortage of stocks. Several other states like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, etc have also said that they are facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, reports Hindustan Times.com. Meanwhile, India has administered around 33.57 crore vaccine doses so far under the ongoing nationwide vaccination drive. In a daily bulletin, the Union health ministry also said, more than 1.24 crore vaccine doses are available with the states and Union territories. It also said that over 94,66,400 doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days. It also informed that more than 32.92 crore vaccine doses were provided to states and UTs so far through the government of India (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 31,67,50,891 doses, the ministry also informed. In the release, the Centre also said it is committed to accelerating the pace and working to expand the scope of vaccination drive throughout the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||Centre's review plea on Backward Classes list verdict rejected by SC||The Supreme Court has dismissed the Centre's plea seeking review of the May 5 majority verdict which held that 102nd Constitution amendment took away states' power to declare Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) for grant of quota in jobs and admissions. The 102nd Constitution amendment Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the NCBC, while 342A deals with power of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC and power of Parliament to change the list. A five-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, We have gone through the review petition filed against the judgment dated May 5, in Writ Petition... The grounds taken in the review petition do not fall within the limited ground on which review petition can be considered . The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat, said that the various grounds taken in the review petition have already been dealt with in the main judgment. We do not find any sufficient grounds to entertain this review petition. The review petition is dismissed, the bench said in its order uploaded on Thursday. The top court also rejected the Centre's application for open court hearing in the matter. On June 28, the five-judges had taken up the matter in chambers. Justice Bhushan who was set to retire on July 4, had bid adieu to the top court on Wednesday to attend the post-last rites ritual of his mother, who passed away last week. On May 13, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment had issued a press release saying that the Centre has filed a review petition against the May 5 verdict of the top court. On May 5, a five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had unanimously set aside Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas and had refused to refer the 1992 Mandal verdict putting a cap of 50 per cent on reservation to a larger bench. The bench in its 3:2 majority verdict had ruled that 102nd Constitution amendment, which also led to setting up of National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), gives exclusive power to the Centre to identify and declare SEBC as only the President can notify the list. All the five judges of the bench, however, had held the amendment as valid and said it did not affect the federal polity or violate the basic structure of the Constitution. The Centre in its review plea has said that the majority verdict had upheld the validity of Article 342A but in doing so, the bench has interpreted that the provision denudes the states from exercising the power which they undoubtedly have for identifying and declaring SEBC in their respective states. The government in its plea had said that the minority of two judges, including presiding judge, has expressly held that Article 342A does not have in any manner deprive states of their power and jurisdiction and competence to identify and declare the socially and educationally backward classes, which is the correct interpretation of Article 342A of the Constitution. The majority verdict was rendered by Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat, while the minority verdict was of Justice Ashok Bhushan and S Abdul Nazeer, who said that under the constitution amendment both Centre and states have power to declare and identify SEBC. Justice S Ravindra Bhat had written a 132-page long verdict and Justices L Nageswara Rao and Hemant Gupta, in their separate judgements, concurred with Justice Bhat and his reasoning in holding that states have lost their power to identify SEBC under their territory after 102nd Constitutional amendment. Writing the majority judgement on this aspect, Justice Bhat had said, By introduction of Articles 366 (26C) and 342A through the 102nd Constitution, the President alone, to the exclusion of all other authorities, is empowered to identify SEBCs and include them in a list to be published under Article 342A (1), which shall be deemed to include SEBCs in relation to each state and union territory for the purposes of the Constitution". Justice Bhat had opined that the states can, through their existing mechanisms, or even statutory commissions, can only make suggestions to the President or the Commission, for "inclusion, exclusion or modification of castes or communities" in the SEBC list. "The states' power to make reservations, in favour of particular communities or castes, the quantum of reservations, the nature of benefits and the kind of reservations, and all other matters falling within the ambit of Articles 15 and 16 - except with respect to identification of SEBCs, remains undisturbed," the judgement, endorsed by two other judges had said. "Article 342A of the Constitution by denuding states' power to legislate or classify in respect of 'any backward class of citizens' does not affect or damage the federal polity and does not violate the basic structure of the Constitution of India, Justice Bhat had said. The five-judge bench has also concurred on the issue that the Maharashtra law granting 12 and 13 per cent reservation for Maratha community in addition to 50 per cent social reservation is not covered by exceptional circumstances as contemplated in Mandal judgement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||India's drug regulator refuses to approve Sputnik Light for emergency use||India's drug regulator has refused to grant emergency-use authorisation to single-dose COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik-Light, while ruling out the need for the conduct of the phase-3 trial of the Russian vaccine in the country. According to the recommendations of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) meeting held on July 30, which have been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), Sputnik-Light is the same as the component-1 of Sputnik V and as its safety and immunogenicity data in the Indian population has already been generated in a trial here, there seems to be inadequate data and justification for conducting a separate, similar trial. According to the SEC recommendations, which were uploaded on the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) website on Thursday, Dr Reddy's Laboratories had submitted a proposal to the DCGI seeking market authorisation of Sputnik-Light, along with the interim safety and efficacy data generated from the phase 1/2 clinical trials in Russia, and presented the protocol for conducting the phase-3 clinical trial of the vaccine in India before the committee. The SEC of the CDSCO, which deliberated on the application, noted that Sputnik-Light is the same as the component-1 of Sputnik V. Furthermore, the firm has already generated the safety and immunogenicity data of component-1 in the country. The committee also noted that the phase-3 efficacy trial is ongoing in Russia and the efficacy data is yet to be generated, read the recommendations of the SEC. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should present the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data of the phase-3 clinical trial of Sputnik-Light that is being carried out in Russia for considering the proposal for the grant of MA (market authorisation) in the country. "Further, as the safety and immunogenicity data of the component-1 in Indian population has already been generated in the country in another trial, there seems to be inadequate data and justification in conducting a separate, similar trial," the recommendations read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||Stray dogs have right to food, citizens have right to feed them: Delhi HC||Stray dogs have the right to food and citizens have the right to feed community canines, the Delhi High Court has said while observing that in exercising this right care and caution should be taken to ensure that it does not impinge upon others and causes no harassment or nuisance. The high court, while laying down guidelines regarding the feeding of stray dogs, said every dog is a territorial being and it has to be fed and tended to at places within their territory which is not frequented by the general public. "Any person having compassion for stray dogs can feed them at their private entrance or driveway of their house or any other place not shared with other residents but no one can restrict the other from the feeding of dogs, until and unless it is causing harm or harassment to them," it said. "Community dogs (stray/street dogs) have the right to food and citizens have the right to feed community dogs but in exercising this right, care and caution should be taken to ensure that it does not impinge upon the rights of others or cause any harm, hindrance, harassment and nuisance to other individuals or members of the society," Justice J R Midha said in a recent 86-page verdict. The court's order came in a case of dispute between two residents of a locality on the issue of feeding stray dogs. One of them sought direction to restrain the other from feeding street dogs near the entrance of a property. Later, a settlement took place between the two and a designated place was fixed for feeding the canines. The verdict also discussed dog categories based on the roles they play service, therapy, rescue, hunting, tracking, cadaver, detection, police, and cancer detection dogs. The court formed a committee, comprising the Director of Animal Husbandry Department or his nominee, senior officers of all municipal corporations, Delhi Cantonment Board and certain advocates, to implement the guidelines and asked it to hold its first meeting within four weeks. The court said there is a need to spread awareness that animals have a right to live with respect and dignity and asked the AWBI to carry out an awareness campaign in association with media. "Animals have a right under law to be treated with compassion, respect and dignity. Animals are sentient creatures with an intrinsic value. Therefore, protection of such beings is the moral responsibility of each and every citizen including the governmental and non-governmental organisations. "We have to show compassion towards all living creatures. Animals may be mute but we as a society have to speak on their behalf. No pain or agony should be caused to the animals. Cruelty to animals causes psychological pain to them. Animals breathe like us and have emotions. The animals require food, water, shelter, normal behaviour, medical care, self-determination," it said. The court said street dogs perform the role of community scavengers and also control rodent population in the area thus preventing spread of diseases like Leptospirosis and they also provide companionship to those who feed them and act as their stress relievers. The court said despite the clear position of law prohibiting cruelty to the animal including stray dogs, there is an increasing tendency of the citizens to defy the same. The court said it shall be the duty of the resident welfare association (RWA) or Municipal Corporation and all government authorities including enforcement authorities like police to provide assistance and ensure that no hindrance is caused to the care-givers or feeders of community dogs and every canine has access to food and water in the absence of care-givers. It said the Animals Welfare Board of India (AWBI) shall ensure that every RWA or MCD shall have an animal welfare committee responsible for ensuring compliance of provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and ensure harmony between care-givers, feeders or animal lovers and other residents. It said community dogs have to be fed at areas designated by the AWBI in consultation with the RWAs or MCDs and while doing so, the authorities have to be conscious of the fact that every community dog is a territorial being and they must be fed and tended to at places within their territory. It said the MCDs, at the request of the RWA or local authority or volunteer, shall be responsible for having the stray dogs vaccinated or sterilised and the canines shall return to the same area and they cannot be removed by the municipality. "No hindrance, whatsoever, shall be caused to the persons in carrying out any activities in respect of the street dogs at the said spot... If any of the street dogs is injured or unwell, it shall be the duty of the RWA to secure treatment for such dog by the vets made available by the MCD or privately from the funds of the RWA," it said. Noting that street dogs are sometimes subjected to abusive treatment by some residents because of the misplaced beliefs that they carry rabies virus, the court said it is the responsibility of the community residents to get their dogs vaccinated against rabies every year to prevent the spread of rabies. It said every RWA should form Guard and Dog partnerships' and in consultation with Delhi Police Dog Squad, the dogs can be trained to make them effective as guard dogs as being territorial animals, they live in certain areas and play the role of guards by protecting the community from the entry of outsiders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||Narendra Modi likely to rejig Cabinet soon||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to reshuffle his Cabinet for the first time in his second term and factor in polls in five states next year and the 2024 Lok Sabha elections as he does so. According to a report by ndtv.com, among the likely additions are Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose defection from the Congress last year helped the BJP wrest Madhya Pradesh; and Sarbananda Sonowal, who was replaced by Himanta Biswa Sarma as the new chief minister of Assam two months back. (This is a breaking news story. More details to be added soon.)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||Centre ready to talk to farmers, but not on repeal of laws: Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday asserted that the three central agriculture laws would bring revolutionary changes in the lives of farmers, and made it clear that the government was ready to hold talks with the protesting cultivators, except on the demand of the repeal of these laws. He also claimed that in most parts of the country, most of the unions as well as farmers support these laws. His statement comes a day after BJP workers and anti-farm law protesters clashed in Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, in which some people from both sides suffered injuries. "We have told the Kisan Union that we are ready to talk on any of their proposal, barring the repeal (of these laws)," Tomar told reporters after inaugurating a hostel at an agriculture university in Gwalior. He was replying to a question that the agitators were firm on their demand of repealing the three laws. "The farm laws are going to bring in revolutionary changes in the lives of farmers. They were brought in after a 30-year exercise by agriculture experts," he said. "The state government and the Centre had taken efforts in this direction, and as a result, these farm reforms bills came into existence under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he added. "Most parts of the country, most of the unions, most of the farmers are in support of the bills. The government had held a series of talks with those opposing them," he said. However, Tomar did not respond to a question over an allegation that BJP workers reached the protest site carrying swords. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with their demands that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||No political discussions in meeting with Maharashtra CM, says Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Thursday said his recent meeting with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray focused on how to expedite development programmes of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and maintained nothing else should be deciphered from it. Talking to reporters here, Pawar said, "No politics was discussed. Our view is that some decisions need to be taken fast. My meeting with the Chief minister was to deliberate on how to expedite the state government's development programmes. There was no political discussion." The NCP leader, whose party is a key constituent in the Shiv Sena-led MVA government, had called on Thackeray here two days ago amid speculation in political circles about differences among the ruling coalition partners. The Congress is the third partner in the MVA, a coalition of parties which have different ideologies. The 80-year-old former Union agriculture minister refused to respond to questions on speculation that there was pressure on the NCP to withdraw from the MVA and that several firms belonging the Pawar family were being served notices by the ED. "This question is not relevant here," he said. Pawar was talking to reporters here after a virtual inauguration of the DY Patil Agriculture University in Kolhapur. Asked about the election for the post of assembly speaker, Pawar said the MVA allies will discuss the candidate suggested by the Congress and take a decision. "When the MVA government was formed, the speaker's post went to the Congress. Whichever candidate's name the Congress gives, it should be finalised by all the allies after discussion," the veteran politician said. The post fell vacant after Congress MLA Nana Patole resigned in February to take over as the party's state unit president. Pawar said the Centre should hold talks with farmers from North India who are protesting against the new agriculture laws for the last seven months. "The Centre should step up dialogue with them. Bringing political differences in the issue was wrong," he added. The NCP leader said the Maharashtra government favours amendments in the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre last year before their implementation in the state. "A dialogue has begun in that direction. A cabinet sub-committee headed by Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat is looking into it. I am not sure whether amendments will be introduced in the two-day monsoon session of the state legislature beginning from Monday (July 5)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Sanchit Shokeen, aka TechBar, on importance of being socially responsible as a successful YouTuber||The rapid convergence has led to the digitalisation of almost all media sectors. Let it be news or entertainment, the first tap to garner information or elevate interest is always through the phone. Thus, people on the sender's end, i.e the ones who initiate the stories or create the content always have a great responsibility to play. So, in today's date the social media sensations, the content creators, the YouTubers, the influencers, the bloggers and everyone working on and for the web has an eminent role to play in the influencing and functioning of the society. When asked about the same to famous YouTuber Sanchit Shokeen, popularly known as "Techbar" he shared his parallel thoughts on the same. Sanchit has more than 2 million-plus subscribers on his Youtube channel and creates tech videos of various types. Besides Youtube, he also has a wide fan base on social media who follows him closely. So, Sanchit believes that as he is a public figure and is followed by so many closely, he has the duty to guide and channelise people in the right way. Following the principle of "With great powers come great responsibilities", Techbar tries to maintain his integrity in both personal and professional space. He feels that once a person is successful, the success is no more individualistic but is shared by many. They are going to idolise that person and follow his or her footsteps. People who succeed become examples and that is why it is important to set good examples. The first step starts by being honest at work. Since people recognise or know them by their work so it is very important, to be honest, and true to his ground. There should not be any hoaxes or false stories kept or put forward, it should be the truth and that should be transparent. Even failures or insecurities must not be hidden and proudly owned up as it would instill strength among many others. Even when in the personal space, a successful YouTuber or a person should still be socially aware and active. He should abide by his social duties. As people follow them very closely, they take note of every action of them. So, one should always try to harness good habits and qualities that can help others become a good person. Performing actions that portray the basic virtues of life like truth, honesty, kindness, patience, cleanliness, commitment, love, respect and many more should be a part of their lives. Techbar explains this with daily activities. For example, if he comes out one day and does some social and public welfare by helping the needy, then the ones who follow him might also do the same. Or if another famous YouTuber probably educates people on Environment Day and makes a video of him planting a tree and starts a social media campaign with the same, many people are going to follow that. It doesn't matter if all of them are planting the tree from their heart or just doing it for social media but the fact that they are planting a tree makes a difference. India is a country that lags a lot of elements. There are many things that are being shut even before it comes to the limelight. If these digital creators start talking about rights, equality, justice, peace, no prejudices, the society is definitely going to get better. People on the web have a lot of power. They hold the power to change, the power to create or break a story. So, if these people can be the advocates of society, the society would be a lot greener literally as well as metaphorically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Some leaders making irresponsible statements on Covid vaccines, claims Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday alleged that various leaders were making "irresponsible statements" about the COVID-19 vaccination drive and requested them to desist from the "shameless urge to play politics" in the midst of a pandemic. Taking to Twitter he urged these leaders to spend "more energy in planning and not in creating panic". "I'm seeing irresponsible statements from various leaders regarding the largest vaccination drive. Stating facts so that people can judge intentions of these leaders. "After GoI (Government of India) provided 75 per cent of vaccines available for free, vaccination speed picked up and 11.50 crore doses were given in June," Vardhan said in a tweet. He said if there are issues in states, it shows that they need to plan their vaccination drives better. "Intra-state planning and logistics are the responsibility of the states." "If these leaders are aware of these facts and are still making such statements, I consider it most unfortunate. If they don't know, they need to focus on governance. Will again request state leaders to spend more energies in planning and not in creating panic," he said in another tweet. According to Health Ministry's inoculation data published at 7 am on Thursday cumulatively 33.57 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Modi hails doctors' contributions in fighting Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hailed the contribution of doctors in saving lives from coronavirus and announced Rs 50,000 crore credit guarantee scheme for the improvement of healthcare infrastructure. He asserted that his government gave paramount importance to augmenting healthcare infrastructure to combat the pandemic. While stressing that losing even one life is saddening, Modi said India saved the lives of lakhs of its people and a big credit for that goes to doctors, healthcare and frontline workers. Addressing doctors on the occasion of National Doctors' Day, he also highlighted "limitations" of the kind of medical infrastructure that was created in the country over several decades and how medical infrastructure was neglected in earlier times. "In our country, the population pressure makes this challenge even more difficult. But despite this, India's per lakh population rate of infection and death rate has still been manageable compared with more developed countries," Modi said. "Losing the life of even one person is very saddening but India has also saved the lives of lakhs of its people from coronavirus. A big credit for it goes to our hard-working doctors, healthcare workers and front line workers," he said. Noting that the virus is new and is mutating, the prime minister said India's doctors, with their knowledge and experience, are fighting the challenges posed by the virus. "Our government has given paramount priority to healthcare. Last year, during the 1st wave, we had allotted Rs 15,000 crore to improve our health infrastructure. This year, allocation of budget for healthcare is over Rs 2 lakh crore," Modi said. Till 2014, where there were only six AIIMS in the country, work on 15 new AIIMS has already started in the last seven years, he pointed out. The number of medical colleges has also increased by about one and a half times, he said. Now, the government has come up with a Credit Guarantee Scheme of Rs 50,000 crore to strengthen the health infrastructure in such areas where there is a lack of health facilities, Modi said. "To further improve healthcare structure, we're starting a Rs 50,000 crore credit guarantee scheme in areas where medical infrastructure is lacking," he said. "Our government is committed to safeguarding our doctors. Last year, we brought in several provisions against crimes against doctors," he said. We are also providing free insurance cover to our COVID warriors, Modi added. The way our doctors have served the country is an inspiration in itself, he said and expressed gratitude to all doctors on behalf of 130 crore Indians. Today, when the country is fighting such a big war against Corona, doctors have saved millions of lives by working hard day and night, he said. Modi also paid tributes to doctors who lost their lives while combating the covid pandemic and expressed condolences to their families. Doctors' Day is observed in honour of noted doctor and former Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||North India has no respite from heat wave till another 48 hours||North India is unlikely to get any relief from the sweltering heat as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated on Thursday that heat prevailing wave conditions are likely to continue for the next two days in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, north Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. To add to the misery of people, the southwest monsoon is not expected to reach Delhi, Punjab and other northern states before another one week or so. Not before July 7, indicated officials at IMD’s New Delhi forecasting section. The north-western part of the country has been reeling under heat wave conditions for the last few days due to a “break phase” of the monsoon, something that occurs when the monsoon has already covered most parts of the country. "The conditions are unfavourable for the advancement of monsoon further into northern India. Monsoon currents are expected to surge ahead only after July 7," said a duty officer at IMD-New Delhi. Heat wave conditions prevailed for the fourth consecutive day in Delhi and other neighbouring states of Haryana, Punjab and northern Rajasthan due to dominating westerly winds. The situation was unlikely to change in another 48 hours or so. On Thursday, Delhi sizzled under heatwave conditions with the maximum temperature settling at 43.1 degrees Celsius, six notches above normal. The minimum temperature was 31.7 degrees Celsius, also four notches above the normal. The relative humidity in the evening was 29 per cent. A thunderstorm with rain is predicted in the city on Friday. "Due to likely dry westerly/south-westerly winds from Pakistan to northwest India at lower levels, heat wave conditions in isolated/some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, north Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh (are likely) during next two days," the IMD said. Heat wave conditions prevail when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least five notches above normal. A severe heat wave is declared if the maximum reading is 6.5 degree Celsius above normal. IMD said heat wave to severe heat wave conditions were observed in isolated places over Jammu on Wednesday. Also, heat wave conditions were recorded in most places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, northwest Rajasthan and northwest Madhya Pradesh. Severe heat wave conditions were observed at isolated places over northeast Rajasthan as well, it said. On Tuesday, Delhi experienced a severe heat wave condition with the day's reading crossing an oppressive 43 degree Celsius. Met data of previous few years suggest that usually, the national capital witnesses heat waves till June 20 and cooler temperatures thereafter. The increase in the maximum temperature this year is due to delay in the arrival of the monsoon. Under normal circumstances southwest monsoon usually hits Delhi by June 27. This year, the southwest monsoon had arrived in Kerala on June 3, a delay of two days. But due to favourable conditions, the season of rains reached Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha and Bihar well within schedule. IMD-New Delhi has predicted that the monsoon this year is likely to be normal in the country as a whole. As of June 30, IMD’s monsoon data shows 10 per cent excess cumulative rainfall over the country as a whole, thanks to surplus rains in east, northeast and central India during the first month of the season. The southwest monsoon has covered the entire country but has so far eluded Haryana, Delhi, parts of Punjab, west Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Indian military developing capabilities to deal with drone threats, says army chief||Easy availability of drones has increased the complexity of security challenges and the Indian military is developing capabilities to effectively deal with the threats, be it from state-sponsored elements or by states themselves, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane said on Thursday. In an address at a think-tank, Gen Naravane said the security establishment is well aware of the challenges and certain measures have already been put in place to deal with them. "We are developing capabilities to deal with the threats whether they are state-sponsored or by states themselves. We are developing capabilities to deal with drone threats both in the kinetic and non-kinetic realm," he said. Gen Naravane was asked about the recent drone attack on Jammu Force Station. On the situation along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir, the Army chief said there has been no infiltration along the LoC after a ceasefire understanding was reached between Indian and Pakistani militaries in February. Since there is no infiltration, number of terrorists in Kashmir is lesser and so number of terrorism-related incidents also came down, he said. "There will always be elements who will try to sabotage process of peace and development; we have to cater for that," he said without elaborating. "We have a strong counter-terrorism and counter-infiltration grid in Jammu and Kashmir and our operation to ensure peace and tranquillity will continue," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||SC rejects plea of Delhi Police against HC order in Chief Secretary assault case||The Supreme Court Thursday dismissed the police plea against the Delhi High Court order asking it to supply the copy of the statement of a witness to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and 11 other MLAs in a case related to alleged assault of the then chief secretary Anshu Prakash in 2018. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chyandrachud rejected Delhi Police's plea, saying that as per the basic principle of natural justice, there must be a robust common sense that the accused must have a copy of the statement of the witnesses. The criminal case relates to alleged assault on Prakash during a meeting at Kejriwal's official residence on February 19, 2018. Kejriwal, Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs were granted bail in October 2018. The other two MLAs, Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal, were granted bail earlier by the high court. The alleged assault had triggered a bitter tussle between the Delhi government and its bureaucrats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Bombay HC upholds producer's acquittal in Gulshan Kumar murder case||The Bombay High Court on Thursday upheld the acquittal of film producer and Tips Industries co-founder Ramesh Taurani in the case of murder of music baron Gulshan Kumar in 1997, and also confirmed the conviction and life sentence imposed on accused Abdul Rauf Merchant. A division bench of Justices S S Jadhav and N R Borkar also quashed the acquittal of another accused in the case- Abdul Rashid Merchant, brother of Rauf, and convicted him to life imprisonment. Gulshan Kumar, the founder of T-Series music company, also known as the 'Cassette king', was shot dead in August 1997 outside a temple in suburban Andheri. According to the prosecution, his rivals had paid money to gangster Abu Salem to eliminate him. On April 29, 2002, a sessions court acquitted 18 of the 19 accused. The trial court convicted Rauf under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 392 (robbery) and 397 (causing grievous hurt in robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and section 27 (possession of arms) of the Indian Arms Act. Rauf subsequently appealed against the conviction, while the state government filed an appeal against the acquittal of Taurani. On Thursday, the high court dismissed the state government's appeal and upheld the acquittal of Taurani. The bench, however, upheld the conviction of Rauf and also the life sentence imposed on him, but quashed and set aside his conviction under sections 392 and 397. "The acquittal of another accused Abdul Rashid Merchant is quashed. Rashid is convicted under sections 302, 120(b) of the IPC and section 27 of the Indian Arms Act. The accused is sentenced to life imprisonment. He is directed to surrender forthwith to the trial court or the D N Nagar police station," the high court said in its order. The bench also said Abdul Rauf Merchant would not be entitled to remission, considering his conduct during the trial. "The appellant (Rauf) shall not be entitled to remission considering his criminal antecedents and in the interest of justice and public at large, he is not entitled to any leniency, the court said. The court noted that after the killing, Rauf had absconded and was arrested only in 2001. "In 2009, he (Rauf) was granted furlough, but he did not surrender and had to be arrested in 2016 again, the bench said. The court said if Rashid fails to surrender, then the sessions court can issue a non-bailable warrant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Data, demographic dividend present huge opportunity, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that data and demographic dividend combined with India's proven tech prowess presents massive opportunity for the country, and exuded confidence that this decade will be India's techade'. Speaking at a virtual event to mark the completion of six years of Digital India, Modi said India is also conscious of its responsibilities as a data powerhouse and noted that work is underway on all aspects of data protection. Data and demographic dividend present a massive opportunity for India... together, we will be successful in making this decade India's techade', Modi said. Modi also spoke - via video conference - to beneficiaries of various schemes of Digital India programme, including Diksha, eNAM, eSanjeevani solution for telemedicine, DigiBunai and PM SVANidhi scheme. The Prime Minister spoke of the critical role that technology had played during the pandemic to ensure continuity of education, access to healthcare, and other citizen services. Digital solutions created by India during COVID-19 pandemic are being acknowledged globally, he said adding that contact tracing app, Aarogya Setu, has played a key role in containing the spread of COVID-19 in the country. Six years of Digital India programme marks rapid strides that the country has taken in adoption of technology, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav hospitalised||Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav on Wednesday was admitted to Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital While the hospital is yet to release a statement on this, a report by ndtv.com said that he was being treated for some age-related ailments. Mulayam Singh Yadav, the founder of Samajwai Party, has served as Uttar Pradesh's chief minister thrice. He has also served as India's defence minister from June 1, 1996 to March 19, 1998. The seasoned leader has been facing health issues for the last few years. Last year too, he was briefly hospitalised after an infection in the urinary tract. His son Akhilesh Yadav, who has also served as UP's chief minister, is preparing for the state elections, due in a few months. Last month, he ruled out any tie-ups for the polls while speaking to ndtv.com. "My experience with big parties is not good, I will not get into any alliance with them," Akhilesh asserted. He also ruled out a "Bua-Bhatija" repeat act after his 2019 alliance with Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) flopped. "The BJP is going to lose the upcoming UP elections... they failed the people of UP in the biggest test of their leadership. People were abandoned by the government," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Seven EU nations approve Covishield amid travel pass row||Nine European nations are accepting Covishield vaccines for travel to their countries, sources said on Thursday. Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland and Spain are among the countries allowing travel by people who have taken Covishield vaccines, the sources said. They said Switzerland is also accepting Covishield as a Schengen state. Separately, Estonia has confirmed that it will recognise all vaccines authorised by the government of India for the travel of Indians to that country, the sources said. India has already asked the EU member countries to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin vaccines and want to travel to Europe. The European Union's Digital Covid certificate or "Green Pass" is coming into effect on Thursday with an aim to facilitate free movement during the COVID-19 pandemic. Under this framework, persons who have taken vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU region. The individual member states have the flexibility to also accept vaccines that have been authorised at the national level or those recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO). There have been apprehensions in India that people who took Covishield and Covaxin jabs are unlikely to be eligible to travel to the European Union member states under its 'Green Pass' scheme. The EU Digital Covid certificate or 'Green Pass' will be mandatory to travel to European countries and the document will serve as proof that a person is vaccinated against COVID-19. An EU official on Tuesday said individual member states of the European Union will have the option to accept vaccines authorised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) like Covishield for obtaining the bloc's digital Covid certificate. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday took up the issue of inclusion of Covishield in the EU digital Covid certificate scheme during a meeting with Josep Borrell Fontelles, the High Representative of the European Union. The meeting took place on the sidelines of a G20 meeting in Italy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila applies for emergency nod for its Covid vaccine||Zydus Cadila on Thursday said it has applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) with the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for its COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D. The company said it has conducted the largest clinical trial for its COVID-19 vaccine in India so far in over 50 centres. "The company has applied for EUA to the office of DCGI for ZyCoV-D - its Plasmid DNA vaccine against COVID-19," Zydus Cadila said in a statement. Dr. Sharvil Patel, Managing Director, Cadila Healthcare, said the vaccine when approved will help not only adults but also adolescents in the 12 to 18 years age group. The company said it has also evaluated a two dose regimen for ZyCoV-D vaccine using a 3 mg dose per visit and the immunogenicity results had been found to be equivalent to the current three dose regimen. This will further help in reducing the full course duration of vaccination while maintaining the high safety profile of the vaccine in the future, the company added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||India adds over 48,000 fresh Covid cases, 1005 casualties in a day||India added 48,786 new cases of coronavirus taking the total tally to 3,04,11,634, while the national recovery rate improved to 96.97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The COVID-19 death toll rose to 3,99,459 with 1,005 fresh fatalities. According to the data published at 7 am, cumulatively 33.57 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. The active cases have further declined to 5,23,257 comprising 1.72 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.97 per cent. As many as 19,21,450 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 41,20,21,494. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.54 per cent . It has been less than five per cent for 24 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.64 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 49th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,94,88,918, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 1,005 new fatalities include 221 from Uttarakhand, 142 from Kerala, 141 from Maharashtra, 113 from Tamil Nadu and 111 from Karnataka. A total of 3,99,459 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,21,945 from Maharashtra, 35,040 from Karnataka, 32,619 from Tamil Nadu, 24,977 from Delhi, 22,591 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,708 from West Bengal and 16,052 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Modi, Kejriwal express gratitude towards doctors on National Doctors' Day ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed their gratitude to all doctors on National Doctors' Day on Thursday. Remembering the contributions of the doctors, Modi said India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making the planet healthier. The Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1. "On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier," Modi tweeted. He also shared an audio clip from his 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast last Sunday in which he talked about Doctors' Day. "We are all grateful for the contribution of doctors in the Corona period. Our doctors have served us without caring about their lives. Therefore, this time National Doctors' Day becomes all the more special," Modi had said in his radio broadcast. Thanking all doctors for their service during the pandemic, Arvind Kejriwal said the debt of doctors who served people day and night during the coronavirus pandemic cannot be repaid.  "Our doctors served people day and night during the pandemic. We cannot repay their debt throughout or lives. Salute to all the doctors on National Doctors' Day who saved lives of lakhs of people and prevented their families from crumbling, " Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to the novel coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data available by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in mid June. Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 such deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed. According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Father feeds rat poison with ice-cream to three children, one dies||A six-year-old boy died while his two siblings were hospitalised after their father allegedly gave them rat poison in ice cream following a dispute with his wife in Mumbai, a police official said. The incident took place on June 25, but came to light on Tuesday when the boy died at the government-run Sion Hospital and doctors informed the Mankhurd police, the official said on Wednesday. The children's mother, Nazia Begum, told the police that she and her husband, Ali Naushad Ansari (27), a daily wage worker, often fought over money-related issues. On June 25, she left their home at Sathe Nagar in Mankhurd and went to stay with her sister after yet another quarrel, the woman said. Ansari took the three children -- two boys and one girl -- out, promising them ice cream and allegedly gave them poison, she told the police. Later, when the kids started complaining of stomach pain, Nazia Begum, who had returned home in the meanwhile, took them to Sion Hospital, the woman said. Initially, she lied to doctors that the children had eaten rat poison accidentally, but when her son died, she decided to tell the truth to police, she said. The police have also recorded the statements of the two surviving kids, who are recovering in the hospital, the official said. A case has been registered against Ansari, who is absconding, under sections for murder and attempt to murder, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||India's ultimatum to EU: accept Covaxin, Covishield or face mandatory quarantine||The European Union's reluctance in accepting Indian-made vaccines for its 'vaccination passport' has triggered a face-off with New Delhi. Sources in the foreign ministry said India will begin a reciprocal policy when it comes to exemption from quarantine. This would mean that unless the European Union accepts Covishield and Covaxin certificates, their certificates will not be accepted in the country and people from EU will face mandatory quarantine upon arrival in India, NDTV.com reported. European Union has been told that Covishield and Covaxin must be notified in its digital Covid certificate, sources said. Under the new "Green Pass" scheme, people vaccinated with Covishield are unlikely to be allowed to travel to the member states of European Union. The EU countries accept only the vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency, which are Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, and Janssen. But Covishield, which is the Indian version of AstraZeneca, is yet to get their clearance. Asked about the discrepancy by news agency ANI, Ugo Astuto, the European Union ambassador to India, said, Every approval process of vaccine must be conducted on its own merit". On Tuesday, Serum Institute sources said has applied for EU's nod for Covishield through its European partner, AstraZeneca. But European Medicines Agency said they have not received a request for the approval of Covishield. On Tuesday, foreign minister S Jaishankar took up the issue of inclusion of Covishield in the Vaccination Passport with a top EU official. "Discussed vaccine production and access. Took up 'Covishield' authorisation for travel to Europe. Will be following up," Mr Jaishankar tweeted. So far, only those vaccinated with either of the four vaccines -- Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford and Johnson & Johnson's Janssen – do not face travel restrictions. Without the approval of the EMA, nations importing Covishield will face legal issues. Indigenously made Covaxin is awaiting approval from the WHO for emergency use authorization.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Covid: Hospital deaths jump during India’s second wave||Hospitalised Covid-19 patients faced significantly higher death rates during India’s second wave than during the first, a new study has found, corroborating anecdotal accounts of a fiercer epidemic, but health researchers say the reasons remain unclear. The study that examined the outcomes of over 19,000 patients admitted across nine hospitals in five north Indian states recorded an increase in mortality across all age groups with an overall 45 per cent increase — from 7.2 per cent in wave 1 to 10.5 per cent in wave 2. India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among patients who have tested positive — has remained relatively stable, between 1.2 and 1.3 per cent through the surge in daily new infections during the second wave that peaked in early May. Doctors at the Max hospital network who led the study say overwhelmed healthcare services, admission delays and shortage of critical care beds likely contributed to the increased disease severity and mortality, but the impact of novel coronavirus variants cannot be ruled out. They have observed the sharpest increase in mortality among patients aged below 45 years, rising to 4.1 per cent during the second wave, mainly in April and May, from 1.3 per cent during the first wave between July and November last year. But the rise occurred across all age groups. Sandeep Budhiraja, senior director for internal medicine at a Max hospital in Delhi, and his collaborators analysed the disease features and outcomes of 14,398 hospitalised patients during the first wave and 5,454 during the second wave. The mortality was higher among patients admitted in both intensive care units as well as in wards. The doctors suspect this was because many sick patients on high-flow oxygen had to be treated in wards as there were no ICU beds available during the second wave’s peak. The hospitals also received a higher proportion of patients with severe illness — 39 per cent during wave 2 compared with 32 per cent during wave 1. Admission delays amid extreme shortage of ward and ICU beds could have contributed to this increase. “By the time they could get (beds) in the hospital, they were already in moderate or severe hypoxemic (low oxygen) failure,” Budhiraja and the collaborators said in their study not peer-reviewed yet but posted on medRxiv, an online repository for research preprints. They observed higher mortality among patients in wards (3.1 per cent during wave 2 versus 0.5 per cent during wave 1), ICUs (25.1 per cent versus 19.8 per cent), and on invasive ventilation (68.4 per cent versus 62.5 per cent.) “This study puts numbers on what we’ve suspected through anecdotal accounts and experience,” said Aakanksha Chawla, a senior pulmonary medicine specialist at the Apollo Indraprastha hospital in New Delhi, who was not associated with the study. “The healthcare system was just not equipped to handle the dramatic rise in the surge from mid-April to mid-May — amid the bed and ICU shortages, we saw more severe disease, more deaths, and more younger people coming in,” Chawla said. Sections of medical researchers, however, caution that while the hospital-based study appears to corroborate suspicions of higher mortality and greater levels of severe disease, it might still be premature to declare the second wave as inherently worse than the first. Rajesh Pandey, a critical care medicine specialist and one of the study team members, said that while the hospital analysis pointed to higher mortality, higher inflammatory disease and greater secondary bacterial infections among the patients during the second wave, the reasons remain unclear. “While the much larger numbers of patients posed a challenge, we know that the second surge also coincided with the emergence and growth of the variants, particularly the delta variant,” Pandey said. Although scientists know that the delta variant is highly transmissible and has the potential to cause infections in people believed protected by vaccination or prior Covid-19 infections, virologists say there is no clinical data yet to suggest that it causes more severe disease than earlier variants. But a citywide study has spotted a mortality dip. An independent study of an entire city’s Covid-19 patients’ outcomes in Pune has found that the case fatality rate fell from 2.5 per cent during the first wave to 1.1 per cent during the second wave. The Pune study by health researchers at the Johns Hopkins University Clinical Research Site at the BJ Government Medical College, Pune, measured the death rates among over 162,000 patients last year and 275,000 patients this year. The rise in mortality among hospitalised patients and the lower case fatality rate in an entire city while appearing contradictory are not comparable measurements, according to health researchers, because they probe two different subsets of patients — those hospitalised and all those positive. “Hospitalised patients represent a only small subset of the population that has tested positive,” said Prasad Bogam, a public health specialist and a team member of the Pune study. “Mortality measured among hospitalised patients cannot be compared with case fatality rates in a population.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir ends 149-year-old darbar move tradition||The administration of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha appears to have formally put an end to a 149-year-old biannual tradition of shifting offices between summer capital Srinagar and winter capital Jammu. The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday cancelled the residential accommodation of “darbar move” employees in Jammu and Srinagar, implying the employees will remain stationed in either Jammu or Kashmir. The officials have been asked to vacate their quarters in the twin capital cities within three weeks. The move came days after Sinha’s administration said it has completely transitioned to an e-office, after which the “darbar move” was no longer needed. “Now both the Jammu and Srinagar secretariats can function normally for 12 months. This will save the government Rs 200 crore per year, which will be used for the welfare of the deprived sections,” the lieutenant governor had said. The decision appears to make the concept of two capitals — summer capital Srinagar and winter capital Jammu — irrelevant. The government is yet to clarify whether the Union Territory will have one or two capitals. An order issued by the commissioner secretary of the estates department, M. Raju, said a sanction had been accorded to the cancellation of the allotment of residential accommodation of officers and officials in Srinagar and Jammu. Since the practice was started by erstwhile Dogra rulers in 1872, hundreds of employees from Jammu and Kashmir divisions used to shuttle between the two capitals every six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Supreme Court nod to ex-gratia for kin of Covid dead||Relatives of patients killed by Covid will have to be paid ex gratia under a central law, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday after brushing aside the Narendra Modi government’s contention that such payouts are not mandatory. But the court declined to fix the amount at Rs 4 lakh each, which the petitioners had sought on the basis of central guidelines issued in 2015 for disaster victims’ survivors. The court asked the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to decide the size of the payment within six weeks. At least 3.98 lakh people in the country have succumbed to Covid so far but the Centre has been stonewalling payment of ex gratia — meant to tide over immediate exigencies — by splitting semantic hairs, insisting that the word “shall” in a section of the Disaster Management Act should be read as “may”. The contention did not cut ice with the court. The apex court directed the NDMA to frame within six weeks uniform guidelines for payment of the Covid ex gratia to the relatives. A special bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah said the NDMA could fix a reasonable amount while keeping in mind the funds and resources available with the country. The court directed the government to simplify the procedure for issuing death certificates in Covid cases to avoid harassment of the ex gratia claimants. In this context, the alleged attempts by some state governments to tamper with the Covid casualty figures assumes an additional dimension that has a direct bearing on the affected families. The appropriate authority is directed to issue simplified guidelines for issuance of death certificates and other official documents stating the exact cause, that is “death due to Covid-19”, to the families of the deceased, the court said. Such guidelines may also provide for remedy and corrections in the certificates if the families are not satisfied with the cause of death, the bench added. Usually, payments under the Disaster Management Act are given by the Centre. The State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) — funded 75 per cent by the Centre and the rest by the respective general category state government — is also tapped. Once the NDMA frames the guidelines, it will be clear from where the Covid ex gratia payouts will be made. The court said the “national authority” (the NDMA) had failed to perform its statutory duty. The court pointed out that the government had in a letter dated March 14, 2020, declared the Covid-19 pandemic as a “notified disaster”, which falls within the purview of the Disaster Management Act. The court did not agree with the government’s submission that the word “shall” in Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act that deals with payment of ex gratia should be read as “may”. “To construe the word ‘shall’ as ‘may’ and as directory/discretionary, the very object and purpose of the Act will be defeated. The word ‘shall’ used twice in Section 12 significantly imposes a duty cast upon the National Authority to issue guidelines for the minimum standards of relief, which shall include ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life as also assistance on account of damage to houses and for restoration of means of livelihood,” the court said. The court, however, agreed with the Centre’s stand that the plea for a directive to pay a minimum of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the Covid patients who died could not be mandated as the government had various other related financial commitments. The government listed among these commitments free vaccines, anti-viral drugs and foodgrains amid the pandemic, besides a stimulus to the Covid-battered economy. The court was dealing with a batch of petitions filed by advocates Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal and a couple of other interveners pleading for a minimum ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh to every family that has lost a member to Covid. Justice Shah said: “It cannot be disputed that these (pandemic) deaths have affected families from all classes…. Many have lost the sole bread-earner. “However, at the same time… the impact and effect of the present pandemic/disaster would be different from the other disasters/natural disasters for which ex gratia assistance is provided. There shall not be any justification to provide for the same/similar amount by way of ex gratia assistance as provided in the case of other disasters/natural disaster, i.e. Rs 4 lakh.” Justice Shah added: “No state or country has unlimited resources. That is why it only announces the financial relief/packages to the extent it is possible.” The court said the Centre should take appropriate steps on the recommendations made by the Finance Commission in its 15th report on providing social security to certain targeted groups such as health workers, post-mortem workers, cremation and burial site worker. The stakeholders and experts will have to be consulted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Covid: Several states face vaccine shortage following Centre blitz||Multiple states, including Bengal, Delhi, Gujarat, Jharkhand and Maharashtra, are facing shortages of Covid-19 vaccines after a sharp rise in the nationwide average daily doses administered for a week starting June 21 when the Centre resumed responsibility for vaccine procurement. Bengal on Wednesday decided to prioritise second doses amid what a state health official has described as an “acute shortage” of vaccines; a Jharkhand official said the state had no doses left for Wednesday and the inoculation drive was halted at several centres; and Mumbai’s municipal corporation said there would be no jabs on Thursday because of inadequate stocks. Several vaccination centres in Ahmedabad witnessed long queues and chaotic scenes as people turned up in large numbers for jabs amid supplies a city official said were not sufficient to meet the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s target of vaccinating 100,000 people daily. A Press Trust of India report quoted AMC medical officer Bhavin Solanki as saying the city is vaccinating people, depending on the supply that varies daily. “Like yesterday (Tuesday) we received 35,000 doses. Some days we receive 20,000 doses or even 13,000 doses.” Health experts say such intermittent episodes of acute vaccine shortages are occurring against the backdrop of a vaccination campaign that was expanded in April this year for all adults without provisions for extra doses it would require. The June 21 policy change allows anyone to seek walk-in registrations across the country. “Wherever the demand from the public on specific days exceeds supplies, there are bound to be shortages,” a public health expert said. “Another possible explanation — the shortages we’re seeing this week might be the result of efforts to substantially increase daily doses administered in the week starting June 21,” said R. Ramakumar, a professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. The Union health ministry had said 120 million doses were available for June. That would allow on average four million daily doses. Any attempt to raise the daily doses significantly during the month could impact availability for the subsequent days of the month — unless additional doses are available — either from earlier unused doses or fresh supplies. While the campaign had administered a nationwide average of 2.99 million doses daily during April, 1.96 million daily during May and 4.03 million daily from June 1 to June 20, the average from June 21 to 28 rose to 5.7 million doses. Two senior health officials had said last week that the record of over 8 million doses administered on June 21 had been “orchestrated” to demonstrate the nation’s capacity to deliver large quantums of doses. The Centre on June 21 resumed the responsibility of procuring vaccines for states and facilitating doses for private hospitals after a 50-day experiment during which states and private hospitals were expected to procure 50 per cent available doses. The health ministry has said 120 million doses — 100 million Covishield and 20 million Covaxin — would be available for distribution to states and private hospitals in July, the same quantum as was available during June 2021. “The quantum of doses available has not changed from June to July — a total of 120 million doses for a month would allow an average of about 4 million a day, not the average of over 5.7 million administered over the past week,” said Ramakumar. Public health experts say decisions to prioritise second doses amid vaccine shortages is in line with the health ministry’s guidelines. Vaccination advisers have said the Centre had tried to caution states that independent procurement by them would not be practical but had to give in under intense demand from states and sections of public health experts. “A certain environment had emerged in April — states pointed out that health is a state subject — the option (state procurement) was offered,” a senior health official guiding the vaccination policy told The Telegraph. The shortages reported by multiple states come amid assertions by health officials that India’s vaccination campaign is already among the fastest in the world and still gaining speed. India has so far administered more than 335 million doses, but only about 6 per cent of the estimated eligible population of 944 million is fully vaccinated with two doses. A senior health official had said on Tuesday that the average of 5.7 million daily doses administered between June 21-28 was equivalent to inoculating more than the entire population of Finland or Norway in a single day. The official also said the US had taken 193 days to reach The 320-million-dose mark, while India took 163 days. Experts, however, underline that the US has fully immunised over 46 per cent of its population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Ladakh: Rajnath Singh informed of China's refusal to disengage from Line of Actual Control||The military leadership has informed defence minister Rajnath Singh of China’s refusal to disengage from India-claimed lines at the remaining friction points in Ladakh, sources in the defence ministry said on Wednesday. “Senior commanders of the army’s northern command briefed Singh during his three-day visit to the region about the security situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. During the closed-door meeting, the commanders made a PowerPoint presentation to show massive build-up by China at the remaining friction points inside India-claimed lines,” a ministry official said. Singh, who was in Ladakh since Sunday, said the matter would be taken up again with the Chinese army during the next military and diplomatic-level talks, the official added. After a “partial” disengagement from Pangong Lake in February, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has so far refused to disengage from Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra. India has been pressing for disengagement from the remaining friction points, but the Chinese are said to have set conditions and have refused to disengage if their demands are not met. Sources said the Chinese PLA during the 11th round of military-level talks in April had claimed that the occupied zones on Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra belonged to them and wanted Indian troops to move further back within the India-claimed territory. “They want disengagement on their terms and have asked the Indian side to create demilitarised zones at the remaining friction points similar to the ones on the Pangong Lake and the Galwan Valley. This condition amounts to further territory loss for India,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. It has continued to cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points on the Depsang Plains — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May 2020. In July last year, China had agreed to disengage from Hot Springs and Gogra but has since gone back on its word. Four days after the clash at Galwan Valley killed 20 Indian and at least four Chinese soldiers on June 15 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asserted that no one had occupied or was occupying Indian territory, allowing Beijing to dismiss allegations of border transgressions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Justice Ramana asserts the need for complete judicial freedom||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Wednesday asserted that the judiciary needed “complete freedom” from any extraneous influence to be “able to apply checks on governmental power and action” and enforce the rule of law. “For the judiciary to apply checks on governmental power and action, it has to have complete freedom. The judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, or else the rule of law would become illusory,” Justice Ramana said while delivering the 17th Justice P.D. Desai Memorial Lecture in New Delhi on Wednesday evening. The CJI said: “At the same time, judges should not be swayed by the emotional pitch of public opinion either, which is getting amplified through social media platforms. Judges have to be mindful of the fact that the noise thus amplified is not necessarily reflective of what is right and what majority believes in.” “The new media tools that have enormous amplifying ability are incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong, good and bad and the real and fake. Therefore, media trials cannot be a guiding factor in deciding cases,” the CJI said. “It is, therefore, extremely vital to function independently and withstand all external aids and pressures. While there is a lot of discussion about the pressure from the executive, it is also imperative to start a discourse as to how social media trends can affect the institution,” Justice Ramana added. He made it clear that he was by no means suggesting that judges and the judiciary needed to be completely disassociated from what is happening around them. Judges cannot stay in “ivory castles” and decide questions that pertain to social issues, the CJI said. Since 2014, there has been frequent friction between the judiciary and the executive. That year, the Narendra Modi government had introduced the National Judicial Appointments Commission for selecting judges instead of the prevalent system of appointments made by the Supreme Court collegium. The NJAC was struck down as unconstitutional by a five-judge Supreme Court bench in October 2015. The Centre has been accused of sitting on several recommendations of the Supreme Court collegium for elevation of judges to high courts and the apex court although around 40 per cent of judge posts are lying vacant in high courts. The Supreme Court has on multiple occasions queried the government on the status of the recommendations. Justice Ramana pointed out that in the 17 Lok Sabha elections held so far, the people have changed the ruling party or a combination of parties eight times. In spite of large-scale inequalities, illiteracy, backwardness, poverty and alleged ignorance, the people of independent India have proved themselves to be intelligent and up to the task, the judge said. “The masses have performed their duties reasonably well. Now, it is the turn of those who are manning the key organs of the State to ponder if they are living up to the constitutional mandate,” Justice Ramana said. “It has always been well recognised that the mere right to change the ruler once every few years by itself need not be a guarantee against tyranny. The idea that people are the ultimate sovereign is also to be found in notions of human dignity and autonomy. “A public discourse that is both reasoned and reasonable is to be seen as an inherent aspect of human dignity and hence essential to a properly functioning democracy,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI quoted Rabindranath Tagore: “Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high. Where knowledge is free…” He also quoted Telugu poet Gurujada Appa Rao to say: “A nation is not merely a territory. A nation is essentially its people. Only when its people progress, the nation progresses.” Justice Ramana said a judge’s “ultimate responsibility” was to uphold the Constitution and laws. “The oath we took, to perform our duties ‘without fear or favour, affection or ill-will’, applies equally to governmental and non-governmental entities. The ultimate responsibility of a judge is, after all, to uphold the Constitution and the laws. Reason, reasonableness and protection of human dignity are the values that will serve us well,” he said. Observing that law was a double-edged sword, Justice Ramana said: “It can be used not only to render justice, it can also be used to justify oppression.” The CJI said an “unjust law” might not have the same moral legitimacy as a “just law”, but it might still command the obedience of some sections of the society to the detriment of others. Justice Ramana noted that during colonial rule the British used the law as a tool of political repression, enforcing it unequally on the British and the Indians. “It was an enterprise famous for ‘rule by law’, rather than “rule of law” as it aimed at controlling the Indian subjects. Judicial remedies lost their significance as they were administered keeping in view the best interests of the colonial power, rather than what was just or legal,” Justice Ramana said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Covid: India asks EU to allow travel with Covaxin or Covishield vaccines||India is working with the European Union member countries to extend the exemption granted on travel restrictions under its Digital Covid Certificate framework to Indians who have taken Covaxin or Covishield vaccines. As a reciprocal gesture, India is offering to waive mandatory quarantine requirements for EU nationals holding the EU Digital Covid Certificate from those countries which agree to relax travel restrictions on Indians who have taken Covaxin or Covishield. The digital certificate is scheduled to come into force on Thursday and seeks to facilitate safe and free movement of citizens in the European Union during the pandemic. As of date, only four vaccines have been authorised for use in the EU by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) — Comirnaty, Spikevax (previously Moderna), Vaxzevria (previously AstraZeneca) and Janssen. Though Covishield is using analogous production technology to Vaxzevria, it does not have EMA authorisation; raising the spectre of Indians facing difficulties in travelling to the EU nations. Till last weekend, Serum Institute of India had not applied for marketing authorisation for Covishield which is mandatory as EU law necessitates assessment of manufacturing sites and production process. According to the European Commission, the executive branch of the EU, “when travelling, the EU Digital Covid Certificate holder should in principle be exempted from free movement restrictions: Member states should refrain from imposing additional travel restrictions on the holders of an EU Digital Covid Certificate, unless they are necessary and proportionate to safeguard public health’’. New Delhi, sources said, has requested EU member states to individually consider extending similar exemption to those persons who have taken Covid-19 vaccines in India and accept the vaccination certificate issued through the CoWIN portal. Once an EU country agrees to this exemption, India will institute a reciprocal policy for recognition of the digital Covid certificate. “Upon notification of Covishield and Covaxin for inclusion in the EU Digital Covid Certificate and recognition of Indian CoWIN vaccination certificates, Indian health authorities would reciprocally exempt the EU member state concerned for exemption from mandatory quarantine for all those persons carrying digital Covid certificate,’’ a source said. Amid concerns that the vaccines produced in India will not be acknowledged in the EU and create problems in travelling to member countries, an EU official on Tuesday clarified that the digital Covid certificate “is not a pre-condition to travel’’. Further, member countries have the option to accept vaccinations authorised by the World Health Organisation, including Covishield. “For travelling to the EU from India, temporary restrictions on non-essential travel are currently in place from many non-EU countries, including India, due to Covid. The EU member states shall gradually lift these temporary travel restrictions at the external borders, based on developments of the health situation,’’ the official in Delhi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Jammu: Police experts worry over increased drone attacks||Several drones have been sighted over Jammu skies since Sunday’s attack on the heavily guarded Indian Air Force station that was suspected to have been perpetrated through such unmanned aerial vehicles, leaving police experts worried about the “ease” with which they were being deployed. Adding to the intrigue is the fact that the security agencies are still at a loss over whether the drones are flying in from across the border or are being operated through remote control by people on the Indian side of the Line of Control. Officials said drones had been spotted at various locations from Monday to Wednesday. The army has officially confirmed only two sightings — over the Kaluchak and Ratnuchak cantonment areas in the small hours of Monday. They are to the south and north of the IAF station that was targeted in Sunday night’s explosion that caused damage to a building and injured two personnel. Sources in the security establishment said another drone was sighted at the Miran Sahib area of Jammu at 9.25pm on Tuesday. Two more were sighted over Kaluchak and Kunjwani early on Wednesday, they said. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting to frame a policy to deal with emerging security threats and futuristic challenges facing the country. On Monday, the defence spokesman in Jammu, Devender Anand, had said two separate drone activities were spotted over the Ratnuchak and Kaluchak military areas by troops and a high alert was sounded immediately. He said quick reaction teams fired at the drones, which flew away. Anand told The Telegraph on Wednesday that it was being investigated where the drones landed. “It is not known. At night you cannot make out whether it had come from (Pakistan) or where it had gone. It is less likely something will come that far (from Pakistan), although some agencies are presuming that,” the spokesman said. The National Investigation Agency has taken over the probe into the attack on the IAF station. An official in Jammu said the security agencies had taken a slew of measures to prevent a repeat of Sunday’s attack. He said drone monitoring and jammer systems had been installed at the IAF station in Jammu, and that other vital installations were also being secured. “It is suspected that the attack was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Toiba terror outfit,” the official said. The sources said the security forces had conducted searches at multiple places in Jammu but had not been able to locate even a single drone or the men operating them. Police officers handling drones in Kashmir for the past several years said they were surprised how such machines could be used to carry out the attack on the IAF installation in Jammu. “They are flying at ease (in Jammu),” an officer said. Another officer explained that drones are connected to two systems, a remote controlled by a person on the ground and a satellite. “How does the drone know I have to operate from one point to another? It knows through satellite, this mapping is on satellite. Remote control does help in flying but ultimately the route is viewed by the satellite. If a command goes through the satellite that the drone should not go from point A to B, it will not go.” The officer said only a handful of countries — the US, Russia and China — had such satellites and they could be tapped to geo-fence all the vital installations. The officer refused to say whether the police had geo-fenced its vital locations. The police have been using drones since 2015 in Kashmir in its fight against pro-azadi protesters and militants. The police have procured dozens of “unmanned aerial vehicles”, or drones. Kashmir police have at least 50 DJI MAVIC2 drones, which have infrared-sensing systems with a fully stabilised three-axis camera, providing infrared and visual images simultaneously. The officer said it was possible that militants were operating the drones sighted in Jammu from either Pakistan or India. “Non-industrial drones, which I believe are being operated in Jammu, can fly at a height of 500 metres. They have 360-degree vision and can see if they are fired upon and manoeuvre accordingly. They cannot be detected by radar because they are small and can fly up to 7km. It is a lot of aerial distance,” he said. “It is quite possible that the two drones used in the attack on the IAF station came from across the border as the aerial distance would not be more than 7km. The other possibility of someone remotely controlling the device from our side of the border is always there,” the officer said. Experts said drones could be converted into bombs by using sticker bombs or by air-dropping the explosives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Punjab Congress crisis: Sidhu meets Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi||Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu kept the Congress first family busy on Wednesday as the party sought to battle factionalism in the Punjab unit ahead of next year’s Assembly elections. Sidhu began his day with what he described as a “long meeting’’ with Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. He wrapped up the day with a meeting with former party president Rahul Gandhi. Priyanka was also on the premises when Rahul and Sidhu met but it is not clear whether she attended the meeting. In between, Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi was seen going to her son’s 12 Tughlaq Lane residence. However, after the hectic parleys throughout the day, there was no official word on the fate of these meetings. Sidhu left Rahul’s residence after an hour without speaking to the media. All he did was hold up folded hands from the front seat of his chauffer-driven car. Sidhu is eyeing the post of the Punjab Congress chief but chief minister Amarinder Singh is not in favour of such a move. As an alternative, the Congress is understood to have offered Sidhu the post of deputy chief minister in Punjab, campaign committee chairmanship and membership of the central election committee which clears candidates for the elections. Both Amarinder and Sidhu are opposed to the proposal of making the former cricketer deputy chief minister. Sidhu, who entered politics with the BJP, joined the Congress in 2017 before the Assembly elections and was made a minister. However, he stepped down from the council of ministers two years later, upset with the manner in which Amarinder downgraded him. While the Sidhu-Amarinder strain has drawn the maximum attention — primarily because of the ex-cricketer’s flamboyant ways and caustic jibes — the chief minister is facing criticism from several other leaders in the state unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Centre to prepare real-time  social registry with information on assets||The Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) that collected economic and caste data of households in 2011-12 will not be updated, sources said. Instead, the Centre will prepare a social registry of households with information on assets and benefits reaching them through government schemes. The registry will be drawn up using household data being collected under the ongoing population census. The central government is not keen on maintaining caste data in the registry, two senior government officials said. Leaders of different social groups have threatened agitation if their demand for inclusion of caste data in the social registry is not met. The decision on the social registry has been taken by the Prime Minister’s Office after the ministry of rural development proposed the conduct of the SECC for the second time. “The idea is that all relevant data of every household will be maintained under the social registry. For example, homelessness, landlessness, employment status, benefits being received by the family and the number of persons in a family will be maintained on a real-time basis to help the government implement welfare schemes,” an official said. The Registrar General of India (RGI) is currently collecting population data under the routine decadal census. The population census collects data on certain economic aspects but is not as comprehensive as the SECC. The population census also collects data on the population of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes but not any other social community. The official said developed nations maintained social registry on a real-time basis. The ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) has been entrusted with coordinating with other ministries for the development of the social registry. “The MeitY and other ministries will decide how detailed information of households would be gathered after the basic household data are obtained from the RGI,” said the official. The SECC 2011-12 collected data on caste of the households apart from assets such as telephone, motorcycle, land, pucca house, landlessness and tax payment. The government in 2015 released the economic data and set up a committee under then vice-chairman of Niti Aayog, Arvind Panagariya, to classify the caste names returned in the SECC with details of households. The committee has not given its report till date. Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former acting Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court and former chairperson of the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), said the government must include caste under the proposed social registry. “Nearly 85 per cent of people who are mulnivasi of the country are poorly represented in public services and higher education. Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar has talked about proportionate representation of every community in public services and education. Caste data are crucial for equitable development of communities,” Eswaraiah said. He said if caste data were not included, various organisations such as the All India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation, Backward Classes Federation, Rashtriya OBC Mahasangh and All India Federation of OBCs would launch an agitation. Former National Advisory Council (NAC) member N.C. Saxena said a real-time social registry was a good initiative if updated efficiently. “Data collected under any survey become old after one year. The government continues to use the old data for its welfare schemes while new eligible beneficiaries get ignored,” Saxena said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Covid: Odisha government eases curbs in 20 districts||In a bid to strike a balance between life and livelihood, the Odisha government on Wednesday eased a number of coronavirus-related restrictions to provide the much needed thrust to business activities. However, it has extended the partial lockdown, which was scheduled to end on July 1, by another 15 days, to July 16. Chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra told a news conference: “The threat of Covid-19 still persists. But at the same time, we are worried about the livelihood of people. The state has been divided into two categories — A and B. The (20) districts that come under category A are those where the test positivity rate is below 5 per cent and category B districts (10) are those where the rate is still above 5 per cent. Mostly districts in the coastal belt come under category B. We need more time to ease restrictions in the category B districts.” In category A districts, the shops will remain open from 6am to 6pm. “There will be no weekend shutdown (Saturday and Sunday) in the category A districts,” the chief secretary said. According to the revised guidelines, bus transport is also allowed in category A districts under strict Covid guidelines. Buses will be allowed to carry passengers upto their seating capacity. “Taxis and autos can carry a maximum of two passengers,” said Mohapatra. Considering the demands of the artistes’ association, the state government has allowed outdoor film shooting in category A districts. Daily markets and weekly haats can open, small salons can function while street food vendors can operate takeaway businesses in these districts. The category A districts are Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Boudh, Sambalpur, Deogarh, Bolangir, Nuapada, Sonepur, Ganjam, Gajapati, Kandhamal, Baragarh, Kalahandi, Koraput, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri, Rayagada, Angul, Dhenkanal and Keonjhar. The category B districts — Cuttack, Khurda, Nayagarh, Puri, Jajpur, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Balasore and Mayurbhanj — are those where the number of Covid cases are still high. Capital Bhubaneswar falls under Khurda district. “In these districts, shops will remain open from 6am to 2pm,” Mohapatra said. But shopping malls, spas and beauty parlours shall continue to remain closed in the category B districts. The state government has entrusted the job of maintaining Covid guidelines in the market areas to the shopkeeper associations and shop owners. “We have given the responsibility to (shopkeeper) associations to ensure that their members adhere to the Covid guidelines. The shopkeepers will engage their staff to ensure that people follow social distancing and other norms on their premises. We have empowered the collectors and municipal commissioners to make surprise checks to find out whether the guidelines are being adhered to or not. They can seal the market building (if norms are being violated) and also initiate criminal action,” said the chief secretary. Mohapatra made it clear that night curfew would continue across the state from 6pm to 6am. “Only authorised people will be allowed to move (at night). The threat of Covid-19 still persists. Hundreds of cases are being still reported every day across the state,” he said. The restrictions on the number of people who can attend marriages (maximum 25 people) and funerals (maximum 20 people) will continue. Religious and educational institutions and cinema halls shall continue to remain closed, while the ban on public gatherings, trade fairs, exhibitions and jatra (theatre) shall continue across Odisha, Mohapatra said. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Lakshadweep sniffs bid to skirt Kerala HC order on Kavaratti ||The Lakshadweep administration accorded the deputy collector’s powers to the block development officer of Kavaratti hours after Kerala High Court stayed the notice issued by the BDO for demolition of several houses on the island. The court had on Tuesday stayed the demolition of houses until further notice citing the “lack of authority of the 4th respondent (block development officer) in issuing such a notice”. Director of services S. Asker Ali, who is also the district collector, has issued the order stating that the BDO would hold the charge of deputy collector until further orders as the deputy collector was on leave. The islanders see this as a way to override the court order by empowering the BDO with the authority to demolish houses. Two islanders had on Monday moved the court seeking relief from the showcause notice through which the administration planned to demolish over 70 houses in Kavaratti and several other structures after the deadline of June 30. Issued by the BDO, the notice had cited violation of Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands Land Revenue and Tenancy Regulation, 1965, and the Integrated Island Management Plan. The notice cited the regulation to claim that the landowners did not possess diversion certificates to claim full ownership of the land. The notice also alleged that the buildings flouted the Integrated Island Management Plan that had declared all constructions within 20 metres of the high tide line as a “no development zone”. But the petitioners had argued that the BDO did not have the jurisdiction to issue such a notice, and that the regulation contained provisions against demolishing dwellings belonging to the islanders as they were classified as Scheduled Tribes. Lakshadweep district panchayat member Asif Ali of the Nationalist Congress Party said the administration was bent on carrying out its plans. “The collector issued the order giving the jurisdiction to the BDO within hours after the high court stayed the demolition,” Ali told The Telegraph on Wednesday. While the majority of the houses in the isles are on properties owned by their occupants, there are vast tracts of land along the shore that come under a different ownership system. Once ruled by the Arakkal kingdom of Kannur — Kerala’s only Muslim kingdom — Lakshadweep was later ruled by the British until Independence. “Since the shoreline usually changes its width depending on the tide, the 20-metre margin from the high tide line cannot be maintained all the time. So we are careful enough not to build our homes close to the shore,” Ali said. Only temporary sheds to park fishing boats and coconuts are built closer to the shore. Advocate R. Rohith, who appeared for the petitioners, said it won’t be easy for the administration to demolish the houses by empowering the BDO. “The same set of arguments that we made before the high court would still be valid to protect these houses. The fight is for clear ownership of these properties to their respective occupants.” Even an amendment made to the regulation provided only for “possession” and not ownership. While the regulation was published in the official gazette in March 2020, it is yet to be notified in Lakshadweep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Ayodhya: Journalist assaulted for report on lack of development||A journalist in Uttar Pradesh was knocked off his motorcycle by an SUV and hit on the head with iron rods by five men on Tuesday evening after he had written about lack of development in the Ayodhya constituency of a BJP legislator. Pateshwari Singh, a freelance reporter who writes for newspapers and web portals, has been admitted to the district hospital in Ayodhya with serious injuries to the back of his skull. The attack on Singh comes a fortnight after the death of ABP News and ABP Ganga journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgargh town, a day after he had written to police expressing fear that the liquor mafia would “harm” him and seeking protection. The police registered a murder case after initially claiming that Srivastava, who was found on a road with multiple face injuries and his clothes torn on June 14, had died in an accident. No arrest has yet been made. Singh, the Ayodhya journalist, said he had written some articles about the alleged lack of development in the constituency of Gosainganj MLA Indra Pratap Tiwari alias Kahbbo Tiwari, an accused in several criminal cases including murder. Tiwari denied any involvement in the attack on the journalist. Singh alleged that Tiwari’s henchmen had been threatening him with consequences for his articles. “Recently, I had written some articles against Gosainganj MLA Indra Pratap Tiwari. Since then, I was being threatened by goons,” Singh said from his hospital bed. “A man I did not know had approached me two days ago and threatened to punish me for writing against the BJP MLA. On Tuesday evening when I was returning home from work around 6.30pm, a black Tata Safari hit me from behind. As I fell off my bike, five men came out of the car and pummelled me with iron rods. They said this was punishment for writing against Tiwari,” Singh said. “Earlier too, an aide of the MLA had registered a false assault case against me. Tiwari wants me to write whatever he says and never highlight in my reports the lack of development in his constituency,” the journalist said. Tiwari denied the allegations. “I don’t know the journalist. They are free to write against me. I am into politics and have not committed any crime,” the MLA said. Vijay Pal Singh, the superintendent of police of Ayodhya, said a case had been registered against unidentified persons for attacking the journalist and an investigation was on. “Some local people rescued the journalist. We are trying to collect more details from them,” the officer added. Police sources in Ayodhya said there were a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder, criminal intimidation and loot against MLA Tiwari. In a video that had been widely shared on social media in January, Tiwari had been seen saying that he did “not care about the BJP’s constitution”. “I am a Brahmin and I care for Brahmins only. I forget the party and other things when I hear that a Brahmin is being harassed. I can’t see anything other than the welfare of Brahmins. This is my face and this is my character,” he was heard purportedly telling a gathering. Tiwari had initially been in the Samajwadi Party. He joined the Bahujan Samaj Party in 2012 and switched to the BJP in 2017, following which he won the Assembly election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
