02-07-2021||India||'Pogonotrophy': Tharoor drops another new word, takes dig at PM Modi while explaining meaning||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, known for his penchant for rarely used English words, sent the Twitterati running for their dictionaries on Friday with another head scratcher -- pogonotrophy. Tharoor said he learnt of the new word pogonotrophy, which means the growing or cultivation of a beard, from a friend. He also used the word to take an apparent dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  A Twitter user reached out to Tharoor, saying she was waiting to learn a new word and the former Union minister was quick to oblige.  "My friend Rathin Roy, the economist, taught me a new word today: pogonotrophy, which means 'the cultivation of a beard'. As in, the PM's pogonotrophy has been a pandemic preoccupation," he said in a tweet.  Tharoor's tweet left many bemused with a Twitter user saying, "If the world has Oxford dictionary Why not India has Tharur Dictionary (sic)?"  "Thanks for sharing this one from Tharoorictionary," said another user. This is not the first time Tharoor has sent Twitterati scurrying for their dictionaries. In May, Tharoor engaged in a friendly banter with TRS working president K T Rama Rao over COVID-19 medicine names and threw in another head scratcher -- floccinaucinihilipilification. Oxford dictionary describes floccinaucinihilipilification as the action or habit of estimating something as worthless. Tharoor has been a man of many words earlier too. In the past, he has stumped people with rarely used English words such as "farrago" and "troglodyte". While farrago means a confused mixture, a troglodyte means a person regarded as being deliberately ignorant or old-fashioned. Tharoor has also started a new weekly column on words in the Weekend Magazine of the 'Khaleej Times' of Dubai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
02-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat resigns||BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as Uttarakhand chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. Rawat handed over the resignation letter to Governor Baby Rani Maurya past 11 pm, hours after returning from Delhi where he was summoned by the top BJP leadership on Wednesday. The Uttarakhand BJP legislature party will meet Saturday to elect its new leader, who will be later sworn in as the next CM of the state where assembly elections are due early next year. Tirath Singh Rawat had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat on March 10 after he was similarly asked by the party to step down. The Constitution required Rawat, who is an MP, to get elected as a member of the state Assembly within six months to continue as CM. But there seemed increasing uncertainty over the Election Commission holding bypolls for the two vacant seats in the state when there is less than a year to go before the next assembly elections. Rawat met party president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi, amid speculation of another leadership change in the hill state. Returning to Dehradun, he addressed a press conference in Dehradun on Friday night. Contrary to expectations, he did not announce his resignation there. But shortly after the press meet he drove to the Raj Bhawan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
02-07-2021||India||We expect vaccinated Indians to be treated on par with those inoculated in EU: India||India on Friday said it expects that its CoWIN vaccination certificate would be recognised by the European Union on a reciprocal basis for travel and it is in touch with member states of the bloc over this issue.  Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the European Union has now instituted what is called an EU digital COVID certificate for exempting restrictions on the movement of vaccinated people.  "Our expectation is that Indians who have been vaccinated through our domestic vaccination programme would be treated at par with those vaccinated in the EU and the CoWIN vaccination certificate would be recognized by the EU on a reciprocal basis," he said at an online media briefing.  "As you are aware, such CoWIN vaccination certificates can be authenticated on the CoWIN website itself. We are in touch with the EU member states in this regard for reciprocal acceptance," Bagchi said, noting that a number of EU countries have already taken "positive steps" in this direction.  His remarks came a day after sources said nine European nations are accepting Covishield vaccines for travel to their countries.  Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland and Spain are among the countries allowing travel by people who have taken Covishield vaccines, the sources said.  They said Switzerland is also accepting Covishield as a Schengen state.  Separately, Estonia has confirmed that it will recognise all vaccines authorised by the government of India for the travel of Indians to that country, the sources said.  India has already asked the EU member countries to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin vaccines and want to travel to Europe.  The European Union's Digital Covid certificate or "Green Pass" came into effect on Thursday with an aim to facilitate free movement during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Under this framework, persons who have taken vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU region.  The individual member states have the flexibility to also accept vaccines that have been authorised at the national level or those recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO).  There have been apprehensions in India that people who took Covishield and Covaxin jabs are unlikely to be eligible to travel to the European Union member states under its 'Green Pass' scheme.  The 'Green Pass' will be mandatory to travel to European countries and the document will serve as proof that a person is vaccinated against COVID-19.  Asked about the issue of vaccination norms in various countries and seeking of re-vaccination by some of them, Bagchi said this would depend on the country concerned.  To queries on imports and exports of vaccines, he said the government is making all efforts to augment vaccine availability in the country, be it through domestic production or imports.  "As regards the specific vaccines and the status of their imports into India, this is a matter for the concerned regulatory authorities," the MEA spokesperson said.  On supply of vaccines abroad, Bagchi reiterated that India's current priority remains purposing domestic production for its domestic vaccination programme which he said is progressing rapidly.  To a question on travel into India, he said such issues are being dealt with by the Health Ministry and the Ministry of Home Affairs.  Asked how many countries have recognised made in India vaccines in Latin America, Bagchi said a large number of countries in that region are already using made in India vaccines.  On a proposal of India and South Africa for a temporary waiver of certain intellectual property rights provisions in the TRIPS Agreement to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, he said India is continuing to pursue its proposal for COVID-related TRIPS waiver.  "We are happy with the large support for text-based negotiations. However, I would refer you to the Ministry of Commerce for the latest updates," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Hawala money case: Kerala BJP chief summoned for questioning, say sources ||Kerala BJP chief K Surendran summoned by the state police next week for questioning in a case linked to the theft of alleged hawala money ahead of the April 6 Assembly poll, sources have said. Sources said Surendran has been directed to appear before the police on July 6. A day after voting, a man lodged a police complaint claiming a gang had stolen ₹ 25 lakh on the Ernakulam-Thrissur highway. The police later claimed that the amount was part of around ₹ 3.5 crore hawala money. According to police, the man had been transporting the money for the BJP, a charge vehemently denied by the party. “It is only because we are 100 per cent confident that this has nothing to do with the BJP that we have welcomed any probe by the police. Whoever calls, we will cooperate,” Surendran said last month. However, the Left and the Congress have been targeting the BJP over the matter, accusing it of using black money in the election. Several people, including BJP leaders of the state, have been questioned in the case. K Surendran is also facing two cases for allegedly bribing candidates. Both the cases were filed last month. The first FIR against Surendran was filed for allegedly bribing a rival candidate into withdrawing his election nomination. The second FIR, filed days after the first, probes the allegation that the politician gave ₹ 10 lakh to a tribal leader to return to the National Democratic Alliance as a candidate. The Left front scored a landslide win in the Assembly polls, while the BJP couldn’t win a seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Kerala: Police summon BJP chief for Hawala money theft case||Kerala police have have askedd state BJP chief K Surendran to appear on July 6, for questioning in a case linked to theft of alleged hawala money ahead of the April 6 assembly elections, sources told NDTV. A man filed a complaint claiming a gang stole ₹ 25 lakh on the Ernakulam-Thrissur highway, a day after the polls. Kerala police later claimed that the amount was part of around ₹ 3.5 crore hawala money. The police have also claimed the man had been transporting the money for the BJP, a charge vehemently denied by the party. "It is only because we are 100 per cent confident that this has nothing to do with the BJP that we have welcomed any probe by the police. Whoever calls, we will cooperate," Surendran had said last month. The Left and the Congress, however, have been targeting the BJP over the matter, accusing it of using black money in the election. Several people, including BJP leaders of the state, have been questioned in the case. K Surendran is also facing two cases for allegedly bribing candidates. Both the cases were filed last month. The first FIR against Mr Surendran was filed for allegedly bribing a rival candidate into withdrawing his election nomination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Facebook actioned 30 million content pieces during May 15-June 15 under new rules||Facebook "actioned" over 30 million content pieces across 10 violation categories during May 15-June 15 in the country, the social media giant said in its maiden monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules.  Instagram took action against about two million pieces across nine categories during the same period.  Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools.  While Facebook actioned over 30 million content pieces across multiple categories during May 15-June 15, Instagram took action against about 2 million pieces.  A Facebook spokesperson said over the years, Facebook has consistently invested in technology, people and processes to further its agenda of keeping users safe and secure online and enabling them to express themselves freely on its platform.  "We use a combination of artificial intelligence, reports from our community and review by our teams to identify and review content against our policies. We'll continue to add more information and build on these efforts towards transparency as we evolve this report," the spokesperson said in a statement to PTI.  Facebook said its next report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken.  "We expect to publish subsequent editions of the report with a lag of 30-45 days after the reporting period to allow sufficient time for data collection and validation. We will continue to bring more transparency to our work and include more information about our efforts in future reports," it added.  Earlier this week, Facebook had said it will publish an interim report on July 2 providing information on the number of content it removed proactively during May 15-June 15. The final report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken.  The July 15 report will also contain data related to WhatsApp, which is part of Facebook's family of apps.  Other major platforms that have made their reports public include Google and homegrown platform Koo.  In its report, Facebook said it had actioned over 30 million pieces of content across 10 categories during May 15-June 15. This includes content related to spam (25 million), violent and graphic content (2.5 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (1.8 million), and hate speech (311,000).  Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (118,000), suicide and self-injury (589,000), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (106,000) and dangerous organisations and Individuals: organised hate (75,000).  'Actioned' content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning.  The proactive rate, which indicates the percentage of all content or accounts acted on which Facebook found and flagged using technology before users reported them, in most of these cases ranged between 96.4-99.9 per cent.  The proactive rate for removal of content related to bullying and harassment was 36.7 per cent as this content is contextual and highly personal by nature. In many instances, people need to report this behaviour to Facebook before it can identify or remove such content.  For Instagram, 2 million pieces of content were actioned across nine categories during May 15-June 15. This includes content related to suicide and self-injury (699,000), violent and graphic content (668,000), adult nudity and sexual activity (490,000), and bullying and harassment (108,000).  Other categories under which content was actioned include hate speech (53,000), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (5,800), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (6,200).  Google had stated that 27,762 complaints were received by Google and YouTube in April this year from individual users in India over alleged violation of local laws or personal rights, which resulted in removal of 59,350 pieces of content.  Koo, in its report, said it has proactively moderated 54,235 content pieces, while 5,502 posts were reported by its users during June.  According to the IT rules, significant social media intermediaries are also required to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal officer and a grievance officer and these officials are required to be resident in India.  Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.  Facebook recently named Spoorthi Priya as its grievance officer in India.  India is a major market for global digital platforms. As per data cited by the government recently, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 8,753 new Covid-19 cases, 156 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday reported 8,753 new COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 60,79,352, while the death toll rose to 1,22,353 with the addition of 156 fresh fatalities, a state health department official.  The state reported 442 fewer cases and nearly 100 less fatalities as compared to Thursday, when it had recorded 9,195 infections and 252 deaths.  The official said as many as 8,385 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recovered cases to 58,36,920.  The state now has 1,16,867 COVID-19 patients under treatment, he said.  Maharashtra's recovery rate of COVID-19 cases is 96.01 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, the official said.  According to the official, out of 4,20,96,506 COVID-19 tests conducted so far, 60,79,352 have come out positive, indicating a positivity rate of 14.44 per cent.  The official said currently 6,24,745 people are in home quarantine and 4,472 in institutional quarantine across the state.  According to the official, Mumbai recorded 673 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,23,551, while the death toll increased to 15,499 after 27 patients succumbed to the infection.  The official said 296 new cases were detected in Pune municipal limit, taking the tally to 4,94,943, while the death toll rose to 8,279 as nine more fatalities were reported in the city.  Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 105, 277, 68, 17 and three new COVID-19 cases, respectively, he said.  Out of 1,16,667 active COVID-19 cases across the state, the highest - 17,013 - are in Pune district, followed by Thane and Mumbai at 16,339 and 12,905, respectively, the official said.  According to the health department, of the total 58,36,920 recovered patients, the highest - 10,23,450 - are in Pune district, followed by Mumbai and Thane at 6,92,841 and 5,53,925, respectively.  The department official said that in the Mumbai circle, which includes the city and its satellite towns, 1,951 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 15,99,306, while 32 fresh fatalities took the death toll to 32,140.  In the Pune circle, 2,356 new COVID-19 cases were added, increasing the tally to 14,27,110, while 30 fresh fatalities took the death toll to 26,085, he said.  With 667 new cases and nine fresh deaths, the tally of COVID-19 cases in the Nashik Circle rose to 8,91,626, while the death toll increased to 17,480.  In the Kolhapur circle, 3,306 new cases were reported, pushing the COVID-19 tally to 4,20,590, while the death toll increased to 11,579 after 68 patients succumbed to the infection, the official said.  The official said with 105 new cases and one death, the coronavirus tally in the Nagpur circle increased to 7,69,118 and the toll to 13,521.  In the Aurangabad circle, 146 people tested positive, taking the tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,81,368, while the death toll increased to 6,371 with the addition of two fresh fatalities, the official said.  The official said with 164 new infections and eight fatalities, the tally of COVID-19 cases in the Latur circle increased to 3,35,658 and the toll to 9,130.  The Akola circle added 88 new cases, raising the COVID-19 tally to 3,54,430, while the toll increased to 5,929 with one fresh death, the official said.  Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 60,79,352, new cases 8,753, Total deaths 1,22,353, Total recoveries 58,36,920, Active cases 1,16,867, Tests conducted so far 4,20,96,506.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Assets of Ahmed Patel's son-in-law, Dino Morea, DJ Aqeel attached in money laundering case: ED||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday said it has attached assets of late Congress leader Ahmed Patel's son-in-law, actors Dino Morea and Sanjay Khan and DJ Aqeel in a criminal investigation into a money laundering case linked to an alleged bank fraud.  The case involves a Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company called Sterling Biotech group and its absconding main promoter brothers, Nitin Sandesara and Chetan Sandesara.  The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has alleged that this is a bigger bank scam in volume than that of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud by fugitive diamantaires Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, as it involves fraud to the tune of about Rs 16,000 crore.  A consortium of banks led by Andhra Bank were alleged to have been duped, it said.  The amount involved in the PNB case is pegged at about Rs 13,400 crore.  The federal probe agency said four separate provisional orders were issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to attach the assets of the four people which are worth a total Rs 8.79 crore.  Out of this, the value of attachment of assets for Khan is Rs 3 crore, for Dino Morea it is Rs 1.4 crore, for Aqeel Abdulkhalil Bachooali, popularly known as DJ Aqeel, it is Rs 1.98 crore and for Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui, who is Patel's son-in-law, it is Rs 2.41 crore, the central probe agency said in a statement.  It added that the attached properties include three vehicles, several bank accounts, shares and mutual fund.  Siddiqui, Morea (45) and Aqeel (44) have been questioned by the agency in the past in this case.  The ED had recorded the statement of Sunil Yadav, an employee of the Sandesara family, where he told the agency that Siddiqui "occupied" a house in Delhi's Vasant Vihar, which reportedly belonged to Chetan Sandesara.  The agency had then said that it has evidence to say that Morea and Aqeel were paid some money in an alleged unauthorised manner by the Gujarat-based pharmaceutical group between 2011-12 when they reportedly attended some family events organised by the Sandesara brothers.  While Morea, also a model, has worked in a number of Hindi films, Aqeel is a popular DJ.  Aqeel is married to the eldest daughter of veteran actor and director Sanjay Khan (80).  Late Ahmed Patel and his son Faisal were also questioned and their statement was recorded by the ED last year in July in this case. Patel, after the fourth round of questioning, had told reporters that the ED action was "political vendetta and harassment against me and my family and I do not know under whose pressure they (investigators) are working."  He died on November 25 last year at the age of 71 resulting from complications linked to COVID-19.  The ED statement linked the four to the Sandesara family.  "Investigation by ED revealed that Sandesaras' diverted proceeds of crime of Rs 3 crore, Rs 1.4 crore, Rs 12.54 crore and Rs 3.51 crore to Sanjay Khan, Dino Morea, Aqeel Bachooali and Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui respectively," it alleged.  The Sandesara brothers, Chetan's wife Dipti Sandesara and Hitesh Patel have been declared fugitive economic offenders by a special court, the ED said.  They are stated to be based abroad and India is trying to extradite them.  The total attachment of assets in this case now stands at Rs 14,521.80 crore.  The ED had registered a criminal case in connection with the alleged bank-loan fraud in 2017 on the basis of a CBI FIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till July 12, relaxes curbs||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday extended the ongoing lockdown by a week till July 12. According to a report by ndtv.com, restaurants in the state have now been allowed to serve dine-in customers at 50 per cent capacity and while adhering to Covid protocols. Hotels, lodges and guesthouses, too, can function. Amusement parks in the state have been allowed to open as well, with 50 per cent capacity and ensure that Covid SOPs are followed. The state government has also allowed gymnasiums to open. Offices in the IT and IT-enabled sectors can now function with 50 per cent attendance. Buses have been given the nod to operate within districts and between districts with the number of passengers capped at 50 per cent of seat capacity. Use of air-conditioners in buses remains prohibited. The state government has removed the requirement of e-passes for inter-district travel. Cinema halls, theatres, swimming pools, schools, colleges and zoos continue to remain shut and political and social gatherings are also prohibited. Research scholars, including those pursuing MPhil and PhD courses, can now visit campuses of education institutions for work relating to their research. Weddings and funerals are now allowed in all districts. A wedding function can be attended by a maximum of 50 guests and not more than 20 people can take part in a funeral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||J&K: Delimitation commission to hold separate meetings with parties||Taking forward the initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the delimitation commission has invited leaders of all national, regional and registered political parties of Jammu and Kashmir for separate meetings during its visit to the Union Territory next week, officials said here on Friday. The commission led by Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai and Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra may also hold separate meetings with civil society groups and similar organisations after they obtain prior approval and time slots through their respective deputy commissioners (DCs). The commission will undertake a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir from July 6-9 and will interact with leaders of political parties and officials to gather "first hand" inputs on the conduct of the mega exercise to carve out new constituencies there. The prime minister, during the June 24 meeting with 14 leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, had said the ongoing delimitation exercise has to happen quickly so that polls can be held to install an elected government that gives strength to its development trajectory. In a series of tweets after a three-and-a-half-hour-long meeting with the leaders that included four former chief ministers, the prime minister said, "Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in JK. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and JK gets an elected government that gives strength to JK's development trajectory." The delimitation, therefore, has attained an urgency amid indications that the Centre is keen to hold early assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir. There is speculation that the polls could be held in the next six to nine months. Officials said the commission, during its visit next week, has asked the chief electoral officer of the state to ensure that representatives of each registered, national and regional political party is provided a separate time slot so that separate discussions can be held with each one of them. The commission will be interacting with the political parties and their leaders in Srinagar on July 6 and those in Jammu on July 8. The three-member commission, with the JK CEO being the third member, will also have separate interactions with the DCs, they said. A statement from the delimitation commission had earlier said that during the visit, it will interact with political parties, public representatives and Union Territory administration officials including district election officers/deputy commissioners of 20 districts to gather first-hand information and inputs concerning the ongoing process of delimitation as mandated under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019. It had said that the commission expected that all stakeholders will "cooperate" in this endeavour and provide valuable suggestions so that the task of delimitation is completed timely. Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir will go up from 83 to 90. Twenty-four seats of the Assembly continue to remain vacant as they fall under Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Charred body of student found inside IIT-Madras campus, suicide suspected||The charred body of a project staff of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, was found on the premises on Thursday night in a suspected case of suicide due to depression, police said on Friday. The deceased was identified as Unni Krishnan (22) from Ernakulam, Kerala, and he is suspected to have taken the extreme step "probably out of depression," a police official said. Police obtained CCTV footage and a suicide note which the deceased left behind. "He decided to end his life abruptly, probably he was depressed, and did not blame anyone in particular in the suicide note," an official involved in the probe said. Enquiries by the police revealed he had left his rented residence in Velachery to IIT-Madras on Thursday evening. "From the scene of crime it appears to be a case of suicide," a senior police official said. According to sources, the charred body was recovered from a hockey stadium at the premier technical institute by the police on Thursday night after some players alerted them. Inflammable material found at the scene has also been sent for testing. The police have registered a case of suspicious death and later sent the body to the Government Royapettah Hospital for postmortem. Meanwhile, the IIT management said the police is investigating into the incident and that the institute was fully cooperating with the authorities. "An unfortunate and tragic incident occurred yesterday (Thursday) on IIT-Madras campus, involving a temporary project staff. The project staff whose body was found had joined the institute in April 2021 and was living outside the campus," it said in a statement. "We are shocked and deeply grieved, and convey our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the departed soul," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Amid leadership change buzz, Uttarakhand CM hints on decision by BJP||Amid speculation over a change of leadership in Uttarakhand, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday indicated that the BJP will take a call depending on the Election Commission's decision on holding a bypoll in the state. Uttarakhand is abuzz with speculation that the BJP could pick a new leader as CM, given the possibility that the Election Commission may not hold a bypoll enabling Rawat's election to the state assembly. Tirath Singh Rawat needs to be elected as an MLA in the next two months to continue in the post, which he got after the BJP leadership removed Trivendra Singh Rawat from the helm. But observers say with the term of the assembly in any case coming to an end in less than a year, the EC may not order a bypoll for the vacant seats in Uttarakhand. Scathing criticism by the courts of the string of elections held during the coronavirus pandemic may also contribute to the EC decision on Uttarakhand bypolls, it is felt. Speculation over a change of guard in the state was fuelled by Rawat being summoned suddenly on Wednesday to Delhi, where he meet the BJP's top leaders including party president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He was supposed to return here on Thursday but stayed back. After meeting Nadda on Friday, Rawat told reporters that it is the EC's prerogative to hold or not conduct the bypoll, and the party will move forward accordingly. According to the Constitution, Rawat, an MP from Pauri Garhwal who was sworn in as CM on March 10, needs to become a member of the state assembly before September 10 to continue in office. Section 151A of the Representation of People Act, 1951 mandates the Election Commission to fill vacancies in Parliament and the state legislatures through bypolls within six months from the date of their occurrence, provided that the remainder of the term of the new member is one year or more. The term of Uttarakhand Assembly is scheduled to come to an end in March, only about nine months away. Going by some Uttarakhand BJP leaders' interpretation, however, the law neither prevents nor makes it mandatory for the EC to hold bye-elections in such circumstances. "It is within the scope and ambit of the Election Commission to take a call on whether or not to hold a bypoll in the state. Everything depends on the Election Commission of India," said Munna Singh Chauhan, BJP MLA from Vikasnagar and former spokesperson of the party's state unit. Rawat has little to worry if a bypoll is held but doubts are being cast on its constitutional feasibility as the current assembly completes its tenure in less than a year. There are two vacant assembly seats in Uttarakhand -- Gangotri and Haldwani. Gangotri fell vacant after the death of BJP MLA Gopal Singh Rawat and Haldwani after the death of Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh. "Even if there are no constitutional hurdles, the Election Commission may not find it easy to go for a bypoll in Uttarakhand," observers here said, recalling court observations against the EC for risking people's lives through elections amid a pandemic. Political observers said the Centre may also not press for a bypoll in Uttarakhand as bye-elections are also due in other parts of the country and the hill state cannot be made an exception. "If a bypoll is not held then the only option left for the BJP's central leadership is to replace Rawat with someone who is already an MLA," they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Scattered rains in Delhi bring in relief||Reeling under heatwave for the past three days, the national capital got much-needed relief after some parts of the city received rainfall on Friday. The meteorological department predicted rain and thunderstorm in the evening. The maximum temperature for the city has been above the 40 degrees Celsius-mark, with 43.1 degrees Celsius being recorded on Thursday, the highest in July since 2012. The minimum temperature on Friday morning was recorded at 27.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's average, and the relative humidity at 8.30 am was 25 per cent. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said there is "no chance" of monsoon reaching the city till July 7. The national capital on Friday evening experienced the sudden change in weather as high velocity winds swept the city, with some areas experiencing rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Pregnant women eligible for Covid vaccines now: Govt||Pregnant women in India are now eligible to get vaccinated against Covid with the union health ministry Friday giving the approval based on recommendations of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI). The decision empowers pregnant women to make an informed choice on taking the Covid vaccination, the ministry said, adding these women can now register on CoWIN or walk-in to the nearest Covid vaccination centre to get themselves inoculated. "The decision has been communicated to all the states and union territories to implement it under the ongoing National Covid Vaccination Program," it said in a statement. India's Covid vaccination program incorporates recommendations of the foremost experts in the field of immunization, public health, disease control and information technology. "Based on scientific and epidemiological evidence, the programme gives priority to strengthening the country's healthcare system by protecting the professionals, health and frontline workers, manning it, as well as protecting the most vulnerable population groups," the ministry said. "Till now, all groups except pregnant women were eligible for Covid vaccination. Now, it is expanded to even pregnant women in the world's largest immunization drive," the statement said. "Studies have shown that Covid infection during pregnancy may result in rapid deterioration of health of pregnant women and they are at an increased risk of severe diseases and it might affect fetus too," it said. "The matter has been examined by domain knowledge experts based on the evidence that indicate that pregnant women are at an increased risk for severe illness from Covid compared to non-pregnant women in case they get infected. "Further, pregnant women with COVID-19 infection are at an increased risk for preterm birth and other adverse pregnancy outcomes including higher chances of neonatal morbidity. Additionally, the experts have also highlighted pre-existing co-morbidities, advanced maternal age, and high body mass Index as factors for severe COVID-19 in pregnancy," the statement said. The NTAGI has recommended vaccination for pregnant women. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) too has unanimously recommended it. Further, a national level consultation on Covid vaccination for pregnant women was also convened by the health ministry to build consensus on Covid vaccination of pregnant women. "The consultation unanimously welcomed the recommendation of NTAGI to vaccinate pregnant women. The consultation included professional bodies like FOGSI, representatives of state governments, CSOs, NGOs, Development Partner agencies, technical experts etc. "The ministry has accepted these recommendations and prepared an operational guideline for vaccination of pregnant women, counselling kit for medical officers and frontline workers, and information education communication material for general public to equip the states and union territories to carry out the vaccination of pregnant women," it said "Pregnant women, who opt for vaccination, can be inoculated with Covid vaccines available in the country any time during their pregnancy at the nearest government or private vaccination centre after registration on CoWIN or by walk-in registration at the nearest centre," the statement said. "The procedures and modalities like registration, generation of certificates after vaccination etc. will remain the same as it is for any beneficiaries above 18 years of age under the Covid vaccination programme," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Covid second wave not over, must not lower guard: Govt||The government on Friday stressed on vaccination and following COVID-19 protocols as it noted that the second wave of the pandemic is not over yet. Addressing a press conference on the pandemic situation, an official said people cannot and should not lower their guard. Seventy-one districts reported Covid case positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week from June 23 to 29, the government said, adding that the second wave of COVID-19 is not over. On the ongoing vaccination drive, the government said India is vaccinating on an average 50 lakh individuals daily since June 21, which is equivalent to inoculating the entire population of Norway every day. Till date 34 crore people -- the equivalent of the entire population of the US -- have been vaccinated with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine since the drive began on January 16, the government said. Nearly 80 per cent healthcare workers and 90 per cent frontline workers have been administered both doses of COVID-19 vaccine in the country, it said. India saw a single-day rise of 46,617 new coronavirus infections, taking the tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,04,58,251, while the national recovery rate has crossed 97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,00,312 with 853 daily fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Krafton launches Battlegrounds Mobile India||South Korea's Krafton on Friday announced the launch of Battlegrounds Mobile India, a successor to the popular mobile game PUBG that was blocked by the Indian government last year. The new mobile game, developed exclusively for gaming enthusiasts and fans in India, had received 40 million pre-registrations that went live on May 18, 2021, a statement said. "After an Early Access period, Battlegrounds Mobile India is now available for download as a free-to-play multiplayer game on Google Play with an amazing array of maps, game modes, and exciting launch week challenges," it added. In September last year, the government blocked 118 mobile applications, including PUBG, terming them prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of the nation. Following the ban, PUBG Corporation -- a subsidiary of Krafton -- had said China's Tencent Games would no longer be authorised to distribute the PUBG MOBILE franchise in India. At that time, PUBG Corporation had said it will take on all publishing responsibilities within India. In November, PUBG Corporation said it was preparing to launch a new game for the Indian market. In its statement on Friday, Krafton said the Early Access for the game started on June 17, 2021, and saw 20 million players trying out the game and providing feedback. "We at Krafton are delighted to introduce Battlegrounds Mobile India for our fans in India today. Designed exclusively for our Indian fans and gamers, Battlegrounds Mobile India will provide a superlative gaming experience," Krafton Inc CEO CH Kim said. This is just the beginning of a series of new content, collaborations and esports tournaments coming users' way, and the company will strive to ensure that fans and community in India can fully enjoy the battlegrounds experiences, he added. The game was recently caught in a controversy after concerns were raised around data of Indian players being allegedly sent to servers in China. Krafton, at that time, had said it has "taken immediate, concrete actions to address this issue". It had also stated that it will continue to closely monitor and protect any data being transferred to "unexpected and restricted IP addresses". Krafton has over 2,000 employees worldwide with around 20 global offices, including India. It has five independent studios - PUBG STUDIOS, Bluehole Studio, Striking Distance Studios, RisingWings, and the recently acquired Dreamotion. Aligned with its commitment to invest USD 100 million in India, Krafton has already started collaborating with a host of partners and organisations to build India's esports ecosystem. Krafton had made a minority investment of USD 22.5 million in NODWIN Gaming earlier this year. The company also carried out a seed funding worth USD 9 million in the gaming live streaming platform Loco, together with other investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||TMC seeks removal of Solicitor General over meeting with Suvendu, top advocate denies||The Trinamul Congress on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking the removal of Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta over his meeting with West Bengal Opposition Leader Suvendu Adhikari in Delhi. The letter, written by TMC MPs Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Maitra, stated that the meeting between Adhikari and the solicitor general "reeks of impropriety" as the BJP MLA is an accused in the Narada and Saradha cases where investigations are underway. According to the letter, the meeting "curiously" took place subsequent to Adhikari's meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah. The TMC MPs claimed that Adhikari was accused in various cases of cheating, bribery and illegal gratification, related to Narada and Saradha. The Solicitor General is appearing for the CBI in the Narada case in the Supreme Court and the high court, besides advising the investigation agency in the Saradha chit fund scam, they said. The meeting between Adhikari and the solicitor general "not only reeks of impropriety, there is a direct conflict of interest and also taints the position of the second highest law officer of the country, the Solicitor General", they added. To maintain the "neutrality and integrity" of the office of the Solicitor General of India, necessary steps be taken for the removal of Mehta from the post, the TMC MPs said in the letter to the prime minister. Mehta, however, rejected the claims later in the day. "Suvendu Adhikari did come to my residence-cum-office yesterday at around 3 pm, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building and offered him a cup of tea," he was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. "When my meeting was over and thereafter my (personal secretary) informed me about his arrival, I requested him to convey to Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait. Adhikari thanked my PPS and left without insisting to meet me. The question of my meeting with Adhikari, therefore, did not arise," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Rahul flags jab deficiency again, BJP hits back||In a swipe at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday that July has come but vaccines have not, drawing a sharp retort from the BJP which cited figures to ask if spreading "confusion" is the opposition party's undeclared policy. "July has come, vaccines have not. Where are vaccines," Gandhi tweeted. The BJP hit out at him and claimed that people often ask why maturity, wisdom and responsibility have not come to the Congress leader despite the passage of 51 Julys, a reference to his age. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said 41.60 lakh Covid vaccine doses were administered on July 1 while a total of 6.85 crore jabs have been given between June 21 and July 1 with an average daily dose of over 62 lakh. These statistics tell a different story and show that the government has been working at a "war footing" to give vaccines to people, he said, adding that the pace of vaccination will gather more speed in the coming days. Is there any country with a better average in the last 11 days, he asked, adding that India by administering over 34 crore doses has surpassed countries like the US, Canada and other. The central government has begin providing free vaccines to all adults since June 21. "While the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is giving citizens safety shield in form of vaccines, the Congress and some other opposition parties do not want India to defeat Covid," Bhatia claimed. The government is committed to administering jabs to all adults by this year end, he reiterated. "You may hate Modi but why hate people... Is spreading confusion the undeclared policy of the Congress," he said, attacking Gandhi. Bhatia also hit out at the alleged corruption and irregularities in Covid management in the Congress-ruled states and questioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi about it. He cited media reports to accuse the Congress government in Rajasthan of buying oxygen concentrators at an exorbitant rate and alleged that many of them were defunct. He claimed that even Congress leaders in Maharashtra have alleged corruption by the coalition government in the state. Answering a question related to Uttar Pradesh, Bhatia lauded the Yogi Adityanath-led government in the state and expressed confidence that the BJP will win the assembly polls in the state next year with even a bigger margin than 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Drone spotted over Indian High Commission in Islamabad||A drone was spotted over the Indian High Commission complex in Islamabad late last week, prompting India to lodge a strong protest with Pakistan over the incident, people familiar with the development said on Friday. They said India considered the incident as a breach of security that triggered concerns in the mission. The Indian mission has already taken up the issue strongly with the Pakistani authorities through a note verbale. There was no official comment on the incident yet that came to light amid growing concerns in the security establishment in India after explosives-laden drones were used to carry out an attack on the Jammu Air Force station on June 27. According to security officials, it was the first instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike at vital installations in India. Army Chief Gen MM Naravane on Thursday said that the easy availability of drones has increased the complexity of security challenges from both state and state-sponsored actors. A day after the attack on the Air Force station attempts to target the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military station in Jammu with drones was thwarted by soldiers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Over 34 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in country so far, says Centre||The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 34 crore on Friday, the Union Health Ministry said. A total of 9,41,03,985 persons in the age group of 18-44 across all states and UTs have received their first dose and 22,73,477 received the second dose, it said. The ministry said 34,00,76,232 vaccine doses were administered as per the provisional report till 7 am, with over 42 lakh (42,64,123) doses being given in a span of 24 hours. On Day-167 of the vaccination drive (July 1, 2021), out of the total 42,64,123 vaccine doses that were given, 32,80,998 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 9,83,125 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine, it said. The ministry said 24,51,539 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 89,027 vaccine doses as second dose in the age group 18-44 on Thursday. "Eight States -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered more than 50 lakh first dose of COVID-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44," it said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from COVID-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||ED summons actor Yami Gautam for questioning in FEMA case||Actor Yami Gautam has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning in a case related to alleged contravention of the foreign exchange law, official sources said on Friday. They said the 32-year-old actor has been asked to appear before the central probe agency next week in Mumbai. She has been summoned earlier too but she could not depose, the sources said. The case, they said, pertains to transactions of about Rs 1.5 crore deposited in a bank account. The investigation is being done under the civil proceedings of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), the sources said. Gautam has worked in a number of Hindi films apart from a few made in Tamil and Telugu. Last month, she got married to filmmaker Aditya Dhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Kerala HC refuses to stay further proceedings against Ayesha Sulthana||The Kerala High Court on Friday refused to stay further proceedings in the sedition case registered against Lakshadweep filmmaker Ayesha Sulthana. Considering a plea filed by Sulthana seeking to quash the FIR registered against her by the Kavaratti police, the High Court said investigation in the case was in a preliminary stage and more time may be required for completing the probe. Refusing to stay further proceedings in the case, the court directed the Lakshadweep administration to provide details of the investigation. When the matter was taken up, the counsel for the administration opposed the plea, submitting that the investigation in the case was in a preliminary stage. A case was registered on June 9 under Section 124-A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of IPC on the basis of a petition lodged by a political leader hailing from Kavaratti. Last week, the High Court had granted anticipatory bail to Sulthana in the sedition case. Granting bail, Justice Ashok Menon had said there was no apparent indication in her statement, which amounts to imputations or assertions prejudicial to the national interest, nor does it propagate any class of persons against another group of persons. Sulthana was interrogated by the Kavaratti police thrice last week in connection with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Covid first wave led to increase in antibiotic misuse in India, finds Study||Antibiotic sales soared during the first COVID-19 wave in India last year, according to a study which suggests that the drugs were used to treat mild and moderate cases of the viral disease. The researchers at Washington University in the US estimated that COVID-19 likely contributed to 216.4 million excess doses of antibiotics and 38 million more doses of azithromycin in adults from June 2020 through September 2020, a period of peak COVID-19 activity in India. Such misuse of drugs is considered inappropriate because antibiotics are only effective against bacterial infections, not viral infections such as COVID-19, the researchers said. Overuse of antibiotics increases the risk for drug-resistant infections, they said. "Antibiotic resistance is one of the greatest threats to global public health," said the study's senior author, Sumanth Gandra, an associate hospital epidemiologist at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in the US. "Overuse of antibiotics lessens their ability to effectively treat minor injuries and common infections such as pneumonia, which means that these conditions can become serious and deadly," Gandra said. The study, published in the journal PLOS Medicine, analysed monthly sales of all antibiotics in India's private health sector from January 2018 through December 2020. The data came from an Indian branch of IQVIA, a U.S.-based health information technology company. The study, conducted in collaboration with McGill University in Canada, examined the total sales volume of all antibiotics as well as the individual sales for azithromycin, a vital drug for treating typhoid fever, non-typhoidal Salmonella and traveller's diarrhoea. Azithromycin was studied because some countries experienced a spike in its sales early in the pandemic after observational studies suggested the antibiotic could help treat COVID-19. However, such a claim was disputed by subsequent studies. The researchers determined that a total of 16.29 billion doses of antibiotics were sold in India in 2020, which is slightly less than the amounts sold in 2018 and in 2019. However, when researchers focused on adult doses, usage increased from 72.6 per cent in 2018 and 72.5 per cent in 2019 to 76.8 per cent in 2020. Additionally, sales of azithromycin for adults in India increased from 4 per cent in 2018 and 4.5 per cent in 2019 to 5.9 per cent in 2020. The study also showed notable increases in the sales of doxycycline and faropenem, two antibiotics commonly used to treat respiratory infections. The researchers used previously published studies to compare India's antibiotic use with that in the US and other high-income countries. In those countries, they found that adult antibiotic use decreased drastically during the pandemic compared with such use in 2018 and 2019. "It's critical to acknowledge that antibiotic use in high-income countries plummeted in 2020," Gandra said. "People isolated, schools and offices closed, and fewer people got the flu and, overall, stayed healthier compared with the pre-pandemic years. This reduced the overall need for antibiotics, as did cancelling dental procedures and outpatient surgeries," he said. The researchers noted that India also had restrictions and experienced dramatic decreases in malaria, dengue, chikungunya and other infections typically treated with antibiotics. "Antibiotic use should have gone down, but it didn't. Not only that but antibiotic use increased along with the rise of COVID cases," Gandra added. The researchers statistically adjusted antibiotic use for seasonality and mandatory lockdown periods. They estimated that COVID-19 likely contributed to 216.4 million excess doses of antibiotics for adults and 38 million excess doses of azithromycin for adults from June 2020 through September 2020, a four-month period of peak COVID-19 activity in India. "Our results indicate that almost everybody who was diagnosed with COVID-19 received an antibiotic in India," Gandra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Kerala rainfall deficient even after a month of monsoon||Though it has almost been a month after the South West Monsoon made its footfall, Kerala, the gateway of monsoon into the mainland of the country, has received deficient rainfall so far, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thirteen of the total 14 districts of the southern state received deficient rainfall while only one district received normal rains during the period from June 1-30, it said. The neighbouring union territory Lakshadweep and Mahe, part of union territory of Puducherry, also received deficient rainfall during the period. However, the monsoon is likely to be normal in the country in July, the weather agency said. "Out of 14 districts in Kerala, 1 district received normal rainfall and the other 13 districts received deficient rainfall (during this year's monsoon season from June 1 to 30). Lakshadweep and Mahe received deficient rainfall," K Santhosh, Head, IMD unit here, said in a bulletin. Based on the present synoptic features, fairly widespread rainfall is likely over Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep during the first week of July. "Cumulatively, normal rainfall is likely over Kerala and Mahe and above normal rainfall is likely over Lakshadweep during the first week," he said. Though the normal onset date for the monsoon in Kerala, which marks the commencement of the four-month rainfall season in the country, was June 1, it arrived two days late this year. IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra had said on Thursday that though the rainfall is not expected to be good in the first week of July, the precipitation activity is likely to pick up in the second half of the second week of the month. The advancement of the monsoon is unlikely to happen before July 7, he said, adding that since June 19, no progress has been observed in the advancement of the monsoon. June recorded 10 per cent more rainfall than normal and a large part of it was received between June 3 and 19, he said. Mid-latitude westerly winds, an unfavourable Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) and the absence of formation of a low pressure system over the north Bay of Bengal are some of the reasons for a break in the monsoon, Mohapatra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||SC dismisses plea against minister, says it is for PM to take care||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea that alleged that union minister V K Singh committed a breach of oath by giving statements with regard to India's official position on the LAC with China, saying if a minister is not good it is for the prime minister to take care, courts can't do anything . A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy dismissed the plea filed by petitioner Chandrasekaran Ramasamy, a Tamil Nadu resident who claims to be a scientist. At the outset, the bench said, "If you don't like a statement by a minister then does it mean you will file a petition and ask him to be removed." The bench said, "If a minister is not good it is for the prime minister to take care. Courts can't do anything." The bench told the petitioner that it "appears you are a scientist, then you must use your energies to do something for the country." "We are dismissing it," it said. The plea has sought a direction to the Centre to "declare that Union minister Gen (retd) V K Singh committed a breach of his oath" by his alleged remarks on India's position on the border row with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Centre sends high-level team to 6 states to tackle Covid-19 ||The Centre has deputed high-level multi-disciplinary teams to six states reporting an increase in Covid-19 cases, the health ministry said on Friday. The teams have been sent to Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Manipur, and Chhattisgarh. Each of them will interact with the state/UT authorities and get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities to curb Covid-19 cases, the ministry said in a statement. The two-member high level team to these states consists of a clinician and a public health expert. "The teams will visit the States immediately and monitor the overall implementation of Covid-19 management, especially in testing, including surveillance and containment operations; Covid appropriate behaviour and its enforcement; availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics including ambulances, ventilators, medical oxygen etc., and Covid-19 vaccination progress," the statement said. The teams will assess the situation and suggest remedial actions on public health activities to the respective state governments, the ministry said in the statement. Copy of the report will also be provided to the health ministry, it added. "The team to Manipur will be led by Dr. L Swasticharan, Add. DDG & Director EMR; team to Arunachal Pradesh will be led by Dr. Sanjay Sadhukhan, Professor AIIH&PH; for Tripura Dr. R.N. Sinha Dir Professor, AIIH&PH; for Kerala Dr. Ruchi Jain, Public Health Specialist Gr. II, RoHFW; for Odisha Dr. A Dan, Public Health Specialist AIIH&PH and for Chhattisgarh Dr. Dibakar Sahu, Assistant Professor, AIIMS Raipur," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala released from Tihar jail||Former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, who was serving a 10-year prison term in a teacher recruitment scam case, was released from the Tihar Jail here on Friday after completing due formalities, prison officials said. The 86-year-old Chautala, who was already out on parole, reached Tihar on Friday to complete formalities after which he was released from jail, they said. Director General (Delhi Prisons), Sandeep Goel, said, "After necessary formalities, he (Chautala) has been released". Last month, the Delhi government had passed an order granting a six-month special remission to those who have served nine-and-half years of their 10-year prison sentence to decongest jails in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to officials, since Chautala has already served nine years and nine months of his sentence, he was eligible to get out of prison. Chautala was jailed in 2013 in connection with the teacher recruitment scam case. He was on emergency parole since March 26, 2020, due to the Covid pandemic and was scheduled to surrender on February 21, 2021. However, his parole had been extended by the high court, a senior jail official had said earlier. As on February 21, he had two months and 27 days of jail time left which has been counted as remitted. O P Chautala, his son Ajay Chautala, and 53 others, including IAS officer Sanjiv Kumar, were convicted and sentenced in the case of illegal recruitment of 3,206 junior basic teachers in 2000. They all were sentenced to varying jail terms in the case by a special CBI court in January 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||India registers over 46,000 fresh Covid cases, 853 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 46,617 new coronavirus infections, taking the tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,04,58,251, while the national recovery rate has crossed 97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,00,312 with 853 daily fatalities. Over 34 crore vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far, it said. The active cases have further declined to 5,09,637, comprising 1.67 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.01 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 13,620 cases has been recorded in the total number of active COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 18,80,026 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 41,42,51,520, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.48 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 25 consecutive days, the ministry said. Weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.57 per cent, according to the health ministry. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 50th consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,95,48,302, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 853 new fatalities include 252 from Maharashtra, 124 from Kerala, 102 from Tamil Nadu and 94 from Karnataka. A total of 4,00,312 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,22,197 from Maharashtra, 35,134 from Karnataka, 32,721from Tamil Nadu, 24,981 from Delhi, 22,601 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,735 from West Bengal and 16,072 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav's 48th birthday celebrated across Uttar Pradesh||SP president Akhilesh Yadav's 48th birthday was celebrated by the party leaders and workers in a grand manner on Thursday. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also wished the opposition party leader on his birthday. Addressing the Samajwadi Party (SP) workers who turned up in large numbers to wish him on his birthday, Yadav said, "We have many challenges ahead of us and there is a lot more to do. We have a very clever political opponent before us. They make false promises, spread hatred and divide the society. The blessings given by the people today have raised our spirits and given us new energy." "Today, farmers are in trouble. The three agricultural laws (of the Centre) are anti-farmer and anti-farming. Youngsters are facing the brunt of unemployment due to government policies. Their future is bleak. Covid has also caused a lot of devastation. The economy of the country and the state has been ruined. People are suffering due to inflation," a release issued by the SP quoted Yadav as saying. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in the last five years, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has flouted the Constitution. The promises made in its resolution letter were not kept, constitutional institutions were weakened and the voice of the people was crushed, he alleged. Earlier in the day, the chief minister wished his predecessor on his birthday. "Happy birthday greetings to former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh and National President of Samajwadi Party, Shri Akhilesh Yadav ji. I wish you good health and long life from Lord Shri Ram," Adityanath said in a tweet. In his reply, Yadav tweeted: "Thanks for the best wishes. May the mercy of Lord Ram be with all of us and may all your wishes be fulfilled."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Dominica PM rubbishes claims that his govt was involved in the abduction of Choksi||Dominica Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit has termed "total nonsense" the claims that his government was involved in alleged abduction of diamantaire Mehul Choksi, wanted in Rs 13,5000 crore scam in Punjab National Bank, from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda, local media there reported. In his weekly "annou palay" show, Skerrit said his government will allow the court to carry out its process regarding Choksi and gave the assurance that his rights and obligations will be respected, Dominica News Online reported. Skerrit refuted the allegations of a plot between India and Dominica government to kidnap Choksi from neighbouring Caribbean country Antigua and Barbuda, where he was staying since 2018 as a citizen, after fleeing from India, and bring him to Dominica, the news portal reported. "To say that the government of Dominica and the government of Antigua along with India colluded in any way, give me a break, that's total nonsense. We don't get involved ourselves in those kinds of activities, those practices, not at all. I mean that is absurd and we reject it and it is unfortunate that anybody would want to propagate this unsubstantiated claim by a gentleman who is before the courts," he was quoted as saying by Dominica News Online. He further said "whether it would be fair for a local who commits murder in Dominica and flees to another country, is allowed to roam free or instead be apprehended and sent back to Dominica to face his charges". Citing the case of a Dominica citizen wanted by the United States whose extradition proceedings are going on in courts to counter opposition on Choksi, Skerrit said the country cannot treat people differently depending on who they are or how much money they may have. "All of us are subjected to the laws irrespective of our position or how much money we may have or how much we don't have. And I believe that in this circumstance Dominica has a right and obligation to apprehend this person and bring the person before the courts and let the courts determine," he said. "We here in Dominica with the opposition talking about Choksi but there is a young boy from Grand Bay Where there is an extradition request by the United States government on allegations that he committed a crime in St Thomas and we are mandated and obligated to apprehend him. "And the police acted on the instruction of the DPP (Director of Public Prosecutions) arrested the young man and he is remanded at the state prison awaiting his extradition hearing. His lawyers will fight his case. If the courts believe that there is no reason to extradite him to the United States then he will go freely," Skerrit said. Choksi's lawyer in Dominica Justin Simon claimed that United Kingdom's Metropolitan Police, known as Scotland Yard, has started looking into allegations of torture and kidnapping of Choksi as citizens there were allegedly part of the plot, the news site reported. Simon told media that there will be international implications if Dominica or Antigua turns out to be involved in the alleged plot, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||BSF opens fire at surveillance drone spotted near International Border||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday opened fire on a suspected Pakistani surveillance drone after it tried to venture into the Indian territory on the International Border here, officials said. The drone was spotted by the alert BSF personnel in Arnia sector on the outskirts of Jammu around 4:25 am, they said. The officials said the suspected drone returned to the Pakistani side when the border guards fired half a dozen rounds to bring it down. Alert BSF troops fired at a small quadcopter belonging to Pakistan today (Friday) morning as it was trying to cross the International Border (IB) in the Arnia sector. Due to this firing, it returned immediately," a BSF spokesperson said. He said it was meant for carrying out surveillance of the area. Security forces in Jammu and Kashmir are on high alert following the Sunday's drone attack on the Indian Air Force (IAF) station here. Two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday, perhaps the first time that suspected Pakistan-based terrorists have used unmanned aerial vehicles in an attack, officials said. Drones were spotted hovering over vital Army installations in different areas of Jammu during night hours on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday as well. While the Army said it thwarted a drone activity on its brigade headquarters at Kaluchak and Ratnuchak during the intervening night of Sunday-Monday, it neither confirmed nor denied the movement of drones over its military stations at Sunjwan, Miran Sahib, Kaluchak and Ratnuchak during the subsequent days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Street dogs guaranteed ‘Right to Food’ in landmark Delhi High Court judgment  ||India’s street dogs have been given their own legal charter of rights and duties in a landmark judgment by the Delhi High Court that includes a right to be fed and an obligation to guard the colonies where they live. “Animals have a right under law to be treated with compassion, respect, and dignity,” the court declared in its ruling that goes strongly in the favour of man’s best friend. “Animals are sentient creatures with an intrinsic value. Therefore, the protection of such beings is the moral responsibility of each and every citizen, including the governmental and non-government organizations,” the court went on to say. The ruling came in a longstanding dispute between a Delhi resident and animal lovers who had been feeding dogs in the colony near the entrance to the plaintiff’s home. In February, the court ordered the two sides to work out a settlement. This resulted in a deadlock and Justice Pratibha M. Singh asked the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to step in as an arbitrator. The judgment could have far-reaching implications for the millions of “community dogs,” as the ruling respectfully refers to strays, that live across India. The court ruled unequivocally that: “Community animals (stray/street dogs) have the right to food and citizens have the right to feed community dogs.” The court warned, however, that in exercising this right “care and caution should be taken to ensure that it does not impinge upon the rights of others, or cause any harm, hindrance, harassment and nuisance to other individuals or members of the society.” Although an amicable deal was eventually struck between the two sides establishing fixed feeding areas for the stray dogs, lawyers for the plaintiff and the defendant asked Justice J. R. Midha to set out rules for feeding stray dogs in communities. The issue of feeding strays in India sparks some of the bitterest rows in municipal colonies with some residents seeing them as a threat to safety and health. Justice Midha laid down detailed rules on setting up feeding areas in all Delhi colonies. He also suggested that a pilot project in 10 residential areas should be conducted with the AWBI’s help. Under the scheme suggested by the court, each RWA will have to set up an Animal Welfare Committee. The court’s ruling could have far-reaching consequences because it will involve establishing “feeding areas.” RWAs will also have to make provisions for sterilising animals and treating those that fall sick. “If any of the street/community dogs in injured or unwell, it shall be the duty of the RWA to secure treatment for such dog by the vets made available by the Municipal Corporation and/or privately from the funds of the RWA,” the court ruled. Going beyond those areas, the court also pointed out that street dogs tend to be extremely territorial and attached to the areas where they live. It outlined a way by which, with the help of police, the dogs could be trained to act as guard dogs for the area. “Every RWA should form Guard and Dog partnerships and, in consultation with the Delhi Police Dog Squad, the dogs can be trained to make them effective as guard dogs and yet friendly to those who live in the colony,” the court proposed. The court added: “The importance of street dogs in our community is of great significance. Being territorial animals, they live in certain areas and play the role of guards by protecting the community from the entry of outsiders.” The court said the aim of training the animals should be to “make the community dogs assets to the community instead of them being viewed as a menace.” Back in 2014, the New Delhi Municipal Corporation floated a proposal to turn stray canines into security dogs and even had a plan to get them to attend a police training school. But the project never got off the ground. Keeping in mind the fact that dogs are territorial animals, the court also ruled that feeding must take place in an area where residents are not inconvenienced but also within the dogs’ "territory". “Every dog is a territorial being, and therefore, the street dogs have to be fed and tended to at places within their territory which are not frequented or less frequented, and sparingly used by the general public and residents.” The court ruled that the RWAs and the Animal Welfare Board of India should fix “suitable times” twice a day for feeding the dogs. In addition, the court proposed a dispute mechanism via the welfare board to settle differences between residents and RWAs and animal feeders. To ensure peace between all parties, the court also laid down that, “It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Government officers, particularly the jurisdictional SHO, to ensure that peace and harmony are maintained amongst the residents, caregivers, and community dog feeders.” India already has some of the most favourable laws globally for dogs. For instance, it’s illegal under the Indian Penal Code to kill healthy strays. Stray dogs are also protected by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. In his ruling, the judge quoted Article 48A of the Constitution which lays down that the state must protect forests and wildlife. He also cited Article 51A(g) which enshrines respect for animals, saying people must have “compassion for living creatures”. He asserted that Article 21 offers the Right to Life and that this must also be extended to animals. “The said Article not only protects the life of human beings but also protects the life of animals,” he said. “We have to show compassion towards all living creatures. Animals may be mute but we as a society have to speak on their behalf. No pain or agony should be caused to the animals,” the judge said. “Animals breathe like us and have emotions. The animals require food, water, shelter, normal behaviour, medical care, self-determination,” he declared. In addition, Justice Midha noted that various countries like the UK, Austria, Germany have introduced new laws aimed at protecting and guarding the wellbeing of animals. Animal welfare advocates hailed the judge’s judgment laying out rights for stray dogs as far-sighted and compassionate. But they cautioned that the ruling may be tough to put into practice. Says one expert: “Some RWAs can be obnoxious beyond belief toward people who want to feed strays. But there’s also an issue with some animal lovers who don’t want any rules or regulations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Monsoon slips into hiatus expected to last a week||The monsoon has slipped into a hiatus expected to last a week, the national weather agency said on Thursday while predicting below-normal rainfall across swathes of the country in July, a crucial month for agriculture. The India Meteorological Department said that while the overall nationwide rainfall during July was expected to be “normal” — 96 to 104 per cent of the average — many parts of northwest, central and eastern India and the southern peninsula would receive below-normal rains. Monsoon rainfall is likely to remain subdued over the next seven days under the current atmospheric conditions, wind patterns and the absence of any low-pressure systems over the Bay of Bengal that serve as engines for the monsoon’s advance. “This is likely to impact sowing and transplantation of crops, irrigation scheduling and power requirements,” IMD director-general Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra told reporters. India’s major summer crops include rice, maize, sugarcane, groundnut, pigeon pea and soybean. The normal window for transplanting rice and sowing other crops typically falls during July across central India and the northwestern states, but agrometeorologists have underlined that much of northwest India relies on irrigated farmland and not so much on rainfall. “Early sown crops will require protective irrigation to conserve soil moisture and prevent evaporation,” Mohapatra said. The IMD had earlier this year predicted that the overall rainfall during the four-month monsoon season from June through September would be normal. That forecast for the full monsoon season still stands. The forecast generated by the IMD for July has predicted that parts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and northeastern Bihar are likely to receive 65 to 75 per cent below-normal rainfall in July, while some parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Odisha and Maharashtra will receive 35-65 per cent below-normal rains. However, the IMD said, heavy rainfall is very likely over parts of Bihar, northern Bengal, Sikkim and the northeastern states, resulting from strong moisture-laden winds from the Bay of Bengal over India’s eastern and northeastern states. Western Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan will continue to bake under a heat wave with maximum temperatures above 40°C and, at places, 5 degrees higher than the average over the next two days. After July 3, the intensity of the heat is likely to reduce with the arrival of moisture-laden winds from the Arabian Sea. But the winds will add to humidity and the “human discomfort will continue over the next seven days”, Mohapatra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||CJI Ramana expresses concern at lack of govt priority for healthcare ||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Thursday expressed concern at the lack of government priority for health care and at the way doctors were being attacked in the country “for someone else’s failure”. “It is saddening that our doctors are being brutally attacked while on duty,” Justice Ramana said, addressing the medical fraternity on National Doctors’ Day. He asked: “Why is it that the medical professionals are at the receiving end for someone else’s failure?” Without naming any particular government, the CJI remarked: “Issues such as insufficient number of medical professionals, infrastructure, medicines, outdated technologies, and government not giving priority to the medical sector are issues of immediate concern. It is a fact that the tradition of the family doctor is vanishing.” He asked: “Why is it that the profiteering by corporates and investors is being blamed on doctors?” The CJI said India’s doctors were tirelessly and selflessly fighting the deadly pandemic. “When thousands of physically and emotionally vulnerable patients stood isolated in their hospital wards, it was the doctors who kept the hope alive even in the times of despair,” Justice Ramana said. “Unless you see them working personally, you cannot visualise the discomfort of being in PPE kits non-stop for 24 hours in a day and sometimes even for days together with no rest or proper food.” Justice Ramana said it was sad to see that good and qualified doctors cannot start decent hospitals of their own and survive, and that even after eight to nine years of rigorous learning, doctors struggle to get decent salaries. “The medical bodies and concerned agencies in the government have to put their heads together to address these concerns. Only then can we sincerely greet the doctors on the first of July every year,” he said. He added: “I venture to say that no other professional is capable of rendering services as valuable as those offered by doctors. On this occasion, I pay my humble tributes to Dr B.C. Roy in whose honour Doctors’ Day came to be celebrated in India.” The Indian Medical Association’s data suggest that more than 798 doctors have lost their lives to the deadly second wave, Justice Ramana said, expressing his sympathy for the bereaved families. He said that because of the nature of the pandemic, thousands of doctors and healthcare workers had been separated from their families during these difficult times. No amount of medical training or experience can ever prepare anyone to go through the psychological ordeals of the pandemic, he added. Justice Ramana expressed concern at the increase in the incidence of diabetes, an “opportunistic killer” that affects people across classes and age groups, and said this required immediate attention. He said data revealed that India had the highest number of diabetes patients — 65 million — and that this was projected to rise to 101.2 million by 2030. “Here, one must pause and question the implication... (for) the already strained Indian healthcare system. These issues call for formulating public healthcare policies surrounding the prevention and management of diabetes in India based on intense scientific research,” the CJI said. “However, the path is not easy. Studies have proved that knowledge and awareness about diabetes is very (low) in India. The degree of awareness is negligible in rural areas and among the vulnerable classes. The need of the hour is to bridge this gap in awareness regarding the disease, its prevention and management.” Justice Ramana said it was necessary to evolve methods that suited the Indian context. He said the lack of awareness led to myths being spread such as “those who eat more sugar get sugar disease”; “women are immune to diabetes”; “only obese people get diabetes”; and “diabetes is contagious”. “Where there is room for myths, there is room for quackery; and quackery is the biggest disease that is affecting India. Where the awareness ends, the quackery begins. Due to lack of awareness and resources, people tend to fall for ‘easy solutions’ offered by the quacks,” Justice Ramana said. “The unscientific solutions offered by the quacks push the people into deeper troubles, ultimately leading to additional burden on the individuals as well as the public healthcare system.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Minor gang-raped and killed in Bihar||Five men allegedly gang-raped and killed a minor after dragging her out through the window while she was asleep in her house at a village in Vaishali district of Bihar, police said. The police have arrested three of the accused. The incident occurred at Bhagwanpur Ratti village on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Family members and villagers found her body in the morning. Though the villagers said that the girl was 14-years-old, the police have maintained that she was aged 16. Her parents had gone out to attend the marriage function of a relative, while she and her grandfather were at home. When the girl did not come out of her room in the morning, her grandfather knocked at the door. He raised an alarm after not getting a response and a few neighbours rushed to the house. They found the window in the girl’s room was open but she was not inside. The villagers informed her family members and they together mounted a search. They found her body a few hours later in an orchard while looking across the village and farms. “A few men had been loitering around the house over the last few days. She was abducted through the window of her room, raped and then killed,” the girl’s uncle said. Police officials said that prima facie it seemed that the victim was raped and murdered. The doctors who conducted the post-mortem also said that the girl was raped before being killed. Vaishali Sadar sub-divisional police officer Raghav Dayal told The Telegraph that the window of the room did not have a steel grill, and she could have been abducted through it. “We have arrested three out of the five accused. We have not received the post-mortem report yet. The matter is under investigation so I cannot tell more,” Vaishali superintendent of police Maneesh, who goes by one name, told this newspaper. Meanwhile, the villagers pelted stones and attacked the houses of the five accused. Police personnel have been deployed in the village to prevent any untoward incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Covid: Odisha halts vaccination drive in 16 districts ||The Odisha government on Thursday halted the vaccination drive in 16 districts because of a shortage of doses. Only 49,000 people were vaccinated in the state against a target of three lakh on Wednesday. “We have only 19,520 doses of Covishield and 3.24 lakh vials of Covaxin with us,” director, health and family welfare, Bijay Panigrahi, told reporters on Thursday. Panigrahi said: “The vaccination programme has been stopped in 16 districts. Though, we will receive one lakh Covishield doses today (Thursday), it is not sufficient. We want to expedite the programme before the third wave hits the state.” The districts where the vaccination programme has been stopped are — Angul, Bolangir, Balasore, Baragarh, Bhadrak, Deogarh, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Kandhamal, Kendrapara, Koraput, Nabarangour, Sonepur and Sundergarh. Only 114 vaccination sessions were held on Thursday, including 72 in state capital Bhubaneswar. Odisha has so far vaccinated 1.18 crore people. Covaxin is being administered to people in Bhubaneswar, while Covishield is being given to people in other parts of the state. For the last 10 days, Odisha has been vaccinating an average of three lakh citizens per day. The state has built the capacity to vaccinate 3.5 lakh people per day. The number of Covid deaths in the state has touched 4,063, with 45 fresh casualties reported on Thursday. Of the fresh fatalities, nine were reported from Khurda, five each from Nayagarh and Puri, four each from Ganjam and Keonjhar, three each from Bargarh and Sundargarh districts. Two deaths each were recorded in Angul, Cuttack and Sambalpur and one patient each succumbed to the infection in Balasore, Dhenkanal, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Mayurbhanj and Nabarangpur, an official said. Another 3,087 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the infection tally in the state to 912,887. The state now has 31,231 active cases, while 877,540 patients have recovered from the disease. Of the new cases, 1,775 were reported from quarantine centres, and the remaining 1,312 detected during contact tracing. Khurda district, of which Bhubaneswar is a part, reported the highest number of fresh cases at 584, followed by Cuttack (462) and Balasore (246). The state has so far tested over 1.38 crore samples for Covid-19, including 74,000 on Wednesday, and the positivity ratio stands at 6.59 per cent. Meanwhile, the state government on Wednesday eased Covid-related restrictions in 20 districts where the test positivity rate is below 5 per cent with bus services resuming in a few places on Thursday. The government had on Wednesday extended the partial lockdown in the state for 15 more days till 5am on July 16. However, the coastal districts are under active watch of the state government as the number of coronavirus cases is still high. The restrictions are yet to be eased in these districts, particularly in the coastal belt. Health minister Naba Kishore Das said: “We have requested the Centre to provide vaccines. We are yet to get supplies according to our requirement.” Odisha has sought six lakh additional doses of Covishield. The state is expecting a consignment of six lakh vials of the vaccine on Friday, an official said. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila seeks permission to launch DNA-based vaccine ||Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila has sought permission from India’s drug regulatory authority to launch its DNA-based Covid-19 vaccine, saying the needle-free vaccine has shown 66 per cent protective efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19. The company announced on Thursday that it had applied to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine, ZyCoV-D, after interim results from a clinical trial on over 28,000 volunteers demonstrated its safety and efficacy. The trial has also shown that ZyCoV-D — a three-dose vaccine — is safe for children aged 12 to 18 years who made up around 1,000 of the 28,000 volunteers. “When approved, the vaccine will help not only adults but also adolescents in the 12-to-18-years age group,” said Sharvil Patel, managing director of Cadila Healthcare. The interim analysis has shown a primary efficacy of 66.6 per cent for symptomatic Covid-19 confirmed through an RT-PCR test, the company said, announcing the results of the trial at 50 sites across India. The trial results have yet to be peer-reviewed and published. Under globally adopted standards, a Covid-19 vaccine has to show at least 50 per cent efficacy to be considered for approval. Vaccines already approved have efficacy ranging from 78 per cent to over 90 per cent. It said no moderate case of Covid-19 was observed in the vaccine arm of the trial after three doses, indicating 100 per cent efficacy against moderate disease. No severe cases or deaths due to Covid-19 occurred in the vaccine arm after the second dose. Patel said the company had built a facility designed to produce 10 million doses per month and was hoping to supply 50 million doses between August and December this year, but said it is “too early” to specify the vaccine’s price tag. India’s health ministry has already counted 50 million doses of ZyCoV-D it hopes to receive between August and December this year to make up a total of more than 1.86 billion doses required to fully vaccinate the country’s estimated 944 million people. The needle-free applicator introduces ZyCoV-D through the skin. ZyCoV-D is the first DNA-based Covid-19 vaccine that has sought regulatory approval. Scientists say although the idea of DNA vaccines emerged more than 15 years ago, the technology has been viewed as promising yet challenging with no commercial DNA vaccines out yet. The company said the vaccine platform — a segment of DNA designed to generate immune responses against the novel coronavirus — was “ideally suited” for dealing with Covid-19 as it can be easily adapted to deal with emerging variants of the virus. “I’m pleasantly surprised to learn about the success of a DNA vaccine,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana), who was not associated with the vaccine development. In February this year, scientists at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, had reported that ZyCoV-D had generated significant neutralising antibodies and lowered viral loads in rhesus monkeys inoculated with the vaccine and then challenged with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. But Vrati and other medical experts say as new vaccines enter the vaccination campaign, recipients are likely to give more consideration to the efficacy tags placed on them. The other vaccines currently used in the campaign has higher efficacies — Covaxin’s 78 per cent, Covishield’s 81 per cent, and Sputnik V’s over 90 per cent. Multiple research groups across the world have explored candidate DNA vaccines against several other microbes, including hepatitis-B and rabies, but none has moved into the market yet. “Delivery and efficacy have been challenging issues with DNA vaccines,” Vrati said. The immune responses generated by DNA vaccines were “too low to yield therapeutically convincing results,” Dominica Hobernik and Matthias Bros at the University Medical Centre, Mainz, Germany, had written three years ago in a review on progress towards DNA vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Social welfare minister threats to quit over ‘corruption’ in Bihar||Bihar social welfare minister Madan Sahni on Thursday said he would resign in protest against alleged corruption and high-handedness of the bureaucracy under the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. Sahni asserted that it would be better to leave his post than to suffer humiliation at the hands of senior officers and for not being able to properly serve the people. He also demanded a probe into the assets of a senior IAS officer considered close to the chief minister. “I have decided to resign from my post to protest against undue interference and high-handedness of the bureaucracy. I am not satisfied with the residence or vehicle allotted to me. These obstruct my efforts to serve the people. If officers do not listen to me, then the work of the people suffer and if their work cannot be done then there is no need for me to remain a minister,” Sahni told reporters in Patna. Sahni, an MLA from Bahadurpur in Darbhanga district, said he would remain in the Janata Dal United even after resigning from his post. He alleged that he was not consulted for the transfer and posting of officers in his department. “An IAS officer close to Nitish Kumar made a lot of money in the transfer and posting of officials. His assets should be investigated,” he alleged. Hundreds of officers in different departments have been transferred in the state over the last couple of days. Sources said the transfers were done after Nitish’s nod, but Sahni was aggrieved that he was not taken into confidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||DU to collaborate with institutions for enhancing teachers' skills ||Delhi University (DU) is planning collaborations with institutions outside the capital for enhancing the skills of teachers and for joint research. Some DU teachers, however, objected to such an arrangement on the ground that the university had inadequate infrastructure and other pressing issues to deal with, including the regularisation of ad hoc teachers. Under the scheme, DU will throw open its faculties, libraries and other facilities at its departments and colleges to the partner institutions for academic cooperation and collaboration under the Vidya Vistar (V2) programme. In an official document, DU said activities like online and offline lectures, workshops, trainings and meetings would be organised under the V2 programme for augmenting the skills of teachers of both institutions. The teachers and researchers of these partner institutions will join the research activities of DU departments and colleges and will be invited as co-investigators in research programmes. Several DU colleges have already prepared their collaboration plans. PGDAV (Evening) College, affiliated to DU, is set to collaborate with Government College, Sheo (Barmer) in Rajasthan; Janki Devi Memorial College has chosen Mahatma Gandhi Government College in Andaman; Daulat Ram College will partner with Government College, Chouthan, in Rajasthan and Government College, Jodhpur. DU-affiliated Shivaji College will partner with Nar Bahadur Bhandari Degree College, Gangtok, while Hansraj College is set to collaborate with Government Post-Graduate College, Chamba (Himachal Pradesh), Government Degree College, Ladakh, and Government College, Yachuli (Arunachal Pradesh). Former DU Executive Council member Rajesh Jha said these collaborations should have first been discussed with the statutory bodies of DU, like the Academic Council and the Executive Council. He also pointed to some constraints. “DU has 4,500 ad hoc teachers. They are not being regularised. Its own facilities such as classrooms, labs and hostels are inadequate. These problems are not being addressed. The scheme appears to be an attempt to say, ‘Look, we are sitting in Delhi and we know the best. We have the knowhow to improve you’,” Jha said. He said the university always cited funds crunch when it came to green-lighting research and development grants, innovation projects, research journals and lab equipment. A DU official said the bonding envisaged under the V2 project was based on the principles of mutual respect, cooperation and sharing, with all institutions being equal partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||SC overrules objections to sharing statements with Delhi govt leaders in criminal case||The Supreme Court on Thursday overruled Delhi police’s objections to sharing with Delhi government leaders certain statements recorded against them in a criminal case, saying the matter may be a “political hot potato” but the prosecution’s stance had no “legal” relevance. “You know that it is the basic principle of natural justice and common sense that an accused must have a copy of the documents. It might be a political hot potato but legally it is nothing…. It is not worth lingering in this matter,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, told additional solicitor-general Aman Lekhi. Lekhi was appearing for the Delhi police who report to the central government, which has often been at loggerheads with the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi. “You can’t have the investigating agency pick and choose things which are favourable to you (prosecution).... The purpose of criminal justice administration is not to convict people but to allow criminal justice to run a fair course,” Justice Chandrachud said. The case relates to a February 2018 complaint by then Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash, who had alleged that AAP legislators Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal had beaten him up at the official residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Prakash had claimed that Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia were present during the alleged assault. The allegation set up a political slugfest between the BJP and the AAP and led to cases of assault and other criminal charges being lodged against Kejriwal, Sisodia and 10 other AAP leaders. In July 2019, a trial court rejected a request from Kejriwal and the other accused to be given copies of the statement of one of the witnesses, V.K. Jain, the then adviser to the chief minister. However, last October, Delhi High Court reversed the trial court’s order and directed that Jain’s statements be given to the AAP leaders. The Delhi police challenged the high court order in the apex court. However, the bench of Justices Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said the high court directive was a reasoned order and they did not wish to interfere with it. Lekhi cited a technicality, arguing that while statements recorded under Section 161 CrPC had to be given to accused as a matter of their right, Jain’s statement had not been recorded under this section but was part of the case diary. Justice Chandrachud rejected the argument and said that once a statement had been recorded, there was no reason not to share it with the accused unless the prosecuting agency wanted to adopt a “pick and choose policy”. “This is a written statement and it will not be fair to the accused to not give it to them. If there is something which will benefit the accused, they are entitled to access it,” Justice Chandrachud remarked. Statements recorded by the police under Section 161 have corroborative value in the court while other statements recorded in the case diary are for the investigating officer’s own reference. A trial judge can, however, use such statements to make his or her own enquiries. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi appeared for the AAP leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Nine European countries to allow travellers with Covishield vaccine ||Nine European countries on Thursday informed India that they would allow travellers who had received the Covishield vaccine but this did not necessarily amount to them extending to Indians the exemptions on travel restrictions granted to citizens of European Union member countries. The EU exemptions, including doing away with quarantine, under the European Union’s Digital Covid Certificate (Green Pass) framework came into force on Thursday to facilitate safe and free movement of citizens of member countries within the bloc during the pandemic. Sources said Germany, Spain, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland and Estonia had confirmed that they would accept Covishield vaccination certificates for travel purposes. There has, however, been official confirmation from six countries so far — Germany, Spain, Estonia, Slovenia, Iceland and Greece. Estonia will accept Covaxin certificates, too, though it admitted that visa categories being processed for entry “remain strictly limited” owing to the pandemic. India has been approaching EU member countries individually for extension of the exemption granted to its Green Pass holders to those who have taken the Indian vaccines — Covaxin or Covishield — with the promise of reciprocal waiver of quarantine requirements. Four vaccines have been authorised for use in the EU by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) — those manufactured by Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca. The Green Pass recognises only these four vaccines. The exclusion of Covishield, which is produced by India’s Serum Institute using analogous methods to the EU-approved AstraZeneca vaccine Vaxzevria but does not have EU market authorisation, stoked anger and the threat of retaliatory measures by India against travellers from Europe. Asked if the acceptance of Covishield by the nine countries amounts to them extending the Green Pass exemptions to travellers from India, sources said easing of travel restrictions would be “deliberated reciprocally”, indicating that this is still work in progress. “Confirming that a double shot of Covishield is fully recognised by GER as valid proof of anti-Covid vaccination (this does nevertheless not modify existing travel or visa restrictions for travellers from areas of concern/virus variants areas),” German ambassador to India Walter J. Lidner tweeted on Wednesday. India remains an area of concern for much of Europe. Air France continues to have mandatory quarantine protocols even for those who have taken the EMA-approved vaccines if they are travelling from India. According to the updated entry requirements for Austria effective from Thursday, travellers from India — barring those in certain select categories — have to take a Covid test and observe mandatory home quarantine for 10 days. “No exceptions for travellers presenting a certificate of vaccination or a certificate of recovery. Quarantine may be terminated upon presentation of a negative result of a molecular-biological test for SARS-CoV-2 taken no earlier than five days after entry (rapid or antigen test not accepted).” Africa relief The decision to recognise Covishield will also impact African and other countries that received the vaccine as part of WHO’s Covax initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala HC issues interim stay on stamp duty hike||Kerala High Court on Thursday issued an interim stay of three weeks on the Lakshadweep administration’s order hiking stamp duty for property transactions. A native of Amini islands in Lakshadweep, Mohammed Salih P.M., had in his petition sought a stay on the collector’s order citing lack of jurisdiction and other improprieties on the native people belonging to the Scheduled Tribes. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan granted the stay against the implementation of the hike in stamp duty from 1 per cent to 6 per cent for women, 7 per cent for men and 8 per cent for others. The petitioner, who is a practising lawyer in the high court, said the stay order would help the local people conduct property transactions at the existing rate of 1 per cent pending further orders. The administration has been given two weeks to file its response after which the case would be heard again. “My contention was that the collector did not have the power to issue such an order as only a state or the Union government can do so,” Salih told The Telegraph on Thursday. Salih had cited violation of the Indian Stamp Act and The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi (Protection of Scheduled Tribes) Regulation, 1964, in arguing against the steep hike in stamp duty. “Since a vast majority of the people of Lakshadweep earn their livelihood from fishing and selling coconuts and its produce like fibre, such a steep and arbitrary hike in stamp duty is unscientific,” he said. Salih said he stumbled upon the revised stamp duty rates and the order dated May 5 while trying to execute a property transfer from his father. It is just one of the many executive orders and draft legislations issued after Praful Khoda Patel, a hugely controversial administrator, took charge in December. The high court had on Tuesday stayed the demolition of over 70 houses in Kavaratti after a petitioner cited lack of jurisdiction as the order had been issued by a block development officer (BDO). That was quickly followed by an order from the collector granting the Kavaratti BDO the powers of a deputy collector in an apparent move to skirt the court order. Kerala High Court had last week stayed two other orders to remove meat from midday meals for schoolstudents and close down dairy farms. The islanders have been on the warpath against Patel and his arbitrary reforms that have affected normal life in the Union Territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Kidnapper cannot be sentenced to life imprisonment if abductee gets treated well: SC||A kidnapper cannot be sentenced to life imprisonment if the abducted person is not assaulted or threatened with murder and is treated well, the Supreme Court has said. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy made the observation while setting aside the conviction of an auto driver in Telangana, Shaik Ahmed, who had kidnapped a 13-year-old and demanded a ransom of Rs 2 lakh from his father. The boy and the father had testified that Ahmed had never threatened to kill or harm the child. The top court said there were three essential ingredients to convict an accused under IPC Section 364A (kidnapping for ransom), which needed to be proved by the prosecution. They are — kidnapping or abduction of any person or keeping him or her in detention; threatening to kill or hurt the person; or if the kidnapper’s conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the victim may be murdered or hurt in order to compel the government, a foreign state or any other person to pay a ransom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
02-07-2021||India||Work from home ruffles laundry services||Work from home may have smoothened the lives of professionals amid the pandemic but it has furrowed the brows of those providing laundry services. Many of those involved in the laundry business in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad say their earnings have dropped drastically because of the work-from-home culture in vogue since March last year. They say that since many people no longer have to step out of home for work, there is no need for them to wear formal or ironed clothes. Some laundry service providers say they used to iron nearly 200 clothes per day, but the number has come down to 40-50 now. Shirkant Borude from Chikalthana attributed the downturn in his business not only to work from home but also smaller wedding gatherings necessitated by pandemic restrictions. “Markets opened fully twice since the pandemic began, but the work-from-home policy has made employees use less number of ironed clothes. Earlier, I used to iron around 200 clothes a day. Now the number is down to 40-50 a day,” he said. Roll pressing and dry cleaning of saris have almost come to a halt as only a small number of people are allowed to attend weddings, Borude added. Sainath Hajare, who runs a laundry shop in Shivajinagar, said that “people are not ready to pay if we increase the charges”. “Earlier, people would give us clothes for washing and we used to give back ironed clothes to them. For example, a man used to need at least five ironed dresses a week for going to office, now he needs just a couple of dresses as he is working from home. The number of customers who would give clothes to us in bulk has declined by nearly 75 per cent,” he said. Now, people are washing and ironing clothes at home as they are less in quantity, Hajare said. Moreover, schools are shut, so there is no question of ironed uniforms, added Hajare. Shriram Hajare, a laundry owner in Samarthnagar, said: “The number of customers giving clothes in bulk, as well as walk-in customers, have declined. In the past, I used to earn Rs 2,000 a day, which has now come down to Rs 400-500.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
02-07-2021||India||Delhi HC grants protection to woman hounded for converting to Islam||Delhi High Court on Thursday granted interim protection till July 5 to a woman who has claimed that she and her family were facing life threats and being subjected to a witch-hunt by Uttar Pradesh police, media and vigilante groups after her wilful conversion from Hinduism to Islam. Justice C. Hari Shankar asked Delhi police to take appropriate steps to protect the woman till a regular bench heard the matter, noting that the petitioner was a young woman who had expressed apprehension regarding her security. “While putting the matter before the regular bench for July 5, I deem it appropriate to issue limited direction to the respondents 1 and 2 (the Delhi police commissioner and the station house office of Jamia Nagar police station) to take appropriate steps to protect the life and liberty of the petitioner till the matter is taken up by the regular bench on July 5,” the vacation bench said. The manner in which the protection is to be given is left to Delhi police, the bench said, making it clear that the court was not expressing any view on the correctness of the claims made in the petition. During the hearing, advocate Sameer Vashisht, representing Delhi police, submitted that officers had been unable to contact the woman, Renu Gangwar alias Ayesha Alvi, because she was not found residing at the address given in the petition and her mobile phone was switched off. Advocate Tanya Agarwal, representing Alvi, said her client had to frequently change her home because of apprehensions and added she would email her current address to the counsel for the police. Alvi, who hails from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh, works in Delhi. She has sought protection for her and her family as also safeguarding her right to privacy, saying she and her family are being targeted because of her conversion and malicious content is being published in the media, which should be stopped immediately. “The petitioner (woman) is an adult and she is protected by the Constitution to choose her own faith and she cannot be targeted and harassed for the choice she makes with regard to the religion she follows,” said the petition, filed through advocate Kamlesh Kumar Mishra and Nitin Kumar Nayak. The plea said Alvi converted to Islam on May 27 in Delhi. Since June 23, when she was in Shahjahanpur, she started getting calls from mediapersons requesting a meeting, which she refused. It said the journalists came to her place without permission and took her photographs and videos. Soon she started getting calls demanding money and threatening that the news of her conversion would be published in the media and she would be arrested, the petition said. Thereafter, one of them forcibly took Rs 20,000 while others tried to extort money from her and her family, the plea alleged, adding that absurd and imaginary details were being reported in the media regarding her conversion. Alva said she had filed a complaint with the Delhi police commissioner on June 24 seeking immediate intervention for her protection but no action was taken.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
02-07-2021||India||Kargil leaders call for Ladakh statehood||Leaders from Kargil on Thursday echoed the Valley leadership in seeking the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A in their first meeting with the Centre after the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 but demanded full statehood for Ladakh. Leh and Kargil are two districts of Ladakh. Leh has a Buddhist majority who supported the abrogation of Article 370 but are fighting for the reservation of land and jobs for local residents. Kargil has a Muslim majority. Overall, Muslims enjoy a slender majority in Ladakh. The Kargil-based alliance of political, religious and social bodies — fighting under the banner of the Kargil Democratic Alliance — had opposed the dilution of Article 370 and the division of the state into two Union Territories. While the Leh leadership had held several rounds of talks with the Centre for a special status of the region, the Kargil leaders were invited for talks for the first time on Thursday. An 11-member delegation met Union minister of state for home G. Kishan Reddy. The meeting comes days after the Centre’s first outreach to Jammu and Kashmir parties. Major J&K parties, including the National Conference and Peoples’ Democratic Party, recently told the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore Articles 370 and 35A. The NC has since indicated it will participate in the proposed Assembly elections if statehood is restored while continuing its fight for the restoration of Article 370. The Valley leadership wants Ladakh to be returned to J&K.Kargil leader Asgar Karbalai, who is co-chairman of the Kargil alliance, said the delegation demanded the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A and full statehood for Ladakh. “We had two demands. Restoration of 370 and 35A and statehood for Ladakh… Since they say it is sub judice, in the Supreme Court, whether you accept the ground reality or not, the fact is J&K has been divided into two Union Territories. We said we don’t accept Union Territory status and if you want to give (anything), give statehood to Ladakh,” Karbalai told The Telegraph. “We are part of a petition (seeking restoration of Article 370). But we do not know how much time it will take. Whenever the decision is taken, we are for Articles 370 and 35A. (As long as it is sub judice), we want the Ladakh state,” he added. Sajjad Kargili, who represented major religious Kargil organisation Jamiat Ulmai Isna Asahari, said no joint memorandum was submitted but all leaders endorsed the stand taken by the alliance leadership. “The restoration of Article 370 is a legal fight… We will continue the struggle but we will not accept the UT idea. In the meantime, we told them to give us full statehood,” Kargili said. Kragili said the leaders voiced concern that the demographic profile of the region might be changed. The Kargil leadership’s demand for the restoration of special status is a fresh setback for Ladakh’s mainly Buddhist alliance, which has been fighting for the inclusion of the fledgling Union Territory in Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. But at the same time, their support for Ladakh statehood is a sign that they are ready to mend fences with the Buddhists. Kargil leaders said the meeting happened in a cordial atmosphere and the minister heard them out patiently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
02-07-2021||India||Income-tax sleuths question editor and editor-in-chief of NewsClick ||Income-tax sleuths questioned the NewsClick web portal’s elderly editor-in-chief and its editor for around five hours on Wednesday, almost five months after the Enforcement Directorate had raided their premises over five days. The grilling took place on a day 71-year-old Prabir Purkayastha, the chief editor, and Pranjal Pandey, the editor, received summons from Delhi police’s economic offences wing to appear before it on July 9. Purkayastha’s plea in Delhi High Court for anticipatory bail in the ED’s money-laundering probe in the same case was adjourned to July 5 on Thursday. NewsClick, an investigative news site that faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit by the Adani group, has extensively covered protests, including the ongoing farmers’ movement. Purkayastha told The Telegraph that he and editor Pranjal Pandey were questioned at NewsClick’s south Delhi office by the IT investigators over their tax filings, transactions, contracts and syndicated content. “These were virtually the same set of issues (over which) the ED has been questioning us for some time now…. There is clearly an agenda coming from media organisations that don’t like what we are doing. Despite the HC’s order last week, we are yet to receive the ED’s case information report. We have challenged the ED and police case in court and will argue not only for protection from coercive action and bail but also for the FIR to be quashed,” Purkayastha said. Purkayastha, a CPM member, had been jailed during the Emergency. He suffers from hypertension, diabetes and asthma. The ED raid at his house in February had continued for 113 hours. Asked about his bail plea, Purkayastha said: “I am willing to stand up to all of this, but it certainly is bad weather for going to Tihar.” Delhi is currently facing a heatwave. The police and the IT department did not respond to queries from this newspaper on what offences they were now investigating. The ED’s case is based on an FIR by Delhi police’s economic offences wing last year that alleged that NewsClick had violated foreign direct investment rules by receiving Rs 9.59 crore from a defunct US-based firm — Worldwide Media Holdings LLC — in 2018. NewsClick has argued that this investment was received before the FDI cap of 26 per cent for digital media was imposed in 2019. The police summons to Purkayastha on Wednesday quotes the same FIR number. In February, the ED had searched the offices of the website and its sister concerns, as well as homes of its shareholders and business partners. Bank and tax documents, laptops, mobile phones and email caches of the entire top management and several employees had been seized. No chargesheet has been filed yet. Purkayastha and Pandey have routinely had to appear for questioning by the ED in the months that followed. The Indian Express newspaper had quoted unnamed ED sources in February as saying that NewsClick had received Rs 30.51 crore from foreign companies for publishing news on its sister concern Peoples Dispatch — an international news site run in collaboration with several global news outlets. This fact alone, if true, is not illegal. NewsClick had responded saying: “The selective leak of misleading facts is nothing but a malicious attempt to smear the image of NewsClick and discredit our journalism.” Navlakha statement A Mumbai court permitted the ED to record rights activist Gautam Navlakha’s statement in the NewsClick case for four days in Mumbai’s Taloja jail, where he is held for the alleged terrorist plot at an Ambedkarite event in Bhima-Koregaon in 2017. Navlakha had been a columnist for NewsClick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
