03-07-2021||India||Maharashtra: Record 8 lakh-plus get Covid-19 vaccines in a day||More than eight lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses, highest in a single day so far, were administered in Maharashtra on Saturday, a senior official said. "Maharashtra's new record in vaccination: Crossed 8 lakh shots in a day. 8,01,847 till 9 pm. Till date 3,39,11,029 shots have been administered in the State. As and when vaccines are supplied to the State & private sector, the vaccination is at record numbers," Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray tweeted. "We surpassed our previous best performance... as of 7 PM we had administered 7,85,311 doses, the highest-ever figure for the state," said health secretary Pradeep Vyas. Vaccination was going on at many centres and the final figure can cross eight lakh, he added. The previous record in the state was witnessed on June 26 when 7,38,704 doses were administered, Vyas said. With a total of 3,38,57,372 vaccine jabs given so far, Maharashtra has been at the top position in the country for more than three months, he said, thanking the health workers involved in the vaccination process for this feat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
03-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka further eases curbs with effect from July 5||The Karnataka government further relaxed the COVID-19-related restrictions allowing certain activities, including re-opening of religious places and conducting of weddings. The relaxations would be in place for the next 15 days from July 6, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said after chairing a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues and senior officials on Saturday. Theatres, cinemas and pubs would remain closed while swimming pools would be opened only for competitive training purpose. Further, sports complexes and stadia shall be opened only for the purpose of practice whereas social, political, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other gatherings and large congregations have been prohibited. Weddings and family functions are permitted with the presence of not more than 100 people. Places of worship are allowed to open only for 'darshan' not for 'sevas.' The order said cremation and funerals would be allowed with a maximum of 20 people while public transport is allowed to operate up to its seating capacity. "Shops, restaurants, malls, and private offices have to enforce COVID-appropriate behaviour failing which action will be initiated under the Disaster Management Act, 2005," Yediyurappa said. Educational institutions, tutorials and colleges would remain shut until further orders, he said. The state also announced the lifting of weekend curfew starting next week as it treads cautiously even as daily Covid cases continue to drop, reports ndtv.com. However, night curfew would continue to be in force from 9 PM to 5 AM the next day. Deputy Commissioners of the districts, based on the assessment of the COVID situation and after consultation with the district-in-charge Minister, may impose additional containment measures, he added. The COVID-19-related restrictions came into effect from April 27 and were made stringent from May 10 to June 14 in view of the alarming rise in the virus cases in April, which had gone beyond 50,000 cases a day while the daily fatalities exceeded 600 cases. The active cases too went beyond six lakh. The subsequent weeks saw a big medical emergency unfolding in the city with most of the hospitals running short of beds, oxygen and life-saving drugs. As an effect of the lockdown, the daily cases came down significantly. Today, 2,082 fresh cases, 86 fatalities and 48,116 active cases were reported. The government started easing restrictions from June 14. The number of active COVID-19 cases in Karnataka fell below 50,000 on Saturday, the tally was 48,116. The State saw 2,082 infections and 86 deaths today taking the total cases and fatalities to 28,52,079 and 35,308 respectively, the Health Department said. During the peak of the second wave of the virus which began in the first week of March, there were more than six lakh cases. As many as 7,751 patients recovered in the State taking the total recoveries to 27,68,632. Bengaluru Urban district reported 481 infections, which is the highest among all the districts of the State while there were 10 deaths. The city has so far reported 12,15,309 infections and 15,665 deaths. There were 19,411 active cases. Mysuru remained as the second major COVID-19 hot spot with 227 infections and seven fatalities. It was followed by Dakshina Kannada which reported 214 infections and 13 deaths, the highest among the districts. According to a bulletin, 202 cases were reported in Hassan, 108 in Shivamogga, 102 in Udupi, 91 in Belagavi, 89 in Tumakuru 79 in Chikkamagaluru, 72 in Mandya and 55 in Bengaluru Rural. Infections were reported in other districts as well and they include Kolar, Davangere, Dharwad and Uttara Kannada. The department said there were nine deaths in Ballari, seven in Belagavi, six each in Dharwad and Mandya, four in Hassan, three each in Bengaluru Rural, Chikkaballapura, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada. Fatalities were reported in 11 other districts as well. There were no fatalities in Bagalkote, Bidar, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Raichur and Yadgir. The State conducted 1,54,655 COVID tests, including 1,18,536 RT-PCR tests and others. So far 3.47 crore tests were done cumulatively, the department added. As many as 2.35 crore were inoculated in the State, including 3,66,182 today. The positivity rate and the case fatality rate for the day were 1.34 per cent and 4.13 per cent respectively, the department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
03-07-2021||India||BJP has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability, changing CM like toys: Congress||The Congress on Saturday hit out at the BJP leadership saying it has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability and betrayed its people by repeatedly changing chief minister like toys. BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the state's chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. He had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March. Pushkar Singh Dhami will be the new chief minister of Uttarakhand following his election on Saturday as the leader of the BJP legislature party. The BJP has insulted the 'devbhoomi' of Uttarakhand, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and its president J P Nadda are responsible for the current situation, the Congress alleged. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the BJP has betrayed the people and Prime Minister Modi and Nadda are responsible. He said this is not the first time the BJP has changed chief ministers in a state as it has done so in the past in Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka. “The BJP is known for creating political instability. It has changed chief ministers in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. Once again, it is changing chief ministers in Uttarakhand again and again like toys,” Surjewala said. Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said starting with Nityananad Swami, the BJP will have eight chief ministers in the state. He added that in the last four-and-a-half years of the BJP's rule in Uttarakhand, there will be three chief ministers. The Congress condemns the BJP for insulting the state and its people by not doing anything to solve its problems, he said. “The BJP's high drama in Dehradun is an insult to the people of Uttarakhand. The prime minister had promised to give a double-engine government, but the state only received different chief ministers and no development,” Harish Rawat, a former chief minister, said. “The BJP has not solved the problems of Uttarakhand and has added to the rising unemployment in the state,” he told reporters. It has “insulted the ‘devbhoomi’ (land of Gods) of Uttarakhand and the Congress condemns the BJP for giving political instability”, Harish Rawat said. Surjewala said, “This is BJP's example of lust for power, political instability, sharing fruits of power and failure of leadership.” "Instead of serving the people of Uttarakhand, they tried to distribute power, and PM Modi and JP Nadda are responsible for this. The BJP has brought Uttarakhand to such a turn where power means only sharing its fruits and nothing else," he alleged. Surjewala said in 2017, the people of Uttarakhand elected the BJP, but in five years instead of serving them and ushering in development, the BJP only "looted its resources". "This is BJP's 'chair-changing game' going on in 'devbhoomi' Uttarakhand," he said referring to the change of chief ministers in the state. "Modi ji-Nadda ji have betrayed the interests of the people of 'devbhoomi' by pushing Uttarakhand into political instability, loot of power and 'chief minister swap scheme'," Surjewala said. Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh said the people are hurt by the BJP's attitude towards the state, where unemployment is rising and people are left to fend for themselves. AICC secretary and in-charge for Uttarakhand Congress Devendra Yadav said the people of the state are waiting to throw out the BJP as it has given nothing to the state, except "loot its resources". Assembly polls in Uttarakhand is slated for next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Covid 3rd wave may see half the cases recorded during second surge, says govt panel scientist||The third wave of coronavirus could hit the peak between October-November if Covid appropriate behaviour is not followed, but may see half the daily cases recorded during the second surge, according to a scientist of a government panel tasked with modelling of Covid-19 cases. He, however, said the third wave could spread faster if any new virulent variant emerges. Manindra Agarwal, involved in the Sutra Model' or the mathematical projection of trajectory of Covid-19, also said the model has three scenarios--optimistic, intermediate and pessimistic--for the prediction of the third wave. The Department of Science and Technology had last year formed the panel to forecast the surge of coronavirus cases using mathematical models. The panel had also received flak for not predicting the exact nature of the second wave of Covid. Agarwal, who is part of the three-member panel, said loss of immunity, effects of vaccination and possibility of a more virulent variant, have been factored while predicting the third wave, something which was not done during modelling the second wave. “We have created three scenarios. One is optimistic' one. In this, we assume that life goes back to normal by August, and there is no new mutant. Second is intermediate' one. In this, we assume that vaccination is 20 per cent less effective in addition to optimistic scenario assumptions,” he said. “Third is pessimistic' one. This has one assumption different from intermediate one: a new, 25 per cent more infectious mutant spreads in August (it is not delta+, which is not more infectious than delta),” he said in a series of tweets. According to the graph shared by Agarwal, the second wave is likely to plateau by mid-August, and the third wave could reach its peak between October and November. In case of the pessimistic scenario, the third wave could see cases rise up between 1,50,000 to 2,00,000 in the country, the scientist noted. The figure is less than half of what was recorded when the deadly second wave had hit its peak in the first half of May, flooding hospitals with patients and claiming thousands of lives daily. On May 7, India had recorded 4,14,188 Covid-19 cases. If a new mutant comes, the third wave could spread rapidly, but it will be half of what the second wave was. Delta variant is infecting people who were infected with a different variant. So this has been taken into consideration, Agarwal said. He said as vaccination progresses, the possibility of a third or fourth wave will be less. In case of an optimistic' scenario, the daily cases could be in the range of 50,000 to 1,00,000. In case of the intermediate scenario (if it is assumed that vaccination is 20 per cent less effective, in addition to optimistic scenario assumptions), the cases could be in the range of 50,000 to 1,00,000, but more than the optimistic scenario, the panel member noted. M Vidyasagar, scientist at IIT-Hyderabad, who is also involved in modelling of Covid cases, said hospitalisation could be less during the third wave. He cited the example of the UK where in January more than 60,000 cases were reported with daily deaths touching 1,200. However, during the fourth wave, the number dropped to 21,000 cases and just 14 deaths. Vaccination played a major role in bringing down the cases that needed hospitalisation in the UK. This has been factored while coming out with the three scenarios, Vidyasagar told PTI. The government has been emphasising on vaccination as the fear of the third wave looms. Agarwal also explained the reasons behind the delay in coming out with an analysis for the third wave. It took us a while to do the analysis for three reasons. First, loss of immunity in recovered population. Second, vaccination induced immunity. Each of these two (factors) need to be estimated for future. “And third, how to incorporate these two factors in the Sutra model. Fortunately, it turned out that both can be incorporated by suitably changing contact rate and reach parameters. So that takes care of the third factor. The first two factors required detailed analysis,” he tweeted. Contact rate' is how fast the infection spreads and reach parameter' is the percentage of population the pandemic is active in. Agarwal added that his team went through studies done in the past on loss of immunity while making the Sutra Model. Similarly, we also looked at the projected vaccination rate over the next few months, including the effects of vaccine-hesitancy, and arrived at month-wise estimates for vaccination, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Twitter in 'final' stages' of appointing interim resident grievance officer||Micro-blogging site Twitter has told the Delhi High Court that it is in the "final stages" of appointing an interim chief compliance officer and an interim resident grievance officer under the new Information Technology (IT) Rules. In the meantime, grievances raised by Indian users are being looked into by a grievance officer, it said in an affidavit submitted in response to a plea by lawyer Amit Acharya, in which he claimed non-compliance of the Centre's new IT Rules by the platform. Twitter has also said it may fall within the definition of a "significant social media intermediary" under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The rules seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the central government. Twitter said in "substantial compliance" with Rule 3(2) and Rule 4(1)(c) of the new IT Rules, it did appoint an interim resident grievance officer. However, even before steps could be taken to completely formalise the arrangement, the interim resident grievance officer withdrew his candidature on June 21, it said and denied that it has not complied with the intermediary guidelines. Twitter said that "before steps could be taken to completely formalise the agreement, the interim resident grievance officer withdrew his candidature on 21.06.2021. Therefore, the answering respondent (Twitter) is in the final stages of appointing a replacement while in the meanwhile the grievances of Indian users are being addressed by the grievance officer". "Further, the answering respondent is in the final stages of appointing an interim chief compliance officer," it told the high court in its affidavit. In his plea, filed through advocates Akash Vajpai and Manish Kumar, Acharya said that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. Twitter has argued that the plea is not maintainable as a writ petition and that Acharya moved the court "prematurely" without waiting for the redressal of his grievance under the rules. It said Acharya had no locus standi to raise a complaint with respect to the tweets in question and added it has informed that the complaint has now been considered and disposed of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Elgar Parishad: activists' wives move high court against jail chief for withholding letters||Rama Teltumbde, the wife of Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, has filed a petition in the Bombay High Court alleging that the Taloja prison superintendent was deliberately withholding or belatedly posting letters and communication written by her husband to kin and lawyers. Rama, in her plea filed through advocate R. Satyanarayan, said the prison superintendent was committing such acts since March this year after an article written by her husband on the Union government's plan to privatise some public sector enterprises was published in the Caravan magazine. Her plea claimed the jail superintendent was not posting letters written by Teltumbde, nor was correspondence marked to her husband being delivered, which she said was a "malicious and inhuman act". The plea claimed the superintendent was doing the same with letters and correspondences of Teltumbde's co-accused in the case who are lodged in Taloja jail. The plea was filed last week and was heard by a bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar for the first time on Saturday. Advocate Satyanarayan told the bench that Teltumbde's wife and lawyers had not received any communication from him since March this year. In her plea, Rama Teltumbde said that after the said article was published on March 10 this year, the jail superintendent served a 'samaj patra', a sort of show cause notice, to the arrested activist, who replied that the article had no relation to the Elgar Parishad case, and, therefore, it did not breach any law. In his reply to the 'samaj patra', Teltumbde also said the article was not part of political propaganda, nor did it comment on the prison administration. The plea said Teltumbde sought a copy of the 'samaj patra' and his reply to it but the request was turned down by prison authorities. Rama Teltumbde said she and her husband's lawyers as well as co-accused had written several letters to the jail superintendent but had not received replies, which forced her to file an RTI application seeking a copy of the 'samaj patra' and the arrested activist's reply to it. Her plea said the superintendent was acting in gross violation of his official position and duties, adding that all prison inmates have statutory and fundamental rights that enable them to exchange letters, communicate with family, friends, and lawyers. She urged the high court to direct the superintendent to allow Teltumbde and his co-accused to write to and receive letters from family and lawyers, and also sought an inquiry against the official for his action. On Saturday, NIA counsel Sandesh Patil told the court he was yet to receive a copy of the plea, after which the high court directed advocate Satyanarayan to serve the copies to the NIA and the state. Susan Abraham, wife of Teltumbde's co-accused Vernon Gonsalves, is a co-petitioner, and has also claimed that communication to and from her husband was withheld by the jail superintendent. The court is likely to hear the plea further on July 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Opp leaders share video of Vajpayee fuel hike protest ||In an apparent dig at the Centre over the rising fuel prices, some Opposition leaders on Saturday shared video footage from 1973 in which then Jan Sangh leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee is seen arriving in Parliament on a bullock cart to "protest an increase of 7 paise in petrol prices". Petrol price on Friday crossed the Rs 100-per-litre-mark in Chennai as well as in some places in Punjab and Kerala after fuel prices were hiked yet again. Petrol is priced at over Rs 99 a litre in Delhi and Calcutta -- the only metro cities which haven't seen the Rs 100 mark yet. Sharing Vajpayee's footage from 1973 in which the former prime minister and then Jan Sangh leader is seen reaching the Parliament in a bullock cart, senior Congress leader Tharoor tweeted, "Rare footage from 1973 of an opposition protest when petrol prices were raised by seven paise."  "Atal Bihari Vajpayee arrived in Parliament on a bullock cart (which would not be possible today with the new security restrictions on vehicle entry into the complex!)," he said.  Sharing the same video which he said he received on WhatsApp, Trinamul Congress leader Derek O'Brien tweeted, "History. Ouch. When petrol prices were increased by a few paisa (7 paisa?) in 1973, Atal Bihari Vajpayee had travelled to #Parliament on a bullock cart in protest."  Aam Aadmi Party Delhi MLA Somnath Bharti said that in 1973, Vajpayee travelled in a bullock cart to Parliament to oppose an increase of 7 paise in petrol prices, and added "those were the days".  Petrol price was hiked by 35 paise per litre on Friday but there was no change in diesel rates, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.  Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges.  For this reason, petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in some places in Punjab and all over Kerala. Jalandhar in Punjab has the fuel priced at Rs 100.22 a litre while it costs Rs 101.14 in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Learn how to be talented in multiple areas by a versatile business talent himself: Ram Goel||He is all elated and excited to soon enter Bollywood and display his creative skills and passion in the same. The level of momentum and the kind of success certain individuals and professionals have achieved in their careers, and life often makes us wonder what could be the things that might have helped them achieve so much and such young age. Well, there could be multiple factors, but nothing beats passion, when combined with determination and a strong resolve, says one of the leading most Indian multipreneurs and a versatile talent named Ram Goel. Learning new things each day, implementing the same in his businesses, sometimes failing, making errors, but still choosing to get back up and try again has what he learned from the world of business, he confesses. Many people in this world wish to ace every game they lay their hands on, but only a few rare gems go ahead in turning those desires into a beautiful reality. Ram Goel is amongst them, who knew what he wanted in life, worked day in and day out, and pushed the envelope to emerge as one of the finest business talents, who already runs three successful businesses, including a hosiery shop, an aluminium factory and also a restaurant named 'Wise Choice'. So many youngsters now wish to replicate success like him and want to become multitalented professionals. Ram Goel has thus come forward to explain how one can be talented in multiple areas. If you think Ram Goel has found his peace just doing business, let us tell you that this young talent can't wait to soon make his debut in Bollywood and display the artistic and creative side of his as well to the world. Find out more about him now through Instagram @goel4242.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||HC extends Stan Swamy's stay at private hospital in Mumbai till July 6||The Bombay High Court on Saturday extended the stay of Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case, at a private hospital in Mumbai till July 6. Senior counsel Mihir Desai told a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar that the 84-year-old was still undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit of the Holy Family Hospital, where he was shifted from the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai following the HC's order on May 28 this year. Swamy, 84, who claims to be suffering from several ailments, including the Parkinson's disease, had moved the high court earlier this year through advocate Desai, seeking medical treatment and interim bail on health grounds. He had tested positive for coronavirus at a private hospital last month and was subsequently shifted to the ICU. His plea for medical bail and bail on merits was listed for hearing in the high court on Friday but could not be taken up due to the paucity of time. The bench adjourned the hearing to Tuesday and extended his hospital stay till then. "Till the next hearing, out interim order on his (Swamy's) treatment at the private hospital will continue," the bench said. Swamy also filed a fresh plea in the HC on Friday challenging section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) that imposes stringent restrictions on the grant of bail to those booked under the Act. In his plea filed through advocate Desai, Swamy said the above section created an unsurmountable hurdle for the accused to get bail and, thus, was violative of the accused person's fundamental right to life and liberty as guaranteed by the Constitution. The common practice under the criminal justice system is to presume an accused person's innocence unless charges against him or her are proven by the prosecution. Section 43D (5) of the UAPA however, mandates that if a court has reasonable grounds to believe that the accusation against someone charges under the Act is prima facie true, then the accused shall not be released on bail. Swamy's plea stated that presumption of innocence is a fundamental tenet of criminal jurisprudence and when a harsh condition, such as that mentioned above is imposed on grant of bail, even before the trial is conducted, the same "inverts on its head, the principle of presumption of innocence." Desai said the plea also stated that the provision under the UAPA to brand certain organisations as a front for banned or terrorist organisations was bad in law. UAPA provides for the declaration of an association as unlawful and for the listing of organisations in the first schedule of the Act as terrorist organisations. Prosecuting agencies often charge accused persons under the Act of being members of organisations working as a front for banned ones. In the Elgar-Parishad case, Swamy and his co-accused have been charged by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) as being members of frontal organisations working on behalf of the banned CPI (Maoists). Last month, the NIA had filed an affidavit before the HC opposing Swamy's bail plea. It had said that there did not exist "conclusive proof" of his medical ailments. It said that Swamy was a Maoist, who had hatched a conspiracy to create unrest in the country. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Landslide victory for BJP in UP local body polls||The BJP won 67 of 75 seats of the district panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party won only five seats. The Rashtriya Lok Dal, Jansatta Dal and an independent candidate won a seat each. In comparison, back in the same election in 2016, Mr Yadav's party took 60 of the 75 seats, reported NDTV. State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said the success of the party was due to the welfare policies initiated by its government and the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. "The BJP+ (BJP and its allies) has won 67 out of 75 seats of zila panchayat chairpersons. For these unprecedented results, I thank the people of the state and hardworking party workers," he said in a Hindi tweet. Those analysing the elections, however, say the local body polls are unlikely to be any indicator of which direction the wind will blow in the assembly election next year, which will also serve as an ultimate test for Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of the BJP. Yet, the local body elections are being keenly watched. Samajwadi Party workers who held a street protest on Saturday alleging rigging in the local body election in Prayagraj, formerly Allahabad, were met with police baton charge. "The BJP has won 67 out of 75 district panchayat chairperson seats. We will win 2022 assembly elections also," UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told news agency ANI. Twenty-one BJP candidates and one from Samajwadi Party got elected unopposed. The result comes as a huge setback for Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party, who is hoping to dethrone the Yogi Adityanath govt in the Assembly election of 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||First compliance report by Google, FB under new IT rules big step towards transparency, says Prasad||IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday lauded major social media platforms such as Google, Facebook and Instagram for publishing their first compliance report on voluntary removal of offensive posts as per new IT rules, terming it a big step towards transparency. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms that have over 5 million users are required to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. "Nice to see significant social media platforms like Google, Facebook and Instagram following the new IT Rules. First compliance report on voluntary removal of offensive posts published by them as per IT Rules is a big step towards transparency," Prasad tweeted. The publishing of compliance reports by Google, Facebook and Instagram is bound to turn up the heat on Twitter, which has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has confronted Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, and not appointing the requisite officers, leading to it losing the 'safe harbour' immunity. Facebook on Friday said it "actioned" over 30 million content pieces across 10 violation categories during May 15-June 15 in the country, as the social media giant brought out its maiden monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules. It actioned content related to spam (25 million), violent and graphic content (2.5 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (1.8 million), and hate speech (311,000). Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (118,000), suicide and self-injury (589,000), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (106,000) and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (75,000). Instagram took action against about two million pieces across nine categories during the same period. 'Actioned' content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning. Google had stated that 27,762 complaints were received by Google and YouTube in April this year from individual users in India over alleged violation of local laws or personal rights, which resulted in removal of 59,350 pieces of content. Koo, in its report, said it has proactively moderated 54,235 content pieces, while 5,502 posts were reported by its users during June. Apart from publishing periodic compliance reports every month, the rules also require disclosure on the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. According to the IT rules that aim to curb blatant abuse and misuse of platforms, the significant social media intermediaries are required to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal officer and a grievance officer and these officials have to be resident in India. Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. Facebook recently named Spoorthi Priya as its grievance officer in India. India is a major market for global digital platforms. As per data cited by the government earlier this year, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. Twitter's apparent heavyhandedness has come under government scrutiny - the microblogging platform has not complied with the new rules, called intermediary guidelines, that mandate setting up a robust grievance redressal mechanism and appointing officers to coordinate with law enforcement. Twitter recently named California-based Jeremy Kessel as India's grievance redressal officer on the platform's website -- although the appointment does not meet the requirements of new IT rules that clearly mandate key officers including the grievance officer, to be resident in India. Notably, Twitter has lost its legal shield as an intermediary in India, becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. Amid the standoff with the government over compliance with new IT rules, the Twitter website on Monday had displayed a wrong map of India that showed Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh as separate country. Twitter had removed the wrong map later that day, after facing heavy backlash from netizens. Even in the backdrop of heightened strained relations with the Indian government, Twitter recently briefly blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from accessing his own account over alleged violation of US copyright law -- a move that was immediately slammed by the minister as being arbitrary and in gross violation of IT rules. Twitter and the government have been on a collision course on multiple issues in the past months as well, including during the farmers' protest and later when the microblogging platform tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media", drawing a sharp rebuke from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Rahul used as 'pawn' by rival firms, alleges BJP amid Congress attacks on Rafale deal||The BJP alleged on Saturday that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is being used as a "pawn" by rival defence companies and claimed that he and his party keep raking up allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal in an attempt to "weaken" India. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra also played down the appointment of a judge in France to lead a judicial investigation into the alleged corruption and favouritism in the Rs 59,000 crore deal, saying the development was outcome of a complaint by an NGO and should not be seen as a matter of corruption. This is akin to a competent authority in India writing down in a file that "please act accordingly" when a matter is brought before him, Patra said and accused the Congress of spreading lies and misconceptions over the issue. The Congress has become synonymous with spreading lies and misconceptions, he said. "The way Rahul Gandhi is behaving, it will not be an exaggeration to say that he is being used as a pawn by competing companies. He has been lying right from the beginning on the issue. Probably, he is acting as an agent or some member of Gandhi family has been for a competing company," Patra alleged. The Congress has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the Rafale deal, saying it is the only way forward to find the truth about "corruption" in the purchase of the fighter jets. The Congress' demand came after French investigative website Mediapart reported that a French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial investigation into alleged "corruption and favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India. Patra cited a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report and a Supreme Court (SC) verdict, both of which had found nothing wrong in the defence deal between the Indian and French governments, to reject allegations of the Congress. The government won a judicial verdict as well as an electoral verdict, he said in reference to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the BJP notched up a massive victory with the Congress making the alleged corruption in the Rafale deal as a key plank of its campaign against the Modi government. The BJP spokesperson noted that the Supreme Court had in its verdict in November 2019 said that there can't be a roving and fishing enquiry pertaining to the Rafale allegations, and accused Gandhi of going on another "fishing expedition" with his party attacking the government. The SC had made these remarks while rejecting a plea to review its December 2018 decision to reject a plea for a court-monitored probe into the purchase of 36 Rafale fighter aircraft. Gandhi is trying to weaken India, Patra alleged. He also cited a number of allegations levelled by Gandhi, including his attributions to former French president Francois Hollande and incumbent Emmanuel Macron to back his charge of corruption against the Modi government, and noted that both French leaders had immediately denied making such comments. Gandhi also had to tender an apology to the Supreme Court for wrongly claiming that the top court has agreed that "chowkidar chor hai" (watchman is thief), a pet slogan of the Congress leader against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run up to the 2019 polls. Patra alleged that as the Gandhi family had received no commission in the Rafale deal, its party had been levelling these allegations. The Congress is also using the issue to diver attention from political instability hitting its governments in Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Police use water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to gherao Punjab CM's residence||Police on Saturday used water cannon to disperse AAP workers forcing their way to "gherao" the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at Siswan here in protest against frequent power cuts. The protesting Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers, led by its Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann, shouted slogans against the Congress government over the power shortage. Police personnel were deployed in strength and multi-layered barricades were put up on the road leading to the chief minister's farmhouse. As scores of AAP workers carrying party flags forced their way through the first layer of barricades and reached the second, police used a water cannon to disperse them. Punjab has been reeling under an unprecedented power shortage with urban and rural areas facing long hours of load shedding amid scorching heat. The Punjab government had already ordered reduction in timings of state government offices and reduced power supply to high energy consuming industries. The Amarinder Singh-led government has been under fire from the opposition for not being able to provide sufficient electricity to consumers, especially to paddy growers for sowing crop. Earlier, AAP leaders slammed the Congress government for having "failed" to provide 24-hour power to people at cheaper rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Rafale: Congress seeks JPC probe after French media reports on fresh investigation||The Congress has demanded that the Narendra Modi government order a joint parliamentary probe into the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal after French media reports that a judge had been appointed to investigate the deal. Early on Saturday, French investigative website Mediapart reported that a French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial investigation into alleged "corruption and favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India. Soon after, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come forward and order a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the Rafale deal. "Corruption in the Rafale deal has come out clearly now. The stand of the Congress party and Rahul Gandhi has been vindicated today after the French government has ordered a probe," he told reporters at a press conference. However, there was no immediate reaction from the Indian government or the BJP. The Mediapart said the probe into the inter-governmental deal signed in 2016 was formally opened on June 14. "A judicial probe into suspected corruption has been opened in France over the 7.8-billion-euro sale to India in 2016 of 36 Dassault-built Rafale fighter aircraft," the Mediapart reported on the latest development on the controversial deal. It said the investigation has been initiated by the national financial prosecutors' office (PNF). The judicial investigation has been ordered by France's national financial prosecutors' office, following Mediapart's fresh reports in April of alleged wrongdoings in the deal as well as a complaint filed by French NGO Sherpa that specialises in financial crime. "The highly sensitive probe into the inter-governmental deal signed off in 2016 was formally opened on June 14th," the media report said. Mediapart journalist Yann Philippin, who filed a series of reports on the deal, said a first complaint was "buried" in 2019 by a former PNF chief. "The judicial investigation was finally opened following the revelations of the investigation #RafalePapers of @mediapart and a new complaint from @Asso_Sherpa. A 1st complaint was buried in 2019 by the former PNF boss, Eliane Houlette," he tweeted. In April, Mediapart, citing an investigation by the country's anti-corruption agency, reported that Dassault Aviation had paid about one million Euros to an Indian middleman. Dassault Aviation has rejected the allegations of corruption, saying no violations were reported in the frame of the contract. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had inked a Rs 59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016, to procure 36 Rafale jets from French aerospace major Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to procure 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force did not fructify during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime. The Congress accused the government of massive irregularities in the deal, alleging that it was procuring each aircraft at a cost of over Rs 1,670 crore as against Rs 526 crore finalised by the UPA government during the negotiations for the MMRCA. Prior to the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the Congress raised several questions about the deal and alleged corruption but the government rejected all the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||BJP has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability, betrayed people, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday hit out at the BJP leadership, saying instead of ushering in development, it has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability and betrayed its people by repeatedly changing chief ministers. BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the state's chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. He had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March. The BJP has insulted the 'devbhoomi' of Uttarakhand, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and its president J P Nadda are responsible for the current situation, the Congress alleged. Starting with Nityananad Swami, the BJP will have eight chief ministers in the state, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said and added that in the latest four and a half years of the BJP's rule in Uttarakhand, there will be three chief ministers. The Congress condemns the BJP for insulting the state and its people by not doing anything to solve its problems, he said. "The BJP's high drama in Dehradun is an insult to the people of Uttarakhand. The prime minister had promised to give a double-engine government, but the state only received different chief ministers and no development," Harish Rawat, a former chief minister, said. "The BJP has not solved the problems of Uttarakhand and has added to the rising unemployment in the state," he told reporters. It has "insulted the 'devbhoomi' (land of Gods) of Uttarakhand and the Congress condemns the BJP for giving political instability", Harish Rawat said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the BJP has betrayed the people and Prime Minister Modi and Nadda are responsible. "This is BJP's example of lust for power, political instability, sharing fruits of power and failure of leadership. Instead of serving the people of Uttarakhand, they tried to distribute power, and PM Modi and JP Nadda are responsible for this. The BJP has brought Uttarakhand to such a turn where power means only sharing its fruits and nothing else," he alleged. Surjewala said in 2017, the people of Uttarakhand elected the BJP, but in five years instead of serving them and ushering in development, the BJP only "looted its resources". "This is BJP's 'chair-changing game' going on in 'devbhoomi' Uttarakhand," he said referring to the change of chief ministers in the state. "Modi ji-Nadda ji have betrayed the interests of the people of 'devbhoomi' by pushing Uttarakhand into political instability, loot of power and 'chief minister swap scheme'," Surjewala said. Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh said the people are hurt by the BJP's attitude towards the state, where unemployment is rising and people are left to fend for themselves. AICC secretary and in-charge for Uttarakhand Congress Devendra Yadav said the people of the state are waiting to throw out the BJP as it has given nothing to the state, except "loot its resources". The Uttarakhand BJP legislature party will meet on Saturday afternoon to elect its new leader following Tirath Singh Rawat's resignation. The legislature party meeting will begin at the BJP headquarters at 3 pm in the presence of central observer Narendra Tomar and BJP general secretary in-charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam. All the MLAs have been asked to be present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||ED issues fresh summons to ex-Maharashtra home minister Deshmukh||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has been issued fresh summons by the ED for appearance on July 5 in a money laundering case investigation being conducted against him and others, officials said on Saturday. They said this is the third notice issued to the NCP leader for deposing before the investigating officer of the case. Deshmukh has been asked to record his statement at the central agency's office in south Mumbai on Monday. Deshmukh (72), had skipped the two earlier summons citing his "vulnerability" to COVID-19 as the reason for non-compliance in his last communication to the agency. He instead offered the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to record his statement through video conferencing. The summons are in connection with the criminal case registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) related to an alleged Rs 100 bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April this year. The first summons followed raids conducted by the ED at his premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from that of his aides and some others last month. The agency subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). They are in ED custody till July 6. The agency, sources said, apart from the present case wants to question Deshmukh about his and his family members' alleged links with certain shell companies that were being used to launder funds much before the present allegations of bribery in the Mumbai Police setup came to light. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked suspended Mumbai Police assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh had to resign from his post in April following the allegations and he has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. In his last communication sent to the agency through his lawyers, Deshmukh said the agency had already recorded his statement during his "several hours" of interaction with the ED investigators when they raided his premises here on June 25. He wrote in a letter saying he was a law abiding citizen "who has led a life of dignity and honour." "I am sanguine to expose the falsity, hollowness and lack of substance in the allegations levelled against me," he had stated. He said he was suffering from "hypertension and cardiac problems" and hence it "may not be prudent or desirable to appear in person today." The ED had earlier claimed in the court that Waze recorded his statement before the agency stating he "collected" Rs 4.70 crore cash from Mumbai bar owners and "handed it over" to Deshmukh's personal assistant (Shinde). The cop, lodged in Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, had also told the ED that he attended a meeting at the official residence of the home minister wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and asked "to collect Rs 3 lakh per month from each bar and restaurant" in Mumbai. As per the PMLA, a statement recorded under the stringent sections of this law is admissible before the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Centre committed to empowering traders, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described as "landmark" the decision to include retail and wholesale trade as MSMEs, which will allow traders the benefits of priority sector lending, and said his government is committed to empowering the community. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had on Friday announced the inclusion of retail and wholesale trade under MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) as per which the traders will now get the benefit of priority sector lending under RBI guidelines. In a tweet, the prime minister said, "Our government has taken a landmark step of including retail and wholesale trade as MSME. This will help crores of our traders get easier finance, various other benefits and also help boost their business. We are committed to empowering our traders." Official sources said the move will have an immediate impact on smaller retailers and wholesalers with businesses up to Rs 250 crore of turnover in availing immediate-term finance as part of various schemes announced under "Atmanirbhar Bharat" programme. This landmark decision will have a structural impact for the sector, helping it get formalised by giving better finance options for businesses that want to get structured, they said, adding it will give retail MSMEs the support they need to "survive, revive and thrive". Retail and trade associations have welcomed the move, saying it will enable traders to get access to much-needed capital having been impacted greatly due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Pushkar Singh Dhami named as Uttarakhand Chief Minister||Pushkar Singh Dhami will be the new chief minister of Uttarakhand following his election on Saturday as the leader of the BJP legislature party in the hill state where assembly polls are due next year. Dhami, 45, will be the youngest chief minister of the state and replaces Tirath Singh Rawat, who resigned on Friday night within four months of taking charge from Trivendra Singh Rawat. "My party has appointed a common worker, son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in the border district of Pithoragarh to serve the people. We'll work on people's issues with the cooperation of all. I will carry forward the work done by my predecessors," the two-time MLA from Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar district said. As Dhami takes over less than a year ahead of the next assembly elections, his biggest challenge lies in leading the BJP to another victory and retaining power in Uttarakhand, where the party has been plagued by factionalism. Changing chief ministers twice in a short span has not helped the party's image, with the Opposition Congress accusing it of causing "political instability" and betraying the people. "We accept the challenge and we will take forward the party and serve the people," Dhami said when asked whether taking over as CM just months ahead of assembly polls will be a challenge . The chief minister-elect thanked the party leadership for reposing faith in him and assured that he will work with everyone's cooperation. Dhami's name was proposed by outgoing chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat and Pradesh BJP president Madan Kaushik and seconded by a number of MLAs including former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who was present at the meeting as a central observer , told reporters outside the state BJP headquarters here. No other name was proposed by the BJP legislature party leader, Tomar said. Soon after his unanimous election as the BJP legislature party leader, Dhami headed for the Raj Bhawan along with a number of MLAs and the central observers to stake his claim to form the government. The BJP had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat with Tirath Singh Rawat on March 10, hoping to go into the assembly polls with the new face, but he too was asked to step down as the Constitution required him to get elected as a member of the state assembly within six months of his appointment as CM and there seemed an increasing uncertainty over the Election Commission holding bypolls at this stage. The Opposition Congress, however, hit out at the BJP leadership, saying instead of ushering in development, it has thrown Uttarakhand into the throes of political instability and betrayed its people by repeatedly changing chief ministers. Starting with Nityananad Swami, the BJP will have eight chief ministers in the state, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said and added that in the latest four and a half years of the BJP's rule in Uttarakhand, there will be three chief ministers. "The BJP's high drama in Dehradun is an insult to the people of Uttarakhand. The prime minister had promised to give a double-engine government, but the state only received different chief ministers and no development," Harish Rawat, a former chief minister, said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the BJP has betrayed the people and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief J P Nadda are responsible. "This is BJP's example of lust for power, political instability, sharing fruits of power and failure of leadership. Instead of serving the people of Uttarakhand, they tried to distribute power, and PM Modi and JP Nadda are responsible for this. The BJP has brought Uttarakhand to such a turn where power means only sharing its fruits and nothing else," he alleged. Ending days of speculation about a change of guard in the state, Tirat Singh Rawat on Friday handed over his resignation letter to Governor Baby Rani Maurya past 11 PM, hours after returning from Delhi where he was summoned by the top BJP leadership on Wednesday. The names of nearly half a dozen MLAs were doing the rounds as probables for the top job, including Chaubattakhal MLA and cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj, Shrinagar MLA Dhan Singh Rawat and Khatima MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami. Interacting with reporters at his official residence after returning from the Raj Bhawan, Tirath Singh Rawat said, "I thought it was appropriate to resign as the state was facing a constitutional crisis under the provisions of section 151 A and 164 of the Representation of People Act."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||India logs over 44,000 fresh Covid cases, 738 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 44,111 new coronavirus infections, raising its tally to 3,05,02,362, while the death toll climbed to 4,01,050 with 738 new fatalities, the lowest in 86 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases -- 4,95,533 -- were recorded below five lakh after 97 days and comprised 1.62 percent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate improved to 97.06 percent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 14,104 cases has been recorded in active coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, it said. Also, 18,76,036 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 41,64,16,463. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.35 percent. It has been less than 5 percent for 26 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.50 percent, it added. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 51st consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,96,05,779, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 percent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 34.46 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive, it said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The Health Ministry said the 738 new fatalities include 156 from Maharashtra, 146 from Kerala, 97 from Tamil Nadu and 88 from Karnataka. A total of 4,01,050 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,22,353 from Maharashtra, 35,222 from Karnataka, 32,818 from Tamil Nadu, 24,983 from Delhi, 22,616 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,758 from West Bengal and 16,086 from Punjab, as per the data. The ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Final analysis shows Covaxin 65.2 per cent effective against Delta variant||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin has demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic COVID-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the new Delta variant. The company on Saturday said it concluded the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials. The efficacy analysis demonstrates Covaxin to be 93.4 per cent effective against severe symptomatic COVID-19 cases while safety analysis shows adverse events reported were similar to placebo, with 12 per cent of subjects experiencing commonly known side effects and less than 0.5 per cent feeling serious adverse events. The efficacy data demonstrates 63.6 per cent protection against asymptomatic COVID-19, a release from the city-based vaccine maker said. Phase 3 clinical trials of the vaccine was an event driven analysis of 130 symptomatic COVID-19 cases, reported at least two weeks after the second dose, conducted at 25 sites across India. The whole virion inactivated vaccine against SARS-CoV2, was developed inpartnership with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute ofVirology in Pune. Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech, said, "The successful safety and efficacy readouts of Covaxin as a result of conducting the largest ever COVID Vaccines trials in India establishes the ability of India and developing world countries to focus towards innovation and novel product development. We are proud to state that Innovation from India will now be available to protect global populations." Director General of ICMR, Balram Bhargava said, "I am delighted to note that Covaxin developed by ICMR and BBIL under an effective public private partnership, has demonstrated an overall efficacy of 77.8 per cent in Indias largest COVID phase 3 clinical trial thus far. Our scientists at ICMR and BBIL have worked tirelessly to deliver a truly effective vaccine of highest international standards." He further said Covaxin will not only benefit the Indian citizens but would also immensely contribute to protect the global community against the deadly SARS-CoV-2 virus. "I am also pleased to see that Covaxin works well against all variant strains of SARS-CoV-2. The successful development of Covaxin has consolidated the position of Indian academia and Industry in the global arena," Bhargava said. The Phase 3 trials were conducted between November 16, 2020 and January 7, 2021 with 25,798 participants who were randomised to BBV152 or placebo groups. The preprint data of COVAXIN efficacy has not been certified by peer-review, according to Medrxiv in which thedata was published.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||India could've saved one lakh lives with soft lockdown early in March||India could have averted 9 million to 13 million Covid-19 cases and nearly 100,000 deaths if it had introduced soft lockdown restrictions early in March, a study by researchers at academic institutions in the UK and the US has estimated. While public health experts have argued that restrictions on crowding at social events, election rallies and the Kumbh Mela could have helped mitigate India’s second Covid-19 wave, the new study is the first to estimate the potentially averted cases and deaths. The study, led by Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of biostatistics at the University of Michigan and Swapnil Mishra at the Imperial College, London, indicates that while the highly transmissible delta variant contributed to the second wave, the size of the surge could have been lowered through early moderate restrictions. The health ministry too had in March cautioned that the daily new infections observed among residents and visiting pilgrims at the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar had the potential to turn the festival into a super-spreader event. But the event continued to draw crowds for weeks after the warning. During the second surge, which began around mid-February, the country’s total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases rose fast — from 10.8 million in early February to over 24.3 million by May 15. The total deaths increased from around 157,000 on March 1 to over 266,000 by May 15. The UK-US research group investigated how fast-spreading variants — such as the delta variant first detected in Maharashtra in December 2020 — may have influenced the surge, and estimated the cases and deaths that could have been averted through soft but early lockdowns. Their analysis suggests India could have averted between 9 million and 13 million cases between March 1 and May 15, and prevented over 90 per cent of the 109,000 deaths that occurred during the two-and-a-half-month period. The study, not peer reviewed yet, has been posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server. “The timing of the lockdown is as important as the level of restrictions,” said Mishra, a research associate at the Imperial College School of Public Health. “Even a moderate or soft lockdown initiated early could have eased the pressure on hospitals and helped reduce deaths.” Multiple studies have already established that the emergence of the highly transmissible delta variant contributed significantly to the surge. The proportion of delta sequences in Maharashtra, for instance, ballooned from 1.5 per cent in February to 87 per cent by May. The Mukherjee-Mishra study has shown that waning immunity among people with prior Covid-19 infections and public laxity in taking precautions by themselves cannot explain the size and the speed of the second wave in Maharashtra. The delta variant played a role. But their calculations also show that early public health interventions could have helped lower the size of the second surge. “Had action taken place at any time in March, it is plausible that more than 90 per cent of observed cases and deaths between March 1 and May 15 could have potentially been avoided under both strong and moderate intervention scenarios,” the researchers said. Maharashtra was the first to introduce restrictions starting April 14. Public health experts not associated with the study said it quantifies scenarios. “The government did not appreciate the risks involved in lowering its guard. To allow the Kumbh Mela was a mistake and the government made it,” T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told The Telegraph. A medical expert who is guiding the government’s response to Covid-19 told this newspaper that advisories from the health ministry calling for continued caution such as mask-wearing and avoiding crowds were issued throughout the epidemic, including the period before the second surge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Covid: Punjab police study shows protective effect of vaccines||A study on Punjab police personnel has illustrated what health researchers say is the dramatic protective effect of Covid-19 vaccines, but has also underlined how data denial by the Centre can handicap even government research efforts. The study by officials with the state health systems resource centre, a division linked to the Union health ministry’s National Health Mission, has found a 98 per cent protective effect against death after two doses of the vaccines. The officials analysing Covid-19 deaths during the epidemic’s second wave have documented 15 deaths among 4,868 unvaccinated police personnel, nine deaths among 35,856 vaccinated with a single dose, and two deaths among 42,720 who had taken both doses. The death rates translate into three per 1,000 among unvaccinated, 0.25 per 1,000 vaccinated with a single dose, and 0.05 per 1,000 vaccinated with two doses. “The math tells us 92 per cent protection after a single dose and 98 per cent protection from death after two doses,” said Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and chair of a national expert panel guiding the Centre on the Covid-19 vaccination policy. A study by doctors at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, last month had observed a 92 per cent protective effect against the need for oxygen after two doses and 94 per cent against the need for intensive care unit support after a single dose. “We see a huge benefit from the vaccination,” said Rajesh Kumar, a community medicine specialist and executive director at the Punjab state health systems resource centre. “Punjab police have maintained records that helped us do this analysis quickly.” “It is a crude analysis, but it is showing the impact of the vaccines,” Kumar said. State officials said a more rigorous analysis to assess the effectiveness of the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — and to determine how effectiveness changes with the timing of the first and second doses would require data that the state could not access. “We had asked the health ministry for access to CoWIN data and wrote to the Indian Council of Medical Research for access to testing data — but we haven’t got the data yet,” a senior state official told The Telegraph requesting anonymity. CoWIN, the digital platform for the vaccination campaign, could be used to determine who received which vaccine on which date, the official said. The ICMR testing database can be used to determine how long after a dose did a person test positive for Covid-19. “The testing data is entirely generated by the state itself,” the official said. “But it goes into the ICMR server and gets locked there. Why is it not even available to state health departments?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Covid: Rahul Gandhi flags vaccine shortage, ruffles BJP||A seven-word tweet by Rahul Gandhi on Friday flagging the vaccine shortage ruffled the BJP so much that a plethora of ministers and leaders came out to launch a vicious attack on the Congress leader, both on social media and off it. “July aa gaya hai, vaccine nahi aaye (July has arrived but the vaccines haven’t),” Rahul tweeted on Friday morning with the hashtag “WhereAreVaccines”. Soon, BJP leader after leader began coming out of the woodwork. Health minister Harsh Vardhan was the first to take on Rahul. Later, other ministers too joined in, and the BJP even held a media address. Several states have had to suspend vaccination drives, while some others like Bengal have been focusing on second doses over the past week because of a shortage of vaccines. The Centre had on June 21 resumed responsibility of buying and distributing the bulk of the vaccines, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi appearing to blame the states for the sluggish pace of inoculation during a 50-day period when they were allowed to directly procure from the manufacturers half the doses. The health ministry has said 120 million doses will be available for distribution to states and private hospitals in July, the same quantum as was available during June 2021. Health experts had pointed out that this would mean an average of 4 million doses a day, much lower than the 5.7 million achieved during a seven-day blitz after the Centre again took over the inoculation drive on June 21. Moreover, the Centre had itself set a target of ramping up vaccination to 10 million doses a day by mid-July. While Rahul had highlighted these genuine concerns at a time the delta variant of the coronavirus is causing concern and vaccination needs to be rapidly stepped up to stave off a third wave driven by mutations and large pools of unprotected people, the BJP chose to go on the war path with the Congress leader. Harsh Vardhan called Rahul arrogant and ignorant. “What is @RahulGandhi Ji’s problem? Does he not read? Does he not understand? There is no vaccine for the virus of arrogance and ignorance!!” the health minister tweeted, adding that he had put out facts on vaccine availability for July a day earlier. The Centre has been denying a vaccine shortage and instead accusing the states of lousy planning and wastage of doses. The Union government has been highlighting the total number of vaccine doses administered, pointing out that the US had taken 193 days to reach the 320-million-dose mark, while India took 163 days. Experts, however, have underlined that the US has fully immunised over 47 per cent of its population. India had till Wednesday administered more than 335 million doses, but only about 4.5 per cent of the estimated eligible population of 944 million is fully vaccinated with two doses. While the Centre’s target of vaccinating the entire adult population by year-end looks a distant dream given the current pace of inoculation, the BJP’s reaction to Rahul’s tweet made it clear that he had touched a raw nerve. Senior ministers Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Smriti Irani and some others tweeted to slam the Congress leader and even accused Opposition-ruled states such as Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab of indulging in corruption amid the pandemic, including graft over vaccination and treatment equipment. The BJP also organised a media address at the party headquarters where spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia accused Rahul of spreading “misinformation” and termed him an “immature” leader. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is running the largest vaccination drive in the world and vaccines are being administered on a war footing,” Bhatia said, asking Rahul to name a country that was administering more vaccines a day than India. The Congress too held a media address to highlight the slow pace of vaccination. “Indians have the first right over vaccines manufactured in India and in this context the government needs to answer how some export deals still continue,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Srinate said, asking the government to come clean on allegations of corruption in a deal with Brazil for supply of the indigenously manufactured Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Video of Pragya Thakur playing basketball leaves Cong surprised||A purported video of Bhopal’s BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur, who usually moves in a wheelchair citing health issues, walking and dribbling a ball before netting it in a basketball hoop, has gone viral on social media. Her act has left many surprised, with the Madhya Pradesh Congress saying that it was delighted to see Thakur trying her hand at basketball  given that it was so far under the impression that she could not even stand or walk. Thakur had gone to attend a sapling plantation event at Saket Nagar here on Thursday where she spotted some players practising on a basketball ground, sources said. The saffron-robed BJP leader went to the basketball court and showcased her skills. She dribbled the ball with right hand and netted it with perfection amid cheers as seen in the video. Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja said: “I have seen MP Sadhvi Thakur wheelchair-bound so far. But today, I am delighted to see her hands at basketball at the stadium…. May God keep her healthy always,” he said. Efforts to establish contact with Thakur failed. Thakur’s elder sister Upama Singh described the incident as a “small thing”.  “Many of you might not know that she has done a certificate course in physical education and bachelor of physical education. She was fit and fine before her going to jail, where she was tortured and tormented,” her sister told PTI. Thakur, an accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, had filed an application in court seeking permanent exemption from personal appearance on medical and other grounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Covid: Kerala Opposition accuses state of underreporting deaths||The Kerala Opposition has alleged underreporting of Covid deaths and warned the state government that any misrepresentation of facts would lead to denial of compensation to the families of the dead. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Friday accused the state government of flouting the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines on the reporting of Covid deaths. Kerala’s official case fatality rate is 0.45 per cent, far below the national CFR of 1.1 per cent. “The ICMR guidelines state that the death of a person who either tested positive for Covid, (whether or not they had) co-morbid conditions... or was medically suspected to have contracted the virus must be treated as a Covid death,” the Congress leader said on Friday. “But that is not happening in Kerala.” However, the ICMR guidelines are meant for doctors and state when the cause of death should be labelled as confirmed Covid and when as suspected/probable Covid. Governments everywhere declare the Covid death toll only on the basis of confirmed Covid cases (positive tests). “A cover-up of fatalities would end up denying compensation to the kin of the dead,” Satheeshan said, urging the government to rectify the numbers by collating data from hospitals, crematoriums and graveyards within 10 days. The Supreme Court has directed that ex gratia assistance must be provided to families who have lost members to Covid. The Institute for Health Metric and Evaluation at the University of Washington had in June published a report saying more than 25,000 people would have died of Covid in Kerala although the official number was less than half of that. As of Thursday, the state had recorded a total of 13,359 Covid deaths against 2,937,033 total infections and 1.02 lakh active cases. Satheeshan urged the government to depend entirely on the report of a doctor who had treated a patient at least 24 hours before the death. “Instead, an expert committee sitting in Thiruvananthapuram is deciding who died of Covid. This should end immediately,” he said. “The Congress is ready to undertake the job of finding the real numbers if the government is unwilling to rectify the mistakes.” Health minister Veena George admitted possible lapses and said the department would take corrective action. “It’s possible that some Covid deaths have not been recorded, but that is not deliberate,” she told a news conference. “Covid fatalities are recorded by either the doctor who treated the patient or the medical superintendent of the hospital. We launched an online registration facility last month and mandated all hospitals to record Covid deaths within 24 hours.” Kerala had nearly flattened the curve of Covid infections during the first wave in May last year, earning global praise for its health department, then headed by K.K. Shailaja. Since then the state has struggled to keep the numbers low although its CFR has remained among the lowest in the world. The foreign media and sections of the domestic media have accused the central and state governments of underreporting Covid deaths, with The New York Times in May suggesting the actual toll could be five to 13 times the official count.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Keonjhar college to be turned into research hub||The Odisha government will develop the Government College of Engineering (GCE) in Keonjhar into a centre of excellence for research in earth science and technology. The college will be developed into an institute of international eminence on the lines of the Indian School of Mines (ISM), Dhanbad. Considering the state’s potential as the mineral hub of India, chief secretary S.C. Mohapatra directed the skill development and technical education department to “create the high-class research and academic eco-system with smart human resource strategies for attracting the talents from different parts of the globe, especially the Odia talents who have achieved high acclaim in the fields of mining, engineering and geophysics in different countries”. Additional chief secretary and development commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena said: “We will have a specialised geology division with a five-year integrated course in applied geology, geo-physics and geo-engineering. We will develop a strong corpus fund for the institute to back the innovative R&D (research and development) activities. A detailed proposal to this effect will be placed for approval.” It was decided in a meeting on Thursday that the institute would have advanced divisions in rock mechanics, rock excavation, mineral processing, extractive metallurgy, material testing, characterisation, geology, environmental engineering, mining planning and design. “It would have all the similar research facilities like those in ISM, Dhanbad,” an official said. “The chief secretary has directed to prepare the detailed proposal with architectural design of the CoE (Centre of Excellence) building, required equipment and instruments, demonstration for faculty members, students, mining executives and industries,” an official said. The entire ground-level work from the construction of the building to installation and testing of equipment could be completed within a period of 36 months The budget for the project was estimated to be around Rs 42.5 crore. Principal secretary, skill development and technical education, Hemant Kumar Sharma, said: “Government College of Engineering, Keonjar, has all potential to be upgraded to an institute of national importance with quality enhancement in academics, research and industry-institute interface.” “The college has a permanent campus spread over 37 acres and is now providing consultancy support to the mineral-based industries even with its limited resources. With upgradation, the institute would be able to provide all services to the mining industries in Odisha,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to direct removal of  V.K. Singh ||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to direct the removal of Union minister V.K. Singh or green-light a sedition case against him over his purported claim on Indian incursions into China, pointing out that such action was the prerogative of the Prime Minister. A social activist had moved the apex court asking for a sedition case to be filed against junior road transport and highways minister Singh, or his sacking, for suggesting that India had crossed the Line of Actual Control more often than China. “Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times,” Singh, a former army chief, has been quoted as saying. China had termed the statement “an unwitting confession” by India, appearing to weaken New Delhi’s position amid Chinese incursions and the Galwan Valley clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers. On Friday, hearing the petition by social activist Chandrasekaran Ramasamy, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana told petitioner’s counsel C.R. Jayasukin: “If he (Singh) has done something, it is for the Prime Minister to act if it is inappropriate. This court can’t pass any order.” The counsel persisted with the argument for action against Singh, saying the minister had made statements against the army. Justice Ramana replied that if the minister had done anything inappropriate, the solution did not lie in approaching the apex court through a public interest litigation. The CJI, who headed a bench that also had Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, passed the following order: “…Having heard learned counsel for the petitioner and carefully perusing the material placed on record, we are not inclined to entertain this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution. The writ petition is accordingly dismissed.” Article 32 deals with the right to move the Supreme Court through appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of constitutionally guaranteed rights. Ramasamy, a Tamil Nadu-based activist, had moved the petition in February. The petition had stated: “…Unfortunately, if either the voluntary resigning or removal of the government minister does not happen, it is begged before the honourable Supreme Court of India to initiate suitable action against him as per the anti-national law and set a standard to people in higher positions what and how to speak and give statements carefully and correctly.” It had pleaded that Section 124A of the IPC, which deals with sedition, be invoked against Singh. Section 124A states: “Whoever, words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise, brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the Government established by law in India shall be punished with imprisonment for life, to which fine may be added, or with imprisonment which may extend to three years, to which fine may be added, or with fine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Tirath Singh Rawat  steps down as chief minister||BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as Uttarakhand chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. Rawat handed over the resignation letter to governor Baby Rani Maurya past 11pm, hours after returning from Delhi where he was summoned by the top BJP leadership on Wednesday. At 9.30pm, Rawat had told a news conference in  Dehradun: “As the chief minister, I worked to control the second wave of Covid-19 and provided financial relief to people. I also extended relief to the tourism industry, which was hard hit during the pandemic.” However, he had not responded to any questions about his resignation. The Uttarakhand BJP legislature party will meet on Saturday to elect its new leader, who will be later sworn in as the next chief minister of the state where Assembly elections are due early next year. In Delhi, Rawat, 57, had met Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday and BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Thursday and Friday. Earlier, Manveer Singh Chauhan, media in-charge of the Uttarakhand unit of the BJP, said in a release: “The meeting of the BJP legislative party will be held at state party headquarters at 3pm on Saturday. State (BJP) chief Madan Kaushik will preside over the meeting.” “We have been informed that Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will reach Dehradun on Saturday morning to be an observer during the meeting of the MLAs,” a BJP leader told reporters in Dehradun on Friday evening. “The party seems to have decided not to field Rawat in the by-election. After becoming the chief minister on March 10 this year, he is supposed to get elected as an MLA by September 10.” Rawat will remain an MP from Pauri Garhwal as he had not resigned from the position, sources said. He had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat as the chief minister on March 10 and was preparing to contest from Gangotri or Haldwani seat, which had fallen vacant following the death of the BJP’s Gopal Rawat and the Congress’s Indira Hridayesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India|| 350 academics come out in support of IGNOU's Jyotish course||Nearly 350 academics on Friday came out in support of the course on Indian astrology that the Indira Gandhi National Open University has introduced and condemned a “concerted effort” by “ambassadors of Western ideologies” to suppress “our knowledge traditions”. The comments came in an open letter that faculty members and researchers from various colleges and universities wrote to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. The letter came days after more than 1,000 academics, mainly from the sciences, issued a statement terming astrology a “pseudoscience” and opposing the master’s degree programme in jyotish that Ignou launched on June 24. “The ambassadors of Western ideologies and institutions have been opposed to it. We are open to all forms of knowledge and research so that our students really become global scholars and not just carriers of filtered Western knowledge and ideologies,” the letter says. “We feel a concerted effort has been made before and after Independence to suppress our knowledge traditions for vested interest.” The letter condemns “the pseudo-scholars surviving on foreign subsidy” who try to “suppress” efforts to promote “pro-Bharat education”. Among the prominent signatories are Sushant K. Mishra from the School of Languages, JNU; P.N. Singh from Sampurnananda Sanskrit University (SSU), Varanasi; and Kailash Ch. Sharma, former vice-chancellor, Kurukshetra University. C.B. Sharma, a professor with the School of Education, Ignou, whose is the first signature on the letter, told this newspaper that the astrology course was “scientific” and relevant. “These are (matters of) time-tested scientific knowledge. They have remained with the Indian people for millennia. They were pushed into oblivion by Moghul and British rule,” Sharma said. “The job of the universities is to create new ideas and study the ideas already existing. These are great Indian ideas which must be examined and researched. That is why the course is relevant.” He said universities have the autonomy to start any particular course. “This course has gone through all the statutory bodies of the university like the school council and the school board, which have experts from outside, and also the planning board and the academic council,” Sharma said. Aniket Sule, an associate professor at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, who was a signatory to the earlier statement opposing the course, described the counter-statement by academics as regrettable but hardly surprising. “I don’t know who all have signed this counter-statement so I cannot guess the reasons why anyone who claims to be a scientist would sign anything in support of astrology, which is at odds with analytical and rational thinking,” Sule wrote in an email response to this newspaper. “However, it is unsurprising as we had seen this enthusiasm by a certain section of Indian academia even in the past to jump in to defend anything which is deemed as Indian heritage, without bothering to find out what exactly they are defending.” Sule agreed that protecting universities’ autonomy was a core principle of academic freedom. However, he wrote, that doesn’t mean universities are free to “indoctrinate students in fanaticism and indulge in fact-free rhetoric”. “Any educational material/course prescribed by any university is open to academic challenge by other academics and it is the duty of the university to give sound academic arguments to defend (its) choice of material/course,” Sule wrote. “When defenders of the course throw in phrases like ‘western bias’, ‘great Indian heritage’, ‘belief of many people for many years’, etc, it actually betrays the fact that they don’t have any real academic arguments to defend astrology.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||ED summons actress Yami Gautam||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday summoned actress Yami Gautam for questioning in connection with an alleged violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema). The agency has asked the actress to appear before it on July 7. Sources said certain transactions came under the scanner and after primary investigation it was found that the bank accounts were connected to Yami. The summons was issued after that. “Currently, several big-banner Bollywood films are under the ED scanner for money-laundering,” said an ED official. Yami Gautam had tied the knot with Uri director Aditya Dhar last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
