04-07-2021||India||Govt asks for suggestions on draft anti-trafficking bill||The Ministry of Women and Child Development has invited suggestions from stakeholders on the draft of the Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021. The objective of the bill is to prevent and counter trafficking in persons, especially women and children, the Ministry said in a statement. It will provide care, protection, and rehabilitation to the victims, while respecting their rights, and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them and also to ensure prosecution of offenders, it added. It will apply to every offence of trafficking in persons with cross-border implications. According to the draft bill, a person found guilty of trafficking can be imprisoned for a term not less than seven years that may extend to 10 years. The convict shall also be liable to a fine not less than Rs 1 lakh that may extend up to Rs 5 lakh. Severe punishment has been proposed for offences classified as aggravated forms of trafficking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Covid: CISCE lessens Class X, XII syllabus for 2022 exams||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has reduced the syllabus of Class 10 and Class 12 for the 2022 exams. Considering the struggle to cope with the disruption in educational activities brought about due to extended lockdowns in the country, CISCE, the board which conducts the ICSE Class 10th and ISC Class 12th annual exams, has reduced the syllabi of English and Indian Languages for ICSE and ISC 2022 exams. According to NDTV, the council has also said that it is carrying out syllabus reduction in several other subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels, in consultation with its subject experts, without compromising on the quality of content. “..CISCE has initiated the process of syllabus review for various subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels specifically for Classes 10 and 12, for the Examination Year 2022, to identify portions of the syllabus which may be reduced, without compromising on the quality of content,” said Gerry Arathoon, Chief Executive and Secretary, CISCE in a statement issued to the heads of all affiliated schools. Students can access the revised syllabus for the 2022 exams on the official website of CISCE -- cisce.org and check the Regulations and Syllabuses link under ICSE and ISC tabs. “In the eventuality of the need for further reduction in the syllabus, it is imperative that the concerned subject teachers transact the syllabus strictly according to the sequence of topics given in the syllabus. This will ensure that all CISCE affiliated schools are broadly teaching the same topics at any given point of time as well as facilitate subsequent reduction in syllabus, if required,” the CISCE statement added. The Council, this year, had to cancel the Class 10 and Class 12 exams in view of the pandemic and considering the safety of the students. CISCE will use internal assessment marks, past performance to arrive at the ICSE 10th and ISC 12th results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Those indulging in lynching are against Hindutva: RSS chief||Asserting that the DNA of all Indians is the same, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday urged muslims not to get "trapped in the cycle of fear" that Islam is in danger in India. Addressing an event organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch on the theme 'Hindustani First, Hindustan First', he said that people can't be differentiated on how they worship. He also took on those indulging in lynching, saying, "They are against Hindutava". Though at times, some false cases of lynching have been registered against people, Bhagwat said. "Don't get trapped in the cycle of fear that Islam is in danger in India," he said at the event. Underlining that development is not possible without unity in the country, the RSS chief stressed that the basis of unity should be nationalism and the glory of ancestors. The only solution to Hindu-Muslim conflict is dialogue, not discord, he said. "Hindu-Muslim unity is misleading as they're not different, but one. DNA of all Indians are same, irrespective of religion," Bhagwat said. "We are in a democracy. There can't be a dominance of Hindus or Muslims. There can only be the dominance of Indians." While beginning his speech, Bhagwat said he was attending the event neither for any image makeover nor for vote bank politics. Bhagwat said neither the Sangh is in politics nor does it bother about maintaining an image. "It keeps on doing its work to strengthen the nation and for the welfare of all in the society," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Maharashtra: Anil Deshmukh moves SC for protection in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from any coercive action in a money laundering case. The Enforcement Directorate had, on Saturday, issued fresh summons to the NCP leader seeking his appearance on July 5 in the case. The ED has, so far, issued three notices to Deshmukh, who has been asked to record his statement at the central agency's office in south Mumbai on Monday. Deshmukh, 72, has moved the top court seeking protection from any coercive action, Mumbai-based advocate Inderpal B Singh said in a video message released for the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Ministry of Women and Child Development asks for suggestions on draft anti-trafficking bill||The Ministry of Women and Child Development has invited suggestions from stakeholders on the draft of the Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021. The objective of the bill is to prevent and counter trafficking in persons, especially women and children, the Ministry said in a statement. It will provide care, protection, and rehabilitation to the victims, while respecting their rights, and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them and also to ensure prosecution of offenders, it added. It will apply to every offence of trafficking in persons with cross-border implications. According to the draft bill, a person found guilty of trafficking can be imprisoned for a term not less than seven years that may extend to 10 years. The convict shall also be liable to a fine not less than Rs 1 lakh that may extend up to Rs 5 lakh. Severe punishment has been proposed for offences classified as aggravated forms of trafficking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Fadnavis accuses Maha govt of making mockery of democracy by cutting short monsoon session||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday slammed the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on the short duration of the monsoon session of the state legislature, beginning Monday, saying the ruling dispensation doesn't want to face the opposition as allegations of "extortion" are surfaced against some ministers which forced it to go in the "defensive mode". Addressing reporters, the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly also accused the government of making a mockery of democracy by holding the session for just two days- July 5 and 6- "by giving the excuse of the COVID-19 pandemic". Meanwhile, when asked about his announcement of quitting politics if he fails to restore the OBC quota within three months after coming to power again, Fadnavis said, "'I said so because the government is not taking necessary steps. There will be no need for me to take sanyas. I will be in politics for another 25 years". He said allegations of extortion by ministers are surfacing due to which this government is avoiding facing the legislature. "But we will expose the government's real face. If we are not allowed to raise issues on the floor of the House, we will raise them in the people's forum. We will be aggressive but at the same time restrained while ensuring that people's issues are highlighted, he said. The former chief minister said the state government has so far held only 12 days of the legislature proceedings "by giving the excuse of the coronavirus pandemic" whereas Parliamentary proceedings were held for 70 days. Referring to the two-day duration of the monsoon session, Fadnavis said the government wanted to stop the members from asking questions using legislative tools on the floor of the House. "On the first day of the session (on Monday), supplementary demands will be tabled and condolence motion will be passed. There will be bills as well. On the second day, there will be a discussion on the supplementary demands. We are told that no other issues except what is budgeted in the supplementary demands can be raised. What if there is no provision regarding milk producers, paddy growers, crop insurance, Maratha and OBC quotas. Where should these issues be raised?'' he asked. Fadnavis said the MVA government has gone into a "defensive mode" as two of its ministers had to resign on different issues. He was apparently referring to resignations of Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod of Shiv Sena, who quit earlier this year after his name surfaced in connection with the alleged suicide of a young woman in Pune, and Anil Deshmukh of NCP who resigned after the high court directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary enquiry into allegations of corruption raised against him in April this year. Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in March this year alleging that Deshmukh had asked some police officers, including (now dismissed) Sachin Waze, to collect Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai per month. Deshmukh had denied the allegations. He is also facing the ED probe in connection with a money laundering case and his two aides were arrested. Allegations of extortion were also leveled against Transport Minister Anil Parab of Shiv Sena. He had also denied these allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||US-based GASP joins hand with WUS to boost GDP of low-income workers||The US-based Global Alliance for a Sustainable Planet (GASP) has joined hands with IIT Kanpur-incubated start-up WUS to create environmental and social impact with a special focus on enhancing the "GDP of the low-income workers", a senior official of the Indian firm said on Sunday. The collaboration between the two entities follows Worker Unions Support's (WUS) selection for the 'Milestone Makers cohorts 2021' of Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center. WUS was the only Indian start-up among total 13 entities that were selected for the 'Milestone Makers cohorts 2021'. The Nasdaq programme provides mentorship and growth support to start-ups working on the UN's sustainable development goals (SDGs). "GASP and WUS will work jointly to deliver transformative environmental and social impact with a special focus on enhancing the GDP of the low-income workers," WUS founder and CEO Prasoon Sharma told PTI. He added that GASP enables system-scale transformation by leveraging private finance for the public good. "Through GASP, WUS can get access to mentors and finance to empower workers by reducing their carbon footprints. For example, we can provide green energy solutions, encouraging taxi drivers to turn to green fuels like electric vehicles, etc," Sharma said. The IIT-incubated start-up gained the mentorship of United Nations Environment Programme former executive director Erik Solheim and UN former assistant general secretary Satya S Tripathi by signing a memorandum of understanding with GASP. WUS completed a three-month programme on Saturday, and Sharma was featured on Nasdaq Tower on Saturday where the US stock exchange displays major achievers. WUS is building a digital worker community where workers can share their knowledge and grievances within their community to help each other. "Through the milestone maker programme and mentors, WUS can approach international organisations like the International Labour Organization (ILO) to bring global resources and support for the Indian blue- and grey-collar workers," Sharma said. The start-up aims to onboard hundred of thousands of low income workers on its platform to provide them access to government welfare schemes and upgrade their livelihood. "WUS aims to improve the lives of 500 million workers in India in five years and 3.3 billion workers globally in seven years by building a unified-digital community for workers and unions," Sharma said. WUS will focus on providing grievance redressals, know your rights and privileges services, micro-financing, skill development courses, etc, to the low-income group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Farmers to protest everyday outside Parliament during monsoon session ||A group of around 200 farmers will protest against the Centre's three farm laws in front of Parliament every day during the monsoon session, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) announced on Sunday. The umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions said at a press conference that two days before the session begins, a "chetavani patra" (warning letter) will be given to all the Opposition MPs to protest the laws inside the House. "We will also ask the opposition MPs on July 17 to raise the issue every day inside the House while we will sit outside in protest. We will tell them to not to benefit the Centre by walking out of a session. Don't let the session run till the government addresses the issue," farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said. Parliament's monsoon session is set to begin on July 19. "We will continuously protesting outside Parliament till they hear our demands," Rajewal said. He added that five people from each farmer union would be taken to join the protest. The SKM also called for a nationwide protest on July 8 against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. It asked people to come out and park their vehicles along state and national highways from 10 am till 12 pm. "Whatever vehicle you have, tractor, trolley, car, scooter, just bring it to the nearest state or national highway and park it there. But don't create a traffic jam," Rajewal said. He also asked for LPG cylinders to be brought to the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Pushkar Singh Dhami sworn in as 11th Chief Minister of Uttarakhand||Pushkar Singh Dhami was sworn in as the 11th chief minister of Uttarakhand in Dehradun on Sunday. The oath of office was administered on Dhami by Governor Baby Rani Maurya at a simple function held on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan in the presence of a host of MPs, MLAs and functionaries of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and senior government officials. At 45, Dhami takes over as the youngest chief minister of Uttarakhand. A two-time MLA from Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar district, Dhami replaces Tirath Singh Rawat, who resigned on Friday. Dhami was elected as the Uttarakhand BJP legislature party leader on Saturday. He is considered to be close to Maharashtra Governor and former Uttarakhand chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is also his political mentor. Dhami takes over the reins of power at a time when Uttarakhand has just a few months to go for the Assembly polls, which are due early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Srinagar bans use of drones amid heightened security over Jammu attack||A week after a drone attack at an Air Force base in Jammu, authorities in Srinagar on Sunday banned the sale, possession and use of such unmanned aerial vehicles in the city. Earlier, authorities in border districts of Rajouri and Kathua in the Jammu region had put curbs on the use of drones and other UAVs in the wake of the terror attack last Sunday. Two explosives-laden drones had crashed into the Indian Air Force station at Jammu airport and there were other suspicious sightings of UAVs, triggering a security alert. In an order, deputy commissioner of Srinagar Mohammad Aijaz directed those having drone cameras or other similar kinds of unmanned aerial vehicles to deposit them in local police stations. The order, however, exempted government departments using drones for mapping, surveys and surveillance in agricultural, environmental conservation and disaster mitigation sectors but directed them to inform the local police station before using them. The administration cautioned that any violation of the guidelines will attract punitive action, and directed police to implement the restrictions in letter and spirit. The order to ban the use of drones came after the recommendations of the city's police chief. The decentralised airspace access has to be regulated in view of recent episodes of misuse of drones posing threat to security infrastructure as reported by media/other reliable sources, the order said. To secure the aerial space near the vital installations and highly populated areas, it is imperative to discontinue the use of drones in all social and cultural gatherings to eliminate any risk of injury to the life and damage of property, the order said. Keeping in view the security situation, apart from concerns of breach of privacy, nuisance and trespass, it is extremely dangerous to let unmanned aerial vehicles wander around in the skies within the territorial jurisdiction of district Srinagar, it said. The district magistrate imposed "restrictions/ban on the storage, sale/ possession, use and transport of drones/similar kinds of unmanned aerial vehicles in the city". Persons already having the drone cameras/ similar kind of unmanned aerial vehicles in their possession shall ground the same in the local police stations under proper receipt, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Congress capable of winning polls without alliance, says party's UP chief||Days after the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party ruled out forging any major alliances for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Congress' state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Sunday expressed confidence that his party has the capacity to fight the elections without aligning with either of them and form the next government on its own. He also said the Congress would fight the polls in Uttar Pradesh next year under Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's "dekh-rekh (supervision)", and that under her leadership, the party would make a comeback in the state after over three decades. In an interview with PTI, Lallu said Congress has emerged as the main challenger to the "oppressive" UP government and claimed that his party with just five legislators has proven to be a more effective opposition than the Samajwadi Party (SP) which has 49 MLAs in the 403-member assembly. He said "winds of change" were blowing in UP and added, "Badlav ki aandhi hai, jiska naam Priyanka Gandhi hai (There is a storm of change and its name is Priyanka Gandhi)." Lallu asserted that the Congress organisation has been strengthened at various levels in UP under Priyanka Gandhi's leadership. Asked if Priyanka Gandhi should be made the chief ministerial face by the party for the polls, he said it is the party's national leadership that would decide on who should be the chief ministerial face. Pressed on whether Priyanka Gandhi would be the party's face in the run up to the polls, Lallu said she is UP's in-charge and the elections will be fought under her supervision. "The people of Uttar Pradesh are looking at Congress with hope. There is a lot of enthusiasm among the workers and under her leadership, the Congress government will be formed in UP," he said. His remarks come at a time when the party has shifted gears for the Assembly elections with the state unit organising zone-wise training camps of block presidents, district presidents and other office bearers to prepare workers for the polls. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi is likely to visit several districts this month with an aim to enthuse the cadre and prepare the party for a pitched electoral battle with the ruling BJP. Whether the party would fight the polls on its own or in alliance with the SP or the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Lallu said the Congress will forge an alliance with issues of the people, farmers, poor, women and oppressed. The Congress will go to the people with this alliance and is confident they will bless it, he added. Asked if the Congress has the capacity to fight the polls on its own, Lallu said, "Yes, definitely it has the capacity to fight." His remarks assume significance as they come days after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said his party will not enter into any alliance with big parties, while BSP supremo Mayawati later asserted that her outfit will not enter into any alliance for the UP polls. On whether votes could get divided if the SP, the BSP and the Congress contest separately, Lallu said people had given opportunity to the other political players in the state but they were not able to stay true to the faith shown by the people and now it was the Congress' turn. About SP and BSP leaders' statements on the polls, he said it reflected frustration and disappointment as people have rejected them and are standing with the Congress. On many political pundits not considering the Congress the main challenger to the BJP in UP and the party's poor showing in the panchayat polls, he alleged that an "oppressive" BJP government is in power and said if any party is raising its voice against the Yogi Adityanath dispensation on the streets, it is the Congress which has emerged as a "strong opposition". "Be it for farmers, youth or poor in rural areas, Congress has raised its voice on issues such as unemployment, law and order situation, saving lives during the Covid pandemic, on deaths due to spurious liquor, jungle raj and other problems," he said. "When tribals were killed in Sonbhadra, when injustice was done to Hathras' daughter, when injustice was done to daughters of Unnao and Shahjahanpur, Priyanka Gandhi raised her voice and fought against injustice. When it came to hitting the streets to oppose the farm laws, it was Priyanka Gandhi who did it," Lallu said. Asserting that Congress workers had taken the fight against the state government to the streets, he claimed that over 1 lakh party workers have been detained and cases filed against thousands of them at different points in time. "I myself have been detained more than 80 times in a year, over 40-50 cases were filed and I went to jail four times," Lallu said. Talking about the Congress' performance in the panchayat elections, Lallu said 271 of the party-backed candidates were elected, 571 came second while 711 were third. The Congress got 50 lakh votes in Lok Sabha polls and in the assembly elections, it got 51 lakh votes, but in zila panchayat polls, it got 1,52,00,000 votes, he said, alleging that the SP only "grabbed headlines" by putting their name on winning candidates despite losing out. "There is frustration and disappointment in BJP and SP, the Congress with its determination is going to make a comeback in UP under Priyanka Gandhi's leadership. We have full faith in the people," he said, stressing that Congress was the BJP's main challenger in the polls. Pointing out that the party has been strengthened at various levels, he said, "We have 840 block presidents, 8,145 nyay panchayat presidents and in 59,000 villages, we have gram sabha units. We are strengthening booths, training programmes are going on. In light of the developments and on the basis of raising people's issues, we will definitely make a comeback in UP." Claiming that the three farm laws were a big issue in UP, Lallu said the Congress stood against the laws, and farmers would support the party. On All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul- Muslimeen's decision to enter the poll fray in UP, he said political parties have the right to fight polls and one can't stop anyone, but added people are looking at the Congress with hope and the party is confident that it will get their blessings. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Saina Nehwal congratulates BJP for local body poll win, stirs up controversy||Ace badminton player Saina Nehwal has congratulated Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on BJP's "thumping victory" in elections to the posts of the district panchayat chief, prompting a sharp comment from RLD president Jayant Chaudhary who called her "sarkaari shuttler". In a tweet on Saturday night, Nehwal said, "Hearty congratulations for thumping victory in Zila Panchayat Chairperson election in UP @myogiadityanath sir." Nehwal had joined the BJP ahead of the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections. Reacting to Nehwal's tweet almost one-and-half-hours later, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Chaudhary tweeted, "Sarkaari shuttler recognises BJP skill in smashing peoples' verdict! I think voters need to play a subtle drop shot on celebs trying to influence their decisions!." The BJP on Saturday claimed to have swept the elections to the posts of the district panchayat chief even as the SP alleged that the ruling party "kidnapped" voters and used "force" to stop them from voting. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of making a mockery of the elections, saying it is strange that while most results in the polls for the district panchayat members were in favour of his party, the BJP gained in the contest for the district panchayat chief. Though the panchayat polls in UP are not held on the party symbol and the state Election Commission did not announce the party affiliation of the winning candidates, the BJP claimed that the candidate backed by it won on 67 of 75 posts, the elections for which were held on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||No doubt about BJP winning UP polls, says Yogi Adityanath||The BJP will win the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, and there should be no doubt about it, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said, after AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi's reported remarks that the saffron party will not be allowed to form government in the state. The Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) have announced to fight the elections together. Owaisi had reportedly said, "Inshallah, (we) will not allow Yogi (Adityanath) to become the chief minister of UP again. If our morale is high and we work hard, then everything will happen. Inshallah, our endeavour is that the BJP government is not formed in Uttar Pradesh." Reacting to the AIMIM chief's statement, Adityanath on Saturday said, "Owaisi ji is a big national leader, he goes to different parts of the country for campaigning, and he has his own 'janaadhaar' (voter base). If he has challenged the BJP, then the BJP worker accepts his challenge." "The BJP will form the government, and there should be no doubt on this," the chief minister said. He added that the BJP's central leadership has fixed a target of 300 plus Assembly seats in the 2022 elections. The party will win over 300 seats, Adityanath asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Bharat Ratna this year should be given to doctors, suggests Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the country's highest civilian award Bharat Ratna should be given this year to all doctors, nurses and paramedics who served the people amid the pandemic. It will a true homage to doctors who lost their lives, he said. "The 'Indian Doctor' should receive Bharat Ratna this year. 'Indian Doctor' means all doctors, nurses and paramedics. It will be a true homage to all martyred doctors. It will be an honour of those who have been serving without caring for their lives and families. The whole country will be glad at this," Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi. As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data available by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in mid-June. Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed. According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Facebook prank goes wrong as three of family lose life||A prank among relatives went horribly wrong leading to the loss of three lives, one of them a newborn baby, Kerala police's probe into the abandoning of the infant has revealed. In January this year, a newborn baby boy -- just a few hours old -- was found in a heap of dry leaves in Kollam district of Kerala and the infant later died in hospital. Police investigation revealed that one Reshma, resident of Kalluvathukkal village in Kollam, was the mother of the infant and she was arrested in June. During interrogation, Reshma said she had left her newborn to die in order to elope with a man -- Anandu -- whom she had befriended on Facebook but never met in person, police said. According to police, she had not disclosed that she was pregnant to her husband, Vishnu, nor to anyone else in her family. During their investigation to find out the woman's Facebook friend, police called two of her relatives -- Arya, her sister-in-law and Greeshma, her niece -- for questioning. Police had summoned them as a mobile sim card in Arya's name was being used by Reshma to operate one of her multiple Facebook accounts. However, in a strange twist of events, both women allegedly committed suicide by jumping into a river. Thereafter, police questioned a male friend of Greeshma who revealed that she had told him that she and Arya created the Facebook account of Anandu to play a prank on Reshma, a senior police officer said. Police also found that Arya had told her mother-in-law about the prank before she allegedly committed suicide. Arya's husband later told the media that he was thankful to the police for finding out why his wife had taken that extreme step. He said he had no idea about the prank. Reshma's husband, who was abroad and came back after hearing of her arrest, told the media that had anyone told him what was going on, he could have put a stop to it. Presently, Reshma is in judicial custody in a quarantine centre as she tested positive for COVID-19, police said and added that it has moved an application for her custody and the same is yet to come up for hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi lashes out at Modi government over Rafale deal||A day after the Congress demanded a JPC probe into the Rafale deal, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday put out an online survey asking why the Modi government was not ready for it. Among the choices given by Gandhi to the question were guilt conscience, saving friends, JPC does not want a Rajya Sabha seat and all the above. "Why is the Modi government not ready for a JPC probe? -- guilt conscience, saving the friends, JPC does not want a Rajya Sabha seat and all of these are right," he said in Hindi on Twitter, while putting out the survey. Gandhi has been alleging corruption in the Rafale fighter jet deal for long now and had made this as a major poll plank in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which the Congress lost badly. Meanwhile, addressing a press conference, Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera asked why the government was silent over France's decision to order a probe into the deal. "It's been 24 hours since France has ordered a probe into the Rafale deal on matters like corruption, influence peddling, money laundering, favouritism. The whole nation, the whole world is now looking to New Delhi. Why the silence," he asked. As per a report by ndtv.com, he claimed that huge amounts of money were paid to middlemen in the deal, according to documents available now. A French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial probe into suspected "corruption" and "favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India, French investigative website Mediapart has reported. The Congress has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee(JPC) probe into the Rafale deal, alleging corruption in the purchase of the fighter jets, and said such an investigation is the only way forward to find the truth. The main opposition party had further said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should order the investigation and come clean on the deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Delhi stadiums, sport complexes to reopen from Monday without spectators||The Delhi government has allowed the reopening of stadium and sports complexes without spectators from Monday, an order issued by the DDMA said on Sunday. There will be strict adherence to standard operating procedure and other guidelines of the government, and compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour while opening the stadia and sports complexes, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said. However, cinema halls, multiplexes, swimming pools, spas, schools and colleges, social, political, cultural, religious and other such gatherings will remain prohibited, the order stated. Delhi Metro trains and public transport buses will continue to operate with 50 percent seating capacity, it said. Last week, the DDMA allowed the opening of gyms and yoga institutes with half their capacity as well as weddings at banquet and marriage halls and hotels with a limit of 50 percent attendance. The prohibited and restricted activities will continue till 5 am on July 12, the order said. With a surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of coronavirus infections, a lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19. The government started a phased unlock process allowing construction and manufacturing activities from May 31 with improvement in the Covid situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu bats for 300 units of free electricity in Punjab||Amid a power crisis in Punjab, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday pitched for providing up to 300 units of free electricity and round-the-clock power supply to consumers in the state. Sidhu also said that domestic and industrial consumers should be given electricity at cheaper rates. "Punjab already provides 9000 crore subsidy but we must do more for Domestic & Industrial consumer giving power at Rs 3-5 per unit instead of surcharge inflated Rs 10-12 per unit, along 24-hour supply with No Power-Cuts & Free Power (Up to 300 Units).. It is definitely achievable," said Sidhu in a tweet. Sidhu's tweet came days after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal promised 300 units of free electricity for each household and 24-hour power supply if his party AAP comes to power next year. The cricketer-turned-politician reiterated that faulty power purchase agreements signed during the erstwhile SAD-BJP regime should be nullified through a law. "Let us start with Congress High Command's Pro-People 18 Point Agenda and get rid of the faulty un-negotiable Badal-signed Power Purchase Agreements through New Legislation in Punjab Vidhan Sabha fixing rates as per National Power Exchange with No fixed charges," said Sidhu in another tweet. Sidhu had earlier also batted for a law to nullify the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government. The Amritsar East legislator has been at loggerheads with the Punjab chief minister and has attacked him over a host of issues in the past. On Saturday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said his government would soon announce its legal strategy to counter the ill-conceived PPAs during the previous SAD-BJP regime. Singh had also said these PPAs, which were already under review, had put an atrociously unnecessary financial burden on the state. Of the 139 PPAs signed during by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government, 17 were enough to cater to the state's full power demand, the CM had said. The remaining 122 for 1314 MWs of expensive power were inexplicably signed, putting an unnecessary financial burden on the state, he had said. Before coming to power in 2017, the Congress had promised that it would renegotiate the existing PPAs to ensure low cost power. Punjab had been reeling under an unprecedented power shortage with urban and rural areas facing long hours of load shedding amid scorching heat. The State-owned power utility PSPCL on Saturday had said that following the measures taken by the state government, eight-hours of power was being supplied to all agriculture consumers and there were also no scheduled power cuts on domestic, commercial, small and medium supply industrial consumers in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||India records over 43,000 cases, 955 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 43,071 Covid-19 infections, which took the tally of cases to 3,05,45,433, while active cases have declined to 4,85,350, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll has climbed to 4,02,005 with 955 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases have further declined to 4,85,350 and comprise 1.59 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.09 per cent, the ministry said. It said active cases have declined by 10,183 in a span of 24 hours. The data stated that 18,38,490 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 41,82,54,953. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 27 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding that the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.44 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 52 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 2,96,58,078, while the case fatality rate has risen to 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 35.12 crore under nationwide Covid vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala MPs asked to produce conduct certificate||Seven Kerala MPs who had applied for entry permits to visit Lakshadweep have been asked to produce a sponsor’s declaration vouching for their good conduct and signed before a magistrate or notary. The unusual condition set by the Lakshadweep administration is based on a rule meant solely for migrant labourers who come to work in the archipelago, and has been condemned by the MPs as “illogical” and a “breach of privilege”. “I have never come across this kind of illogical stipulation. As we have already written to the Lok Sabha Speaker, this is a breach of privilege of a people’s representative,” A.M. Ariff, a CPM member and one of the seven MPs, told The Telegraph on Saturday. Earlier, the seven Left MPs — who have been trying to visit Lakshadweep since May on a fact-finding trip amid allegations of “anti-people” decisions by new administrator Praful Khoda Patel — had been denied permission on the ground of the Covid situation. The MPs had seen this too as a breach of privilege and given a notice to the Lok Sabha Speaker last month, while demanding an explanation from Patel. Last week, they approached Kerala High Court seeking a direction to the Lakshadweep administration to issue the entry permits to the Union Territory, designated a restricted area. The notice seeking the good conduct declaration came after that. Served by the additional district magistrate of Lakshadweep, it also asks the MPs to fill in the prescribed application form and furnish address proof and a receipt proving they have paid the Rs 50 entry permit fee. While ordinary visitors have to fill in the form and pay the fee, lawmakers never had to do that before, Ariff said. The notice sought “an undertaking from the sponsor that he shall take responsibility for the good conduct and behaviour of the applicant during his stay in the island, signed before the Notary Public/ Magistrate/ Oath Commissioner”, citing a 2014 order by number. However, the 2014 order’s title, “Procedure for issuing entry permit to contractors and labourers for the departmental/ civil work of LPWD (Lakshadweep PWD)”, makes it clear who it’s intended for. Mohammed Salih PM, an advocate from Amini Island which is part of Lakshadweep, said the 2014 order was meant to ensure that labourers entering the islands maintained a certain etiquette. “This order from 2014 is meant to hold contractors responsible for the good conduct of the labourers they brought in. It’s strange that this order has been applied to lawmakers,” Salih told this newspaper. Ariff said: “I had visited Lakshadweep earlier as an MLA and never faced these kinds of obstacles. But we are confident of getting justice from the high court.” The notice was addressed to Lok Sabha members Ariff and Thomas Chazhikadan, and Rajya Sabha members K. Somaprasad, V. Sivadasan, John Brittas, Binoy Viswam and M.V. Shreyams Kumar. They want to visit Lakshadweep to prepare a fact-finding report amid allegations that Patel’s controversial orders and draft legislations are aimed at imposing a “saffron agenda” on the Muslim-majority Union Territory. The MPs plan to submit the report to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Patel, a former Gujarat home minister, is believed to be close to Modi. He took over as administrator in December. Ariff recalled how easy it had been to visit Lakshadweep as an MLA ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when he went there as part of a team from the public accounts committee (PAC) of the Kerala Assembly. “We went there and met local people,” he said. A. Pradeep Kumar, a Kerala CPM state committee member and then MLA who too was part of the PAC visit to Lakshadweep, said: “We visited the islands with all the privileges of MLAs. Now they are denying permission to MPs. At this rate they will stop even ministers.” Calls to Lakshadweep administration officials’ numbers did not go through. While Lakshadweep has its own MP, visits by lawmakers from Kerala are common because the islands’ population has strong cultural and historical links with the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||IAF: Veterans express anger on being termed 'supporting arm' by Rawat||Indian Air Force veterans on Saturday expressed deep anger and shock at chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat describing the IAF as a “supporting arm” in the planned integrated theatre commands of the three armed forces. Speaking at the same event later on Friday, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria had disagreed with Rawat, a former army chief, saying “airpower has a huge role”. Rawat, tasked by the Narendra Modi government to facilitate the integration process, had been asked at the programme, organised online by the think tank Global Counter Terrorism Council, about the IAF not being keen on the proposed theatre commands integrating the capabilities of the tri-services. Rawat replied: “The IAF is required to provide support to the ground forces…. Do not forget that the air force continues to remain a supporting arm to the armed forces, just as the artillery supports or the engineer supports the combatant arms in the army. “They will be a supporting arm. But they have a charter, they have an air defence charter (for) supporting the ground forces in times of operations. This is the basic charter which they have to understand.” Bhadauria later said: “Airpower has a huge role to play. It is not a supporting role alone. In any of the integrated battle areas, it is not an issue of support alone.” Asked about the IAF’s views on the theaterisation of the armed forces, he said: “Air power has a huge role to play in any of the integrated battle roles…. The IAF is fully committed to the theaterisation of the armed forces.” Theaterisation means putting specific numbers of personnel from each of the three services — the army, navy and the air force — under a common commander for a unified military approach through a rationalisation of manpower and resources. IAF veterans on Saturday erupted in anger against Rawat’s comments. They said his statements had created controversy and acrimony at the higher echelons of the military leadership at a time the air force was said to be harbouring reservations about unified commands because of its limited resources compared with the army’s. A former air vice-marshal termed Rawat’s observations “shocking”. “This is very sad that the IAF chief had to express his views strongly to counter Rawat’s statements. The air force will continue to have a very important role in any future conflict, as (at) the LAC, LoC and the deep maritime spaces of the Indo-Pacific,” he told The Telegraph. The former air vice-marshal said: “Recently we saw the IAF demonstrate its commitment to jointmanship, be it Balakot or the counter build-up in Ladakh amid the Chinese aggression.” Prime Minister Modi and the BJP had used the February 2019 airstrikes on Pakistan’s Balakot to the hilt in the lead-up to the Lok Sabha elections. Air Vice-Marshal (retd) Manmohan Bahdur said: “The statement that the IAF is a supporting arm to the other two services is incorrect. The air force, just like the other two services, has its own attributes that have been well acknowledged in the last few decades.” A former wing commander said: “Rawat’s statement has led to acrimony at the higher echelons of the military leadership. It has also brought out in the open the differences over the theaterisation of the military.” The IAF is said to have apprehensions about the planned theaterisation as it does not want to split its assets, which are fewer than the army’s. The IAF is also believed to have contended that the nature of its operations is so fluid that all of India is one theatre for it. The force is also said to have issues over who would lead particular theatres. A former IAF group captain said Rawat’s statements were shocking and disappointing. “They have once again exposed the hollowness of the jointness within India’s armed forces.” The Modi government has formed an expert committee to carry out consultations with the three services to decide the way forward on the theaterisation of the military. Rawat has been tasked with facilitating the restructuring of the military commands for optimal utilisation of resources through the establishment of unified theatre commands. The plan is to have five theatre commands. Each will have units of the army, navy and the air force, and all of them will work as a single entity looking after specified geographical territories under an operational commander. Now, the three armed forces have 19 commands, each assigned exclusively to one among the three forces. Sources in the government said the theatre commands were being set up under the larger mandate of ensuring synergy among the tri-services chiefs to deal with security challenges. The sources said there had been differences over the planned theaterisation amid fears that the senior positions would be taken over by the army, the largest among the three services. The army brass, who are in favour of theaterisation, contend that multiple commands lead to confusion. They cite the example of China, which has a single Western Theatre Command for the entire Indian frontier. On the other hand, India’s army alone has four commands on the China frontier — northern, western (which mainly looks after the Pakistan front), central and eastern. The IAF has three commands for the China frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Congress claims 'vindication', seeks probe into Rafale deal||The Congress on Saturday claimed vindication and repeated its demand for a joint parliamentary committee probe into the Rafale deal after reports said France had ordered an investigation into alleged corruption in the deal following new revelations. The reported revelations suggest that Dassault, the maker of the Rafale fighter jets, had entered into an agreement with Anil Ambani’s Reliance to exploit the Indian group’s purported political influence, the Congress said. A demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe had marked the Congress’s 2019 election campaign when it accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of violating laid-down procedures to favour Reliance. Rahul Gandhi, who had coined the poll slogan “Chowkidar chor hai (The watchman is a thief)” in a frontal attack on Modi’s image, has now tweeted: “Chor ki dadhi…” A Hindi saying that goes “Chor ki dadhi me tinka” implies that a thief eventually betrays himself. Lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan, who had petitioned the Supreme Court along with former BJP politicians Yashwant Sinha and Arun Shourie seeking an inquiry into the fighter jet deal, too laid great emphasis on the new revelations. He argued that the report by the French news portal Mediapart corroborated the trio’s contention of wrongdoing by the Modi government. Then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi had refused to order an investigation into the deal. Although BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra dismissed the latest development saying an investigation did not mean the establishment of wrongdoing, the Modi government cannot ignore the possible ramifications of an offshore probe. The purported revelation that Anil Ambani’s Reliance had signed an agreement with Dassault relating to 36 aircraft before Modi announced the deal to purchase them in 2015 implies the Indian company had advance knowledge of the pact. “The scandalous expose of Rafale scam involving massive corruption, treason and loss to public exchequer has finally been uncovered. The Congress and Rahul Gandhi stand vindicated today,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said at a news conference. “On June 14, 2021, the French public prosecution services, PNF, ordered an investigation into the Rafale papers for corruption, influence-peddling, money-laundering, favouritism on the complaint of the French anti-corruption NGO, Sherpa.” Mediapart said the investigation would cover questions surrounding the actions of former French President François Hollande, who was in office when the Rafale deal was signed, current French President Emmanuel Macron who was at that time Hollande’s economy and finance minister, and the then defence minister and now foreign affairs minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, as well as the role of Reliance Infrastructure Limited. Surjewala said: “The French news website has also released details of the agreement inked between Reliance Infra and Dassault Aviation to constitute a joint venture company called Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (DRAL), which substantiates the statement of Hollande that the decision to appoint Reliance as Dassault’s industrial partner was that of the Modi government and that France had no choice in the matter.” He added: “Reliance owned 51 per cent and Dassault owned 49 per cent in the joint venture. Reliance and Dassault agreed to a maximum investment of 169 million euros but Dassault pledged to provide 159 million euros, that is, 94 per cent of the total maximum investment. Reliance with 51 per cent stake in DRAL was to bring only 10 million euros.” The agreement shared by Mediapart suggested that Reliance had no technical knowhow but was supposed to provide production facilities and “marketing for programme and services with the GOI (Government of India)”. Surjewala interpreted this as a reference to the purported political influence Reliance enjoyed with the Modi government. Surjewala said: “On March 25, 2015, Eric Trappier, CEO of Dassault Aviation, in presence of the Chief of the Indian Air Force and Chairman of HAL, said in Bangalore that Dassault and HAL were in agreement in accordance with the RFP (request for proposal) signed by them. “Intriguingly, on March 26, 2015, Reliance and Dassault signed an MoU. This was just 15 days before the unilateral announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi (on the) purchase (of) 36 Rafale jets for 7.8 billion euros without transfer of technology and bypassing the Congress-UPA global tender to purchase 126 aircraft.” Surjewala said Dassault had deleted the anti-corruption clause and Modi had approved it later. “It is important to remember that the Defence Procurement Procedure contains mandatory anti-corruption clauses, which disallow bribery, gifts, influence, commissions, middlemen. The facts now clearly call for a thorough JPC probe because this is the only instrument that can call all witnesses, summon all government files, and grill even the Prime Minister and defence officials.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Data manipulation and privacy worry over 'Social Registry'||Academics have expressed concern about possible data manipulation and privacy in relation to a “Social Registry” the NDA government plans to create as a one-stop database of households’ economic status that will help identify potential beneficiaries of welfare schemes. Officials have said the registry will replace the Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC), which contained both caste and financial data of families. Critics allege the government fears the SECC might spark unrest by showing, purportedly, that the disadvantaged castes are not getting their share of jobs. Having conducted the lone SECC as far back as 2011-12, the rural development ministry has been looking for updated data to identify beneficiaries for its welfare schemes. In 2017, it proposed the Social Registry. In the registry, whose preparation is expected to begin sometime after the 2021 population census ends in late 2022, households will be linked to the Aadhaar numbers of their members. The registry is to be updated regularly so the government can ascertain how much families and individuals have benefited from its programmes and which of them should now be excluded from these schemes. While data for the SECC was gathered through house-to-house surveys by trained enumerators, academics fear that data for the registry might be collected through local government officials who may or may not make enquiries that, in any case, are likely to be perfunctory. Amitabh Kundu, Senior Fellow at the World Resources Institute, a global think tank on developmental issues, said the Social Registry must not replace the SECC. “The SECC is prepared through a process of community participation at the local level where claims and objections can be discussed and resolved. In an online system of updating information, people can get away by overstating their deprivations and vulnerability,” he said. “It’s possible to produce certificates from different sources through pulls and connections and claim benefits without ground-level verification. It can open windows to favouritism and corruption. There is greater surveillance and scrutiny in the process of data collection for the SECC that can and should be strengthened.” During the SECC, the data collected by the enumerators was publicly displayed at prominent places in the villages. Claims and objections were sought and settled in the gram sabhas. No such measure was adopted in urban areas, where the SECC data collection process was widely held to be less rigorous. Economist Jean Dreze expressed privacy concerns about Social Registry data, which will be accessible to government officials at all times. In contrast, SECC data could be accessed only for specific purposes and under a strict protocol. Dreze demanded a public debate before the launch of the registry. “The possible preparation of a Social Registry does not sound like a good reason to drop the next SECC. A social registry will take years to prepare, and is likely to be error-prone for some time,” he said. “It should not even be initiated without a public debate about its possible implications for privacy and civil liberties.... The sort of data that the SECC generates would be very useful to update and extend the coverage of critical social programmes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Covaxin shows 78% protective efficacy in trials||Covaxin, India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, has shown 78 per cent protective efficacy against symptomatic infection and 93 per cent efficacy against severe disease, the vaccine’s developers said on Saturday making public clinical trial results. Covaxin also shows 65 per cent efficacy against the highly-transmissible Delta variant of the coronavirus, the vaccine maker Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said in a paper that is not peer-reviewed yet but posted online on a preprint server. While Bharat Biotech and the ICMR had announced efficacy results earlier this year, this is the first time they have released details of the trial on over 25,000 volunteers in hospitals across the country. The paper shows that among the 130 symptomatic Covid cases detected during the trial, 24 patients had received the vaccine and 106 had received a placebo, or a sham injection. This 24:106 distribution of the symptomatic patients translates into 78 per cent efficacy against symptomatic infections. Among 16 patients who developed severe Covid-19, one had received the vaccine and 15 had received the placebo, implying 93 per cent efficacy against severe disease. Of the 50 patients found with the Delta variant, 13 were vaccine and 37 were placebo recipients. The trial also observed 63 per cent efficacy against asymptomatic infections. The vaccine was “immunogenic and highly efficacious against symptomatic and asymptomatic Covid-19 and variant-associated disease, particularly against severe disease in adults,” the researchers said. There were no cases of anaphylaxis (a severe allergic reaction) or vaccine-related deaths in the study. Covaxin, based on an inactivated (killed) virus, was jointly developed by the ICMR and Bharat Biotech. The company said the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy results from the trial will help support its applications for regulatory approval of the vaccine in other countries. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign currently relies on Covishield — the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India — and Covaxin. But around 90 per cent of the recipients have received Covishield because of Serum’s larger production capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Deaths due to oxygen shortage could have been avoided: Expert||Hospitalised Covid-19 patients were more likely to need oxygen and ventilation and had a significantly greater risk of dying during India’s second wave than the first, a nationwide analysis from 44 hospitals has found. The analysis, released on Saturday by a consortium of doctors and medical researchers, has found that mortality among sampled patients during the second wave was 13.3 per cent, or 30 per cent higher than the 10.2 per cent mortality observed during the first wave. The findings are similar to those released earlier this week by doctors from nine Max hospitals in five northern states that had found a 40 per cent increase in mortality during the second wave. In the new study, doctors analysed clinical profiles and outcomes of over 14,000 patients from government and private hospitals across the country and observed distinct statistically significant patterns suggesting the second wave was harder on patients. The fractions of patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome, hyperglycemia (uncontrolled blood sugar) and septic shock (the outcome of uncontrolled infection) were higher among patients during the second wave than during the first. While genome studies have revealed that a highly infectious Delta variant had partly contributed to the sharp surge in cases during the second wave, researchers say there is no evidence yet to suggest that this strain contributed in any way to increased disease severity. Instead, the study has bolstered evidence for suspicions that laxity in precautions that preceded the second wave and the resultant sharp runaway surge in which daily new infections rose 40-fold within weeks overwhelmed healthcare systems, compromising patient care. The explosive nature of the second wave led to a large number of people being affected within a short span of time. This put the health infrastructure under pressure, making hospitalisation possible for only the most severe patients. “This could explain the higher mortality among the hospitalised patients (during the second wave,)” the consortium led by a team of researchers at AIIMS, New Delhi, and the Indian Council of Medical Research said. A senior infectious disease researcher who was not associated with the study said: “All deaths due to shortage of oxygen, shortage of beds and unavailable medical care could have been avoided.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Bribery cuffs on special public prosecutor in Odisha||Vigilance sleuths on Saturday arrested a special public prosecutor in Odisha’s Kalahandi district while he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from a complainant. The prosecutor is attached to the court of the special judge, vigilance, in Bhawanipatna. It is the first time that the state vigilance department has arrested its own lawyer. The vigilance directorate said in a media release that special public prosecutor Ashutosh Mishra was caught red-handed by the officers of the vigilance cell division, Cuttack, while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from Malay Kumar Rana, an assistant sub-inspector of police of Kalahandi district, in order to help him in a case in which he has been charge-sheeted. The case against ASI Rana is pending in the court of the special judge, vigilance, Bhawanipatna, and he is under suspension. The bribe money has been seized from the accused, the release said. The residential premises of Mishra at Radhakrishna Nagar, Bhawanipatna, are being searched, the release added “In this connection, a case has been registered and is under investigation,” said a vigilance official. A public prosecutor is appointed by the government to help an investigating agency in the court to finalise a case and help it to win the case. The public prosecutor is chosen by the state law department either from the practicing advocates or through the Odisha Public Service Commission. “Mishra was earlier a practicing lawyer. Later he joined as the public prosecutor and has been working in the post for nine years. He is currently posted as a special public prosecutor and enjoys the status of a Class I officer,” a vigilance source told The Telegraph. Sources said Mishra had demanded Rs 2 lakh from Rana to dispose of the vigilance case. Rana was caught by vigilance officials while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 in 2020. “For the last few months, he (Rana) has been meeting the special public prosecutor to help him to clear his name in the case. The public prosecutor had earlier demanded Rs 2 lakh and assured him he will ensure the court would take a lenient view of the case so that the ASI could be saved. However, the ASI insisted that the case should be settled first and he would give the money later. “As the public prosecutor did not agree, the ASI agreed to give him Rs 1 lakh but informed it to the vigilance sleuths. Accordingly, vigilance officials laid a trap on Saturday morning and the special public prosecutor was arrested,” a source told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Floods haunt Bihar after heavy rain in the state and Nepal||Floods returned to haunt Bihar on Saturday after heavy rain in the state and neighbouring Nepal, which has the catchment area of several rivers. Several smaller rivers in north Bihar districts have started overflowing their banks. Floodwater has spread across agricultural areas and villages in districts like East Champaran, Gopalganj, Saran, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Kishanganj, Katihar, Purnea, Araria, Supaul, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga and Madhubani, among others. Roads have been washed away at several places in these districts. Thousands of people have been forced to take refuge in higher places or leave their villages for safer areas. Several villages in Narkatiaganj, Bagaha, Gaunaha and other blocks in West Champaran district have been submerged. Faced with erosion and loss of property, the people complained about the district administration not providing any relief. The collectorate at Bettiah, which functions as the headquarters of the district, also went under water after heavy rain. Floodwater was flowing over National Highway 104 at Sursand in Sitamarhi district disrupting movement of vehicles and submerging villages in the area. On the other hand, huge volumes of water are being discharged from the Valmikinagar and Birpur barrages on the Gandak and Kosi rivers respectively, along the Indo-Nepal border. Over 2.76 lakh cusecs was released from the Valmikinagar barrage and around 2 lakh cusecs from Birpur. One cusec (cubic feet per second) is equivalent of 28.32 litres of water passing any particular point per second. “Both the mighty, flood-bringing rivers Gandak and Kosi are in spate. The discharge at Valmikinagar barrage is showing a rising trend following heavy rainfall in Nepal, while the situation at Birpur is also worrisome. “The situation could worsen further as weather scientists have forecast heavy to very heavy rain in Bihar and Nepal over the next few days,” a disaster management department official told The Telegraph. The major rivers causing floods — Bagmati, Budhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Lalbakeya, Adhwara, Khirol and Kosi — are in spate and flowing above their danger levels at several places threatening around a dozen districts in north Bihar. The Mahananda is also in spate and fast reaching the danger level. Alarmed over the situation, disaster management minister Renu Devi chaired a meeting of senior officials of the state government and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). “Water level in several rivers are rising due to very heavy rainfall in Nepal and a few districts of our state. I have directed all the officials to stay alert and prepared to tackle floods. The government is determined to provide all help and relief to the flood-affected people,” Renu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||India’s most lavish public office||Sarojini Naidu is widely believed to have once remarked to Mahatma Gandhi if he knew how much it cost each day to keep him in poverty. Last week, President Ram Nath Kovind became the first occupant of Rashtrapati Bhavan to publicly expound on his frugal salary. “If the President is the nation’s highest paid  employee, he also pays taxes… there is no harm in saying this… everybody says you get (Rs) five lakh as salary but I pay taxes too. (Rs) 2.75 lakh goes in taxes. What’s left? And what’s left… well our officers and teachers seated here get more than that…” he said at a brief function on Jhinjhak railway station close to his native village near Kanpur. Putting together some of what also goes into the upkeep of the highest office in the land, if only as a footnote to how President Kovind chose to describe his monthly earnings from the public exchequer. The Estate It occupies 330 acres atop Delhi’s Raisina Hill and has in excess of 300 rooms spanning four flanks of the H-shaped centrepiece called the Rashtrapati Bhavan. It has a colonnaded step-down forecourt for ceremonials watched over by the slender obelisk of the 145-foot Jaipur Column. There are elaborate side courts, some of them now used as parking areas for invited guests. An expanse larger than the Palace of Versailles, the estate is littered with some of the finest colonial bungalows much in demand with Delhi’s power elite. When he was deputy prime minister in the short-lived Chandrashekar government, Devi Lal used to occupy one such manor house on the western fringe of the property. The Retinue More than 300 personnel man the Presidential secretariat. These include a senior secretary as head of multiple administrative wings, five aides-de-camp drawn from the armed forces, protocol and press officers, doctors and a chief chef. The top rung are often deputed from the IAS or IFS, but Presidents are also known to have picked lateral appointees to key posts. Quite apart from those, there’s the fancied 86-strong Presidential Bodyguard squad, one of the oldest cavalry divisions of the army. It is cadred by a handpicked soldiery that rides out on an appointed stable of bay horses. Monthly staff salaries tally at more than Rs 1.5 crore; annual Rashtrapati Bhavan staff allowances are budgeted at Rs 66 crore. None of these includes Delhi Police ranks deputed to duties in and around Rashtrapati Bhavan. The Retreats A classic 19th century timber chalet near Mashobra in Shimla as summer house and a winter getaway called Rashtrapati Nilayam in Hyderabad. Both properties are islanded in lawns and flower gardens, both retain permanent and contractual staff for upkeep and attendance. Conservative estimates put the annual staffing and maintenance costs for the two properties at well above Rs 1 crore. The Mashobra chalet looms a thousand feet above the Shimla ridge and is built almost entirely with woven woodwork in the dhajji style. The Hyderabad Nilayam is a 90-acre affair with 11 private rooms and facilities to accommodate 150 guests. The Frills The Rashtrapati Bhavan is moated in 190 acres of gardens which require looking after 365 days a year. Among the more famed ones are the Mughal Gardens, briefly thrown open to the public each year, and a herbarium. There is also a music garden and an open area especially for meditation. Two score and more gardeners make up the apparatchik of this enterprise. But in the months between October and February, the number can swell up many times over as that’s the season for laying out and seeding the flowerbeds afresh. Among their jobs also is to feed a pen of spotted deer and, when required, employ langurs to scare away rampaging rhesus hordes, endemic to central Delhi. Dozens of fountains spout across these gardens; there are also, dotted about, the interruptions of swimming pools, tennis courts, a polo ground and a golf course. Within the Presidential quarters perhaps the most splendoured part are the Durbar Hall and the Ashoka Hall, stage to swearings-in and investitures, official banquets and the occasional soiree. A two-tonne chandelier hangs down the ornately wrought ceilings. The Durbar Hall is abutted by a ballroom, often used as ante-room for private conversations by attending VVIPs. The Fleet The Presidential garages hold dozens of vehicles of all make and manner. Until a few years ago, the Rashtrapati would ride out to witness the Republic Day parade in an open four-wheel four-horse carriage of imperial vintage; drawn by horses, it is still occasionally used for arrivals and departures at the Beating Retreat ceremonies. But the routine presidential ride is now a stretch Mercedes Benz Pullman Guard limousine, S600 class. It is especially armour-plated and bullet-proofed; it costs Rs 10 crore on the market. When trains are required — as recently when the President travelled to Kanpur — a luxury saloon is fitted out. There used to be a saloon carriage exclusively kitted and kept in a shunting yard of the railway station for presidential use. It had a vintage two-coach carriage but was declared unserviceable in 2016 and was later de-commissioned. Long-distance air travel has remained banished since the pandemic arrived, but last November the President boarded a brand new custom built Boeing 777 aircraft for a visit to Chennai. The retrofitted state-of-the-art aircraft — it has inbuilt missile defence systems and self-protection suites in addition to sleeping chambers and workstations — came at an approximate cost of Rs 4,200 crore. (The purchase came with an identically purposed aircraft for the Prime Minister; the total deal was invoiced at an estimated Rs 8,400 crore.) The Gratuity The nation affords outgoing Presidents a range of lifelong amenities which include an elaborate security detail, free and furnished housing — usually in a scouted and refurbished Lutyens bungalow — and a secretarial staff. Cars and telephony also come with no bills attached. They have access to free medical attention and free of cost top-tier journeys to domestic destinations of choice in the company of one other person. They are also entitled a monthly pension payout of 50 per cent of their last drawn salary which, admittedly, would be far lighter than the packet President Kovind said he currently gets in hand as our First Citizen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
