05-07-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor-led Parliamentary Standing Committee summons IT ministry officials||Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT summoned senior officials of key ministries on Tuesday to gather "evidence" on matters related to citizens' rights in the digital space, reports ndtv.com. The panel led by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor had earlier sought responses from Twitter India on related issues. The microblogging site's compliance with the IT Rules, 2021, is likely to be discussed at the meeting, sources told NDTV. The US-based company is involved in a face-off, including a court case, with the Indian government over various related matters. The panel's meeting with officials of the Information and Technology (IT) and Information and Broadcasting ministries has been scheduled for 4 pm on Tuesday. "Evidence of the representatives of the Ministry...on the subject 'Safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space'," according to the official agenda circulated among panel members. The Committee had, on June 29, sought a response from Twitter India as to why the Twitter accounts of Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Tharoor were locked briefly. On June 25, Prasad had said that Twitter had denied him access to his account for almost an hour following complaints that he had violated copyright law. Tharoor, too, faced similar action, along with several other users. Confirming the move, Twitter cited a complaint based on the US's Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) to justify its action. The website was asked to explain under what provisions or rules these Twitter accounts were locked. While Prasad linked the move to an ongoing tussle between Twitter and the Indian government, Tharoor said the DMCA was "getting hyperactive". He then said the IT panel will seek an explanation from the site. Meanwhile, the Centre today said Twitter had failed to comply with IT Rules, 2021, leading to a loss of immunity as an "intermediary". This amounted to a breach of the law of the land, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Union home ministry calls Northeast meet on July 7||The Union Home Ministry has called a meeting of the Northeastern states and a few Union Territories on Wednesday to discuss the Covid-19 situation there, sources said. This comes three days after the central government decided to send multi-disciplinary teams to six states, including Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has called a meeting of top officials of the health department of the Northeastern states and a few UTs on July 7, official sources said on Monday. The meeting is likely to be held through video conference. It is expected to take stock of the overall implementation of Covid-19 management, especially in testing, surveillance and containment operations, Covid-appropriate behaviour and its enforcement, availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics including ambulances, ventilators, medical oxygen and the vaccination progress, the sources said. The meeting will be held as an ongoing effort to strengthen initiatives of various state and UT governments for Covid-19 management. The central government has been deputing teams from time to time to visit various states and UTs for interacting with the state and UT authorities and get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any, sources said. The central teams make an assessment of the situation and suggest remedial actions on public health activities to the respective state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Afghanistan situation to be focus on S Jaishankar’s visit to Russia||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is set to visit Moscow this week to prepare the ground for the annual India-Russia summit and discuss the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan, people familiar with the development said on Monday. Ways to boost cooperation under the framework of the India-Russia Intergovernmental Commission for Trade, Economic, Scientific and Cultural Cooperation as well as ties in the defence sector are also likely to figure in his talks in Moscow. The external affairs minister is scheduled to hold extensive talks with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov. The annual India-Russia summit was postponed last year because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Both countries have a mechanism under which India's prime minister and the Russian president hold a summit meeting annually to review the entire gamut of ties. So far, 20 annual summit meetings have taken place alternatively in India and Russia. Russia has been a time-tested partner for India and the country has been a key pillar of New Delhi's foreign policy. The people cited above said a key focus area of the discussions will be the evolving situation in Afghanistan in the face of the withdrawal of the US forces from the country. Afghanistan witnessed a series of attacks in the last few weeks as the United States looked to conclude the withdrawal of its forces from the war-ravaged country by September 11, ending nearly two decades of its military presence there. India is concerned over the increasing levels of violence in Afghanistan as well as the Taliban's efforts to expand its influence in the country. Last month, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the Taliban's relentless pursuit of power through violence has created an uncertain environment in Afghanistan and the situation in the country is "fluid" at this point in time. There has been a renewed push in the Afghan peace process including by Russia and it has been in touch with the key players and stakeholders in that country. Lavrov visited India in April during which both sides discussed the preparations for the summit as well as other key bilateral and regional issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra reports 6,740 new cases, 51 deaths||Maharashtra reported 6,740 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the infection tally to 61,04,917, while the death toll increased to 1,23,136 with the addition of 51 fresh fatalities, a health department official said. The state reported a sharp drop in both daily Covid-19 cases and fatalities as compared to Sunday, when it had registered 9,336 infections and 123 fatalities. The official said as many as 13,027 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recovered cases to 58,61,720. The state now has 1,16,827 active cases, he said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is 96.02 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, he said. According to the official, 1,69,517 coronavirus tests were conducted in the last 24 hours (down from 2,22,063 on Sunday), taking their overall count to 4,27,12,460. The official said currently, 6,42,253 people are in home quarantine and 4,233 people in institutional quarantine across the state. According to the official, Mumbai recorded 486 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,25,161, while the death toll increased to 15,554 after 10 more patients succumbed to the infection. He said 157 new cases were found in Pune municipal limits, taking the tally to 4,96,213, while the death toll remained unchanged at 8,306 as no fresh fatality was reported in the city. According to the official, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 42, 161, 56, 11 and 14 new Covid-19 cases, respectively. Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases-61,04,917; new cases-6,740; total deaths-1,23,136; recoveries-58,61,720; active cases; 1,16,827; total tests so far 4,27,12,460.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Government allows airlines to operate with maximum of 65 per cent pre-Covid domestic flights||Airlines can now operate a maximum of 65 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 50 per cent allowed till date, the civil aviation ministry said on Monday.  The carriers have been operating only 50 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights since June 1 in accordance with a May 28 order of the ministry. Before June 1, the cap was at 80 per cent.  The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active COVID-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor", the ministry had said.  It issued a fresh order on Monday, wherein it modified the May 28 order stating that "50 per cent capacity may be read as 65 per cent capacity".  Monday's order also stated that the 65-per cent cap will be applicable till "July 31, 2021 or until further orders, whichever is earlier".  When the government had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services.  The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Punjab Congress crisis: Amarinder likely to meet Sonia on Tuesday||Amid infighting in the Punjab Congress, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is likely to meet party president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday, sources said.  Singh is likely to leave for Delhi on Tuesday morning, they said.  Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has been at loggerheads with the chief minister, attacking him on issues like the alleged delay in the completion of a probe into the 2015 desecration of Sikh texts and the subsequent police firing on protesters.  The party high command has been trying to resolve the internal rift in the Punjab unit and there is talk of its revamp, with just months to go before the next assembly polls.  There is some speculation that Sidhu may get an important role in the planned revamp.  A few days back, Sidhu met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi.  On June 22, Amarinder Singh appeared before a three-member AICC panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, set up to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress.  But he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with party president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi.  The panel had then asked Amarinder to deliver on 18 pending promises, including on the 2015 sacrilege issue and power purchase agreements signed by the previous government.  The panel had earlier met other party leaders and has submitted a report to the party high command.  Rahul Gandhi has also met several party leaders, including legislators from Punjab, for their views on what is needed to strengthen the party ahead of the 2022 assembly polls.  On June 23, AICC general secretary and party's Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat had said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi would resolve all issues related to the state unit by early July and a united party would fight the next assembly elections.  Sidhu had begun criticising Amarinder Singh again after the Punjab and Haryana High Court in April quashed a probe into the 2015 Kotkapura firing case.  The CM has called his outbursts "total indiscipline".  Sidhu had resigned as a minister in Punjab after being divested of the Local Bodies portfolio in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||CBSE: special assessment for Class 10 and 12 in two parts, syllabus shortened||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday announced a special assessment scheme for class 10 and 12 board exams for next year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, splitting the academic session into two terms. The board has also announced plans to rationalise the syllabus for 2021-22 academic session and to make the internal assessment and project work more "credible" and "valid". As per an official order by Joseph Emmanuel, Director (Academic), CBSE, the term one exams will be held in November-December, 2021 while the second term exams will be conducted in March-April, 2022. "The syllabus for the academic session 2021-22 will be divided into two terms by following a systematic approach by looking into the interconnectivity of concepts and topics by the Subject Experts," he said. "The Board will conduct examinations at the end of each term on the basis of the bifurcated syllabus. This has been done to increase the probability of having a board conducted classes X and XII examinations at the end of the academic session," he said. The syllabus for the board examination 2021-22 will be rationalised similar to that of the last academic session to be notified in July 2021. Schools will also use alternative academic calendar and inputs from the NCERT on transacting the curriculum. "Efforts will be made to make internal assessment, practical, project work more credible and valid as per the guidelines and moderation policy to be announced by the board to ensure fair distribution of marks," he added. The plans by the board come against the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic which forced the cancellation of board exams of some subjects last year and complete cancellation of board exams this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Government extends deadline to August 5 for public comments on draft e-commerce rules||The government on Monday extended till August 5 the deadline for public comments on proposed amendments to the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020. Earlier, the last date for public comments on the draft e-commerce rules was July 6. "It has now been decided to extend the timeline for receipt of comments/suggestions on the draft E-Commerce Rules. Views/ comments/ suggestions on the proposed amendments may be sent by August 5, 2021," a government notice said. At a meeting organized by the consumer affairs ministry on July 3, many e-commerce players had requested the government to extend the July 6 deadline for submitting comments. On June 21, the ministry had released draft e-commerce rules under which it banned fraudulent flash sale and mis-selling of goods and services on e-commerce platforms. Appointment of chief compliance officer/grievance redressal officer are among other key amendments proposed to the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020. The government also proposed registration of every e-commerce entity which intends to operate in India with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). The proposed amendments also included e-commerce entities requiring to provide information not later than 72 hours of the receipt of an order from a government agency for prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of offences under any law. According to research firm CUTS International, many consumer organisations have felt that draft e-commerce rules should stick to only consumer-facing issues. The Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 were first notified in July last year. Their violation attract penal action under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Left parties condemn inhuman treatment meted out to Stan Swamy||The Left parties on Monday called out the inhuman treatment meted out to activist Stan Swamy, who passed away at a Mumbai hospital after being in custody since last year following his arrest under the anti-terror law, in the Elgar Parishad case. The 84-year-old priest-activist died on Monday, in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. The Jesuit priest had been on ventilator support since Sunday, when his health worsened drastically. He was being treated at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai following a court order on May 28. "Deeply pained and outraged at the death of Father Stan Swamy. A jesuit priest & social activist he tirelessly helped the marginalised. Draconian UAPA custody, inhuman treatment since October 2020 with no charge established. Accountability must be fixed for this murder in custody," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted. The CPI, in a statement, alleged that Swamy was denied medical treatment and demanded that those responsible for his death be arrested. The party demands the arrest of all those responsible for his death and proper punishment for the inhuman treatment meted out to him. The people at large take his death as institutional murder. The 84-year-old Jesuit priest from Jharkhand was actively mobilising tribals in the area and fighting for their welfare His death raises several questions regarding the judiciary, treatment in custody, denial of medical facilities, torture in custody... The party demands arrest of all those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention and inhuman treatment. They should be made accountable for his death and given proper punishment, the statement said. The party calls upon the people to express their anger in protest and to fight for the fundamental rights guaranteed under the constitution, it said. The Left party also demanded the release of all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya called Swamy's death an institutional murder . An ailing octogenarian human rights activist arrested on false charges under UAPA, his bail applications denied repeatedly, passes away in jail. Is the court now going to grant him posthumous bail? Let India rise in unison to condemn the brazen institutional murder of Stan Swamy, he said. In a statement, the CPIM said the activist was denied treatment for his various ailments, including the debilitating Parkinson's. "It needs to be underlined that it is only after a campaign was conducted by various human rights and disability rights organisations that even a sipper to drink liquids was made available to him in jail. "The numerous appeals made to shift him out of the overcrowded Taloja jail that had seen a huge rise in Covid cases went unheeded. His appeals for bail and being sent home to were rejected. Thanks to the Bombay High Court's intervention he was admitted to a private hospital when his condition started deteriorating after he was infected with Covid. But it was too late to prevent his death in custody," the party said. The party also demanded that all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under politically motivated cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA, sedition, among others, be released forthwith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||RSS ideology always been full of harmony, brotherhood: Naqvi on Bhagwat's remarks||The RSS ideology has always been full of harmony, brotherhood and nationalism, and it was the propaganda by "Bharat bashing bridage" that had painted a negative picture of the Sangh, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Monday, a day after chief Mohan Bhagwat asserted that the DNA of all Indians is the same. Naqvi said that in the past too, those in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), through their service to the people, did a lot of work for the unity of the society, but the 'gumrahi (misleading) gang', not only in India but in the world, always conspired to break the brotherhood and social fabric by creating hullabaloo about the Sangh. "The beliefs and the thoughts of the Sangh have always been like this, full of harmony, brotherhood and nationalism. But on the one hand, there were the organization's views and on the other hand was the propaganda by its opponents," Naqvi told PTI but did not take any names. The propaganda by opponents often prevailed over the actual views of the Sangh mainly because the organisation did not pay attention to these campaigns, he argued. "For the past few years, the programmes of the Sangh are held publicly and one is able to see and understand their thoughts and their work," Naqvi said. Now, when the positive image of the Sangh is before the people, the "painters of its negative image are a worried lot", the minister said when asked about the remarks of Congress leader Digvijaya Singh and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi. Such people have been "exposed", Naqvi claimed. Hitting out at Bhagwat, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said if he is true to his words, he must give directions that all those BJP leaders who have "harassed" innocent Muslims be removed from their posts, while Owaisi alleged that cowardice, violence and murder "are an integral part of Godse's Hindutva thinking" and the lynching of Muslims is also the result of that. In his address at an event 'Hindustan first Hindustani best' organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch in Ghaziabad on Sunday, Bhagwat said the DNA of all Indians is the same, and urged muslims not to get "trapped in the cycle of fear" that Islam is in danger in India. The RSS chief also took on those indulging in lynching, saying "Cow is a holy animal, but those involved in lynching are against Hindutva". Though at times, some "false cases" of lynching have been registered against some people, he said. On lynchings and other such incidents, Naqvi said it is unfortunate that the "Bharat bashing brigade and misleading gang" have played a role in portraying criminal acts as communal incidents. "A criminal incident is a criminal incident. Such an incident should not be projected as a communal incident. Action should be taken in such criminal incidents. Mohan Bhagwat has said the same thing," the Union minister said. Asked about political interpretations being made over Bhagwat's remarks, Naqvi said, "I don't think this is done to please any community or any party. He has spoken what has always been the idea of ??the Sangh. This will provide clarity to those people in the society who were mired in confusion." Asserting that it is not some image makeover or vote bank politics for the RSS to woo Muslims ahead of assembly elections, Bhagwat had said his organisation firmly believes that in a democracy like India, the only dominance can be of Indians, rather than of Hindus or Muslims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Lalu Prasad attacks Modi, Nitish for failures||A frail-looking RJD supremo Lalu Prasad on Monday addressed his first political meeting in a long time and castigated the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and Nitish Kumar administration in Bihar for their "many failures" and predicted that a bright future awaits his own party under his son Tejashwi Yadav. Appearing on national television to mark the silver jubilee of the party he founded in 1997 after breaking away from the Janata Dal, Prasad, who is suffering from many ailments and convalescing at his MP daughter Misa Bharti's residence in New Delhi, recalled his struggles for OBC quota and the fight for the rights of the weaker sections. The snappy wisecracks were missing from the speech he delivered virtually for scores of RJD workers and leaders at the party's state headquarters in Patna who were waiting for a glimpse of their leader for a long time since his incarceration after conviction in the fodder scam. "GST and demonetisation as also corona have created an economic crisis. Now, there is the threat of destroying the social fabric. After Ayodhya, some people are talking about Mathura," Prasad, a strident critic of the BJP, said without naming the BJP or Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He attacked the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar over "rampant corruption", alleged mismanagement of the COVID-19 crisis and "four murders" taking place in the state every day. "Lakhs and lakhs of people are being reduced to migrant labourers because of lack of employment," he said. He lavished praise on his younger son Tejashwi Yadav, who is the leader of the opposition, for astutely helming the party during the assembly elections in 2020. "Frankly, I had never expected this from him. He safely anchored the RJD's boat (naiya paar lagayi). RJD has a bright future," he said. RJD is the single largest party in the 243-member Bihar assembly though the JD(U)-BJP alliance governs the state. Prasad also had a word of praise for his elder son Tej Pratap who, he said, made a "forceful speech" at the event. The RJD boss, known for breathing fire and brimstone while making political speeches, in his restrained addressess, credited his wife Rabri Devi, a former chief minister, and Tejashwi for being alive. "But for them, I would have perished in Ranchi (where he was incarcerated in the fodder scame cases). Doctors at AIIMS here also took great care of me," Prasad, who slurred at times, said. He promised RJD workers and leaders that he will overcome whatever remained of the illness and visit Bihar soon. "I will come to Patna soon...not only Patna, I will mark my attendance in all districts of Bihar soon. Please don't lose patience,"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Maha: 12 BJP MLAs suspended for misbehaving with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav||Twelve BJP MLAs were suspended from the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly for one year after the state government accused them of “misbehaving" with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber on Monday. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis termed the allegation as false and said Jadhav's account of the incident was "one-sided". However, Jadhav sought a probe into the allegation that some Shiv Sena members and he himself made uncharitable remarks, and said he was ready to face any punishment if it was proven true. The motion to suspend the MLAs was moved by state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab and passed by a voice vote. The 12 suspended members are- Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Parag Alavani, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawat, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangdia. Parab said during the period of suspension, the 12 legislators will not be allowed to enter the Legislature premises in Mumbai and Nagpur. Objecting to the decision, BJP members, led by Fadnavis, said the opposition would boycott the House proceedings. "This is a false allegation and an attempt to reduce the numbers of opposition benches, because we exposed the government's falsehood on the OBC quota in local bodies," Fadnavis said. He said the BJP members had not abused the presiding officer. "It was Shiv Sena MLAs who used abusive words. I brought our MLAs out of the Speaker's chamber," Fadnavis said. Ashish Shelar apologised and the matter ended, the former CM said, claiming that what Jadhav said was a "one-sided" account. Earlier, NCP leader and minister Nawab Malik accused the BJP members of misbehaving with Bhaskar Jadhav and the state Assembly was adjourned four times over the issue. The House was initially adjourned for 10 minutes after Jadhav put to vote the resolution urging the Centre to provide 2011 census data to enable the State Backward Class Commission to prepare an empirical data of the OBC population, in a bid to restore political reservations for its members in local bodies. Some BJP members, including Girish Mahajan and Sanjay Kute, climbed the Speaker's podium and argued with the Chair. Later, after the House reassembled, minister Nawab Malik and Shiv Sena member Sunil Prabhu demanded that action be taken against the opposition members for their behaviour with Jadhav. "What happened in your chamber is not right," Malik said addressing Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal. The Deputy Speaker then adjourned the House for 15 minutes. Later, presiding officer Dilip Bankar adjourned the House for another 15 minutes and again for 30 minutes. Talking to reporters outside the House, Malik alleged that the BJP members had "gheraoed" Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber and used abusive words. He claimed that Fadnavis also broke his own mike. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray then called Jadhav in his chamber to seek information on what had happened. When the House reassembled after the fourth adjournment, Jadhav was in the Speaker's Chair and gave a detailed account of what had happened. He said Maharashtra's tradition was never to take outside the differences expressed on the floor of the House. "Today is a black day for me. Abusive words were directed at me. Some people are saying I made uncharitable remarks. Let there be a probe into it after checking the CCTV footage. If I have used any inappropriate language, I am ready to face any punishment," Jadhav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Southwest Monsoon to reach Delhi by July 10||India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced that the Southwest Monsoon is all set to will reach Delhi around July 10 this year. While making the announcement on Monday IMD, mentioned that this will be the most-delayed monsoon in the capital in the last 15 years. “The monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10,” the IMD said in a statement. The weather system is very likely to increase rainfall activity over northwest and central India from July 10, it said. According to Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, the monsoon had reached the capital on July 7 in 2012 and July 9 in 2006. In 2002, Delhi received its first monsoonal showers on July 19. The city had recorded the most-delayed monsoon arrival on July 26 in 1987, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||'Swamy's demise a great loss to the country and the tribal community'||Father Stan Swamy is a name to reckon with when it comes to working for the uplift of the tribal community. His demise on Monday was mourned by one and all - with sadness for his passing, with loving respect for his work and what he stood for, but with anger too at the way the 84-year-old Parkisons's patient was treated in prison. Recalling the work of Father Swamy, Father Felix Raj, Vice-Chancellor, St Xavier’s University, Calcutta said, “This is a great loss to the country and the tribal community of Jharkhand in particular. He had stood by them till the end of his life. With his death, the work that he was doing for the marginalized community has come to an end.” He paused and added, “It’s sad to see a man of the stature of Father Stan Swamy being treated the way he has been. He was no criminal. He was an 84-year-old priest, working for the poor. He was denied bail till the very end of his life. He wouldn’t have absconded.” Mentioning his frail health Father Felix Raj said, “The way he was treated in the prison was inhuman. He was suffering from Parkinson's disease. He was a high-risk patient, but he was kept in the prison, where he contracted Covid-19. I wonder, why wasn’t he given proper treatment earlier, why was he denied medical bail. Sadly, today he breathed his last. The loss is not just of the community, but the country.” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Monday said he was pained and outraged over the death of Father Stan Swamy. Refering to Swamy being under UAPA custody, the inhuman treatment since October 2020 despite no charge being established, Yechury asked for accountability for 'this murder in custody'. While senior Congress leader asked, who would be held responsible for Fr Swamy's death. In his tweet, without mincing words he held the Indian state responsible for the death of a crusader for social justice. Hailing from Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district, Swamy had studied theology and done his Masters in Sociology in the Philippines. His friendship with a Brazilian Catholic Archbishop Hélder Câmara influenced him a lot.  Swamy was a former Director of the Jesuit-run Indian Social Institute. He served the institute between 1975 to 1986. Working for the upliftment of the tribals, he had questioned the non-implementation of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, which stipulates setting up of a Tribes Advisory Council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||In jail, humanity is bubbling, said Stan Swamy||Father Stan Swamy, who died in hospital on Monday after he was arrested over alleged Maoist links, had in a letter last year described how his co-accused and cellmates had been helping him in jail. “Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison,” he had written. Excerpts from the letter by the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist from Ranchi, whose full name is Stanislaus Lourduswamy, were widely circulated on Facebook during Diwali last year. The letter, written from Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison, was received by a fellow priest on November 4, 202,  a colleague of Father Swamy confirmed. Here are the excerpts from Swamy’s letter circulated on Facebook as published in The Telegraph Online on 15 November 2020. “Dear friends: “Peace! Though I do not have many details, from what I have heard, I am grateful to all of you for expressing your solidarity support. I am in a cell approximately 13 feet x 8 feet, along with two more inmates. It has a small bathroom and a toilet with Indian commode. Fortunately, I am given a western commode chair. “Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira are in another cell. During the day, when cells and barracks are opened, we meet with each other. From 5.30pm to 06.00am and 12 noon to 03.00pm, I am locked up in my cell, with two inmates. “Arun assists me to have my breakfast and lunch. Vernon helps me with bath. My two inmates help out during supper, in washing my clothes and give massage to my knee joints. They are from very poor families. “Please remember my inmates and my colleagues in your prayers. Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison.” Rao is an 80-year-old Telugu litterateur, Gonsalves a 63-year-old former Mumbai University professor, and Ferreira a cartoonist and lawyer in his late 40s. They and Father Swamy are among 16 authors, academics, lawyers and rights activists arrested for alleged links with the banned CPI Maoist and their purported role in the Elgar Parishad Ambedkarite event in Pune on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste violence. Sources said Swamy had dictated the letter to Ferreira. Jesuit priest Father David Solomon, director of the Ranchi NGO Bagaicha — a workspace for activists where Swamy lived and worked — confirmed the authenticity of the excerpt. He said the rest of the letter’s contents were not being disclosed as they included personal information. Nor has the identity of the recipient been revealed for fear of harassment of priests and institutions run by them. Another Jesuit priest close to Swamy said: “This is a very Fr Stan thing to do. He always remembers people he loves during festivals. Even in the worst circumstances, it’s his nature to see the positive side of things.” Jawaharlal Nehru University linguistics professor Ayesha Kidwai shared the excerpts on Facebook and said: “I can’t do any Diwali greetings after reading this heartbreaking note. Humanity is to be celebrated but it is no antidote to injustice. “Just as in Rama’s story, there is happiness only when the people can celebrate a return home, it will only be Diwali for me when all the jailed human rights defenders come home.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Father Stan Swamy dies in Mumbai hospital||Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has died, an official of a hospital where he was being treated informed the Bombay High Court on Monday. Swamy, 84, died at 1.30 pm on Monday, Dr Ian D'Souza, director of the Holy Family Hospital in suburban Bandra, told the HC's division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar. The tribal rights activist was admitted to the private hospital on May 29 from the Taloja prison following the HC's order on a petition filed by him, seeking medical attention as he was then suffering from COVID-19 and Parkinson's disease. D'Souza told the court that Swamy suffered a cardiac arrest early Sunday morning following which he was put on ventilator support. He (Swamy) did not recover and passed away this afternoon, the official told the court. The cause of the death is pulmonary infection, Parkinson's disease and post COVID-19 complications, he said. Swamy's counsel Mihir Desai said there was negligence on part of the Taloja prison authorities, who failed to provide immediate medical attention to the Jesuit priest. Swamy has been undergoing treatment at the Holy Family Hospital here, following a court order on May 28. The cost of his treatment at the private hospital is being borne by his associates and friends. On Saturday, advocate Desai told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Swamy's health was critical and that he was still in the hospital's intensive care unit (ICU). The bench had then adjourned the hearing on Swamy's medical bail plea to Monday and extended his stay at the hospital till then. Last week, Swamy also filed a fresh plea in the HC, challenging section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), that imposes stringent bars on the grant of bail to an accused charged under the Act. On Monday, Desai said he will not be moving the HC for any urgent hearing on either the bail plea or the fresh plea challenging provisions of the UAPA. "I don't have any morning updates on his (Swamy's) health. But, till late last night, he was on ventilator support," Desai said. "So, the priority now is his medical treatment. Even if he is acquitted by the court tomorrow, what can happen? His health condition is such that he will continue being in the hospital," he said. The senior lawyer also said he didn't have any complaints against the high court and the private hospital. "The high court bench did all that was possible to secure the best medical treatment for him. And at the hospital, the best cardiologists and specialists are looking after him. Our only complaint is against the Taloja prison superintendent and against the NIA (the prosecuting agency in the case)," he said. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Sunday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government in the wake of a complaint alleging serious health condition of the imprisoned activist. In the notice sent through the state's chief secretary, the NHRC called upon him to ensure every possible effort is made to provide proper medical care and treatment to Swamy as part of life-saving measure and protection of his basic human rights. The commission also called for a report in the light of the allegations made in the complaint, and the treatment record of the activist. Swamy and his co-accused in the Elgar case have repeatedly complained of inadequate health facilities at the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, where they were lodged as undertrials. Through their pleas filed in the HC as well as oral and written statements made in the HC, they have complained several times of neglect on part of the Taloja prison authorities in ensuring medical aid, timely tests and maintaining hygiene and social distancing. In May this year, Swamy told a vacation bench of the high court via video-conferencing that his health had consistently declined at the Taloja prison. He had urged the HC to release him on interim bail at that time and said if things continued the way they were, he "would die soon". Last week, the wives of activists Anand Teltumbde and Vernon Gonsalves, who are also accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, moved the HC saying the Taloja prison superintendent had been withholding letters and communications to and from all the accused in the case following a magazine article published by Teltumbde in March this year. On Monday, advocate Desai said the superintendent had reportedly been transferred out of the Taloja prison, though the reasons for his shifting were yet to be made public. In the Elgar-Parishad case, Swamy and his co-accused have been charged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as being members of frontal organisations working on behalf of the banned CPI (Maoists). Last month, the NIA had filed an affidavit before the HC opposing Swamy's bail plea. It had said there did not exist a "conclusive proof" of his medical ailments. It alleged that Swamy was a Maoist, who had hatched a conspiracy to create unrest in the country. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. Swamy, who claims to be suffering from several ailments, including the Parkinson's disease, had moved the high court earlier this year through advocate Desai, seeking medical treatment and interim bail on health grounds. He had tested positive for coronavirus at a private hospital last month and was subsequently shifted to the ICU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir's Gupkar alliance disappointed with outcome of Modi meet ||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Monday expressed disappointment over the outcome of the recent all-party meeting on J-K chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying there was lack of substantial confidence building measures like release of political and other prisoners. Alliance spokesperson and CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said the confidence building measures (CBMs) would have initiated the much-needed process of reaching out to the people of J-K who are the biggest stakeholders and sufferers of the J-K problem . All the members of the PAGD expressed their disappointed at the outcome of the Delhi meeting especially at the absence of any CBMs such as releasing political and other prisoners from jails and lack of concrete steps to end the alleged "atmosphere of suppression" that has "choked" J-K since 2019, the spokesperson said in a statement. The PAGD met on Sunday evening under the chairmanship of Farooq Abdullah -- the National Conference (NC) president -- at his residence. The meeting was attended by alliance vice-chairperson and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, Tarigami, NC leader Hasnain Masoodi, Peoples Movement chief Javed Mustafa Mir and Awami National Conference senior vice president Muzaffar Ahmed Shah. The meeting was called to discuss the recent meeting chaired by the prime minister in Delhi on June 24, the spokesperson said. The PAGD which seeks the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019 -- said it will fight together using constitutional, legal and political means to reverse the Centre's decision. The PAGD reiterated its commitment to fight together to reverse the unconstitutional and unacceptable changes foisted on the people of J-K on 5th August 2019 using all constitutional, legal and political means at its disposal. The PAGD's struggle for undoing these changes will continue as long as it takes while striving to achieve this objective as early as possible, Tarigami said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Never give up on your dreams, Aparna Sen tells women filmmakers||Eminent filmmaker Aparna Sen has urged women directors to pursue their dreams and achieve their goals without succumbing to the challenges and obstacles in their path. She said here on Sunday that she had faced several difficulties to launch herself as a director and her first film had become a reality because she got Shashi Kapoor as a producer. The "Mr and Mrs Iyer" director also reminisced the support extended by legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray and his family to make her film career dreams real. Sen was talking to a group of women filmmakers during a screenplay writing workshop, organised by the Kerala State Film Development Corporation (KSFDC) here. The national award winning filmmaker also shared her experiences in her decades-long movie career to inspire upcoming directors. Sen had debuted as a director with "36 Chowringhee Lane" in the year 1981. The four-day workshop was organised as part of the process to find out women directors of films being produced by the KSFDC. Cultural Affairs Minister Saji Cheriyan inaugurated the workshop at a function here, at which Sen was the chief guest. The presence of women behind the camera is comparatively less even now and the government's schemes would help to bring more women as technicians in films, the minister said. Eminent filmmaker and KSFDC Chairman Shaji N Karun and Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran were among those who took part in the inaugural session. Well-known screen writer Anjum Rajabali was leading the workshop, in which several noted film personalities would address sessions, an official statement said. With an aim to support women filmmakers, the LDF government last year, had set aside funds in its budget for four films, two helmed by women directors and two by those belonging to the SC/ST community. The movies would be produced by the KSFDC, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Remarks on Allopathy: SC to hear Ramdev's plea on July 12||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would hear on July 12 the plea of yoga guru Ramdev seeking a stay on proceedings in connection with multiple FIRs lodged over his alleged remarks against the use of allopathic medicines during the COVID-19 pandemic, saying it received original records of his statements late Sunday night only. The apex court was scheduled to examine the original records of the statements of Ramdev on the use of allopathic medicine following his plea to stay investigation and transfer the cases lodged against him in this connection to Delhi. Yesterday night at 11 PM, we got bulky files having copies of statements and videos, said a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy. We are posting the matter after a week, the CJI said after senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Ramdev, offered that the matter can be taken up on some other day. Earlier, the bench had sought original records pertaining to the alleged statements made by Ramdev on the issue. Multiple FIRs have been lodged against Ramdev in Patna and Raipur following complaints by the Indian Medical Association. Besides seeking quashing of criminal complaints, Ramdev has sought their clubbing and transfer to Delhi. As an interim relief, Ramdev has also urged for a stay on the investigation in connection with the criminal complaints. The criminal complaints have been lodged by Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Bihar and Chhattisgarh over his alleged remarks against the use of allopathic medicine during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Patna and Raipur chapters of the IMA have lodged complaints against Ramdev,alleging that his remarks are likely to cause prejudice to the COVID control mechanism and may dissuade people from availing proper treatment against the pandemic. The yoga guru has been booked under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the IPC have been invoked against him. Ramdev, whose alleged statements stirred a nationwide debate over the issue of Allopathy versus Ayurveda, however, had withdrawn his statements on May 23 after receiving a letter from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who had called his remarks as "inappropriate". The Delhi Medical Association (DMA), meanwhile, has sought permission to become a party to the case, alleging that Ramdev insulted Allopathy and "instigated" people to disregard vaccines and treatment protocols. The DMA, having 15,000 Delhi doctors as members, has claimed that Ramdev's Patanjali earned over Rs 1,000 crore by selling Coronil kits which were not approved by medical bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||TMC demands removal of Tuhar Mehta as Solicitor General||A delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) MPs will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday afternoon to seek the removal of Tushar Mehtra as the Solicitor General of India. Earlier, the party's members of parliament had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for removing Mehta over his reported meeting with West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. "A TMC delegation comprising MPs would directly approach the president and inform him of the meeting between Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta and the Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly (Suvendu Adhikari)," a TMC leader said. The leader added that MPs Sukhendu Sekhar Ray and Mahua Moitra will meet the president. In their letter to Prime Minister Modi, party MPs Derek O'Brien, Ray and Moitra had alleged that the meeting between Mehta and Adhikari was in violation of established norms and "reeks of impropriety". Adhikari, once a Trinamool Congress heavyweight, is an accused in 2016 Narada tapes case, and Mehta is representing the Central Bureau of Investigation in the Supreme Court and the Calcutta High Court in the agency's probe against senior TMC leaders in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||SC notice to Centre on cases under scrapped law||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed concern on being told that more than 1,000 cases have been filed invoking Section 66A of the IT Act - a controversial law that allowed authorities to arrest individuals for posting "offensive" content online - despite it being struck down seven years ago. "It is shocking. We will issue notice," a three-member bench of Justices R Nariman, KM Joseph and BR Gavai said, according to NDTV.com. Justice Nariman added: "Amazing. What is going on is terrible." The court was hearing a plea by an NGO - the People Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) - seeking directions to the centre to advise all police stations against registering FIRs under this law. Sec 66A was struck down on March 24, 2014, after it was first challenged by a law student named Shreya Singhal; this was after two young women were arrested in Mumbai in 2012 for posting comments critical of the total shutdown in the city after the death of Shiv Sena||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||CBI registers fresh case in Gomti riverfront project irregularities||The CBI has registered a fresh case in the alleged irregularities in the ambitious Gomti river front project in Lucknow, which was undertaken during the tenure of the previous Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh, where assembly polls are due next year. The agency started a massive search operation at 42 locations in 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh, Alwar in Rajasthan and Calcutta in Bengal on Monday following the registration of FIR, officials said. The operation, which started early in the morning, is going on and it may be expanded during the course of the day, they said. The officials said that 189 Uttar Pradesh government officers, including the then engineers, and others are named as accused in the FIR. This is the second FIR related to the project by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In the 2022 UP assembly elections, the Samajwadi Party, under Akhilesh Yadav, the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party, the Congress, among others, will try to wrest the state from the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Unlock 3.0 begins in Karnataka: religious places, malls open||With the Karnataka government further easing restrictions under "Unlock 3.0" effective from Monday, life seems to have returned to normalcy as shops, restaurants, malls, private offices and religious places began their operations in full swing. Also, all public transport- buses and metro- were seen operating up to its seating capacity. These services will be available for the public till 9 PM, as the government is imposing night curfew till 5 AM. With the government allowing places of worship to open only for darshan, people, though fewer in number, were seen visiting temples following COVID precautionary measures at several places in the city. Similar reports are emerging from across the state. As offices and business establishments have been allowed to function at full working strength, traffic congestion was seen on streets in Bengaluru and other cities with office-goers getting back to work. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation has said that bus services will be operated between 5 AM and 9 PM with all precautionary measures, and 4,500 buses will operate in the city and suburban area. The corporation said based on passenger volume, services will be increased. Officials were seen ensuring that there is no overcrowding in buses and passengers don't travel by standing. Bengaluru Metro has said, Metros will operate from 7 AM to 8 PM from Monday to Friday, with frequency of 5-15 minutes in peak and non-peak hours, and on Saturday, Sunday and general holidays it will be with increased or decreased frequency, depending on the situation. Customers were seen in good numbers at hotels and restaurants across the city. Also, bars will be open from Monday, but pubs will not. The new guidelines that were announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday, have come into effect from 6 AM on July 5 and will be in force up to 6 AM on July 19. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has said that a total of 54 special teams comprising Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) marshals and city police personnel will be deployed across the city to impose fines and register cases on individuals and commercial establishments that violate COVID-19 norms. "I urge everyone to strictly follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour for our own safety. Remember, the cases have decreased, but the virus is still around," he has tweeted. In the guidelines, all shops, restaurants, malls, private offices and closed places have been asked to strictly enforce Covid appropriate behaviour failing which action will be initiated under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. While, marriages and family functions are permitted to be conducted involving not more than 100 people and strictly adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and prevailing guidelines, cremation and funerals to be allowed with maximum of 20 people. While night curfew will continue between 9 PM and 5 AM, the weekend curfew has been lifted. Theatres, cinema halls and pubs will remain closed, while swimming pools, sports complexes and stadia are permitted for competitive training and practice purposes by strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions, other gatherings and large congregations, continue to be prohibited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy dies in Mumbai hospital||Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, died at a Mumbai hospital at 1:30pm on Monday reported NDTV. Till late Sunday night, the 84-year-old Jesuit priest was on ventilator support, the senior counsel told PTI. Swamy has been undergoing treatment at the Holy Family Hospital here, following a court order on May 28. The cost of his treatment at the private hospital is being borne by his associates and friends. On Saturday, advocate Desai told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Swamy's health was critical and that he was still in the hospital's intensive care unit (ICU). The bench had then adjourned the hearing on Swamy's medical bail plea to Tuesday and extended his stay at the hospital till then. Last week, Swamy also filed a fresh plea in the HC, challenging section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), that imposes stringent bars on the grant of bail to an accused charged under the Act. On Monday, Desai said he will not be moving the HC for any urgent hearing on either the bail plea or the fresh plea challenging provisions of the UAPA. "I don't have any morning updates on his (Swamy's) health. But, till late last night, he was on ventilator support," Desai said. "So, the priority now is his medical treatment. Even if he is acquitted by the court tomorrow, what can happen? His health condition is such that he will continue being in the hospital," he said. The senior lawyer also said he didn't have any complaints against the high court and the private hospital. "The high court bench did all that was possible to secure the best medical treatment for him. And at the hospital, the best cardiologists and specialists are looking after him. Our only complaint is against the Taloja prison superintendent and against the NIA (the prosecuting agency in the case)," he said. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Sunday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government in the wake of a complaint alleging serious health condition of the imprisoned activist. In the notice sent through the state's chief secretary, the NHRC called upon him to ensure every possible effort is made to provide proper medical care and treatment to Swamy as part of life-saving measure and protection of his basic human rights. The commission also called for a report in the light of the allegations made in the complaint, and the treatment record of the activist. Swamy and his co-accused in the Elgar case have repeatedly complained of inadequate health facilities at the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, where they were lodged as undertrials. Through their pleas filed in the HC as well as oral and written statements made in the HC, they have complained several times of neglect on part of the Taloja prison authorities in ensuring medical aid, timely tests and maintaining hygiene and social distancing. In May this year, Swamy told a vacation bench of the high court via video-conferencing that his health had consistently declined at the Taloja prison. He had urged the HC to release him on interim bail at that time and said if things continued the way they were, he "would die soon". Last week, the wives of activists Anand Teltumbde and Vernon Gonsalves, who are also accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, moved the HC saying the Taloja prison superintendent had been withholding letters and communications to and from all the accused in the case following a magazine article published by Teltumbde in March this year. On Monday, advocate Desai said the superintendent had reportedly been transferred out of the Taloja prison, though the reasons for his shifting were yet to be made public. In the Elgar-Parishad case, Swamy and his co-accused have been charged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as being members of frontal organisations working on behalf of the banned CPI (Maoists). Last month, the NIA had filed an affidavit before the HC opposing Swamy's bail plea. It had said there did not exist a "conclusive proof" of his medical ailments. It alleged that Swamy was a Maoist, who had hatched a conspiracy to create unrest in the country. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. Swamy, who claims to be suffering from several ailments, including the Parkinson's disease, had moved the high court earlier this year through advocate Desai, seeking medical treatment and interim bail on health grounds. He had tested positive for coronavirus at a private hospital last month and was subsequently shifted to the ICU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Mayawati asks Centre to take cognisance of corruption charges in Rafale deal||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Monday said that Centre should take cognisance of the alleged "corruption" in the Rafale deal. "The news of a judicial inquiry set up by the French government on allegations of corruption in the purchase of Rafale fighter jets by the Indian government has made headlines again and is the subject of public discussions.It would be better if the central government also takes proper cognisance of it," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "However, the allegations of commission in defense deals and its investigation are not new. It is an old burning issue since the time of the Congress government. The BSP believes that it would be better if the present government at the Centre puts an end to this issue by settling the Rafale dispute according to public satisfaction," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister added. A French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial probe into suspected "corruption" and "favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India, French investigative website Mediapart has reported. Following this, the Congress has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee(JPC) probe into the Rafale deal, and said such an investigation is the only way forward to find the truth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||India registers over 39,000 fresh Covid cases, 723 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 39,796 new Covid infections, which took the tally of cases to 3,05,85,229, while the death toll climbed to 4,02,728 with 723 more fatalities, the lowest in around 88 days, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The active cases have further declined to 4,82,071 and comprise 1.58 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid recovery rate has improved to 97.11 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that there has been a decline of 3,279 active cases in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 15,22,504 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted for detection of Covd in the country to 41,97,77,457. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.61 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 28 consecutive days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.4 per cent, according to the health ministry. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily cases for 53 consecutive days, it said, adding that the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has risen to 2,97,00,430. The case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. The cumulative vaccine doses administered has reached 35.28 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive, the ministry said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed 2 crore cases on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 723 new fatalities include 306 from Maharashtra, 76 from Kerala and 72 from Tamil Nadu, the ministry said. It said that 4,02,728 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,23,030 from Maharashtra, 35,367 from Karnataka, 33,005 from Tamil Nadu, 24,995 from Delhi, 22,640 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,799 from West Bengal and 16,110 from Punjab. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Sushil Kumar asks Tihar jail authorities to provide TV for wrestling match updates||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, lodged in Tihar jail in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl, has urged prison authorities to provide him a television to remain updated about wrestling matches, officials said on Sunday. Kumar was arrested along with co-accused Ajay Kumar on May 23 from outer Delhi's Mundka area. He and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to injuries later. A senior jail official said Kumar has made the request through his advocate. He has requested for a television set so that he would get updates about wrestling matches, the official said. Earlier, a Delhi court extended the judicial custody of Kumar till July 9. He has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail where he was earlier lodged. Police said 12 accused, including Kumar, have so far been arrested in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case. The police have claimed that Kumar is the "main culprit and mastermind" of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence in which he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Modi pays tributes to Ram Vilas Paswan||Paying tributes to Dalit leader and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that his contributions to public service and empowering the downtrodden will always be remembered. A minister in the Modi government, Paswan died in October last year. He was among the most experienced parliamentarians and had served as a minister in governments led by different parties, ranging from socialist groups to the Congress and the BJP. In a tweet Modi said, "Today is the birth anniversary of my friend, late Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. I miss his presence greatly. He was one of India's most experienced Parliamentarians and administrators. His contributions to public service and empowering the downtrodden will always be remembered." Paswan's death has led to factional fight within his party with both his son Chirag Paswan and his brother Pashupati Kumar Paras claiming to be representing the LJP. Chirag is scheduled to launch a yatra from Hajipur, his father's traditional Lok Sabha seat, to rally the party's supporters around his cause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Rafale: Cong questions Modi and Rajnath's silence on French probe||The Congress on Sunday questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh on the French investigation into the Rafale deal, asking how one party to an inter-  government agreement could remain aloof when the other had initiated a probe. “France is investigating what it calls ‘corruption’, ‘influence peddling’, ‘money laundering’ and ‘favouritism’ in the Rafale deal,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said. “How does all this happen in a government-to-government deal in which no middleman was supposed to be involved? And in an inter-governmental deal, how can one party remain silent when the other has ordered an investigation?” Khera said the deal now looked like an open and shut case of corruption. “What does the Prime Minister have to say? After all, the deal was between France and India and one side suspects corruption. Rajnath Singh wasn’t the defence minister then but he should come out with the facts now,” he said. “Why was the anti-corruption clause deleted? Is it even imaginable that the Government of India would remain silent when the entire world is looking at the deal being investigated? It is ironical that the beneficiary is investigating and the country which lost huge money is silent.” Khera added: “Let me make one thing abundantly clear — this is not a loss to France, it is a loss to India. It is not France that has been cheated or robbed, rather it is every single Indian taxpayer who has been cheated and robbed.” Rahul Gandhi had tweeted in the morning: “Why is the Modi Government not ready for a JPC (joint parliamentary committee) probe? 1. Guilty conscience 2. Friends need to be saved 3. JPC doesn’t need Rajya Sabha seat 4. All these are correct.” Then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, who had headed a three-judge bench that dismissed a petition seeking a probe into the deal, had been nominated by the President to the Rajya Sabha nearly four months after he had retired from the Supreme Court. Referring to the Rafale deal, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted: “Three things cannot be long hidden: the sun, the moon, and the truth — Lord Buddha.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram alluded to a chronology alleged in French media reports that hints at secret, parallel processes that undermined the official negotiations. “There are new dates revealed in the Rafale aircraft deal: 25-03-2015, 26-03-2015, 08-04-2015, 10-04-2015, 09-11-2015, January 2016, September 2016, 28-11-2016,” Chidambaram tweeted, adding that the Prime Minister “can tell us what events happened on these dates”. “If there is no mystery, why not tell the whole story in one sitting? Why should ‘events’ and ‘facts’ tumble out of the cupboard one by one?” Chidambaram tweeted. Rajnath’s predecessor Nirmala Sitharaman and Modi have stated multiple times that the question of corruption cannot arise as it was a government-to-government deal. On Sunday, the Congress said: “It is clear the deal was negotiated between the governments of France and India. Now, given that the French public prosecution services, PNF, has initiated an investigation into corruption allegations against the previous and probably the current President of France, who was one of the parties to this deal, why is no inquiry being ordered on the role, on the undeniable role of the key functionaries of the Government of India, which is the other side of this multi-crore inter-governmental agreement?” Khera said: “Inter-governmental contracts happen for three major reasons: (A) To ensure the lowest price for procurement; (B) To do away with any middlemen; (C) To ensure there is no corruption. But, in case of this inter-governmental deal, charges of ‘corruption’, ‘influence peddling’, ‘money laundering’, ‘favouritism’ among others are being investigated in France (along with) its government representatives responsible for the finalisation and execution of this inter-governmental deal.” Khera alleged that fighter jets worth Rs 570 crore were purchased for over Rs 1,600 crore, using taxpayer money. “One has to question, why is the person who caused the loss to the Indian exchequer not being investigated?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Rafale deal: Ranjan Gogoi refuses to comment on French probe||Justice Ranjan Gogoi, now Rajya Sabha MP and formerly Chief Justice of India who had headed a Supreme Court bench that declined to order a probe into the Rafale deal, said on Sunday that he had no comments to make on the French probe. “I have nothing to say on the issue. I have no comments to make,” Justice Gogoi told The Telegraph from Guwahati in response to a question on Sunday evening. On December 14, 2018, the bench of Justices Gogoi, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and K.M. Joseph had dismissed a PIL for a CBI probe into the purchase of 36 Rafale fighter planes. On November 14, 2019, the bench dismissed a review petition on the issue. However, Justice Joseph had said in a separate opinion in the review verdict that the judicial decision did not bar the CBI from registering an FIR on a complaint, provided prior approval was obtained in line with the Prevention of Corruption Act that covers public servants. Justice Joseph concurred with the views of the other two judges that the court has limited jurisdiction to go into a government contract. But the CBI has not proceeded to register an FIR till date. Justice Gogoi retired on November 17, 2019. President Ram Nath Kovind nominated him to the Rajya Sabha on March 16, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Migrants starve because of One Nation, One Ration irregularities||Guna Nayak, a migrant labourer in Delhi, says he will never forget the month of May when he and his wife often had to skip dinner. With the city in lockdown then, Nayak was confined to his one-room lodgings in Kotla Mubarakpur. He had no ration card entitling him to subsidised food. Nor, fearful of catching Covid, would he join the free-meal queues at the Delhi government’s distribution centres. “We had limited rations and no money. Whoever I called for help had similar problems. My wife and I had to skip dinner some days,” Nayak said. Nayak, who is from Kendrapada district in Odisha, has begun getting work after the lockdown was lifted two weeks ago. But his efforts to secure a ration card from the Delhi government have not borne results. The state authorities refused to accept his bank statement as address proof and insisted that he furnish both his and his wife’s Aadhaar cards instead. Since his wife’s Aadhaar card bears an Odisha address, the couple have been denied a ration card, Nayak said. Under the central government’s One Nation One Ration (Onor) Card scheme, migrant workers can obtain subsidised rations in whichever state they work. But the Delhi government is yet to implement the Onor scheme. A civil society group, the Stranded Workers Action Network (Swan), has released a report about the suffering of lockdown-hit migrant labourers. It says that 1,396 worker groups made up of 8,023 migrant labourers contacted it between April 21 and May 31 for help. About 82 per cent of these workers had had at best two days of rations left when they spoke to Swan, while 76 per cent had at most Rs 200 left with them. About 34 per cent had not been paid their pending wages for completed work, and 13 per cent had been paid only partially. Swan has provided migrant workers with a total financial assistance of Rs 33 lakh, collected through crowd-sourcing, this year. The workers’ problems have been worse in states where the lockdown continues to be enforced. Sameet Panda, co-convener, Odisha Khadya Adhikar Abhiyan (OKAA), said the lockdown norms had been partially relaxed in Odisha but the remaining restrictions continued to affect most residents’ food and income security. The OKAA had on June 28 written to chief minister Naveen Patnaik seeking relief for the working class. The letter said lakhs of ration card applications were stuck with the food supply and consumer welfare department. It demanded that all the pending applications for new ration cards or the addition of family members be accepted and the cards issued immediately. The letter also mentioned how the lack of Aadhaar seeding was hampering biometric authentication and preventing people from securing pension or rations. One’s biometric details are stored in the Aadhaar database. “We have been receiving regular information that PDS and pension beneficiaries are being denied their entitlement due to lack of Aadhaar seeding,” the OKAA letter said. “The majority of these right-holders are differently abled, aged or chronically ill persons, who require immediate support. We demand that no rights-holder is denied their entitlement for non-seeding of Aadhaar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||2017 Elgaar Parishad case: Stan Swamy on ventilator in Mumbai||Father Stanislaus Lourduswamy, the oldest defendant in the Elgaar Parishad terrorism case at 84, is on a ventilator in Mumbai’s Holy Family Hospital. The elderly Jesuit, better known as Stan Swamy, had filed a writ petition in Bombay High Court last week challenging the applicability of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) under which he and 15 others have been charged. The bail plea of Swamy, who has been in custody since October 2020, is scheduled to be heard on Monday. Joseph Xavier, director of the Jesuits’ Indian Social Institute in Bangalore, said Swamy was waiting for the court’s orders on his plea for extension of bail and looked “disoriented and agitated” on Saturday evening. “On early July 4 morning, his heart rate was falling and he was put on a ventilator. Twice in the morning, the hospital administered CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) and revived the heartbeat,” Xavier said. UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders Mary Lawlor tweeted: “Horrible news to learn that Indian HRD Fr. Stan Swamy is in very serious condition & was put on a ventilator…. He’s spent 9 months in jail on unfounded charges. I’m deeply saddened & expect that every possible specialist treatment will be provided to him.” On Sunday evening, the National Human Rights Commission directed the Maharashtra chief secretary to “ensure that every possible efforts are made in providing him (Swamy) proper medical care and treatment as part of life-saving measures and protection of his basic human rights”. Swamy has Parkinson’s and was detected with Covid after being moved to the hospital in May. The Jesuits are paying for his treatment. He lost hearing in both ears while in jail, and he suffers from sharp abdominal pains as well as lumbar spondylosis. Swamy has been in the ICU since last month, and is currently being treated for a heart ailment, a source said. Swamy’s writ petition challenges Section 43D(5) of the UAPA as unconstitutional as it imposes a de facto ban on the grant of bail. His plea also challenges the use of the term “front organisation” and contends that not only is it not backed by law but it also violates Articles 14 (right to equality), 19 (free speech) and 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. Swamy has been charged with channelling funds through the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee, which the National Investigation Agency has claimed is a front of the banned CPI Maoist. Swamy’s lawyer Mihir Desai told The Telegraph on Sunday: “My focus tomorrow is for bail to allow his treatment in the (Holy Family) hospital as even if he is released, he is in no position to go anywhere….” Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, 80, was granted medical bail in the case in February after a severe urinary infection which, his lawyers have said, he contracted because of poor treatment in jail. He has shown signs of memory loss and tested positive for Covid last year. Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu M.T. too was shifted to hospital from the Taloja prison in Mumbai after contracting Covid and a severe eye infection. The Supreme Court’s directives to reduce inmates during Covid have not had any bearing on bail pleas of the UAPA accused, academics, activists and lawyers have said. The Ranchi-based Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), an umbrella organisation of activists and NGOs, said in a statement: “The NIA and the central government are solely responsible for the sufferings of this elderly person and the current state of affairs…. Also, denying bail to an elderly and ailing person, with limited mobility and no history of violence against others, is beyond comprehension. “Had the investigating agencies and the court taken a humanitarian approach, Stan would not have to go through this suffering.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Economist examines the post-poll scenario in West Bengal||People close to the communists, and some communists themselves, have welcomed Trinamul’s victory in the Bengal Assembly elections because it ensured the defeat of fascism. Eminent economist and communist Prabhat Patnaik, professor emeritus with JNU, examines the post-election scenario in this dialogue. It goes without saying that I was thoroughly elated by the BJP’s defeat, which was a huge blow to the fascist project in the country that had appeared almost unstoppable at one point. I was sorry that the Left Front’s vote share went down and theCongress-Left alliance did not win a single seat, but that was a price to be paid for the defeat of fascism in West Bengal with its enormous national implications. There is a big difference between the BJP and the TMC. While the latter at the grassroots level has a large number of hoodlums, the BJP is a fascist party. Its two obvious fascist features are: the systematic vilification and victimisation of a hapless minority, the Muslims; and a close nexus with monopoly capital, especially the “new” elements within it. It is based on a Hindutva-corporate alliance that is highly oppressive for the people, as is clear from the anti-labour and anti-peasant laws it has just enacted. The TMC differs in all these respects. Yes, everyone was delighted. And look at what is happening after the West Bengal elections. The BJP is imploding all over the country: in UP, in West Bengal, in Karnataka. This is symptomatic of a weakening of the authority of its top leadership, the myth of whose invincibility is busted. The BJP juggernaut is tottering, though it is too early to celebrate. They are capable of doing anything to win, so one can’t be complacent; but they have received a crippling blow. From the fact that the Left Front did not win any seats, it would be ridiculous to conclude that it is no longer a powerful force in West Bengal. That would be a form of “parliamentary cretinism” in Lenin’s words. In the elections, Mamata succeeded in projecting herself as the main force against the BJP and invoked a powerful Bengali nationality consciousness against the BJP’s Hindutva agenda, which squeezed out the Left. As long as the BJP remains a credible threat in West Bengal, this electoral squeezing out of the Left will continue; and the BJP will remain a threat as long it rules at the Centre. The Left, for this immediate political reason, quite apart from its implacable and principled opposition to fascism, must prioritise fighting the BJP, to prevent it from acquiring power in West Bengal and to dislodge it from power at the Centre. The reason the ganasangathans did not vote Left is that they perceived the threat of fascism in the state and saw Mamata as the most credible force for halting it. There is no reason to lament this fact: electoral allegiance to a different political formation in a particular conjuncture does not mean that these organisations have deserted the Left. The coming to the Left of a large number of talented young persons is the surest sign of its bright future. Being a communist is not a ten-to-five job; it is an expression of a passion and a commitment to changing the world. When that passion and commitment energises the youth --- at least a segment of it that is extremely thoughtful and intelligent, as I know many of the young brigade of the CPM to be --- then one can have confidence in the future, not just of the Left but of the country. One only hopes that the youth does not lose this passion and commitment in mundane, quotidian politics. There are several reasons. The first is that in Kerala the Left succeeded in convincing the electorate that it represents the most credible and uncompromising opposition to the BJP, while in Bengal Mamata played that role. The Left in Kerala could do this both because it has consistently opposed the Centre’s anti-democratic moves and also because the UDF has appeared on occasions as being close to the Hindutva elements. The second reason is that the Kerala communists have for long been involved in social emancipation (caste) struggles, while the Bengal communists, involved in workers’ and peasants’ struggles, have never taken up the issue of caste discrimination. Because of this Bengal remains a deeply caste-divided society, and even the communist leadership, unlike that in Kerala, is overwhelmingly from the upper castes. The Kerala communists therefore have a committed OBC (Ezhava) vote that provides a floor to their voting percentage. Thirdly, the excellent work done by the (Pinarayi) Vijayan ministry during the floods and the pandemic has been recognised and rewarded by the electorate; and this work has been on top of the work over several decades by successive communist ministries in building up a welfare state in Kerala. In West Bengal by contrast, after the initial work in the agrarian sphere and decentralisation, a certain stasis had set in to the work of the Left Front government, whose memory still hurts the Left. The Left has, quite rightly, been coordinating with other Opposition parties, including the TMC, within Parliament and at the national level against the BJP. But I think it will be impossible for the Left to have any understanding with the TMC within West Bengal unless that party reins in its hoodlum elements. Complete freedom to carry out legitimate political activity, not just by the Left but by all political formations, including the BJP, must be guaranteed. In fact this is also necessary in the TMC’s own interest, for depredations by the hoodlum elements always give the Centre an opportunity to impose President’s rule on the state. The Centre, as I said above, can do anything: in Jammu and Kashmir it reduced a state to two Union Territories just like that; there is even some talk of bifurcating West Bengal. No opportunity should be given to it to bring a state that has dared the Modi-Shah duo to its knees. The Left can demand this reining in from the TMC while offering consistent support against the Centre’s machinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Facebook prank claims three lives in Kerala||A Facebook prank on a relative by two young women posing as a fictitious lover went horribly wrong, setting off events that have claimed three lives including that of a newborn, Kerala police have said. What unravelled the bizarre chain of events was the police’s doggedness in carrying out DNA tests across a neighbourhood to solve the death of an abandoned baby — something almost unheard-of in the country. The newborn had been discovered in a pile of dried leaves near a temple in Kalluvathukkal town, Kollam district, around 6.30am on January 5, its cries attracting the attention of a few people. They informed the police, who took the baby to a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. But the infant died the same day, the post-mortem revealing it had choked on bits of dried leaves that had got into its lungs. Instead of closing the case in a country where unclaimed bodies are almost a feature of everyday life, the police obtained a magistrate’s permission and embarked on a mission of DNA-matching across the Uzhayikkode neighbourhood where the baby had been found. After eight DNA tests they eventually zeroed in on Reshma, 24, arresting her on June 22 for the alleged murder of her infant son. Her purported confession revealed a macabre tale. According to the police, Reshma said she had abandoned her baby since she planned to join her “lover” who did not want to take care of another man’s child. She purportedly said she had chatted with her “lover”, who had introduced himself as Ananthu, on Facebook for over a year but never met him or spoke to him over the phone. Reshma’s husband Vishnu, who had gone to the Gulf to work just four months earlier, rushed back after learning of his wife’s arrest. Strangely, neither he nor his mother, with whom Reshma lived, seemed to have any idea about Reshma’s pregnancy or the childbirth. “She did not tell her husband or even her own family that she was pregnant,” assistant commissioner of police Y. Nizamuddin told reporters. Police sources said Reshma had told the investigators she wore loose-fitting clothes to hide her bump and never consulted a gynaecologist. Reshma allegedly confessed that she had delivered the baby in a bathroom outside the house and immediately abandoned it, fulfilling a precondition to join her “lover”. Police sources said Reshma then informed her “lover” about having abandoned the baby, following which the alleged pranksters cut off Facebook contact with her and lay low. However, the police found out that Reshma had used a mobile SIM card that belonged to Arya, 23, wife of Vishnu’s brother, to access Facebook. On June 24, the investigators summoned Arya to appear before them the same afternoon. She never came. The police learnt that Arya, mother of a three-year-old girl, and Vishnu’s niece Greeshma, 22, were missing. Officers launched a search after security-camera footage showed the two women walking towards the Ithikkara river. Their bodies were fished out on June 25. Arya, Greeshma and and Reshma lived within 2km of one another. Arya left behind a purported suicide note saying: “Didn’t want to cheat anyone knowingly. Didn’t realise she (possibly Reshma) is such a cheat…. Just can’t handle police arresting us for murdering an infant. Everyone should pardon us.” Among those interrogated over the double suicide was a male friend of Greeshma who said she had told him about the prank. “Greeshma told her boyfriend that their prank had gone out of hand,” Nizamuddin said. By Sunday evening, a local news website had reported a first-time director’s plans to shoot a Malayalam movie, to be titled One Day Mirror, based on the tragedy. Filming is likely to begin in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Covid: Wide gap between jab plan and procurement ||With a projected population of 136.3 crore, India had fully vaccinated only around 4.3 per cent of its population till June 30. India’s Covid-19 vaccination rate currently stands at 24 doses administered per 100 people. This lags significantly behind the Asian and South American continental average of over 40 doses per 100 people, let alone the European and North American rates of 67 and 72. In this gloomy backdrop, and after being censured by the Supreme Court for its “arbitrary and irrational” paid vaccination policy for people aged between 18 and 45, the Narendra Modi government now claims that a “new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination” has started from June 21, with free-of-cost delivery to the states and streamlining of the supply chain having led to a ramped-up vaccination drive. Are these claims credible? Can the Centre ensure full vaccination of the 18-plus population by the end of 2021, as projected before the Supreme Court? Why has the daily vaccination rate dropped from over 90 lakh on June 21 to below 28 lakh on June 30? The answers are to be found in the vaccine procurement data. The data submitted by the Union health ministry in its June 26 affidavit before the Supreme Court remains quite opaque. A closer scrutiny of the official projections in the affidavit reveals that the Centre has been able to procure only 35.6 crore doses of Covishield (27.6 crore) and Covaxin (8 crore) combined. A total of 33.57 crore doses had already been administered by June 30, which means the vaccine inventory is almost exhausted. The Centre’s affidavit makes a projection of 51.6 crore vaccine doses by July 31, based on a further 16 crore doses, which “will also be available during the period of May 2021 & July 2021 across the country”. This projection is quite wobbly. The affidavit states that an advance 30 per cent payment of Rs 2,079 crore has been made for the next tranche of 44 crore vaccines (25 crore Covishield doses and 19 crore Covaxin doses). The delivery of this tranche was to start from August, according to an earlier procurement plan. Now, in a rescheduled plan, the Centre expects 14 crore doses from this tranche to be delivered by July 31. Additionally, 2 crore doses of Sputnik V from Russia are expected by end-July, of which only 31 lakh doses have been delivered. Accordingly, an allocation of 12 crore vaccine doses has been made across all states for July, 9 crore of which would be supplied free of cost and the remaining 3 crore will be for private facilities, under the Centre’s 75-25 formula. However, if the vaccine producers are unable to meet the revised targets and deadlines, severe shortages will appear in July itself, derailing the official projections. Universal vaccination for India’s adult population, which is officially projected at 94.47 crore, implies a total requirement of 189 crore vaccine doses. The Centre’s Supreme Court affidavit sets an overall target of 186.6 crore. After making a tentative projection of 51.6 crore by July-end, another projection of 135 crore vaccine doses between August and December has been presented. The supply break-up of these 135 crore doses has been provided as 50 crore Covishield doses, 40 crore Covaxin doses, 30 crore doses of Biological E’s Corbevax, 5 crore does of the Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine, and 10 crore Sputnik V doses. None of these production targets appears feasible, going by the production and supply trends of June. The largest supplier, the Serum Institute of India, reportedly supplied 6.5 crore Covishield doses in May and another 10 crore in June. As for Covaxin, only 8 crore doses have been supplied till June. Is it feasible to expect them to supply another 104 crore doses between July and December, which means supplying over 17 crore doses a month? As for Biological E’s Corbevax, production is yet to begin. Expecting the company to supply 5 crore vaccines a month from July is impractical. It is easily conceivable that all these targets would be missed, jeopardising the entire vaccination programme and leaving a very large section of the Indian population vulnerable to the third wave of the pandemic. What is required today is not a catalogue of wishful thinking, which the Centre has submitted to the Supreme Court, but an executable plan. This would imply either of two things. If the government insists on vaccinating the entire 94.47 crore adult population by December, within the Rs 35,000 crore budgeted for 2021-22, it would require a massive mobilisation of domestic production capacity. Not only should the idle facilities of vaccine-producing public sector units across the country be used, as in wartime, new vaccine production facilities must be created by converting other facilities into vaccine-producing units. In response to RTI queries from one of the authors of this article (dated June 28), the Union health ministry cited the cost of procurement as Rs 157.50 per vaccine dose, including GST. The possibility of new domestic corporate players being even interested in, let alone capable of, producing 150-crore-plus vaccine doses at this price in the next six months is zero. The only other available option involves negotiations with foreign vaccine suppliers like Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, etc, which the Centre’s Supreme Court affidavit suggests are already at an “advanced stage” with the involvement of the “highest political executive”. That nothing has materialised so far from those efforts, however, is evident from the health ministry’s RTI response, which states that out of the Rs 35,000 crore budget outlay, the total expenditure on vaccine procurement by end-June, including advance payments, is only Rs 8,067.75. The Centre has not even been able to place purchase orders so far, let alone ensure procurement of vaccines from abroad, other than a small quantity of Sputnik V. The reason for this is simple. The MNC suppliers are currently charging around $10 per vaccine dose, while India’s budgetary allocation permits a maximum procurement price of $2.5 per dose. International procurement would therefore entail a massive increase in the vaccination budget. If atmanirbharta (self-reliance) is to be the policy cornerstone, that can only be attained with a leading role played by public enterprises and the government taking proactive and intelligent decisions regarding the allocation and pricing of resources — neoliberal dogma about governments having nothing to do with production and businesses needs to be abandoned. On the other hand, if utilitarianism has to prevail in this case, since it involves the right to life of millions of Indian citizens, then the fisc or the taxpayers need to bear the cost; fiscal conservatism cannot come in the way of adequate outlays for Covid-19 vaccinations. The Narendra Modi government’s current procurement and vaccination plan appears to be falling between these two stools. If the government cannot resolve this dilemma, the Supreme Court will have to step in to secure the lives of millions of Indians and ensure their vaccination by end-December 2021. Prasenjit Bose is an economist and activist based in Calcutta; Indranil Chowdhury teaches economics at PGDAV College, Delhi University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Tejashwi asks Nitish to take notice of people's miseries||Bihar Opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav has challenged Nitish Kumar to venture out among the people and see their hapless condition, asserting the chief minister cannot remain untainted when the officials around him are being accused of corruption. “Show us a single photograph of the chief minister meeting farmers, workers or labourers. Although he has come to power through the backdoor, he should venture out to meet the common people and see their pitiable condition. Farmers are dying in the state,” the Rashtriya Janata Dal politician said on Sunday. “Nitish Kumar enjoys being surrounded by officers, but they are being accused of corruption. He cannot remain untainted if they are being accused by his own minister of making money during transfers and postings of officials.” Madan Sahni, social welfare minister and a member of Nitish’s Janata Dal United, had recently accused senior IAS officers of corruption and offered to resign. Tejashwi was speaking after kicking off his party’s yearlong silver jubilee celebrations on the eve of its foundation day. Then chief minister Lalu Prasad had formed the RJD on July 5, 1997. Lalu Prasad, currently in Delhi after receiving bail in the fodder scam cases, will digitally inaugurate and address the main event on Monday. His address is expected to heavily influence the course of Bihar politics. The ruling NDA fears that he will try to engineer defections or resignations within the ruling alliance to bring down the government. A small shift of seven legislators could topple the current state government. “The people of Bihar will get the opportunity to listen to Laluji after waiting three years. He is the leader of the masses and lives in people’s hearts. He is the voice of the poor, exploited and deprived,” Tejashwi said. Tejashwi, a former deputy chief minister and Lalu Prasad’s younger son, claimed the RJD represented all sections of society. The party has already put up posters and billboards in Patna and other Bihar cities featuring Lalu Prasad along with his wife and former chief minister Rabri Devi and Tejashwi. However, his eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti and legislator son Tej Pratap Yadav have been left out, prompting speculation about friction within the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Demonstration outside Parliament||Around 200 farmers will protest against the three new farm laws outside Parliament every day during the monsoon session, which begins from July 19, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha announced on Sunday. The Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions that is leading the agitation, said that two days before the session begins, a “chetavani patra” (warning letter) would be served on all Opposition MPs asking them to protest the laws inside the House. “We will ask the Opposition MPs on July 17 to raise the issue every day inside the House while we sit outside in protest,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told a news conference. “We will tell them not to benefit the Centre by walking out (of the House). Don’t let the session run till the government addresses the issue. We will be protesting outside Parliament continuously till they hear our demands.” Rajewal said five people from each farmer union would take part in the protest. The Morcha has also called for a nationwide protest on July 8 against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. It has asked people to come out and park their vehicles along state and national highways from 10am till noon. “Whatever vehicle you have — tractor, trolley, car, scooter —just bring it to the nearest state or national highway and park it there. But don’t create a traffic jam,” Rajewal said. He also appealed to people to “blow the horn of their vehicles” for eight minutes from noon, and asked that LPG cylinders be brought to the highway protest. “I ask all the women to bring their gas cylinders to the roads and be a part of the protest,” Rajewal said. Asked about agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s statement that the government was ready to talk to the farmers, Rajewal said the protesters “will not talk with conditions”. “The (government) leaders want to talk about farm laws with conditions; we are ready to talk with them but only if they agree to repeal the laws,” Rajewal said. On July 1, Tomar had made it clear that the government was ready to hold talks with the protesting farmers except on the demand for repeal of the contentious laws. Protesting farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November, demanding the repeal of the three new laws and the enactment of a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
