09-07-2021||India||BJP's Pragya Thakur 'too ill' to appear in court, seen dancing at wedding||Two recent viral videos of BJP MP Pragya Thakur – one her slam dunk on a basketball court and another of her dancing at a wedding she helped organise – have drawn comments from the Congress on her who has begged off court appearances in the Malegaon blasts case citing ill health, reports ndtv.com. The latest video is from a twin wedding - held at the MP's Bhopal residence - of young women from very poor families. Pragya Thakur, 51, is seen shaking a leg at the celebration and asking people to join in. The brides told reporters that they were "very happy" and felt blessed, reports ndtv.com. One of the brides father, who is a daily-wage worker, said he was grateful to the Bhopal MP as he didn't have the means to organise his daughter's wedding. "I feel like I have been given a second life. I am very poor. I did not have enough to marry my daughters. But Pragya Thakur helped us. I pray to mother goddess for her long life. I am very happy and grateful," he told reporters. As reported by ndtv.com, the dancing video provoked sarcasm from Congress leader Narendra Saluja. "Whenever we see the Bhopal MP, sister Pragya Thakur, play basketball and walking without support or dancing happily like this, it makes us happy...?" - tweeted Mr Saluja, who is a Congress spokesperson in Madhya Pradesh. On July 1, Mr Saluja had shared a video of Pragya Thakur shooting a basket and had written: "We had only just seen Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur in a wheelchair but today, we feel very happy to see her trying her hand at basketball at the Bhopal stadium...So far we knew she couldn't walk or even stand properly because of an injury...? May god always keep her healthy..." Pragya Thakur is an accused in the 2008 Malegaon blasts and is out on bail. She was in jail for nine years before she was granted bail in 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
09-07-2021||India||Heat wave conditions relent in North India, monsoon in sight||Northwest India witnessed a dip in temperatures on Friday after almost a week of heat wave conditions but high humidity led to discomfort as the monsoon continued to play truant in the region. The India Meteorological Department, however, said conditions are favourable for the arrival of monsoon rains in Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan within a day. Places in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand started receiving light to moderate rain from Friday itself, it said. Humid conditions prevailed in Delhi as it recorded a maximum temperature of 38.2 degrees Celsius. The city has experienced four 'heat wave days' this month -- on July 1 with a maximum temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius, July 2 at a high of 41.3 degrees Celsius, July 7 when the mercury soared to 42.6 degrees Celsius and on July 8 with the maximum reaching 41.8 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the relative humidity in the national capital oscillated between 89 per cent and 49 per cent. In neighbouring Gurgaon, the maximum temperature was recorded at 39.7 degrees Celsius while Noida in Uttar Pradesh registered a high of 38.2 degrees Celsius. Hot weather conditions persisted in Punjab and Haryana on Friday even as a few places received rainfall. Narnaul in Haryana recorded its maximum at 41.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above the normal. Among other places in the state, Hisar recorded a high of 41.1 degrees Celsius while Karnal, which received 32 mm of rainfall, registered its maximum temperature of 34.8 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperatures in Punjab's Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala settled at 36.7, 35.7 and 35.6 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana and Patiala witnessed rainfall of 0.6 mm and 7.9 mm. Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states received light rains in the morning and registered a maximum temperature of 36.8 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. Monsoon winds have started setting in some parts of Rajasthan, with Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Bikaner and Churu districts of Bikaner division witnessing rain and dust storm on Friday. The weather department has forecast good rainfall in the coming days in various parts of the state. Most places in the state will receive rainfall on Saturday when the monsoon is likely to become active in parts of Kota, Jaipur Udaipur, Bharatpur, Ajmer divisions. Ahead of the arrival of rains, most places in the state reeled under heat and high humidity. Sriganganagar recorded its maximum temperature at 42.6 degrees Celsius, Bikaner at 42.3 degrees Celsius, and Churu at 42.6 degrees Celsius. Light to moderate rain and thundershower occurred at a few places in Uttar Pradesh even as some isolated parts of the state experienced heat wave conditions. Agra recorded the highest maximum temperature in the state at 42.3 degrees Celsius while the day temperatures fell in Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Ayodhya, Prayagraj, Kanpur, Lucknow, Bareilly and Jhansi divisions. Rainfall also occurred in isolated places of Uttarakhand as the maximum temperatures remained above normal both in the plains and the hills. State capital Dehradun registered the highest maximum temperature of 35.2 degrees Celsius. Even though the monsoon has eluded northwest India so far, it has been vigorous over Tamil Nadu and other parts of south India. Rainfall occurred at most places in Kerala, Lakshadweep area, coastal Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Puducherry, and at isolated parts of Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh. According to the IMD, a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal is likely to bring widespread rainfall in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha in the next five days. Due to further strengthening of southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and likely formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal around July 11, enhanced rainfall activity is very likely along the west coast and adjoining Peninsular India, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
09-07-2021||India||Jaishankar holds 'productive' talks on nuclear, space and defence cooperation with Russian counterpart||India's "time-tested and trust-based" relationship remains very strong and continues to grow, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday as he held "productive" talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov to step up bilateral cooperation on space, nuclear, energy and defence sectors.  Jaishankar, who is here on a three-day visit, also discussed global and regional issues like the situation in Afghanistan, Iran and Syria.  He said the two leaders "made good progress" as part of preparations for the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin later this year.  "I would say the talks were as always very warm, comfortable, comprehensive and productive," Jaishankar said.  He said his talks with Lavrov showed that "despite the fact that so many things are changing in our world both before and as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our time-tested and trust-based relationship is very much not just in place but remains very strong, continues to grow."  Jaishanakar expressed appreciation for the support India got from Russia during the second wave of the Covid pandemic this year.  India, he said, has always seen its relationship with Russia as a contribution to global peace, security and stability.  "I think what makes our working together so natural and comfortable is our belief in a multipolar global order. We consider that to be a reflection of a very natural and inevitable process of evolution of inter-state relations in the 21st century," he added.  He said his bilateral talks with Lavrov focused on reviewing the progress in different dimensions of their broad-ranging cooperation.  "We have actually made very good progress even though for the last one year a lot of this has been through virtual contacts and I can assure you that when the Annual Bilateral Summit takes place this year, the development, the progress in our cooperation will be very much on display before all of you.  "A new dimension that has been added to our relationship of course is the agreement to hold the 2+2 Dialogue of Foreign and Defence Ministers. We felt that we should do that sometime as per mutual convenience this year. Otherwise, I can say we are very satisfied with the all-round development of our relations," he said.  A lot of our cooperation is focused on the nuclear, space, energy and defence sectors, he said.  "The Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant project is on track and you heard Foreign Minister Lavrov tell you that the concrete first pour for Unit 5 has taken place. Space again has both practical and I would say symbolic importance for our relationship," Jaishankar said.  Russia has been India's "original and strongest partner" on the space sector, he said.  "The energy cooperation between us has grown very significantly in the last few years reflected both in new potential investments and long term commitments which we have agreed to in the field of oil and gas," Jaishankar said.  "Our defence military-technical cooperation but I would say even industrial collaboration today has been strengthened by Russian interest in the 'Make in India' programme, which is very visible."  They also discussed greater inter-regional cooperation particularly with the Russian Far East region.  "We spoke about how we could take that forward, there are some agreements which have to be signed, I think we have made some progress there. We discussed connectivity, especially the North-South Corridor... the Chennai-Vladivostok Eastern Maritime Corridor as well.  He shared with Lavrov India's plan and ideas when the country will hold the Presidency of the Security Council in August.  "We obviously value Russian participation and cooperation. ...We've worked very cooperatively and positively, so the strength of our strategic partnership is expressed today when it comes to deliberations in the UN," he said.  The two leaders also discussed their cooperation in BRICS and the RIC.  India is currently the chair of the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) and also of the RIC (Russia, India and China).  "We have common membership of G-20, of ASEAN led forums, SCO and CICA. We have an SCO Foreign ministers' meeting coming up very soon," he said.  They also discussed the situation in Afghanistan where Taliban militants have seized dozens of districts in recent weeks and are now thought to control about a third of the country, ahead of the complete withdrawal of US and Western troops from the war-torn country.  "The situation in Afghanistan occupied a lot of our attention because it has a direct implication for regional security. We believe that the immediate need of the day is really a reduction in violence and if we have to see peace within Afghanistan and around Afghanistan," Jaishankar said.  "It is important for India and Russia to work together and ensure that much of the progress that we've seen in economic, social and democratic terms are maintained. We are both committed to an independent, sovereign, united and democratic Afghanistan," he added.  They also discussed the situation in Syria, the Iran issue and Libya.  "We have both long standing interests in the region. We believe that peace and stability in such a sensitive region is very very important for global interest," he said.  Jaishanakr also shared his viewpoint on the Indo-Pacific, a region which has seen aggressive behaviour from China.  "We of course because of our larger geopolitical compatibility with Russia, we see a more active Russian presence and participation in the region as something very very important," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
09-07-2021||India||Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope: Delhi HC||Favouring the introduction of Uniform Civil Code (UCC), the Delhi High Court has said the Indian youth need not be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws in relation to marriage and divorce. The modern Indian society was gradually becoming homogenous, the traditional barriers of religion, community and caste are slowly dissipating and thus UCC ought not to remain a mere hope , Justice Prathiba M Singh stated in an order dated July 7. The youth of India belonging to various communities, tribes, castes or religions who solemnise their marriages ought not to be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws, especially in relation to marriage and divorce," the order said. While referring to several decisions of the Supreme court on the need for UCC, including the historical Shah Bano case of 1985, the high court said: "The hope expressed in Article 44 of the Constitution that the State shall secure for its citizens Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope. In the Shah Bano case, the apex court had said that a common civil code would help the cause of national integration by removing disparate loyalties to laws having conflicting ideologies. It had also observed that the State was charged with the duty of securing UCC for the citizens of the country. The high court observed that the need for UCC was reiterated from time to time by the Supreme Court, however, it is unclear as to what steps have been taken in this regard till date . It directed that a copy of the order be communicated to the Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice, Government of India, for necessary action as deemed appropriate. The court was dealing as to whether the marriage between the parties who belonged to the Meena community were excluded from the ambit of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (HMA). When the husband sought divorce, the wife contended that HMA did not apply to them as Meena community was a notified Scheduled Tribe in Rajasthan. The court rejected the wife's stand and said that cases like the present one highlight the need for such a Code - 'common to all', which would enable uniform principles being applied in respect of aspects such as marriage, divorce, succession etc. It recorded that since inception of the litigation, both parties have pleaded that their marriage was solemnised according to Hindu rites and ceremonies and they follow Hindu customs. The same, the court noted, as reflected in several documents including the marriage invitation and complaint filed under domestic violence act. The court said that although there was no definition of Hindu, the Supreme Court has held that if members of Tribes are Hinduised, HMA would be applicable to them. Codified statutes and laws provide for various protections to parties against any unregulated practices from being adopted. In this day and age, relegating parties to customary Courts when they themselves admit that they are following Hindu customs and traditions would be antithetical to the purpose behind enacting a statute like the HMA, 1955, the court opined. The court also stated that there nothing was placed before it to show that the Meena community Tribe has a specialised Court with proper procedures to deal with these issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||UP block panchayat chief polls: 349 candidates declared elected unopposed||As many as 349 candidates for the block panchayat chief polls in Uttar Pradesh were declared elected unopposed on Friday, the last day for the withdrawal of nomination papers. Now, the elections will be held for 476 posts on Saturday. In a statement, State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar said 1,778 nomination papers were received for 825 posts of the block panchayat chief, of which 68 were cancelled and 187 withdrawn. As a result, now 1,710 candidates will go into the elections on Saturday, he said. Kumar said the polling will be held from 11 am to 3 pm and the counting will take place after that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Delhi High Court dismisses Chirag Paswan's plea challenging decision to recognise Paras as leader of LJP in Lok Sabha||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed a plea by leader of one of the factions of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) Chirag Pawan challenging the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's decision to recognise his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House, saying it was without merits. It is well settled that the right to regulate internal disputes of the House is the prerogative of the Speaker, the high court said. I find absolutely no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed, Justice Rekha Palli said. The high court, which was inclined to impose cost on Chirag, did not do so after a request was made by his counsel. The petition sought setting aside speaker's June 14 circular showing the name of Paras as leader of Jan Lokshakti Party in the Lok Sabha. Paras, who was administered the oath of office as Union cabinet minister on July 7, has spent the larger part of his career under the shadow of his late brother Ram Vilas Paswan. During the hearing, advocate Arvind Bajpai, representing Chirag, said among the six party MPs, five wrote to the Speaker to recognise Paras as leader of the party in the House and directions were passed in this regard. Thereafter, the party chose to remove those five MPs and also approached the Speaker to take action and declare Chirag as the leader of the party in the House, he said. However, the speaker has not corrected the alleged mistake of recognising Paras as the leader of the party in the House, the counsel argued. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, and senior advocate Raj Shekhar for the speaker's office vehemently opposed the petition saying Chirag was attempting to get the inter-party dispute resolved in the court. They said five out of six members of the party had approached the Speaker with the fact that Paras was the whip holder of the party and that the action of the Speaker cannot be faulted with. The apex court said it was inclined to agree with the submissions of the counsel for the Centre and the Speaker's office. The judge said, Now it is very clear. If you want to press, it is your wish. I am clear that this is inter-party dispute. You can exercise your remedies. You take your call, I will then pass an order by making some observations. Chirag's counsel submitted he was not here to settle the inter-party dispute and the chief whip cannot claim that he should be declared as leader of the party in the House. The high court, however, made it clear that it was not going to entertain the petition and said should the court interfere in all this. Chirag had filed the plea on July 7 and also tweeted in Hindi saying that he has filed a petition in the Delhi high Court against the Lok Sabha Speaker's initial decision recognising party's expelled Member of Parliament Pashupati Paras Jee as the leader of the party in the House. The plea said the review of the decision is pending with the Speaker and despite reminders no action has been taken after which they have approached the high court. It sought direction to that a corrigendum be issued by showing the name of Chirag Paswan as leader of the party in the House. Change of leader in Lok Sabha is prerogative of particular party and in the present case, Article 26 of the Constitution of the petitioner no. 2 (party) provide that central parliamentary board will decide who would be leader, chief whip, etc. in the house or in assembly, the plea said. It added, the entire action of respondent no. 1 is contrary to rules of lok Sabha, procedure, practice, provision of constitution of petitioner no. 2, and oppose to principle of natural justice. Paras, who previously headed Lok Janshakti Party's Bihar unit and is currently the national president of its breakaway faction, began his innings in 1978 as a Janata Party MLA from Alauli in his native Khagaria district, a seat formerly represented by the late Ram Vilas Paswan. A cornered Chirag, who has challenged his uncle's political coup before the Election Commission, seemed to have sensed the writing on the wall when at a press conference in Patna on Tuesday he declared he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him not to induct Paras on the LJP quota.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Bombay High Court assigns first task to Jyotiraditya Scindia||The Bombay High Court said on Friday that the Union government must come up with a uniform policy to name airports across the country and the new civil aviation minister should give top priority to this task. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni, while hearing a PIL, said the new civil aviation minister (Jyotiraditya Scindia) must consider formulation of such a policy as his "first task." The bench said it could not allow instances such as the one from last month in Navi Mumbai, when around 25,000 people organised a rally in defiance of COVID-19 protocols to demand that the upcoming airport in the satellite city be named after a local leader who fought for the rights of Project Affected People. On June 24, thousands of people from local agri and fishing communities along with some politicians staged a protest to press for their demand to name the international airport in Navi Mumbai after late activist and parliamentarian D B Patil. Earlier last month, the Maharashtra government and state-run town planning agency CIDCO had announced to name the greenfield airport after Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray. The HC noted that a draft policy had been formulated in 2016 to name airports after cities and not individuals. However, the current status of such policy was not known, it said. "We would like to know the present position of draft policy? Over this issue of naming (of airports), we took the state government to task last month as there was a gathering violating COVID-19 protocols with nearly 25000 people. Why should we allow this?" the HC said to the Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh. "If there is a new policy still in the draft stage, get it done now. You have a new set of ministers now. Let this be the work of the new aviation ministry. It should be the first task of the new aviation minister," it said. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyer Filji Frederick seeking directions to the Centre to frame a uniform policy for naming and renaming of airports. The petitioner sought directions to the Centre to not act upon proposals sent by state governments for naming airports, including the one coming up at Navi Mumbai, until a policy is framed. The HC directed ASG Singh to take instructions on the issue and posted the PIL for further hearing on July 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Lambda variant not found in India yet, says Centre||No case of the Lambda variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been found in India so far, the government said on Friday. Responding to a question at a press briefing, joint secretary in the health ministry, Lav Agarwal, said Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) is closely monitoring the variant. "Lambda was the seventh variant of interest identified by the WHO (World Health Organisation) on June 14 and it has been detected in 25 countries," he said. "In our country, no cases have been reported and INSACOG is monitoring it and we are watchful. In Peru, 80 per cent infections were from this variant. It has also been found in South American countries and also in the UK and European countries, and any public health impact will be monitored," Agarwal said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said the Lambda variant is a variant of interest so its total significance is still being explored. "As far as we know it has not entered our country, we have not detected this variant in our country. Our surveillance system INSACOG is very effective and it will detect it if it happens to enter our country because when you do sequencing, all this will be picked up. So we should watch for that," he said. Paul said the Lambda strain is a variant of interest which means its public health significance is being watched but it has not been proven for excessive transmissibility, for impact on excess severity or any other public health issues like those related to vaccines. "We should be watchful for these variants because the virus is under pressure and when it goes under pressure then it tends to pick up characteristics that tend to help it in survival but as of now we should be watching such variants for their presence in our country but as of now we have no evidence that this has been detected in any part of our country," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Central team rushed to Kerala to monitor Zika virus situation||A six-member central team of experts has been dispatched to Kerala to monitor the Zika virus situation and support the state government in management of cases, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The southern state has so far reported 14 cases of Zika virus. It has been put on alert. At a press conference here, joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said, "There are some Zika cases which have been reported from Kerala. To monitor the situation and to support the state government, a six-member team comprising public health experts, vector-borne disease experts and clinicians from AIIMS has already been issued instructions to reach there and support the state government in terms of management of Zika there." A 24-year-old pregnant woman was the first to have been diagnosed with the mosquito-transmitted disease on Thursday. The National Institute of Virology (NIV) confirmed 13 more cases on Friday, according to the state government. The symptoms of Zika are similar to dengue and they include fever, rashes and joint pain. Kerala Health Minister Veena George has said that an action plan has been drawn up to control the spread of Zika.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Modi government mitigated importance of ED & CBI, says Congress||The Narendra Modi government and the BJP have reduced the importance of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole alleged on Friday. He also hit out at the Centre saying that although it has newly created a separate Co-operation Ministry, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who has been given its additional charge, does not know anything about the co-operation movement. Addressing a press conference here, Patole said, "ED and CBI are the country's topmost investigative agencies, but the Modi government and the BJP have turned them inconsequential. Nobody bothers about them now. Their importance has been reduced by the central government. He said that TMC leader Mukul Roy, who was also under the ED's scanner, was termed as clean after he joined the BJP, while those who are in other parties were called as corrupt. Roy, who had joined the BJP a few years back, returned to the Trinamool Congress recently. Patole also targeted the Centre over various issues, including fuel price rise and unemployment. "We (Congress) have launched a statewide agitation against the price rise and the destructive agenda of the Modi government. The agitations will go on till July 17, he said. Speaking on the pending election of Maharashtra Assembly Speaker, he said, Conducting the monsoon session was important, but considering the pandemic situation it was also important to keep it short. Hence it was not possible to conduct the election in a short period. He, however, said that the election for the speaker's post will be held during a special session of the legislature soon. "The Maharashtra government has decided to introduce three bills in the assembly related to agriculture, co-operation, and food and civil supplies. We are also seeking inputs from the stakeholder like farmers. Once we get those inputs, we will have to have a special session and we can hold the speaker's election at that time," he added. The monsoon session of the state legislature was held for two days earlier this week. Before the expansion and reshuffle of the Union Cabinet, the Modi government created a separate ministry for co-operation. Talking about it, Patole alleged, The central government is ready to sell the country now. They have announced to privatize most of the public sector units. I cannot comment on what the Ministry of Co-operation will do. But the person who is heading it (Amit Shah) knows nothing about the co-operation movement. It can be a move to destroy the co-operation sector or they may have some other aim. Only time will tell what they are have in mind."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Maharashtra, Kerala reported more than half of India's cases last week, says Centre||Maharashtra and Kerala recorded more than half of the Covid-19 cases registered in India last week, the Centre said on Friday as it stressed that the pandemic is far from over and there is no room for complacency. In a press conference, a senior official said, "The country is still dealing with the second wave and we need to introspect if we can afford misplaced belief that Covid-19 is over." The government said visuals from tourist spots and the way people are mingling without following Covid protocols is "a serious cause of concern" and that such negligence will increase the risk of virus spread. Joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal referred to recent spikes in cases in some countries, including Russia and the UK, to caution people against lowering their guard. He pitched for strictly following Covid-19 protocols such as wearing of mask and maintaining of physical distancing. He said more than half of the Covid-19 cases reported in India last week were from two states -- Maharashtra (21 per cent) and Kerala (32 per cent) -- and stressed on following containment measures. The official said 80 per cent of the new Covid cases in India are reported from 90 districts in 15 states and union territories, which indicates the need for focussed attention in these areas. He also said 66 districts across 17 states and UTs reported Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week ending July 8. India logged 43,393 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of cases to 3,07,52,950, while the active cases have declined to 4,58,727, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,939 with 911 fresh fatalities. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said Covid-19 in pregnant women can increase certain risks like pre-term delivery, that is why it is important for them to take the vaccine. The government also said that no cases with the Lambda variant of SARS-CoV-2 had been found in India so far. Responding to a question at a press briefing, joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) was closely monitoring the variant. Paul said the Lambda variant was a variant of interest,  so its total significance was still being explored. "As far as we know it has not entered our country, we have not detected this variant in our country. Our surveillance system INSACOG is very effective and it will detect it if it happens to enter our country because when you do sequencing, all this will be picked up. So we should watch for that," he said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Former Mumbai top cop summoned by ED in money laundering case||The ED is soon expected to question and record the statement of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in a money laundering case linked to his allegation of a Rs 100 bribery-cum-extortion racket in the state police establishment that led to the resignation of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, officials said on Friday. They said 59-year-old Singh has been issued summons to appear before the investigating officer of the case in Mumbai and the senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer has sought some time to depose apparently owing to a health issue. The summons has been issued to Singh sometime ago as part of the investigation into the case involving him and Deshmukh, they said. Singh, a 1988-batch IPS officer, is currently the director general of Maharashtra Police home guards unit. He was removed as the Mumbai Commissioner of Police (CP) after multiple investigations were launched into an instance of security scare that was reported from near the Mumbai house of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani in the capital city of Maharashtra. The investigation in the alleged bribery case gathered pace after the ED late last month raided the premises of Deshmukh, 72, and his aides in Nagpur and Mumbai and later arrested two of his staffers. The former home minister was also summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) thrice but he skipped the dates. Deshmukh, some days ago, moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from any coercive action by the ED in this money laundering case. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by Singh. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked suspended Mumbai Police assistant police inspector Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh had to resign from his post in April following the allegations and he has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. The ED has questioned Waze in this case twice at the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai and it is expected that it may grill him again on Saturday after it obtained a court permission to record his statement for three days. Waze is in jail after he was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with a case related to parking of an explosives laden SUV near the residence of Ambani and the murder case of businessman Mansukh Hiran. He had also told the ED that he attended a meeting at the official residence of the former home minister Deshmukh wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and asked to "collect Rs 3 lakh per month" from each of these businesses in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Ratha Jatra celebrations begin in Puri sans devotees||The celebrations for Lord Jagannath's annual Ratha Jatra began in Puri on Friday with the 'Naba Jauban Darshan' of the sibling deities, during which they are worshipped in their youthful appearances after spending 14 days in 'Anasara Ghara' or quarantine. As the celebrations began, the state government announced the imposition of curfew in Puri town from July 11. The curfew will be imposed at 8 pm on July 11, a day before the Ratha Jatra, and continue till 8 am on July 13, as per a notification issued by the Special Relief Commissioner's office. This year, Ratha Jatra will be held on July 12. All the entry points to Puri town will be sealed, officials said, adding that the restrictions are being imposed to keep devotees at bay in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The restrictions may be further extended in the town, said Sub-Collector Bhabataran Sahoo. The weekend shutdown, imposed in 10 coastal districts with high test positivity rates till July 16, will be eased for Puri town, as per the notification. "Now, in view of imposition of curfew in Puri town from 8 PM of 11.07.2021 to 8 PM of 13.07.2021 by the district administration for Ratha Jatra and in the interest of the general public, the said shutdown order is partially modified exempting Puri town from the shutdown on 10.01.2021 (Saturday)," it said. The Trinity -- Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra -- during the 'Naba Jouban Darshan' reappeared after spending 14 days in the 'Aasara Ghara'. However, devotees missed the rituals as no one was allowed entry into the shrine due to the pandemic. The state government has appealed to the people not to visit Puri during the festival, and instead watch the live broadcast of the Ratha Jatra on TV. Usually, around 10 lakh people gather in Puri during Ratha Jatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Two cases of Kappa variant of coronavirus detected in Uttar Pradesh||Two cases of Kappa variant of Covid-19 have been detected in Uttar Pradesh, according to an official statement issued on Friday. Genome sequencing of 109 samples was done at King George's medical college here in the past few days. The Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 was found in 107 samples, while the Kappa variant was found in two samples, the statement issued after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's routine review meeting said. "Both the variants are not new for the state. The facility of genome sequencing is being increased in the state," it added. At present, the daily positivity rate in the state is 0.04 per cent. When asked about the Kappa variant, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said earlier also cases of this variant were found in the state. "There is nothing to worry about. This is a variant of coronavirus and its treatment is possible," he said. When asked in which districts this variant was found, Prasad did not divulge details and said it would create fear among people. Meanwhile, India logged 43,393 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,07,52,950, while the active cases have declined to 4,58,727, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,939 with 911 fresh fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Kejriwal announces 'Graded Response Action Plan' to tackle third Covid wave in Delhi||A 'Graded Response Action Plan' to deal with a possible third wave of the coronavirus was passed in a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting on Friday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. A Delhi government panel on managing the possible third wave of Covid has devised a colour-coded mechanism which prescribes a graded response, including the closure of most economic activities at the highest 'Red' level alert. "The 'Graded Response Action Plan' was passed in the DDMA meeting today. No doubts will remain about when the lockdown will be imposed or when it will open. In the meeting, there was also discussion about the Delta plus variant. We have to stop this variant from spreading in Delhi, for which the government is taking all necessary steps," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The colour codes based on positivity rate (on two consecutive days), cumulative number of new cases (over a week) and average oxygenated-bed occupancy (for a week) will designate four levels of alerts. The graded response will involve restricting economic activities as per the level of alert linked with the severity of the pandemic. Shops and establishments of essential goods and services will be allowed to open during all the four levels of alerts. "After detailed deliberations and presentations made by the health department and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), it was decided to notify the Graded Response Action Plan that will objectively and transparently ensure an institutional and automatic response with regards to enforcement measures, lockdowns and unlock based on criteria such as test positivity rate and quantum of cases, an expert present at the meeting said. Concerns arising out of new variants such as Delta Plus and LAMBDA were discussed at length and measures like vaccination, genome sequencing, testing, tracking and surveillance were suggested as the most effective steps to mitigate their spread, experts said. People travelling in large numbers to tourist destinations and violating COVID-19-related guidelines were also flagged as an area of concern, they said. The meeting also stressed on having 12,000 ICU beds, sufficient oxygen, drugs and ambulances etc to deal with another surge in cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear Centre's IT Rules transfer and OTT platform petitions on July 16||The Supreme Court on Friday said the Centre's plea seeking transfer of petitions challenging the validity of new IT Rules from different high courts to the apex court would be heard on July 16 along with a pending matter related to regulation of over-the-top (OTT) platforms. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna tagged the Centre's plea with a pending special leave petition (SLP) in which the apex court had in March this year stayed proceedings before several high courts on petitions related to regulation of OTT platforms. We will tag it (Centre's plea) with the SLP, the bench said, adding, the matter would be listed before an appropriate bench on July 16. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, urged the bench to stay the proceedings pending in different high courts on pleas challenging the validity of the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. We are not saying anything. We are simply tagging it with the other matter, the bench said. One of the advocates, appearing in the matter, told the bench that the pending SLP is prior to the new Rules. According to the new IT Rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressable officers and assist in investigations. The new Rules also seek to regulate the functioning of online media portals and publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and social media intermediaries. The Centre has moved the apex court seeking transfer of pleas challenging the validity of new IT Rules from different high courts to the top court for an authoritative pronouncement on the issue. Several petitions challenging the new IT Rules are pending adjudication in different high courts, including the high courts of Delhi and Madras. The top court had earlier issued notice on a separate transfer petition filed by the Centre seeking to club all petitions filed in various high courts on the issue of regulating OTT platforms. Several pleas challenging the validity of new IT Rules are pending adjudication in the Delhi High Court which had sought response from the Centre on these petitions. Some of the pleas pending before the Delhi High Court have sought striking down of specific part of the IT Rules on the ground that it allegedly violates Article 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution creating a chilling effect on media freedom, Article 14 of the Constitution by creating an unreasonable classification and by setting up a parallel adjudicatory mechanism to be overseen by the officials of executive and is ultra vires the IT Act. The Madras High Court had on June 23 issued notice to the Centre seeking its response on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of the new IT rules. In March this year, the Kerala High Court had sought the Centre's response on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of new IT Rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Modi reviews progress of oxygen augmentation, availability across country||More than 1,500 PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) oxygen plants are coming up across the country, the government said on Friday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the progress of augmentation and availability of the life-saving gas. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO), in a statement, said Modi asked officials to ensure that these plants are made functional at the earliest and also told them to work closely with state governments in this regard. These upcoming oxygen plants include those being built with the contribution from the PM CARES fund as well as from various ministries and PSUs, it said. PSA oxygen plants contributed by the PM CARES fund are coming up in all states and districts of the country, and Modi was told that they will support more than 4 lakh oxygenated beds once functional, the PMO said. "PM asked officials to ensure there is adequate training of hospital staff on operation and maintenance of oxygen plants. He also directed officials to ensure that each district has trained personnel available," it said. The prime minister was informed by officials that a training module prepared by experts is in place, and they are targeting training of around 8,000 people across the country. Modi also asked them to deploy advanced technology like IoT to track the performance and functioning of these oxygen plants at the local and national level. He was informed by officials that a pilot exercise is being done using IoT for monitoring the performance of the oxygen plants, the PMO said. Officials also informed the prime minister that they are in regular touch with officers from state governments regarding fast-tracking the oxygen plants, it said. With many places complaining of oxygen shortage in hospitals during the peak of the second COVID-19 wave in April-May, the Union government has been taking measures in coordination with states to boost the production and supply of the life-saving gas. Modi has been holding a number of meetings in this regard amid apprehensions of a third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Kerala HC backs news channels in plea challenging IT Rules||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Centre not to take any coercive action against the members of News Broadcasters Association (NBA), which represents several news channels, over non-compliance of the new IT rules. Justice P B Suresh Kumar also issued notice to the Centre and sought its stand on the plea by NBA which has contended that the new IT Rules give government authorities "excessive powers" to "unreasonably and impermissibly restrict" the freedom of speech and expression of the media. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, who appeared for the NBA, said that under the new IT rules, a Joint Secretary would be heading the oversight mechanism which would supervise the self-regulatory body headed by a retired judge. Under the rules, media companies or their associations have to form self-regulatory bodies which would be headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court or High Courts or an eminent person. According to a report by livelaw.com, submitted that the high court had passed a similar order in LiveLaw Media's case restraining the Centre from taking any coercive action based on IT Rules. "In light of the interim order in WPC No 6272/2021 (Live Law Media Private Limited Vs Union of India), the respondents shall not to take any coercive action against the petitioners for non-compliance of the provisions contained in the Rules,"  a bench of Justice PB Suresh Kumar said, accepting Singh's argument. Thursday said it has filed a plea in the Kerala High Court challenging the new IT rules on the ground that they give government authorities "excessive powers" to "unreasonably and impermissibly restrict" the freedom of speech and expression of the media. In a statement, the NBA said the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines & Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, are ultra vires to the Information Technology Act, 2000 apart from being violative of Article 14 (equality before law) and 19(1)(g) (right to freedom to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) of the Constitution. It said the challenge is to Part III (Code of Ethics and Procedure and Safeguards in relation to Digital Media) of the IT rules as they create an "oversight mechanism giving the executive unfettered, unbridled and excessive powers to regulate content of digital news media". "The grievance redressal mechanism created and the powers delegated have a 'chilling effect' on the content of the media. The writ (petition) also states that the executive by creating such a structure, has made inroads into judicial power and vested itself with powers reserved exclusively for the judiciary and such exercise of power is without jurisdiction," the statement said. It said the petition has also challenged the new rules as the IT Act does not contain any provision for dealing with "content" of any programme and therefore, the rules are ultra vires the parent Act. "The rules violate Article 14 as there is neither any parity nor any valid exercise of classification in the rules as intermediaries' have been equated with 'digital news media'," it said, adding that the appendix of the rules - "Code of Ethics" makes the Programme Code applicable to the digital news media. The Programme Code contains vague, imprecise and ambiguous terms in relation to "content" such as "good taste", "snobbish attitude" and therefore, is not in consonance with the judgement of the Supreme Court. Several digital news media platforms have already challenged the 2021 IT rules in various high courts and even the Centre has approached the Supreme Court seeking to transfer all such pleas to itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Putting privacy policy on hold, WhatsApp tells Delhi HC||WhatsApp LLC told the Delhi High Court on Friday that till the data protection bill comes into force, it will not compel users to opt for its new privacy policy as it has been put on hold and will implement it "if Parliament allows it". WhatsApp clarified before bench of Chief justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh that it would not limit the functionality for users who are not opting for new privacy policy in the meantime. Appearing for the instant messaging platform, Senior Advocate Harish Salve said, "We voluntarily agreed to put it (the policy) on hold... We will not compel people to accept." Salve said that WhatsApp would nonetheless continue to display the update to its users. In response to Salve's submission, the court observed that even though the implementation had been put on hold, the policy still continued to exist. "You are not implementing it but the policy is with you and any day it can come," the court said. Salve reiterated that the approach would be maintained till the data protection bill becomes the law. "Commitment is that I will do nothing till the Parliament's law comes in. If Parliament allows it, I will have it. If it doesn't, bad luck... I've taken it off till the Parliament makes a law. Either we fit in or we don't," Salve said. The Personal Data Protection Bill seeks to regulate the use of individual's data by the government and private companies. The Joint Committee of Parliament examining the Bill has been given extension till the monsoon session to submit its report. The court was hearing the appeals of Facebook and its firm WhatsApp against the single-judge order refusing to stop the competition regulator CCI's order directing a probe into WhatsApp's new privacy policy. Last month, an application was moved by WhatsApp for interim stay on the probe. Salve argued that since the genesis of the probe -the privacy policy - has been stalled for now, the inquiry into the same by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) had become academic. "Objectionable part was 'take it or leave it'. For present, 'take it or leave it' is something we are not doing. Opt in, opt out is not there. Everybody is using," he said. He also urged the court to grant WhatsApp time till the end of July to respond to the questionnaire sent by CCI to it in relation to the inquiry. Salve informed the court that on June 4, WhatsApp received a letter from CCI, seeking information directly in relation to the issue of privacy which is being looked into by the Supreme Court and the high court. "Please see the questions -- month-wise number of downloads, number of active users, number of users left... number of users who opted out...80-90% is directly what your lordship is hearing," he said Salve added that even the central government communication sent to it in May, asking it to withdraw the policy, established that the privacy policy was already a subject matter of hearing before the Supreme court and the high court. Senior Advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, submitted that the CCI was jumping the gun by initiating a probe into the privacy policy when a challenge to the same was pending before two higher courts. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for CCI, said that as long as the privacy policy existed, its implications would continue to persist. He added that the matter before CCI was only at the stage of inquiry and nothing is going to happen even if steps are taken. "It is not as if by filing reply anything detrimental will happen," Lekhi said. Advocate Gurkaran Singh submitted before the court that his client Tapasi Kohli sought to intervene in the appeals on account of being the informant before CCI. The court proceeded to adjourn the matter till July 30 after it recorded that CCI's affidavit was not on record. The single judge on April 22 said that he saw no merit in the petitions of Facebook and WhatsApp to interdict the investigation directed by the CCI. He opined that though it would have been "prudent" for the CCI to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court against WhatsApp's new privacy policy, not doing so would not make the regulator's order "perverse" or "wanting of jurisdiction". In the petition challenging WhatsApp's privacy policy, Central government earlier told the court that social messaging platform was trying to force its users to consent to the new privacy policy before the data protection bill becomes the law and is obtaining "trick consent". It urged the high court to restrain WhatsApp from implementing its new privacy policy and terms of service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Vijayan requests PM to waive tax on imported life-saving drug for child||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday urged the Centre to waive GST and customs duty on a life-saving drug to be imported from the US for the treatment of a child suffering from Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), a rare disease, in the state. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he detailed the plight of 18-month-old Muhammed, a native of Kannur district, who is undergoing treatment for the disease. Noting that the medicine for SMA is 'prohibitively expensive' and 'unaffordable' for the child's family, Vijayan said it costs a whopping Rs 18 crore and is proposed to be imported from the US. The CM, in the letter, also pointed out that the central government had recently waived tax in a similar case of a five month old child, who is suffering from SMA in Mumbai. "I request you to give directions to the Union Finance Ministry to take steps not to levy Customs duty and integrated Goods and Services Tax (GST) in this case involving the import of the life saving drug zolgensma," he said. The Chief Minister's plea to the Centre came days after funds for purchasing the drug had been raised in Kerala through online crowdfunding for Muhammed. Son of P K Rafeeq and Mariyumma, the child requires a dose of Zolgensma, which is considered as one of the most expensive drug in the world. The treatment committee had on Monday informed the public that over Rs 18 crore reached the bank accounts opened for the donations and asked the people not to deposit any more. The campaign was taken over by social media resulting in raising the amount within seven days from across the world. Incidentally, 15-year-old Afra, the elder sister of Mohammed, was also affected with the same disease. The medicine would have to be procured from abroad and the treatment committee had petitioned the state government to initiate the process for procurement. Medical experts suggest that the child will have to be administered the dose of the medicine before he reaches the age of two, family sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||All adults to be inoculated by year-end, says expert panel head||National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration head NK Arora on Thursday said India's entire adult population will be vaccinated against Covid by December, expressing confidence that the government will be able to meet its target. This, he said, is based on the boost in vaccine supply expected over the coming months given the states also have to uphold their end by increasing the number of vaccine administration centres. "There has been a gradual increase in the availability of vaccines," Arora told NDTV.com in an interview. He opined that setting up of vaccine centres will be as big a challenge as the acquisition of vaccines - one that will be will be part of the states' responsibility. The aim is to have 75 to 100 thousand immunisation centres across the country in the government sector but states are currently running short and need to step up as the supply increases, he said. Explaining the graph, he said, "In June and July, there has been an increase. The country got 5.6 crore doses a month till May, now it is getting 10 to 12 crore doses and next month it should be nearing 16 to 18 crores. From September, we should be having 30 crore plus doses". Over the last three days, the country recorded a spike in the number of Covid cases after a lull of 56 days. The spike has been recorded in an increasing number of states and Union Territories have been recording a spike. As of July 8, eight to 11 states and Union Territories registered a rise. On the other hand, there has been a drop in vaccination rates, increasing the number of daily average required to meet the December target. Over the last 7 days, there has been an average shortfall of 4.7 million jabs, pushing up the required vaccination rate needed to stop a third wave to 8.7 million jabs a day. Last month, Randeep Guleria, chief of Delhi's All-India Institute of Medical Sciences and a member of the Centre's Covid Task Force, said a third wave of Covid is "inevitable" and it may hit in another six to eight weeks. Concern about a third wave has increased over the last week, with images of huge crowds in Himachal Pradesh as a heat wave gripped north India. Referring to the crowds at a meeting this evening with his new council of ministers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it should instil a sense of fear in us, sources have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Condition of Kalyan Singh improving, says hospital||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted to intensive care unit (ICU) of Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, is "better" and showing "consistent improvement", the hospital said on Friday. Singh was admitted to the ICU on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness levels. "The condition of Kalyan Singh, who is admitted in ICU of Critical Care Medicine (CCM), is better. He is hemodynamically stable. He is showing consistent improvement and his vital parameters are stable," the hospital said in a statement. "He is communicative and is being treated by senior faculty of CCM, Cardiology, Neurology, Endocrinology and Nephrology," it added. Earlier, the former chief minister was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to the grandson of Singh to enquire about his health, and said countless people across the country are praying for his speedy recovery. On Thursday, BJP president J P Nadda had visited the hospital and enquired about Singh's health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Modi to chair oxygen review meeting on Friday amid third wave fears||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a high-level meeting on Friday to review the augmentation and availability of medical oxygen across the country, government sources said. With many places complaining of oxygen shortage in hospitals during the peak of the second Covid-19 wave in April-May, the Union government has been taking measures in coordination with states to boost its production and supply. Modi has been holding a number of meetings in this regard amid apprehensions of a third wave of the pandemic. In his last such session in June, the prime minister expressed satisfaction at the vaccination speed in the country and said it is important to carry this momentum forward and also underlined a need to involve NGOs and other organisations in efforts to expand the drive. Modi also directed officials to work with states to ensure that the pace of testing does not go down as testing remains a very important weapon to track and contain rising infections in any region Modi underlined the need to involve NGOs and other organisations in the vaccination drive, with officials stating that they are in touch with state governments to explore and implement innovative methods to reach people for vaccination, the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||India logs over 43k new Covid-19 cases, 911 deaths||India logged 43,393 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,07,52,950, while the active cases have declined to 4,58,727, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,939 with 911 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.49 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.19 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 1,977 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,90,708 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 42,70,16,605, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 18 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.36 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,98,88,284, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 36.89 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Kerala reports first case of Zika virus, sample sent to Pune||In the first case of Zika virus in Kerala, a 24-year-old pregnant woman has been diagnosed with the mosquito-transmitted disease, state Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. There are 13 other suspected cases of the virus from Thiruvananthapuram, the minister told PTI, adding the government was awaiting confirmation from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) at Pune. Of the 19 samples sent from Thiruvananthapuram, 13 health workers, including doctors, are suspected to be positive for Zika, the minister said. The woman, hailing from Parassalain Thiruvananthapuram district, who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here, delivered her baby onJuly7. She had been admitted to the hospital on June 28 with fever, headache and red marks on her body. The tests conducted at the hospital confirmed that she was positive following which her samples were sent to NIV, Pune. The condition of the woman was satisfactory. Though she does not have any travel history outside the state, her house is on the Tamil Nadu border. A week ago,her mother had also shown similar symptoms, a government release added. The symptoms of Zika are similar to dengue including fever, skin rashes and joint pain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy died due to ‘cruel and unusual institutional mistreatment’||The Bar Association of India, which has attorney-general K.K. Venugopal as member and honorary chairman, has attributed Father Stan Swamy’s death in custody to “cruel and unusual institutional mistreatment”. In a statement issued through general secretary Anindita Pujari, the association said on Thursday the death of the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist had “brought disrepute to the Indian legal system and is a failure of the administration of justice”. Fr Stan, 84 and severely ill with Parkinson’s disease, was arrested under the anti-terror law UAPA and died after nine months while waiting for bail. “Despite his advanced age and deteriorating medical condition… he was repeatedly, and most unusually, denied interim bail and bail on merits. He passed away while his appeal for bail on medical grounds was being heard by the High Court of Bombay,” the statement said. “It is a failure of the rule of law and a profound institutional failure where an 84-year-old sick person is held in such a long pre-trial detention, particularly during a global pandemic.” The association said there was a compelling need to ensure adherence to the rule of law, and not just rule by law. “A legal system lacking in compassion and a humane approach towards pre-trial detention, including sensitivity to the advanced age and health conditions of those incarcerated, falls short of the high values that the Constitution of India articulates, most particularly liberty and the right to life,” the statement said. “The Bar Association of India calls upon all institutional actors to uphold the rule of law by discharging their duties with regard to the human condition of (detainees) so that this dark episode is never repeated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||US state department notes Fr Stan Swamy’s custodial death; brings up democracy||The Office of International Religious Freedom of the US state department on Wednesday took note of the death of Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy in custody and urged all governments to respect the vital role of human rights activists in healthy democracies. The Office of IRF, which promotes religious freedom as a core objective of US foreign policy, is the latest among voices from across the globe to express concern over the death of Fr Stan, the 84-year-old tribal rights activist who died in judicial custody on Monday awaiting bail. In a tweet, the Office of IRF said: “We are saddened by the death of Father Stan Swamy, a Jesuit priest & tribal rights activist, who died in Indian custody under charges of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. We call on all governments to respect the vital role of human rights activists in healthy democracies.” Asked for a response to the latest comment from a western capital on Fr Stan’s incarceration and death despite an explanatory statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Tuesday, official spokesperson Arindam Bagchi recalled Tuesday’s note and said he had nothing further to add. In that statement, India had claimed that due process had been followed in Fr Stan’s case and that the country remained committed to protect the human rights of all its citizens. The Office of IRF tweet was posted an hour after the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) — an independent, bipartisan, federal government commission created by law to monitor religious freedom abroad — urged the US government to hold the Indian government accountable and “raise religious freedom concerns in the bilateral relationship”. In its statement, the USCIRF condemned in the “strongest terms the deliberate neglect and targeting by the Indian government that led to the death” of Fr Stan, who was arrested in October last year. “Father Stan Swamy’s death is a stark reminder of the egregious and ongoing persecution of India’s religious minority communities. USCIRF consistently spoke out when Father Swamy was arrested and denied bail, especially considering the rapid deterioration of his health as he suffered from Parkinson’s disease and contracted Covid-19 while in prison, and was not given any support from prison officials. We urge the United States to hold the Indian government accountable and to raise religious freedom concerns in the US-India bilateral relationship,” the USCIRF said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Human genome segments linked to Covid severity identified||A global research study has identified 13 segments in the human genome that appear to increase or decrease the risk of Covid-19 susceptibility and severity, while scientists in India keen to do similar work are still awaiting approvals and data. The study led by researchers in Finland and the US and involving data from over 46,000 patients in 19 countries has identified four genome segments that influence a person’s susceptibility to develop Covid-19 and nine others that influence disease severity. Since the start of the pandemic in early 2020, doctors and researchers have tried to understand why some people develop severe disease while others have mild symptoms or remain symptom-free. All available data suggest that only 10 to 15 per cent of patients develop moderate to severe disease. Doctors already know that certain chronic health disorders such as high blood pressure or diabetes as well as old age are among factors that increase the risk of severe disease. But scientists have suspected for long that human genetic variations might also influence how people respond to Covid-19. In the new study, Andrea Ganna, a researcher at the Institute of Molecular Medicine, Finland, and nearly 3,000 collaborators analysed 46 studies on patients drawn from different human populations to look for genetic underpinnings of SARS-CoV-2 infection and disease severity. “The human genome significantly contributes to an individual’s response to SARS-CoV-2,” Ganna said. “We see very clear genetic signals with plausible candidate genes. Some signals appear specific to Covid-19 and are not known to be shared with other infectious diseases. Their study, published in the research journal Nature on Thursday, has identified more than 40 potential candidate genes found within those 13 segments that they say could provide a biological explanation for either susceptibility or severity. Some of these genomic segments or genes are already known to be associated with autoimmune or inflammatory diseases, the scientists said. A gene variant called FOXP4, for instance, that appears to enhance the risk of severe disease by 17 to 36 per cent is already known to be linked to the risk of other lung diseases. Another variant called TYK2 found to increase Covid-19 severity risk by 29 to 59 per cent is known to reduce the risk of some autoimmune diseases. The study is a “major milestone in our understanding of the role of human genetics in susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2”, Samira Asgari, a genetics researcher at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital at Harvard Medical School, and co-author Lionel Pousaz wrote in a commentary in the same issue of Nature. Senior scientists in India who were not associated with the study said the findings were impressive but expressed concern that researchers who had proposed a similar host genome study effort in India to a scientific funding agency were still awaiting a response. A research group in India had sent a proposal to the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a unit of the Union science and technology ministry, earlier this April seeking funding to initiate a similar study to explore the connections between human genome and Covid-19 severity. The group had collected samples from 600 patients with different levels of Covid-19 severity to start the analysis. The group learnt last month that the proposal had not been evaluated yet for a decision on funding. Many scientists in India have been concerned about what they believe is the inadequate utilisation of and lack of access to Covid-19 data even though the country has recorded over 30 million Covid-19 cases and over 400,000 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||New ministers rush to take charge amid media blitz ||The new ministers and those promoted to cabinet rank rushed to take charge of their ministries on Thursday morning amid a media blitz, trying to project a picture of intent. Those sacked from the ministry sulked silently. All the 36 new and seven promoted ministers had been directed to assume charge on Thursday itself and attend a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the evening, sources said. The idea was to portray a hardworking government that meant business, and try to erase from public memory the early summer images of Modi and his ministers addressing large election rallies as a Covid surge overwhelmed hospitals and crematoria, the sources added. Wednesday’s shuffle that inducted 36 new faces and bloated the ministry’s strength from 53 to 77 has largely been seen as an exercise to burnish Modi’s image and find scapegoats to sack amid domestic and global criticism of his handling of Covid and the economy. As the 43 ministers sworn in on Wednesday began their new assignments in the morning, TV screens and social media echoed with the day’s catchphrases: “commitment and dedication”, “hard work”, “meeting expectations”.... “I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, our party chief J.P. Nadda and home minister Amit Shah. I will carry out the responsibility given by them with hard work and determination. The effort will be to meet their expectations,” Jyotiraditya Scindia, the new civil aviation minister, told the media. Jyotiraditya, who had defected from the Congress last year, had earlier in the day emphasised his new loyalties by visiting the BJP headquarters and paying his respects to party stalwarts Deendayal Upadhyay and Syama Prasad Mookerjee. Sources said the Prime Minister’s Office had instructed the newly sworn-in ministers not to leave Delhi till Independence Day or conduct any celebrations. Old hand Dharmendra Pradhan, shifted from petroleum to the important education portfolio, joined Modi’s online interaction with IIT directors. The party tom-tommed this as “getting to work without wasting time”. Pradhan got his three new junior ministers to join him, following what the sources said was a directive from the Prime Minister’s Office. A meeting of the new cabinet was followed by Modi’s virtual interaction with the entire council of ministers. Many of the 12 ministers dropped in shock-and-awe style on Wednesday maintained a sullen silence. As the bustling party corridors wondered why seven cabinet ministers had been sacked at one go, the conversations tended to centre on Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar. Junior BJP politicians confessed to being “shocked” at the removal of the two heavyweights who functioned as spokespersons for party and government and frequently visited the party headquarters to address the media. Prasad had been one of the very few articulate and experienced ministers left in the BJP after the passing of Arun Jaitley, and many thought him indispensable. Prasad’s Twitter handle reflected a sense of hurt on Thursday, introducing him as a Lok Sabha MP from Patna Sahib and then adding “BJP worker”. The former law and IT minister has posted not one tweet since Tuesday evening, when he had lauded Modi’s move to form a new cooperation ministry as a “historic decision”. Javadekar’s last tweet had been to express condolences over Dilip Kumar’s death on Wednesday morning, hours before the ministerial heads had begun rolling. Prasad and Javadekar, former I&B and environment minister, were not known for their reticence on Twitter. A BJP insider dismissed the idea of performance having been the criteria behind the sackings, strengthening the impression that the shuffle was more about messaging than substance. “The two of them (Prasad and Javadekar) were sacked to send out the message that no minister, however big, should think they are indispensable,” the source said. He added that the current ministers were meant to keep in mind the treatment handed out to the duo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||French court freezes Indian assets worth over $24 million in Paris ||A French court froze 20 residential properties worth over 20 million euros ($24 million) belonging to the Indian government in Paris while upholding a petition filed by Cairn Energy seeking to force the Narendra Modi government to fork out a $1.7-billion international arbitration award. The order issued by the Tribunal Judiciaire de Paris is deeply embarrassing for the Modi government, which has refused to pay the sum after losing a tax dispute with Cairn Energy that dates back to 2014. Cairn said the order was a necessary first step to take ownership of the properties and ensure that the proceeds from any sale would go to the Edinburgh-based oil producer. The company has already filed similar lawsuits in the US, the UK, Canada, Singapore, Mauritius and the Netherlands in an attempt to grab the Indian government assets and realise its arbitration dues. France is the first country where it has been successful in pressing its claims. The Modi government continued to prevaricate by sending out confusing signals on what it intended to do in response to the latest adverse court verdict. It said it would wait for a copy of the French court’s order and then decide how best to pursue legal remedies while keeping the door “open for an amicable solution to the dispute within the country’s legal framework”. “Constructive discussions have been held and the government remains open for an amicable solution to the dispute within the country’s legal framework,” the finance ministry said in a statement after reports of Cairn Energy’s latest victory in the protracted legal dispute came in. In December last year, the arbitration tribunal in The Hague had awarded $1.2 billion plus costs and interest totalling roughly $1.73 billion. The arbitration tribunal had also overturned the Indian government’s demand for Rs 10,247 crore in back taxes that was issued in 2014 and was related to the Cairn group’s reorganisation of its Indian operations in 2006. Cairn India sold a 58.5 per cent stake in its Indian operations to Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta group in December 2011 for $8.67 billion while retaining a 10 per cent rump stake. The government subsequently attached Cairn Energy’s residual stake in the business while vigorously pursuing the tax dispute, which it eventually lost. Back in March, the government challenged the international arbitration award before the court of appeals in The Hague. The French court order enhances the bargaining position of Cairn Energy which has been trying to work out a settlement with the Indian government. In an email response to a question from The Telegraph, a spokesman for Cairn Energy said: “Our strong preference remains an agreed, amicable settlement with the Government of India to draw this matter to a close, and to that end we have submitted a detailed series of proposals to them since February this year. However, in the absence of such a settlement, Cairn Energy must take all necessary legal actions to protect the interests of its international shareholders.” Cairn Energy has offered to forgo the interest and cost, totalling over $500 million, and invest that sum in any oil and gas or renewable energy project identified by Indian government if the principal dues of $1.2 billion are paid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Supreme Court upholds summons to Facebook over Delhi riots||The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld the summons that Delhi Assembly’s privileges committee had issued to Facebook vice-president Ajit Mohan last year over allegations that the company’s inaction against hate content had worsened the February 2020 riots in Delhi. The bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy chastised Facebook for arguing that an “intermediary” like it was neither liable for adverse posts nor amenable to the privileges committee’s jurisdiction, asserting the social media platform’s role was “not as innocuous”. It rejected the contention of Facebook and the Union government that since law and order in Delhi and information technology were central subjects, the Delhi Assembly lacked jurisdiction to examine issues relating to the riots. Both the privileges committee and the state government are within their rights to look into the causes of the violence and recommend remedial measures, Justice Kaul, who wrote the 188-page judgment, said. He, however, frowned on privileges committee chair Raghav Chadha’s act of addressing the media after issuing the summons and saying that Facebook could be made a co-accused in the communal riots case. “Ultimately, it is the state government and the state Assembly which has to deal with the ground reality even in the dual power structure in Delhi. If we may say so, it is only the factum of Delhi being the capital and the sensitivities arising therefrom in respect of public order or police which has possibly persuaded these powers to be retained by the central government,” the apex court said. “We cannot say that informed deliberation inter alia on the best measures through which online mass hate and violence in their geographical jurisdiction can be addressed would not be within the committee’s area of competence as it would undermine the very purpose of a vital democratic polity.” The February violence, which followed an Assembly election that the BJP lost after running a provocative campaign, had left 53 people dead. Media reports had said that hateful comments on Facebook by Right-wing Hindus that the social media platform had failed to clamp down on had aggravated the riots. The apex court judgment described governance in Delhi as a “collaborative effort between the Centre and the state” and said the House panel was not “transgressing into any fields reserved for the Union government”. “The complexity of communal tensions and their wide-ranging ramifications is a matter affecting citizens of Delhi and it cannot be said that the government of NCT of Delhi cannot look into the causal factors in order to formulate appropriate remedial measures,” it said. “Appropriate recommendations made by the state government in this regard could be of significance in the collaborative effort between the Centre and the State to deal with governance issues.” “We are of the view that because of the pervasive impact of the riots, the (privileges) committee could legitimately attend to such grievances encompassing varied elements of public life. Thus, it would be entitled to receive information and deliberate on the same to examine their bearing on peace and harmony without transgressing into any fields reserved for the Union government in the Seventh Schedule.”The judgment noted that the committee’s summons had been “fuelled by an article published in The Wall Street Journal on 14.8.2020”, titled “Facebook’s Hate-Speech Rules Collide with Indian Politics”, which alleged lapses on the part of Facebook India in addressing hate content and a broad pattern of favouritism towards the ruling party and Hindu hardliners. The Committee on Peace and Harmony (privileges committee) then issued a notice to Mohan, vice-president and managing director of Facebook India Online Services Private Limited, asking him to appear before it on September 2, 2020. The notice said the committee would seek Facebook India’s views on “safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”. Facebook challenged the summons on the ground of jurisdiction. “This case is a preventive endeavour by the petitioner (Facebook) to preclude the respondents from even considering the aspect of privilege by seeking this court’s intervention at a pre-threshold stage, only on the premise of the absence of legislative power,” the apex court said. The apex court rejected Facebook’s contention, presented through senior advocate Harish Salve, that the company should not be dragged into a political fight between the central and Delhi governments. “We are, however, not impressed with the argument of Mr Salve that the petitioners cannot be drawn into what is perceived to be a political divide,” Justice Kaul said. “Facebook is a platform where such political differences are reflected. They cannot wash their hands of the issue as this is their very business. As noticed earlier, their role is not as innocuous as they are seeking to contend.” Chadha’s role The bench disapproved of the conduct of committee chair Chadha, who had claimed the material placed before the panel had resulted in a “preliminary conclusion” and “prima facie it seems that Facebook has colluded with vested interests during Delhi riots”. Chadha had said: “Facebook should be treated as a co-accused and investigated as a co-accused in Delhi riots investigation and a supplementary chargesheet should be filed in the trial court.” The apex court said: “The aforesaid statements and conclusions are completely outside the remit of the committee and should not have been made. That it may give rise to apprehension in the minds of the petitioners can also not be doubted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Vast powers must come with responsibility: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday castigated Facebook for arguing it was a mere “intermediary platform” and couldn’t be hauled up for content that manipulated the political discourse. “Facebook is the most popular social media platform in India with about 270 million registered users. Such vast powers must necessarily come with responsibility,” the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy said. “Entities like Facebook have to remain accountable.... While Facebook has played a crucial role in enabling free speech by providing a voice to the voiceless and a means to escape state censorship... it has simultaneously become a platform for disruptive messages, voices, and ideologies.” Justice Kaul, who authored the judgment, noted how social media “has become a tool in the hands of various interest groups who have recognised its disruptive potential”. “This results in a paradoxical outcome where extremist views are peddled into the mainstream, thereby spreading misinformation.... This has given rise to significant debates about the increasing concentration of power in platforms like Facebook, more so as they are said to employ business models that are privacy-intrusive and attention soliciting,” the judgment said. “The effect on a stable society can be cataclysmic with citizens being ‘polarised and paralysed’ by such ‘debates’.... Less informed individuals might have a tendency to not verify information sourced from friends, or to treat information received from populist leaders as the gospel truth.” Targeting users The apex court rejected Facebook’s argument that it is merely a platform posting third-party information and has no role in generating, controlling or modulating that information. “The endeavour to hide behind such simplistic models have been found to be unacceptable by the UK Parliament.... It is too late in the day for companies like Facebook to deny that they use algorithms (which are sequences of instructions) with some human intervention to personalise content and news to target users. The algorithms select the content based on several factors including social connections, location, and past online activity of the user,” the bench said. “These algorithms are often far from objective with biases capable of getting replicated and reinforced. The role played by Facebook is, thus, more active and not as innocuous as is often presented....” Global role Justice Kaul said that internationally, Facebook had had to recognise its failure to prevent incitement in the context of the ethnic cleansing in Myanmar, where its employees somehow missed the spate of misinformation that helped fuel the violence. “The platform similarly apologised for its lack of serious response to evident signs of abuse of the platform in Sri Lanka and had to acknowledge its need to be regulated, though the exact method is still unclear and a prerogative of lawmaking authority,” he said. “There have been endeavours in light of the aforesaid by countries like Australia, US, the UK, and the EU for ways to regulate platforms such as Facebook in an efficient manner but their efforts are still at a nascent stage. “The US has also seen heated debates arising from the 2016 presidential elections with allegations of supposed interference by Russia allegedly facilitated by platforms like Facebook.” The bench said Facebook had acknowledged that it had removed 22.5 million instances of hate speech in the second quarter of 2020 alone, showing it exercised substantial control over content. “To that extent, a parallel may be drawn with editorial responsibility cast on other mass circulation media,” it said. Double standard The apex court cited how, in the US, “Facebook projected itself in the category of a publisher, giving them protection under the ambit of the First Amendment of its control over the material which are disseminated in their platform”. “This identity has allowed it to justify moderation and removal of content. Conspicuously, in India, however, it has chosen to identify itself purely as a social media platform despite its similar functions and services in the two countries,” it said. “Thus, dependent on the nature of controversy, Facebook... seeks to modify its stand depending upon its suitability and convenience.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh passes away at 87||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh died here early on Thursday after a prolonged illness. He was 87. The veteran leader breathed his last at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here at 3.40am, its senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said. Virbhadra had suffered a heart attack on Monday and was in the critical care unit of IGMC. He had been put on ventilator on Wednesday. A nine-time MLA and five-time MP, Virbhadra served as Himachal Pradesh’s chief minister for six times. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 11 for the second time in two months. Virbhadra’s wife Pratibha and their son Vikramaditya Singh are also politicians. Pratibha is former MP while Vikramaditya is an MLA from Shimla Rural.Virbhadra was also  the leader of Opposition from March 1998 to March 2003. The veteran Congress leader had served as Union deputy minister, tourism and civil aviation, minister of state for industries, Union minister for steel and Union minister for micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME). He also served as Himachal Pradesh Congress president. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said: “Popular for his affable and grounded nature, he remained close to people and brought about far-reaching positive changes through his administrative acumen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Violence erupts between BJP-SP workers during filing of blockhead nominations in Uttar Pradesh||Large-scale violence was reported during the filing of nominations for political chiefs of blocks in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday with the Samajwadi Party alleging that BJP goons had kidnapped and assaulted many of its candidates and supporters. The Samajwadi Party had earlier this year won the elections to the block development councils, part of the panchayati raj system, by bagging 50 per cent of the seats. The BJP had won 30 per cent of the seats. These elected council members will now elect the block pramukhs, for which nominations are being filed. There are 822 blocks in Uttar Pradesh. The Samajwadi Party alleged that the BJP was trying to vitiate the atmosphere by resorting to violence after tasting defeat. Naresh Uttam Patel, the state Samajwadi chief, said: “Violence took place in Kannauj, Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Gorakhpur, Siddharthnagar and many other places. BJP goons kidnapped our candidates, thrashed them, snatched their nomination papers and even opened fire in the presence of police to terrorise our party workers and contestants.” Mata Prasad Pandey, who had been Vidhan Sabha Speaker during Samajwadi rule, said: “BJP goons snatched from me the nomination paper of my party’s candidate in Siddharthnagar. Many of our workers have suffered injuries in Gorakhpur, Unnao, Sambhal, Gonda, Bulandshahr and Mainpuri.” Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that democracy was being “ripped off” in the state. Sharing a video of the violence on Twitter, Priyanka wrote in Hindi: “PM sahab and CM sahab should also congratulate on how their workers in UP indulged in stone-pelting and firing, looted nomination papers, beat up journalists and misbehaved with women. By blind-folding the law-and-order system, democracy is being ripped off.” Ajay Kumar Lallu, the Uttar Pradesh Congress president, said: “The BJP’s nakedness was seen today by the entire state. We have received video footage from across the state showing BJP-backed criminals, with the help of the police, attacking rival candidates.” “This is only a glimpse of what they will do during the 2022 Assembly elections. The voters should be ready for a struggle to save democracy, which is at stake under the BJP,” Lallu added. The BJP denied the allegations of assault and kidnapping. Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi said: “It is the Samajwadi Party that belongs to goons. The entire state used to feel insecure when Akhilesh Yadav was chief minister. They are not being able to accept their defeat in the recent elections for zilla panchayat chiefs and are trying to bully us.” Sitapur district magistrate Vishal Bharadwaj said people opened fire during the filing of nominations for the head of the Kasmanda block. A person suffered injuries and has been referred to Lucknow for treatment, he said without revealing the identity of the individual. Four persons have been arrested, the DM said. Former Samajwadi MLA Mahendra Singh said his party’s candidate was prevented by the police from filing his nomination in the Rampur Mathura block “at the behest of the BJP government in the state”. In Kannauj block, Samajwadi candidate Ajay Dohre and his proposer were allegedly manhandled. At Talgram and Gugrapur, Samajwadi and BJP workers and supporters got involved in an altercation. At Saurikh, local journalist Nitya Mishra was attacked. He suffered injuries and his camera got damaged, the police said. Samajwadi MLC Rajpal Kashyap said: “The BJP is using the government machinery in favour of its candidates and harassing rivals with the help of the police.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
09-07-2021||India||Over 7 lakh deaths in India per year linked to abnormal temperatures||Nearly 740,000 excess deaths in India annually can be attributed to abnormal hot and cold temperatures related to climate change, according to a study published in The Lancet Planetary Health journal. An international team, led by researchers at Monash University in Australia, found that globally more than five million extra deaths a year can be attributed to non-optimal temperatures. The study published on Wednesday found that deaths related to hot temperatures increased in all regions from 2000 to 2019, indicating that global warming due to climate change will make this mortality figure worse in the future. In India, the number of deaths per year linked with abnormal cold temperatures is 6,55,400, while the number of deaths associated with high temperatures is 83,700, according to the researchers. The team looked at mortality and temperature data across the world from 2000 to 2019, a period when global temperatures rose by 0.26 degrees Celsius per decade. The study, the first to definitively link non-optimal temperatures to annual increases in mortality, found 9.43 per cent of global deaths could be attributed to cold and hot temperatures. This equates to 74 excess deaths for every 1,00,000 people, with most deaths caused by cold exposure. Global warming may “slightly reduce the number of temperature-related deaths, largely because of the lessening in cold-related mortality,” said Professor Yuming Guo, from the Monash University. “However in the long-term climate change is expected to increase the mortality burden because heat-related mortality would be continuing to increase,” Guo said. The data show geographic differences in the impact of non-optimal temperatures on mortality, with Eastern Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa having the highest heat and cold-related excess death rates. Cold-related death decreased 0.51 per cent from 2000 to 2019, while heat-related death rose 0.21 per cent, leading to a reduction in net mortality due to cold and hot temperatures. Of the global deaths attributed to abnormal cold and heat, the study found more than half occurred in Asia, particularly in East and South Asia. Europe had the highest excess death rates per 100,000 owing to heat exposure, according to the researchers. Sub-Saharan Africa had the highest death rates per 100,000 because of exposure to cold, they said. The largest decline of net mortality occurred in Southeast Asia while there was temporal increase in South Asia and Europe. Previous studies had looked at temperature-related mortality within a single country or region. “This is the first study to get a global overview of mortality due to non-optimal temperature conditions between 2000 and 2019, the hottest period since the Pre-Industrial era,” Guo said. The researchers used data from 43 countries across five continents with different climates, socio-economic and demographic conditions and differing levels of infrastructure and public health services. “The study had a large and varied sample size, unlike previous studies,” Guo added. The mortality data from this study are significantly higher than the second-largest study published in 2015, conducted across 13 countries/regions, which estimated 7.7 per cent of deaths were related to cold and hot temperatures. “The importance of taking data from all points of the globe was to get a more accurate understanding of the real impact of non-optimal temperatures under climate change,” Guo said. Understanding the geographic patterns of temperature-related mortality is important for the international collaboration in developing policies and strategies in climate change mitigation and adaptation and health protection, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
09-07-2021||India||J&K: Raj Bhavan, civil secretariat become 'no-fly zones' for UAVs||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has declared the heavily guarded Raj Bhavan and the civil secretariat office complex in Jammu district as “no-fly zones” for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), the move prompted by last month’s attack on the Indian Air Force station and frequent drone sightings. At least half a dozen districts across Jammu and Kashmir, including Srinagar, have banned the storage, sale or possession of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles. Two explosives-laden drones had crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport on June 27 in what the police believed was the first-ever drone attack in any part of the country. After that, there were other suspicious sightings of UAVs, triggering a security alert. An order issued by Jammu deputy commissioner Anshul Garg said the “airspace over Raj Bhavan, Jammu, and civil secretariat, Jammu, has been declared as ‘No Fly Zone’ and flying of drones and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) shall be strictly prohibited over and above these premises with immediate effect. “There shall be complete prohibition on flying of drones and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) over all areas/venues in district Jammu as and when the lieutenant governor is scheduled to visit in connection with holding of events.” The order said the decision was taken in view of the “security threat posed due to recent trends of carrying out drone attacks by anti-national elements” due to which it became “imperative to initiate necessary security measures for ensuring the safety of air space” over these landmarks. It also said there was immense threat to the lieutenant governor at the hands of anti-national elements, necessitating the action. The order suggested that drones were free to fly over other landmarks, which is surprising as Jammu is the only district to face a drone attack and sightings of UAVs in the past fortnight and betrays how the government is careful about the public sensitivities in Jammu. The district administrations of Srinagar and Baramulla in Kashmir and Ramban, Rajouri and Samba in Jammu division have altogether banned all drone activities despite no attacks or sightings. The administration said that against the backdrop of recent attack on the air force station in Jammu by using drones, it had been apprehended that terrorists might launch attacks with the help of technology like drones and other flying objects. In an order last week, the Srinagar district administration had imposed a ban on storage, sale, possession, use and transport of UAVs, saying the decision was taken in “view of the security situation apart from concerns of breach of privacy, nuisance and trespass”. “It is extremely dangerous to let unmanned aerial vehicles to wander around in the skies within the territorial jurisdiction of district Srinagar,” said the order by the district magistrate. The Srinagar administration has asked people owning drones to deposit them with the police. There was an exemption on their use for government departments but they have to inform the police first. The drone attack and other sightings have added a dangerous dimension to Kashmir militancy where security forces now need to secure the installations from both air and ground. 4 dead in gunfight Two army men and two militants died in a gunfight in Jammu’s Rajouri district on Thursday. The slain jawans are Naib Subedar Sreejith M. and Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Reddy. The operation to hunt down a group of infiltrating militants was launched nine days back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
09-07-2021||India||Narendra Modi emphasises need to translate global research journals into Indian languages||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday emphasised the need to translate global research journals into Indian languages and digitisation of higher education. Modi interacted with the heads of centrally funded technical institutions (CFTIs) through videoconference in the presence of new education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) said. “The PM added that we need to develop an ecosystem of technological education in Indian languages and translate global journals into regional languages,” the release said. Several institution heads and experts, however, later raised concerns such as possible poor quality of translations, the massive scale of the task and lack of experts. “About 10 million papers in technical subjects get published every year. Translating them into Indian languages is a very big challenge,” a CFTI head who attended the meeting told The Telegraph. “In India, there is no single language. Do we have experts to get global journals translated into different languages?” he asked. He said that if research papers were also written in vernacular languages, there would be problems in getting them published as most reputed journals were in English. AICTE chairperson Anil Sahasrabudhe, however, said translating journals was very much possible as the council had developed an artificial intelligence-based tool for the purpose. “We have already developed an automated AI tool to translate content in English to Indian languages. It is giving us 80 to 85 per cent success. So, some subject experts are required to do corrections using another tool. We are using the AI tool for translating some of the online courses available on the Swayam portal of the government,” Sahasrabudhe said. “After this tool is further improved, it will have the potential to translate any kind of technical material, including technical journals,” he said. At the online meeting, the Prime Minister advocated online education to increase the gross enrolment ratio (GER), the percentage of youths in the 18-23 age group registered with higher educational institutions. “The Prime Minister appreciated the improvement in the GER in higher education over the past few years and emphasised that digitisation of higher education can play a big role in increasing GER, and students will have easier access to good quality and affordable education. The Prime Minister also lauded the various initiatives taken by the institutions to increase digitisation, such as that of online bachelor and master degree programmes,” the PIB release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
09-07-2021||India||Congress heat on Kerala Left Front over rape and murder of six-year-old girl ||The arrest of a DYFI worker for the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl has put Kerala’s Left Front government under pressure from the Opposition that has launched protests demanding that the guilty doesn’t go scot-free like in an earlier case. Arjun, 21, a well-known worker of the DYFI, the youth arm of the CPM, was picked up last week after the child was found hanging from a ceiling fan at her home in Vandiperiyar in Idukki district by her parents when they returned from work. Both Arjun and the victim are children of tea estate workers and neighbours in the line houses near the plantation area. Police had initially questioned all the neighbours after the death was reported on June 30 and the post-mortem confirmed sexual assault. Arjun had claimed he had not seen the child for two days. But the statement of a neighbour who had seen him with the child on the day she was found dead provided the breakthrough. Arjun later confessed to have sexually assaulted the girl when she was alone at home and using a shawl to hang her when she lost consciousness. He admitted to have raped her multiple times since late 2019 by luring the child with goodies like chocolates. Arjun had even helped the child’s family during the funeral so as not to arouse any suspicion. He has since been booked for rape, murder and several provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and sent to judicial custody. Although the DYFI on Wednesday said it had sacked Arjun, the Opposition Congress launched statewide protests to ensure justice is served. State Youth Congress president Shafi Parambil visited the victim’s parents in Vandiperiyar on Thursday and led a protest march. A large number of women from the Mahila Congress jostled with police outside the state women’s commission office in Thiruvananthapuram where they had marched to demand action in the case. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy told reporters that his party would not sit quiet. “This government is not learning any lessons. This child got killed because the government did not give any importance to the earlier cases,” the Congress veteran said, alluding to the 2017 rape of two minor sisters in Walayar, Palakkad. Two sisters aged 13 and nine and belonging to a Dalit family of labourers were found dead 52 days apart in January and March 2017 in their shanty in the industrial township of Walayar. Subsequent investigations confirmed they had committed suicide by hanging after repeated sexual assaults by five men, one of them a minor, who had links with the CPM. But all of the accused were acquitted as the prosecution failed to present any clinching evidence. This had led to massive protests with the Opposition accusing the Left government of protecting its supporters. The matter got a fresh lease of life when the children’s mother contested against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the Dharmadam constituency of Kannur in the April Assembly polls. The case is now being probed by the CBI. Two of the accused were arrested again. While one is out on bail, the other died by suicide. State Youth Congress president Parambil accused the Left government of providing good legal support to its cadres accused in such cases. “This only encourages their cadres to rape and kill. We are heading into a very dangerous situation if the CPM doesn’t stop supporting such people,” Parambil told reporters in Idukki. Rights activist C.R. Neelakandan, who was among those who helped the victims’ family in the Walayar case, said arrest didn’t mean much. “Even the Walayar accused were arrested, but they were let off due to laxity in the probe. That’s why we fear that the Vandiperiyar case also could meet a similar fate since the CPM has a history of backing its cadres in all kinds of cases,” he told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
