10-07-2021||India||Kerala reports 15 confirmed Zika virus cases so far||One more person has been infected with Zika virus in Kerala, taking the total number of cases in the state to 15. Health minister Veena George said the samples of a 40 year-old man from Nanthancode here were sent to the National Institute of Virology at Alappuzhaand found to be positive for the vector borne infection. So far 14 people from Thiruvananthapuram have tested positive for Zika. Samples of 17 people sent earlier were negative and in the second batch of 27 samples, one has tested positive, the minister said in a press statement. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Zika has been reported in Kerala and it was not unexpected as it is spread by the Aedes Aegypte mosquitoes, which causes dengue and Chickungunya. Vector control units at the district and state level would be further strengthened, he told reporters. Vehicle-check intensified on TN-Kerala border The district administration on Saturday intensified vehicle-check on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border following the Zika virus outbreak in that State. Tight vigil was maintained at 14 strategic points and checkposts at Walayar and Meenakshipuram, official sources said. According to the sources, e-pass mandatory was mandatory for those entering the district from Kerala since the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||J&K government sacks 11 employees from service for allegedly working for terror groups||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has sacked 11 more employees, including sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin who has been designated a global terrorist by the US, for allegedly working for various terror groups, officials said on Saturday.  Earlier seven employees, including Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Davinder Singh and an assistant professor, were dismissed by the Union Territory's administration.  The dismissals started in the last week of April and have been done under Article 311 of the Indian Constitution under which the employees hold their office under the pleasure of the president and can be dismissed without an inquiry. Dismissed employees can only approach a high court for relief.  The decision to dismiss the 11 employees was taken at two meetings of the designated committee in Jammu and Kashmir for scrutinising such cases. In one of the meetings, three employees were recommended for dismissal and in another, eight were recommended for dismissal from government service.  The final decision was taken after considering the recommendation of the findings of the meetings of the committee, the officials said.  The 11 employees, who have been dismissed, are from the Jammu Kashmir Police, the education, agriculture, skill development, power and health departments, and the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS).  Among the employees, four are from Anantnag, three from Budgam, and one each from Baramulla, Srinagar, Pulwama and Kupwara districts, the officials said.  Syed Ahmad Shakeel and Shahid Yousuf, who are sons of the most wanted terrorist, Salahuddin, were dismissed from service for allegedly being involved in terror funding, the officials said.  Salahuddin has been designated as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist by the United States.  One of them was working with SKIMS as a pharmacist and the other was in the agriculture department, they said.  The National Investigation Agency has tracked terror funding trails of both the persons. They were involved in raising, receiving, collecting and transferring funds through Hawala (non-banking) transactions for terror activities of the banned Hizbul Mujahideen, the officials said.  The three officials recommended for dismissal in one of the meetings included an orderly of the ITI in Kupwara, who was an over ground worker (OGW) of terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba, they said, adding he was providing information to terrorists about the movement of security forces, and abetting and harbouring terrorists to carry out activities in a clandestine manner.  Besides him, there were two teachers from Anantnag in South Kashmir who were found involved in anti-national activities, including participating, supporting and propagating secessionist ideology of the banned groups like Jamat-Islami (JeI) and Dukhtaran-e-Millat (DeM), the officials said.  The eight government employees recommended for dismissal in the other meeting of the committee included two constables of the Jammu Kashmir Police who supported terrorism from within the police department and provided inside information to terrorists as also logistic support, the officials said.  Constable Abdul Rashid Shigan has himself executed attacks on security forces, they said. The other constable was identified as Showkat Sofi, who is alleged to be hand-in-glove with the banned terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed, the officials said.  Another government employee with terror links is Naaz Mhammad Allaie, an orderly of the health department. He is an OGW of the Hizbul Mujahideen and has a history of direct involvement in terrorist activities, the officials said, adding that two dreaded terrorists were harboured by him at his residence.  Employees Jabbar Ahmad Paray and Nisar Ahmad Tantray of the education department, who terminated from service, are alleged to be "actively" involved in furthering the secessionist agenda unleashed by terror-sponsors from Pakistan and are Jamat-e-Islami ideologists, they said.  Shaheen Ahmad Lone, an inspector of the power department has been found involved in smuggling and transporting of arms for the Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, the officials said.  He was found travelling along with two terrorists on the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway and carrying arms, ammunition and explosives in January last year, they said.  Earlier in April-May, the administration dismissed seven employees including DSP Singh. Along with him Bashir Ahmad Sheikh and Mohammad Yousuf Ganie, both from Kupwara in North Kashmir, were dismissed from the education department.  Dr Abdul Bari Naik, assistant professor, geography, Government Degree College, Women, Udhampur; Nazir Ahmed Wani, Naib Tehsildar (Revenue Officer), Pulwama; and a teacher, Idrees Jan of Government School, Kupwara, were dismissed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||BJP claims ‘historic’ win at UP local polls||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday claimed victory in the polls for the posts of the block panchayat chief, amid allegations of violence by the opposition parties. The Opposition has slammed the state government over incidents of violence in the run-up to the polls. Reports of clashes had surfaced from several areas of the state with allegations that candidates backed by opposition parties were not allowed to file nomination papers. However, claiming an outstanding show by the BJP in the polls to the posts of block and district panchayat chiefs, Adityanath said almost 85 per cent seats went in favour of the ruling party. Terming the success an outcome of the team work, the chief minister said the BJP and its allies bagged 635 of 825 seats of block panchayat chief on Saturday. Meanwhile, lauding the BJP's win in the elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that the "big victory" is a reflection of the benefits people have received due to the Yogi Adityanath government's policies and pro-people schemes. All party workers deserve congratulations for this win, he said. The CM also praised the state Election Commission for the peaceful and fair polls. Conducting such a massive election process peacefully, in a state where democracy was mortaged before professional criminals and mafia on the basis of caste religion and sect, is praiseworthy, he told reporters at the BJP headquarters here. He said it was due to the guidance and inspiration of PM Modi, work was done without discrimination for every sections of society. The inclination of the people was towards the BJP and I am happy to say that the strategy of the party has yielded this result, he said. On Saturday, the elections were held for 476 posts of the block panchayat chief as 349 candidates were declared elected unopposed on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra reports 8,296 new cases, 179 fatalities||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 8,296 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 179 fatalities while 6,026 patients recovered, the state health department said.  With the new additions, the COVID-19 tally in Maharashtra climbed to 61,49,264 and the death toll to 1,25,528.  Of the 179 fatalities, 143 occurred in last 48 hours while 36 in the last week. Additionally, 315 deaths have been added to the cumulative toll report of Maharashtra, which means the overall fatality count has gone up by 494 compared to Friday, the health department said in a report.  A health official said 6,026 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recoveries so far in Maharashtra to 59,06,466, leaving the state with 1,14,000 active cases.  Maharashtra's case recovery rate now stands at 96.05 per cent and the case fatality rate is 2.04 per cent, the official said.  Mumbai city reported 503 COVID-19 cases during the day and 13 deaths, taking the tally to 7,27,136 and the toll to 15,612, the report said.  The Mumbai division which comprises neighbouring satellite towns and MMR region added 1,674 new cases and 29 fatalities on Saturday, which raised the count of infections and COVID-19 deaths to 16,13,560 and 32,976, respectively, it said.  Nashik division reported 578 cases and seven deaths while Pune division added 2,338 cases and 42 fatalities, as per the report.  The caseload in Kolhapur division went up by 3,214 and the death toll climbed by 69. Aurangabad division reported 101 cases and 23 deaths. All these deaths were reported from rural parts of Aurangabad. No fatality due to COVID-19 was reported from the rest of districts and cities in the division, the report said.  The caseload in Latur division increased by 251 while the count of fatalities due to COVID-19 mounted by seven. Nagpur division reported 71 new cases and one death, it said.  With 2,35,020 new tests, the overall number of samples tested so far for coronavirus in Maharashtra went up to 4,38,00,139, reflecting an overall positivity rate of 14.04 per cent.  Currently 5,85,580 people are in home quarantine and 4,737 people are in institutional quarantine across Maharashtra.  Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 61,49,264, new cases 8,296, deaths,1,25,528, recoveries 59,06,466, active cases 1,14,000, tests so far 4,38,00,139.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||‘Bangabandhu Chair’ to be set up at Delhi University by ICCR||Dinesh K Patnaik, Director General, ICCR and PC Joshi, acting DU Vice Chancellor, will sign a Memorandum of Understanding on July 12 for setting up of the Chair, a statement said, adding the MoU will be for a duration of five academic years. "The ICCR will be establishing 'Bangabandhu Chair' at Delhi University to honour Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the father of Bangladesh and to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War and Indo-Bangladesh diplomatic relations," the statement said. The Chair will be occupied by a foreign visiting professor or subject expert on Bangladesh preferably a person of that country's origin. "This initiative is the outcome of one of the understandings reached during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's state visit to Bangladesh in March 2021. Bangabandhu Chair focus is on better understanding of developments in Bangladesh, one of India's most important neighbours, positioned at the strategic intersection of our 'Neighbourhood First' and 'Act East' policies," the ICCR said in the official statement. The ICCR said it has setup various Chairs on Indian studies abroad and this is the first of its kind initiative of setting-up of a Chair on Bangladesh in India and is an important step towards strengthening Indo-Bangladesh ties. "This step will reinforce exchanges in the field of academics, art and culture between the two countries. "As Bangladesh records consistent economic growth and has rapidly raised its socio-economic standards, there could not be a more appropriate time for Indian academia and contributors to policy making to pay more attention to Bangladesh studies in an institutional manner. This Chair is an important step in this direction," it added. The Chair will focus on the Indo-Bangladesh common cultural heritage and subjects like Anthropology, Buddhist Studies, Geography, History, Modern Indian Languages (including Bangla), Music and Fine Arts, Political Science, International Relations and Sociology, it said. "It will teach as per the academic requirements of the university and will also help in guiding and mentoring of research students. It will also take part in other activities of the university relating to seminars, conferences, faculty interaction etc. and public lectures," it said. The Delhi University also tweeted, "In a couple of days, University of Delhi would enter a historic MoU with ICCR, MEA, Govt of India featuring creation of Bangladesh Chair. A first of its kind! Long Live Indo-Bangladesh Friendship!!" The chair is being established to promote India-Bangladesh ties and encourage Bangladeshi students to study in India, a varsity official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||Congress leader sends Burnol to BJP minister to get relief from ‘jalan’||Trading barbs over the induction of Jyotiraditya Scindia in the Union cabinet, a Congress leader on Saturday sent tubes of Burnol cream to Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra to `ease pain'. Mishra on Thursday had said that those who are feeling jealous about Scindia, a former Congressman, getting into the Narendra Modi cabinet should be given Burnol (which is used to treat minor burn injuries). “When the Congress issued a statement about a betrayal by Scindia, Mishra said he would send us Burnol. Now we have sent two tubes of the ointment to Mishra because he needs them more,” state Congress spokesperson Narendra Saluja said. The tubes were sent through an e-commerce platform, he said. “One tube is from Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, because Mishra was eyeing his post. Another tube is from state Congress chief Kamal Nath because Mishra is obsessed with him and continuously talks about him,” Saluja said. State BJP secretary Rahul Kothari said it was a cheap stunt. This is a cheap tactic being used by the Congress. The opposition party should tell us what kind of ointment Nath needs, because he travels only by air and now Scindia has become the aviation minister," Kothari retorted. Scindia brought down the Kamal Nath government in MP last year when he and 22 Congress MLAs loyal to him quit the party and joined the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Pandemic is not yet over, says Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday sounded a note of caution against reported blatant disregard of Covid-appropriate behaviour at hill stations and other tourist locations, stressing that the second wave of the pandemic is not yet over. The Home Secretary was reviewing the steps taken by the state governments for checking the spread of Covid-19 at hill stations and tourist locations, a home ministry statement said. During the meeting, the overall management of the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination status in Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, and West Bengal were discussed. The meeting was conveyed that the decline of the second wave is at variable stages in the different states and UTs in the country, and while the overall case positivity rate may be declining, the case positivity rate in certain districts of Rajasthan, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh is over 10 percent, which is a cause for concern, the statement said. The Union Home Secretary sounded a note of caution in the wake of media reports showing blatant disregard of Covid-appropriate behaviour at hill stations and other tourist locations, the statement said. Bhalla emphasised that the second wave of Covid was not yet over and states should ensure strict adherence to the protocols prescribed in respect of wearing of masks, social distancing and other safe behaviour. States were also asked to follow the five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and Covid Appropriate Behaviour, as has been laid out in the MHA order dated June 29, 2021. Adequate health infrastructure preparedness, especially in rural, peri-urban and tribal areas, was also advised to tackle any potential future surge in cases. The meeting was attended by V K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog; Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Director General, Indian Council for Medical Research; and Chief Secretaries, Directors General of Police and Principal Secretaries (Health) of the eight states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||International drug racket busted, Afghan national among 4 arrested||The Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested four men, including an Afghan national, and recovered a record 354 kilograms of heroin worth over Rs 2,500 crore in the international market from them, officials said on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Rizwan Kashmiri, a resident of Ghitorni here and native of Anantnag in Jammu and Kashmir, Gurpreet Singh and Gurjot Singh, both residents of Jalandhar in Punjab and Hazrat Ali, a native of Kandahar in Afghanistan, they said. It recently came to the notice of the police that Kashmiri was involved in drug peddling in Delhi and other states like Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. "On Monday, police received information that Kashmiri was going to deliver contraband in south Delhi's Ghitorni area. A trap was laid and the accused was arrested when he was going to deliver a packet of one kilogram of heroin," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said. “Kashmiri revealed that he works under an Afghan national named Isha Khan who recently left India and went to Afghanistan. Khan directed him to contact Gurpreet and Gurjot who were currently operating a drug racket from Faridabad in Haryana,” the DCP said. “Based on the disclosure of Kashmiri, Gurpreet and Gurjot were arrested,” he said. “Police recovered 166 kg and 115 kg of heroin from two cars which were parked in a society based on the duo's information. Later, 70 kg heroin was also recovered from the rented accommodation of both the accused,” police said. According to police Gurpreet and Gurjot revealed that they were operating the drug racket on the instructions of a man named Navpreet Singh, presently based in Portugal. Gurpreet met Navpreet in Punjab's Kapurthala Jail when they were in judicial custody in separate cases, the DCP said. Based on the disclosure of Kashmiri, Ali was also arrested from Gurgaon and two kg heroin was recovered from his possession. Around 100 kg of different chemicals used in the preparation of heroin was also recovered, Kushwah said. Elaborating about the operation, the police said opium grown in various parts of Afghanistan is concealed in different legitimate exports -- talc stone, gypsum powder, basil seeds and in packaging material like gunny bags, cartons etc. It is then transported in containers to Chabahar Port in Iran from where the consignments are shipped to Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai, they said. “Thereafter, the material is separated from the legitimate exports and sent to makeshift factories based in Shiv Puri in Madhya Pradesh for further extraction and processing to get the final product, police said. The locals with the help of Afghan experts process the heroin and the chemicals required for the process are procured from various shops located in MP and Delhi,” police said. “After preparation, the heroin is then delivered to Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan J-K and various other parts of the country using different supply chains. The arrested accused are parts of different components of this network,” police said. According to then, in 2019, the Special Cell had seized 330 kg of such heroin in a multi-state operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Chirag taunts estranged uncle Paras upon landing cabinet berth||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan on Saturday paid a backhanded compliment to estranged uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, by congratulating him on joining the union cabinet, which he said was a goal he achieved by breaking up his own family. The beleaguered LJP leader, who has suffered a setback with the Delhi High Court rejecting his petition challenging the election of Paras as the party leader in the Lok Sabha, made it clear, “I am not going to give up my fight to reclaim the party nurtured by my late father Ram Vilas Paswan’s blood and sweat.’ In an oblique reference to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar who he suspects of engineering the putsch in the LJP, Chirag said, “I cannot allow the party to be taken over by those, who because of personal ambitions, are sitting in the lap of people who did not deign to come out with even a tweet on my father’s birth anniversary recently.” The Jamui MP also hinted at his disillusionment with the BJP which has kept silent over the crisis in his party despite his unreserved adulation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. When asked by reporters whether he still considered himself a Hanuman to Modi, akin to the relationship between the monkey god and Lord Ram, Paswan cryptically replied this is a question you need to ask when elections are round the corner. The 38-year-old, who has been reaching out to the family of his late father from the first marriage, also said I feel overwhelmed by emotions. After the death of my father and the betrayal of my family members many other dear relatives have come out with support. In the state since Monday as part of his ashirwad yatra, Chirag has paid visits to his step-sisters here besides his stepmother in his native district of Khagaria, in a charm offensive to win over his close relations. The former Bollywood actor has in the past been accused of condescension towards them. “I am not a legal expert. So I will not comment much upon the Delhi High Court order until a meeting with my legal team in the national capital. But I am not going to give up,” he asserted. After making his political debut in the Lok Sabha elections of 2014, Chirag succeeded his father as LJP national president five years later. He opened a front against Nitish Kumar ahead of the assembly polls last year, claiming that the people of the state wanted a change in leadership and he was helping the BJP form its own government. The BJP, which had backed Kumar for a fourth consecutive term, distanced itself from Chirags politics of brinkmanship. It, however, ended up benefiting from the melee as it returned with a tally much higher than that of JD(U), for the first time. Paras, along with four other party MPs, staged a political coup last month when they broke away voicing disapproval of Chirag’s stance towards the JD(U). Paras replaced Chirag as the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha and was elected national president of the breakaway faction. The uncle and the nephew seem poised for a long legal and political battle with the former appearing to have the cadres support but the latter capturing the public imagination as the heir to Ram Vilas Paswan, one of the tallest Dalit leaders of his generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Have asked states to ensure strict adherence to Covid protocols, Centre tells HC||The central government has informed the Delhi High Court that it has asked all states and Union territories (UT) to ensure strict compliance with the national directives for COVID-19 management and take necessary measures under the Disaster Management Act. Order was also issued to them to consider the implementation of targeted and prompt actions for COVID19 management until July 31, the Centre has said. The Centre also stated that while the opening of activities after a decline in COVID-19 cases was essential, the states and UTs must ensure that the whole process is carefully calibrated. The statement was made in a status report filed by the Centre through its standing counsel Anil Soni in connection with the high court's suo motu proceedings on violation of COVID-19 protocols in various markets in the national capital. The Centre has submitted that national directives for COVID-19 management include face coverings, social distancing, not spitting in public places, work from home, staggering of work/business hours, screening and hygiene and frequent sanitisation. "MHA issued order dated 29.06.2021..directing state/Union Territory governments and state/Union Territory Authorities to consider the implementation of targeted and prompt actions for COVID-19 management till 31.07.07.2021 as conveyed vide aforesaid MoHFW advisory dated 28.06.2021 and also take necessary measures under the relevant provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005. "MHA also directed state/Union territories that National Directives for COVID-19 Management shall continue to be strictly followed throughout the country, the report reads. Clarifying that the decision to impose or ease restrictions has to be based on the assessment of the ground situation, the Centre added that state/UT authorities should ensure that there is a continuous focus on containment efforts and uniformity in implementing graded restrictions/relaxations . The high court was also informed that the framework for implementation of prompt and target action was also shared by the Centre with the states. The framework, Centre said, speaks of a five-fold strategy for effective management of COVID-19 i.e. test, track, treat, vaccinate and adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour. The framework also emphasises that COVID-19 management can succeed only through a whole of government and whole of society approach. States are nonetheless at liberty to plan additional public health measures based on their local situation, it is said. The Centre has also submitted that a letter was addressed to chief secretaries of all states and administrators of UTs, stressing effective management of COVID-19 by following advisories issued by the home and health ministries. A vacation bench of the high court had initiated a PIL last month after it took note of certain photographs sent to one of the high court judges on WhatsApp by an AIIMS doctor showing scant regard for COVID-19 protocols by street vendors in markets. The court had observed that such breaches would only hasten the third wave of coronavirus which cannot be permitted at all. The high court said if this behaviour of flouting COVID-19 norms continues "we will be in great trouble". "We have paid a huge price in the second wave. We don't know if there is any household which has not suffered in the second wave, closely or remotely," the bench had observed, adding that "we as a citizen of this city are worried when we see these images". It further said the memory of the second wave of COVID-19 is still fresh with so many people having suffered personal loss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||India offers to share CoWIN platform for free with other nations||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday offered to share CoWIN platform with other nations for free, saying that humanitarian needs outweigh commercial benefits. Participating on the second day of the ongoing G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting, Sitharaman shared India's successful experience in integrating technology with inclusive service delivery during the pandemic, the Finance Ministry said in a series of tweets. "FM Smt. @nsitharaman shared how #CoWIN application has efficiently supported scale and scope of our vaccination & #India has made this platform freely available to all countries given our firm belief that humanitarian needs outweigh commercial benefits," a tweet said. During the meeting, discussions of finance ministers were focused on policies for economic recovery, sustainable finance and International Taxation. "In policies for recovery session, FM discussed 3 catalysts of economic recovery- #Digitalization #ClimateAction & #SustainableInfrastructure; shared India's successful experience in integrating technology with inclusive service delivery during the pandemic," another tweet said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Govt keen to make cooperatives more empowered, says Amit Shah||The government is determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered, Union minister Amit Shah, who met some leading figures of the country's cooperative sector on Saturday, said. The meeting came three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reallocated the portfolios of his ministers in which Shah was given the charge of the newly-created Ministry of Cooperation. Those who met the Union home minister include chairman of the National Cooperative Union of India Dileep Sanghani, the chairman and the managing director of the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) B S Nakai and U S Awasthi respectively and chairman of the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) Bijender Singh. "Today met @ncuicoop Chairman Shri Dileep Sanghani ji, @IFFCO_PR Chairman Shri B S Nakai ji, Managing Director Shri U S Awasthi ji and @nafedindia Chairman Dr Bijendra Singh ji. "Under the leadership of Modi ji, we are determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered," Shah tweeted in Hindi. Officials said even though Shah has not yet assumed the charge of the ministry of cooperation, he has begun to meet people. In the meeting, the minister asked cooperatives like IFFCO and KRIBHCO to work in the field of seed production using vacant land of 38,000 hectares as well as in organic farming, the NCUI said in a separate statement. The minister also assured that the government is committed to strengthening the cooperative movement in the country, the benefits of which would go to the grass-root level cooperatives, it said. Shah also assured the delegation that the same benefits and concessions given to Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) will be provided to primary agriculture cooperatives in the country for strengthening them, it added. In the meeting, the minister desired that a conference with representatives of state-level cooperatives should be organized by NCUI, IFFCO and other cooperatives for discussing pertinent issues confronting the cooperative movement. The delegation apprised the minister about the problems and challenges confronting the cooperative movement. The government has recently carved out a new ministry for cooperation, which earlier was a small department in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||NCW writes to UP Police on harassment faced by woman BDC member||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has asked the UP police to immediately take action against two men who misbehaved with a woman, pulling her sari, during the filing of nominations for the block chairman polls in Uttar Pradesh' Lakhimpur Kheri. As a video of the incident involving the woman proposer appeared online, sparking condemnation, the women's organisation said that NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma had, in a letter issued on Thursday, sought strict action against the men. "National Commission for Women (NCW) on July 8th had taken suo motu cognisance of an incident wherein a woman was allegedly attacked and misbehaved with and her sari was pulled in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh," the Commission said. It took action after it was tagged on Twitter to a video clip of the incident posted. Sharma had written to the Director General of Police of Uttar Pradesh to immediately intervene in the matter and take strict action against the men, it said. Voting was held on Saturday for 476 posts of block panchayat chiefs in the state, with sporadic incidents of violence. The Opposition Congress has attacked the BJP government over the violence during the polls including the Lakhinpur Kheri incident and demanded that it apologise. The man, identified as Lakhimpur Kheri district BJP chief Yash Verma, has been arrested on the charge of attacking the woman||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Those with over two kids can't contest local polls, apply for govt jobs in UP||According to a draft of the proposed population control bill, anyone violating two-child policy in Uttar Pradesh will be debarred from contesting local bodies elections, from applying for or getting promotion in government jobs, and receiving any kind of government subsidy. The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSLC) states that the provisions are part of the draft titled The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill, 2021. The UPSLC website says, "The State Law Commission, UP is working on control, stabilisation and welfare of the population of the state and has prepared a draft bill." Suggestions have been invited from the public to improve the draft bill and July 19 is the last date for it. Listing incentives for public servants who adopt the two-child norm, the draft bill says, "Public servants who adopt the two-child norm will get two additional increments during the entire service, maternity or as the case may be, paternity leave of 12 months, with full salary and allowances and three per cent increase in the employer's contribution fund under national pension scheme." A State Population Fund will be constituted for the purpose of implementation of the act. Listing the government's duties, the draft bill says that maternity centres will be established at all primary health centres. The centres and NGOs will distribute contraceptive pills, condoms, etc, spread awareness about family planning methods through community health workers and ensure mandatory registration of pregnancies, deliveries, births and deaths across the state. The draft bill also says that it shall be the duty of the government to introduce a compulsory subject relating to population control in all secondary schools. The bill seeks to revitalise efforts and provide for measures to control, stabilise and provide welfare to the population of the state by implementing and promoting two-child norm. The draft bill reads, "In Uttar Pradesh, there are the limited ecological and economic resources at hand. It is necessary and urgent that the provision of basic necessities of human life including affordable food, safe drinking water, decent housing, access to quality education, economic/livelihood opportunities, power/electricity for domestic consumption, and a secure living is accessible to all citizens." It is necessary to control, stabilise the population of the state for promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution, it says. It is necessary to ensure healthy birth spacing through measures related to augmenting the availability, accessibility and affordability of quality reproductive health services to achieve the goal of population control, stabilisation and its welfare in the state, the draft bill reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Centre denies visa to New Zealand origin YouTuber, Indian wife moves Delhi HC||YouTube vlogger Karl Edward Rice's wife has approached the Delhi High Court challenging the central government's alleged "arbitrary and unreasonable" decision to blacklist him and deny him a visa to enter India. The petitioner said by virtue of denying his visa to her husband, who has been "arbitrarily blacklisted" by the respondents (Centre), she is deprived of living with him, thereby violating her fundamental right to life and dignity as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The plea, which is likely to come up for hearing next week, said petitioner Manisha Malik and her husband, popularly known as Karl Rock, are YouTube vloggers and have visited most of India to capture its beauty and contribute to the promotion of tourism here. It said the authorities have not communicated the grounds of blacklisting Rice even though several representations have been preferred by him and his wife, which has led to the separation of a married couple, lack of any opportunity or notice to them to indicate any violation of visa conditions and denial of issuance of visa to him. Terming the Centre's move an arbitrary abuse of power, the plea said it violates the petitioner's rights under Article 19 (protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech) of the Constitution. Union Home Ministry officials had on Friday said the New Zealand national has been restricted from entering India till the next year for violating terms and conditions of his visa. He was found to be doing business activities on a tourist visa and also violating other visa conditions, they had said without specifying. The plea said since their marriage in 2019, the couple has been living in Delhi and Rice has not been able to return to India from New Zealand since October 10 last year. "The petitioner's husband, Karl Edward Rice, has a dual nationality New Zealand and the Netherlands and has been visiting India since 2013 strictly abiding by the laws of the country and the conditions of the visa. "During the entire period since 2013, while the petitioner's husband has been granted Indian visa on various occasions, there hasn't been even a single allegation against the petitioner's husband," the plea, filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, said. Subsequent to their marriage, Rice was granted an X-2 Visa (meant for spouse/children of an Indian citizen) which had a validity period of May 2019 to May 2024 and one of the conditions in the visa for him was to exit India every 180 days or to intimate the Foreigner Regional Registration Office concerned. "Complying with the aforesaid condition of exiting the nation, while Rice left India on October 10, 2020, he has not been able to return to India because any application for issuance of an Indian visa is being rejected by the respondents. "While the petitioner has been running from pillar to post and no reasons are communicated to either Karl Edward Rice or to the petitioner herself as to on what basis her husband's request for issuance of visa have been rejected," the petition said, adding that Rice was only verbally informed that he has been blacklisted and therefore he is not permitted to enter into India. The plea sought direction to the authorities to call for records pertaining to cancellation of visa and unilateral blacklisting of Rice and also sought to review or quash the decision blacklisting him and allow him entry to India. As an alternative, the plea sought to direct the authorities to grant a meaningful hearing to the couple on the sudden blacklisting of Rice. The petition has arrayed Centre, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, FRRO and Bureau of Immigration as parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Karnataka intensifies vector control measures for Zika virus||The Karnataka Health Department has instructed officials to intensify vector control measures in the state, in view of reporting of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) in the neighboring Kerala. The districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chamarajanagara, bordering Kerala, have been asked to be more vigilant. "In view of reporting of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) in the neighboring State of Kerala, it is crucial to intensify the vector control measures in Karnataka also. The current monsoon season supports the widespread proliferation of Aedes mosquito, which is a vector for Zika Virus Disease," a circular by the Commissionerate of Health & Family Welfare Services said. Considering the prevalence of "Aedes aegypti" in Karnataka, which is a vector of Dengue, Chikungunya as well as Zika, it said, the routine surveillance activity in rural areas by ASHA and Health Assistants, the fortnightly surveillance activity in Urban wards should be implemented on war-footing mode with strict monitoring and supervision. Effective disposal of solid waste should be given due importance to prevent Aedes breeding in peri-domestic situations, it added. The circular signed by Health Commissioner Dr K V Trilok Chandra further instructs all the District Vector Borne Disease Control Officers (DVBDCOs) to ensure certain activities as preparedness towards prevention and control of Vector Borne Diseases like ZVD, that include intensifying integrated vector management. Noting that the ZVD presents with symptoms like fever, rashes, conjunctivitis, joint pain, etc, the circular said, travel history or visit of the guests may also be considered for suspecting the ZVD and the samples collected from suspected cases should be sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Bengaluru for testing. During UltraSound Scanning for pregnant women, due focus should be given for presence of Microcephaly, it said, adding if detected, the serum sample of the pregnant women, also in case of newborns and their mothers, must be collected and sent to NIV for testing. Ensuring availability of logistics such as adulticide and larvicide at all levels, up to villages, are among the intervention measures that are to be implemented effectively, in the interest of public health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||UP has renamed violence as masterstroke, alleges Rahul Gandhi||The Congress on Saturday slammed the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over alleged violence and misbehaviour with women during the filing of nominations for blockhead elections, with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying that violence has been renamed "masterstroke" in the state. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the BJP had "crossed" all limits to stop the nomination of a woman in the polls. "A few years ago, a rape victim raised her voice against a BJP MLA and an attempt was made to kill her and her family. Today, the BJP crossed all limits to stop the nomination of a woman. Same government. Same behaviour," she said in a tweet in Hindi and also tagged a video purportedly showing a woman being stopped from filing her nomination in the polls. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, said that in Uttar Pradesh, violence has been renamed "masterstroke". The brother-in-law of a block development committee member was killed in Bahraich as he resisted an alleged attempt to abduct his relative by a BJP candidate's husband and supporters ahead of the polls for the block panchayat head. In another incident in Lakhimpur Kheri, a Samajwadi Party candidate was allegedly manhandled by BJP workers, after which six policemen were suspended with the administration ordering a magisterial probe. A woman BDC member's saree was also pulled in front of police officers, alleged the Congress and sought an apology from the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Odisha eyeing to start boating services at 100 locations to woo tourists||The Odisha government is eyeing to start boating services at 100 locations by the end of this year to boost tourism in the state, officials said on Saturday. At a high-level meeting, Chief Secretary SC Mohapatra directed the departments of Forest and Environment, Water Resources and Tourism to identify the spots in a month, they said. The activities should start by the end of the year, Mohapatra directed the officials concerned. The locations should be identified on the basis of their competitiveness for being popularised among tourists, and must offer exotic experiences, he noted. "Proper choice of the location and their popularisation will attract private investment to the sector and that will take the state's eco-tourism industry to the next level," the chief secretary said. He also directed to put in place proper safety measures and suggested the officials to adopt a community management model by involving locals with proper training. Odisha has around 118 big and small dams, including Hirakud, Mandira, Patora, Deras and Hadgarh. The state is bestowed with natural lakes like Chilika, Ansupa, Pata and Kanjia, Hiarkud. Besides, there are around ten major river basins such as Mahanadi, Bramhani and Baitarani, an official said. These places offer scores of sites for boating activities, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Mother Dairy to hike milk prices in Delhi-NCR by Rs 2 per litre from Sunday||Leading milk supplier Mother Dairy has increased milk prices in Delhi-NCR and other cities by Rs 2 per litre with effect from Sunday due to higher input costs. It had last raised the milk prices in December 2019. From July 1, Amul had hiked its milk prices by Rs 2 per litre. Mother Dairy said it is "compelled to raise its liquid milk prices by Rs 2/litre in Delhi-NCR with effect from July 11, 2021." The new prices will be applicable for all milk variants. "The company has been experiencing inflationary pressure on the overall input costs which has increased multi-fold in the last one year, accompanied by the distress in milk production due to the ongoing pandemic," the statement said. In the last one year, farm prices have increased to the tune of 8-10 per cent coupled with mounting operational costs of processing, packaging and logistics. "It is pertinent to note that the farm prices of milk alone have firmed up by about 4 per cent in the last three-four weeks. Despite paying higher prices towards milk procurement in the last one year, the consumer prices were kept intact. With this revision, the milk prices are undergoing a revision of 4 per cent," Mother Dairy said. Prices are also being revised across key markets including east and central Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai, Nagpur and Calcutta from July 11 onwards to the tune of Rs 2/litre on the current prevailing MRP in respective markets, it added. Mother Dairy sells more than 30 lakh litres of milk per day in Delhi-NCR. Mother Dairy's decision comes at a time when the price of petrol has shot up above Rs 100 mark in many states. But it’s not fuel price alone that is burning a hole in the pockets of people. Over the past year and a half, the prices of several essential items have shot up to an extent that tens of thousands of households have their backs to the wall. From eggs to milk to pulses and edible oil, items that are part of everyday lives have become far costlier than they were just before the start of the pandemic. The price rise hits harder because the virus has robbed many of their income and stalled the income of many more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Monsoon likely to reach Delhi today, IMD predicts rains ||The meteorological department has predicted light rain or thundershowers in Delhi as the monsoon is likely to reach the city on Saturday. The minimum temperature settled at 28.6 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, in the city, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 65 percent. The IMD said the southwest monsoon is likely to reach Delhi on Saturday, making it the most-delayed monsoon in the capital in the last 15 years. "The monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10," it had said. The weatherman has predicted a partly cloudy sky with light rain or thundershowers towards evening and night in the city. According to MeT officials, the maximum temperature would settle around 38 degrees Celsius. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi's hourly air quality index (AQI) at 8 am was 108. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Covid: India logs over 1,200 new fatalities, 42k cases in a single day||India has logged 42,766 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally to 3,07,95,716, while the active cases have declined to 4,55,033, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,07,145 with 1,206 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.48 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.20 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 19,55,225 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 42,90,41,970, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.19 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 19 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,99,33,538, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.21 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Kerala tea labour leader in jail for six years under UAPA||Every day, Jameela Ibrahim worries about a very sick and aged man who defended the rights of the downtrodden before being arrested under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, branded a Maoist and locked up in jail without bail. It’s not the 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy whom this retired plantation labourer from a remote Kerala village has in mind. The 63-year-old school dropout knows very little about the Ranchi-based Jesuit and tribal rights activist who died in National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody on July 5, waiting for bail in the Elgaar Parishad terrorism case. She, however, says she knows all about how the anti-terror law can be invoked to silence dissent. Jameela’s husband and tea labour leader N.K. Ibrahim, 67, was arrested under the UAPA in July 2015 and has since been held without bail in a Kerala jail. Her son Noufal finds it ironic that the Kerala government of CPM chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who publicly condemned Father Stan’s detention, handed over the case against Ibrahim to the NIA. Ibrahim has survived two cardiac arrests in prison, his family and jail authorities say. A painful gum disease — a complication of the severe diabetes he suffers from — has caused him to lose all his teeth. “He now gulps down the jail chapatti after dunking it in water because he can’t chew. He takes 22 tablets a day for diabetes,” said Jameela. Jameela and Noufal visit Ibrahim at the Viyyur central jail in Thrissur district, 187km from their home in Nedumkarana village in Wayanad district, at least twice a week. Ibrahim was arrested on July 14, 2015, on the charge of storming a senior police officer’s home near Vellamunda in Wayanad — 47km from Nedumkarana — along with a group of alleged Maoists on April 24, 2014, and torching his motorbike. The police allege Ibrahim is a Maoist courier and had participated in the armed attack with seven others, including the CPI Maoist’s south India leader Roopesh, his wife Shyna and their comrades Anup, Jayanna, Kanya and Sundari. Jameela insists that Ibrahim was in his native Nedumpala, 64km from Vellamunda, on the day of the alleged incident. She says he had faced no criminal case till then and had told her the charges against him were fabricated and that he had never had any Maoist links. The complainants and witnesses are all police officers attached to the Vellamunda police station. Jameela alleged a conspiracy by a tea company for which she and Ibrahim worked and which had sacked them both over the past decade, years before they had reached the retirement age of 65, citing poor profits and the financial situation. She claims the company implicated Ibrahim — who continued to fight for the plantation labourers’ rights after his sacking — by telling the police he was a Maoist close to Roopesh, Shyna and Anup. “My husband was a popular leader of plantation workers in Wayanad and was at the forefront of agitations against the company in the 1990s when it arbitrarily sacked workers citing price fluctuations and poor yield,” she said. “Those agitations made him a target for the management.” Two cases were filed against Ibrahim and the others, one for alleged recruitment of youths for the Maoists in Payyoli and the other for offences such as rioting, trespass, criminal intimidation and terrorism in connection with the Vellamunda raid. A sessions court in Kozhikode district acquitted Ibrahim and his co-accused in the first case earlier this year. No one has any idea when the second case might come up for trial. “During the trial of the first case through videoconferencing, Ibrahim had collapsed because of poor health,” said C.P. Rasheed, a human rights activist. Ibrahim’s requests for bail and parole have been rejected half-a-dozen times so far by the local courts. His family says three of Ibrahim’s teeth fell out three years ago before the rest of his teeth were surgically removed six months back under advice from a dentist and a diabetologist. This has affected his food intake, and he has lost 8kg in the past one month alone, the family says. Ibrahim’s family is unhappy with the Kerala government. “On Monday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan issued a statement expressing concern at the way (Father Stan) Swamy was treated in jail,” Noufal said. “Now I’m wondering why the chief minister is not ensuring justice for my father, who has been jailed without bail or trial for the last six years in his state, and that too in a case lacking independent witnesses and solid evidence. At least the chief minister is duty bound to ensure adequate medical care for my father, against whom there are no proven charges so far.” Six of the seven other accused too have been denied bail but they are all aged below 50 and appear to be in good health. Shyna alone received bail after four years in Coimbatore jail. Roopesh, 44, and Anoop are in Coimbatore jail, while the rest are imprisoned in Mysore and Bangalore. All seven had been arrested in several other cases before being charged in the Payyoli and Vellamunda cases. Thrissur-based human rights activists said over 200 jail inmates, including some convicted of murder or rape, had been released on parole from the Viyyur central jail since last year because of the pandemic. Among those released on parole are Kodi Suni, Muhammed Shafi and Kirmani Manoj, three hired assassins sentenced to life for hacking to death the expelled CPM leader T.P. Chandrasekharan. Suni is also accused of plotting murders, smuggling gold, and trafficking in narcotics from jail. However, Ibrahim never found a place on the list. “In the last six years, he was able to visit home only twice, and that too under tight police escort and only for one day each time,” Jameela said. “When the second wave of Covid began and experts cited the possibility of a third wave, we again initiated the process for bail,” Noufal said. “We were concerned because he has severe co-morbidities. When those who commit heinous crimes easily get bail and parole here, we should at least ensure justice for my father.” It’s thanks to the family’s persistent pleadings that the jail authorities have provided some medical treatment to Ibrahim, Noufal said. But the family is too poor to afford a set of false teeth for Ibrahim. Two weeks ago, prominent writers and social activists including J. Devika, K. Satchidanandan and Meena Kandasamy wrote to Vijayan, urging him to release Ibrahim. “We request there should be timely intervention in Ibrahim’s case as you did in the case of Siddique Kappan (Kerala journalist charged under the UAPA in Uttar Pradesh) and Hany Babu (academic jailed in the Elgaar Parishad case),” the letter said. But there was no response. Vijayan had written to the Centre and the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra about the two detainees but without results. While Kerala’s ruling CPM says it’s against draconian laws like the UAPA, Vijayan’s government has allegedly been using it as a tool to silence critics. Allan and Thaha, two students from CPM families, were arrested under the anti-terror law two years ago when they began criticising party policies. They were labelled Maoists and handed over to the NIA. Allan is now out on bail but Thaha remains in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||UP polls 2021: BJP leader held for attack on woman BDC member||A video showing two men pulling a woman’s sari, backed up by an official complaint, has led to the arrest of Lakhimpur Kheri district BJP chief Yash Verma on the charge of attacking a woman block development council (BDC) member. The video purportedly shows Yash and Brij Singh — said to be a supporter of Rekha Verma, BJP parliamentarian from Dhaurahra in Lakhimpur Kheri — assaulting the woman BDC member on the compound of the Pasgawan block office, 130km north of Lucknow, on Thursday afternoon. Nomination papers were being filed on Thursday for the post of block pramukh — head of the BDC, the second tier of the panchayati raj system whose members had been elected during the state-wide rural polls in April. The run-up to the July 10 and 12 pramukh elections across the state’s 822 blocks — where the voters are BDC members — has been marred by violence, with the BJP accused of trying to prevent rival candidates from filing their nominations. A would-be pramukh candidate for the Pasgawan block told reporters in Lucknow on Friday that the woman in the video was her proposer. She alleged that Yash and Brij had pulled her sari, too, inside the returning officer’s chamber and prevented her from filing her papers. “I handed a written complaint to the police on Thursday that Brij, a resident of J.B. Ganj area and a supporter of Rekha Verma, and Yash Verma pulled my sari and that of my proposer,” she said. “They registered the case a day later under media pressure.” She described the incident: “I somehow pushed past the crowd blocking the entrance to the room of the returning officer and walked in, but they held the BDC member by her hand (on the premises outside), pulled her sari and snatched her belongings, including Rs 7,500 in cash and gold jewellery. They left her injured while pulling her gold earring.” She added: “Some BJP members present in the returning officer’s room tried to drag me out while Rekha Verma and the police officers present looked on. I couldn’t submit my nomination papers. My supporters somehow rescued me and the BDC member (proposer) and took us away.” The complainant, a resident of Semra Janipur in Lakhimpur Kheri, had rushed to Lucknow on Friday to meet leaders of the Samajwadi Party, which had supported her in the panchayat elections and was supporting her for the pramukh’s post. The woman in the video told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri: “Anything could have happened to me — the BJP members wanted to kidnap me.” She said Rekha and Yash were close relatives and belonged to the same village, Maksudpur. Sumit Kumar, who identified himself as Rekha’s representative, blamed Samajwadi supporters for the “ruckus” at the block office but sidestepped the specific incident of sari-pulling. Kumar said: “The dispute began when a Samajwadi supporter’s car hit my car while we were about to enter the block office. Our supporters didn’t do anything; the Samajwadi members created a ruckus as they knew they would lose the election.” As news channels began beaming the video and social media users circulated it on Friday, additional director-general of police Prashant Kumar said Yash had been arrested and officers were probing the matter to see whether Brij should be taken into custody too. “Seven policemen have been suspended for allowing such an incident to happen, and an inquiry has been ordered,” he said. Buddhipriya Singh, assistant returning officer for the pramukh election at Pasgawan block, said she had received only two nominations — those of Urmila Katiyar and Shikha Singh. The would-be candidate who alleged she was prevented from filing her papers said Urmila was the outgoing block pramukh and the mother of Rekha and that Shikha Singh was an associate of the MP and “a dummy candidate”. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath asserted “zero tolerance” for the perpetrators of the sari-pulling but named no political party. Former chief minister and Samajwadi president Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of “bullying Opposition candidates” and alleged that district magistrates and superintendents of police were “behaving as BJP workers”. Some BJP workers tried to kidnap a woman BDC member from Khairighat, Bahraich district, around 2am on Friday and ended up murdering her 60-year-old brother-in-law, a police complaint says. Sundar Lal, husband of BDC member Yadurai Devi, said: “Sudhir Yagyasaini, the husband of block pramukh candidate Sarita Yagyasaini, and his goons tried to kidnap my wife at 2am from our home in village Dinapurva. When my elder brother Mayaram resisted, they hit him with a rifle butt and killed him on the spot.” Sudhir is a known BJP worker. Bahraich superintendent of police Sujata Singh said: “The husband of a block pramukh candidate and four others have been booked on the charge of murder and kidnapping. We are trying to arrest them.” News agency PTI later quoted Sujata as saying two accused, Ram Bhulawan Shukla and Jitendra Kumar, had been arrested and teams formed to nab the other accused. In Sirathu block, Kaushambi district, a police team raided the home of Independent candidate Dileep Patel on a tip-off and found 18 BDC members present there, PTI reported. They were taken to Saini police station and later released after the intervention of BJP MLA Shitla Prasad Patel. Circle officer Yogendra Krishan Narain said he had received information that Patel was holding 18 BDC members hostage, but all 18 said they had gone there willingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||India raises issue of ‘legitimacy’ of who governs Afghanistan next||India on Friday raised the issue of the legitimacy of who governs Afghanistan next, hours after Taliban claimed control over 85 per cent of Afghan territory. “At the end of the day, who governs Afghanistan has a legitimacy aspect which cannot be ignored,” external affairs minister S. Jaishankar said at a media briefing in Moscow with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov. The observation comes at a time India has opened channels of communication with the Taliban, reversing a decades-old policy of not dealing with the outfit that has held sway on the war-ravaged country for nearly 30 years. Jaishankar admitted India was concerned at the events in Afghanistan, and said it had implications for regional peace. About his meetings in Moscow, Jaishankar said the situation in Afghanistan occupied a lot of attention because of the direct implication for regional security. “We believe that the immediate need of the day is really a reduction in violence if we have to see peace within Afghanistan and around. It’s important for India and Russia to work together and ensure that much of the progress that we’ve seen in economic, social and democratic terms is maintained. We are both committed to an independent, sovereign, united and democratic Afghanistan.” Lavrov, however, indicated that Moscow had no intention of stepping in to stop the violence in the wake of the departure of US and Nato troops from Afghanistan. “The clashes are of great concern as the situation may spill across the border into our allied countries,” he said, underlining that the Taliban was in control of Afghanistan’s borders with Tajikistan and Iran. “We are not going to undertake any measure but urge for the political process to be taken forward.” Although a Taliban delegation had visited Moscow on Thursday to assure Russia the outfit would not violate the borders of Central Asian countries and guarantee security for diplomatic and consular missions in Afghanistan, neither Jaishankar nor Lavrov referred to this engagement between two erstwhile sworn enemies. The two ministers also discussed the Quad, of which Russia has been openly critical. According to Jaishankar, India supports cooperation that reflects the multi-polar and rebalanced character of global politics. Iterating India’s commitment to the centrality and unity of Asean, he said a more active Russian presence and participation in the Indo-Pacific was “very, very important”. Travel rules India and Russia also sought to make common cause on vaccination certificates for international travel. India, Jaishankar said, is batting for testing — both pre-departure and on-arrival — to be made the basis of international travel instead of vaccinations. Russia and India face the spectre of home-developed vaccines being excluded from the list of authorised vaccines recognised for travel in the European Union, in particular.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Covid: Children are at the lowest risk of severe infection, says Study||Children are at the lowest risk of severe Covid-19 but among them, those with cardiac and neurological illnesses or with two or more chronic health disorders face the greatest risk of severe disease or death, researchers have said. Their study, the first global review of data on the risks of critical care admission and death in children and young people with Covid-19, can help identify the subsets of this population to be prioritised when non-adults become eligible for vaccination. “The risks are very low for all children and young people,” said Lorna Fraser, a paediatrician at the University of York in the UK and a senior study team member, in a media release. “Even when we found higher risks for some groups with severe medical problems, these risks were still very small compared to the risks seen in adults.” The UK researchers examined 81 studies from across the world and included 57 in a “meta” analysis” — an exercise to evaluate all available and reliable evidence — to assess the risk factors for severe illness and death from Covid-19 among young people. The meta-analysis corroborated some risk factors already flagged by previous studies, but it also found that obesity in children and young people increased the risk of severe Covid-19. “It is something we’ve known for some time in adults, but it is only now becoming evident as an important risk in children and young people too,” Rachel Harwood, a paediatric surgeon and clinical research fellow at the University of Liverpool, said in the media release. Their analysis has also revealed that children with trisomy 21 — or Down syndrome — are at an increased risk of critical care admission and death, a pattern already observed among adults. The risk appears to operate through and independently of cardiovascular anomalies, indicating that all children and young people with Down syndrome are at increased risk of severe Covid-19. “It is reassuring that these findings reflect our clinical experience — we see very few seriously unwell children, this hasn’t changed recently with the Delta variant,” said Elizabeth Whittaker, a study team member from Imperial College, London. The researchers believe their findings could guide the prioritisation of children and young people when Covid-19 vaccines become available for them. Indian health officials expect the candidate Covid-19 vaccine from Zydus Cadila to become the first approved for children in the country later this year. India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines is now evaluating the results of the Zydus Cadila vaccine’s clinical trials. “This trial involved volunteers in the 12-to-18-years age group and if it gets approved by the regulators, we expect this vaccine to become available for children in this age group,” Narendra Arora, a senior adviser to the government’s immunisation policy, told The Telegraph. Bharat Biotech too has initiated a clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of Covaxin on children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||SC declines to entertain Delhi govt’s pollution plea||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain on technical grounds Delhi government’s plea for directing the closure of 10 coal-fired thermal power plants in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh that have allegedly been set up without toxic gas mitigation measures and are contributing to the pollution in the capital. These plants have allegedly been set up without the installation of flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) facilities, which remove toxic sulfur dioxide from exhaust flue gases of fossil-fuel power plants. The court wondered how a state could file a public interest litigation. A PIL is normally filed by a citizen or an NGO for the enforcement of fundamental rights of citizens. The AAP government in Delhi had filed a PIL for a direction to the three states and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). A bench of Justices Navin Sinha and R. Subhash Reddy told senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the Delhi government, to withdraw the petition and instead file an intervention application in the connected case of M.C. Mehta Vs UoI in which the apex court has been passing orders for several years on controlling pollution in the Delhi-NCR region. The Delhi government counsel withdrew the PIL with the liberty to file an intervention application in the pending matter. The bench expressed surprise at the AAP government’s legal strategy of coming up with a PIL for a direction to the states and statutory authorities when under law no such litigation can be filed. “The entire world is laughing at us today. You all are reducing the lifespan of people. Why are people being forced to live in gas chambers in Delhi? It is better to kill them all in one go. Get explosives in… bags at one go and kill them. Why should people suffer all this?” the bench had earlier told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. However, the court could not take up the matter for months because of the pandemic. The Delhi government had sought the quashing of an order passed by the CPCB allowing the 10 thermal power plants an extended deadline to install the FGD facilities. The plea had also sought the setting aside of an order passed by the ministry of environment and forest extending the deadline by which coal-based power plants were to comply with emission norms. The PIL had also sought directions to the power plant operators and regulatory authorities, that is the state pollution control boards and the CPCB, to provide online continuous emission monitoring data on their websites. Gonsalves pleaded on Friday that if the power plants were not directed to be closed down, it would have a severe effect on the lives of people living in the Delhi-NCR region as the units were major contributors to the increasing pollution levels. Justice Sinha, heading the bench, however, pointed out that the CPCB had extended the compliance deadline till December 31, 2022. The Delhi government’s argument was that the original deadline for installation of FGD facilities was December 2019, which the CPCB unilaterally extended. Gonsalves submitted that pollution was increasing rapidly every day and the deadline should be brought forward. “Your case is that the CPCB has made a statement before this court and they are deviating now. You can intervene in that matter and tell the court,” the bench told Gonsalves, asking him to withdraw the PIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||Jab campaign saved lives & averted hospitalisations in US: Study||The Covid-19 vaccination campaign has saved over 275,000 lives and averted 1.2 million hospitalisations in the US, researchers have estimated through a study that independent experts said India would find difficult to undertake at this point because not enough people are vaccinated. The study by infectious disease epidemiologists at Yale University and other academic institutions is the first to evaluate nationwide cases, deaths and hospitalisations averted by the vaccination campaign in the US in the face of highly transmissible coronavirus variants. “Our results demonstrate the extraordinary impact of swift vaccination for averting cases, hospitalisations and deaths,” Alison Galvani, a professor of epidemiology at Yale, and her colleagues said in the study, not peer-reviewed yet but posted on medRxiv, an online repository for preprints. Health officials have often described India’s vaccination campaign as among the fastest in the world, pointing out that the US took 193 days to administer 320 million doses while India took only 163 days. But health experts in India who have seen the US study said the number of doses administered daily is less important than the proportion of the population protected. “It is not the number of the doses given daily that really matters, but the proportion of the population protected fully,” said Oommen John, a physician and research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. The US has fully vaccinated over 48 per cent of its population with the two required doses, while India has so far vaccinated only 7 per cent of its eligible population with two doses. India is “sadly” quite a distance from even trying to make such assessments, said another senior medical researcher who is a member of an expert panel guiding India’s Covid-19 response. It is “too early” to conduct such a study in India, an adviser to the government’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign told The Telegraph. Poor planning and lack of early investments have meant India’s vaccination campaign has been slower than it could have been. The campaign has so far administered over 370 million doses but requires over 1,500 million doses to fully vaccinate an estimated 944 million currently eligible people. Health officials have expressed confidence that India’s stocks of doses will grow significantly — through both ramped up production and new vaccines — between August and December to complete the task by the year-end. The US researchers examined the impact of vaccinations taking into account the population demographics and transmission features of circulating coronavirus variants, among other factors. They also simulated two “counterfactual scenarios” — no vaccinations at all and an inoculation campaign running at half the actual pace. Their study has estimated that the vaccination campaign has potentially averted 26 million Covid-19 cases, 1.25 million hospitalisations, and 279,000 deaths in the US between the campaign’s start on December 12, 2020, and June 28 this year. The researchers said vaccination prevented a large surge during April 2021 when the US could have experienced around 4,500 deaths during its peak, a toll that would have likely exceeded the 2020-21 winter surge because of the highly-transmissible Alpha variant. As new variants — including the Delta variant that was first detected in India — surge among unvaccinated people, Galvani and her colleagues have said, there is a need for an intensified campaign, particularly in areas with low vaccination rates. “Even low vaccination coverage such as in India would have a high impact on averting severe Covid-19 and deaths,” Pratha Sah, an associate research scientist at Yale and study team member, told this newspaper. “It should be possible to assess such impacts of vaccination in India too.” An exercise to estimate nationwide cases and deaths averted may not be as meaningful in the early phase of the vaccination campaign when coverage is low. “This is because the impact of vaccination is hard to distinguish from other population-level changes,” said Abhishek Pandey, a team member at Yale. “But since 30 per cent of people in India have received first doses, it should be feasible to evaluate its impact on the ongoing Covid-19 situation in India.” John at the George Institute said India could have initiated an exercise to evaluate the real world effectiveness of vaccines in the early weeks of the vaccination campaign. Over 290 million people in India have received a single dose and over 70 million have received both doses. “If we had designed and implemented a real-world vaccine effectiveness evaluation exercise, we could have gained some insights about the vaccines’ nationwide impact in India,” John said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||Covid: DDMA puts into force Graded action plan for Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has put into force a Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) which lists varied restrictions or different levels of the Covid-19 pandemic. The plan would help people plan commercial activities and travel better by monitoring key parameters on the pandemic that are publicly available on central and state health websites or Covid portals. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told officials on Friday at the DDMA meeting: “Now that this plan is going in front of the public, there will be a sense of certainty and accountability on our part towards the people of Delhi. The plan descriptively elaborates upon when the lockdown will be imposed and when it will be lifted.” The plan has four levels of alerts named — yellow, amber, orange and red. A yellow alert — the lowest level — is declared if any of the following criteria are met: More than 0.5 per cent positivity rate for two consecutive days, or 1,500 cases, or 500 oxygen beds occupied in the preceding week. Similarly, for amber, the criteria is one per cent positivity, or 3,500 cases, or 700 oxygen beds occupied. For orange alert, the criteria are two per cent positivity, or 9,000 cases or 1,000 beds. Five per cent positivity, or 16,000 cases, or 3,000 beds will trigger a red alert. Theatres, spas, entertainment parks, gyms, educational institutions are closed if any of the alerts are in force. During a yellow alert, retail outlets will open on alternate days from 10am to 8pm, restaurants will operate with half their seating capacity as well as parks and hair stylists would be open. There is a night curfew from 10am to 5pm for the first three levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India|| Supreme Court refuses to stay challenge to IT rules||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the multiple high court proceedings on petitions that have challenged the Centre’s new IT rules, but agreed to consider transferring them to itself for an authoritative pronouncement on these regulations’ constitutional validity. Various petitions have accused the new IT rules, which are aimed at regulating digital and social media outlets, of violating the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by the Constitution. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta that the matter would be heard on July 16. Alongside, the bench will hear a connected petition, moved by advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha, seeking a leash on OTT platforms from airing porn and other material deemed objectionable. The Centre has sought transfer of all the petitions to the Supreme Court to avoid a multiplicity of proceedings and possibly conflicting high court verdicts. But as Mehta pressed for a stay on the proceedings before the high courts, Justice Khanwilkar said: “We’re not passing any other orders except tagging it and directing to list the same before the appropriate bench. Let the same come up on July 16.” The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, have been assailed by digital media houses such as The Wire and The Quint and the legal portal Live Law and certain others in the high courts. Some of the provisions of the new rules prohibit the digital dissemination of any news, views or statements that: ⚫ Insult or harass on the basis of gender; are libellous or racially or ethnically objectionable ⚫ Encourage money laundering or gambling, or are otherwise inconsistent with or contrary to the laws in force ⚫ Are harmful to children ⚫ Infringe on patents, trademarks, copyrights or other proprietary rights ⚫ Deceive or mislead people about the origin of the message or knowingly communicate false or misleading information that may reasonably be perceived as fact ⚫ Facilitate impersonation ⚫ Threaten the unity, integrity, defence, security or sovereignty of India, friendly relations with foreign countries, or public order; or incite any cognisable offence or prevent investigation of any offence or insults another nation ⚫ Are patently false and have been disseminated to mislead or harass for financial gain or to harm someone The intermediaries are also to exercise caution and discretion while featuring the activities, beliefs, practices, or views of any racial or religious groups. The new rules mandate a grievance redress mechanism under which ⚫ The intermediary is to prominently publish on its website, mobile-based application or both the name of its grievance officer and his or her contact details as well as the mechanism by which a user or a victim may lodge a complaint about any violation of the rules or any other matter relating to the computer resources made available by the intermediary ⚫ The grievance officer must (i) acknowledge the complaint within 24 hours and dispose of it within 15 days of its receipt; and (ii) receive and acknowledge any order, notice or direction issued by the appropriate government or any other competent authority or a court of competent jurisdiction ⚫ After receiving a complaint about content that exposes private areas of an individual, shows the individual in full or partial nudity or in any sexual act or conduct, or impersonates the individual in electronic form — for instance, through morphed images — the intermediary must within 24 hours take all reasonable and practicable measures to remove or disable access to such content hosted, stored, published or transmitted by it ⚫ The intermediary must implement a mechanism for receiving complaints that will enable people to provide necessary details about any contentious content or communication link ⚫ The stipulations apply to publishers of news and current affairs as well as publishers of curated online content||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||CRPF leash on messaging apps||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has issued a circular that warns of stringent action against its personnel who are found circulating sensitive documents on messaging apps. Sources said the top brass of the country’s biggest paramilitary force issued the directive after it was found that information relating to movement of troops/vehicles, arms and ammunitions and other classified information were allegedly leaked on social media and various messaging applications. “This is a very serious offence under the Official Secrets Act. The circular was recently issued to all formations of the force across the country,” said a CRPF official. The commanding officers of all the formations have been directed to avoid social media platforms for sending or receiving official messages and communication. “They have been asked to ensure that only the internal communication system of the CRPF is used for sending or receiving official messages and communication,” the official said. A couple of years ago, the Union home ministry had restricted the use of social media by paramilitary personnel and they were stopped from uploading personal photos or videos on Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram or YouTube without permission. The ban followed in the wake of a spate of incidents where jawans took to social media to ventilate their problems and grievances relating to poor quality of food and bad working conditions, leaving the government red-faced. In 2018, the BSF had sacked a constable Tej Bahadur Yadav, who had uploaded video clips to complain that troops were allegedly served substandard food.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||Covid: Opposition questions Kerala virus model as cases soar||The Opposition and some experts have questioned the celebrated Kerala model of Covid management at a time daily cases have remained stubbornly high and the second wave has refused to taper off. A state otherwise lauded for its quality health services, Kerala has been struggling to bring down Covid cases with most states even in the neighbourhood doing better. On Thursday, Kerala recorded 13,772 new Covid-19 cases — the highest in the country — and 142 deaths, pushing the virus caseload to 30,25,466 and fatalities to 14,250. More than half the Covid cases in India last week were reported from Kerala and Maharashtra, according to the Centre. While Kerala accounted for 32 per cent of the cases, Maharashtra registered 21 per cent. The leader of the Opposition in Kerala, V.D. Satheesan of the Congress, is among those who has blamed the revised pattern of Covid management for the surge in new cases. “Most Covid patients are being asked to stay in home isolation. While it may sound reasonable, especially for mild cases, home isolation is the main cause of the rapid infection rate that is keeping the test positivity rate at more than 10 per cent,” Satheesan told The Telegraph on Friday. The state health department’s website puts the seven-day average test positivity rate at 10.41 per cent till Thursday. “Home isolation is conducive to this fast-spreading virus and its variants. So the government should take urgent steps to ramp up facilities for institutional Covid care,” Satheesan said. “The government should focus on creating more beds at hospitals to treat Covid patients and prevent these super-spreads. At least that would help us be better prepared for the impending third wave,” Satheesan said. Health minister Veena George said the government was fully apprised of the needs and was gearing up for a possible third wave. “Although we didn’t face oxygen shortage in the second wave (unlike most other states), we are in the process of setting up 36 new oxygen plants,” she told a media conference on Friday. George had to hit the ground running when she was appointed two months ago. “We are ramping up all facilities, including paediatric wards and ICUs, to prepare for the third wave,” she said, alluding to the fear that a subsequent surge could affect children. Indian Medical Association state secretary Dr Gopikumar P. identified insufficient vaccine doses, crowding and home isolation as the key reasons for the rising Covid cases. “Home isolation has been counter-productive since whole families are contracting the virus. While people now understand the importance of masks, they still need to adapt to behavioural changes to totally avoid crowding,” he said. “The IMA had suggested to the chief minister to ramp up vaccination even before the second wave. But the overall vaccine shortage in the country affected us too. Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination on a war footing are the only solutions to reduce the number of positive cases,” Gopikumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||Tej Pratap Yadav ventures into incense stick production, brands products 'LR Radha Krishna'||The next time you light an incense stick during prayers, it might just have a Lalu-Rabri connection. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav, an MLA, has ventured into the production of incense sticks and perfumes, branding the products “LR Radha Krishna”. LR represents Lalu and Rabri Devi, both former chief ministers. The incense stick manufacturing unit has been set up at Lalu Khataal, a cowshed where the RJD chief used to rear cows. A swanky showroom, the first of its kind in Bihar, has been opened at Danapur on the outskirts of Patna. “I worship regularly and am fond of good incense sticks. The thought of manufacturing them came to me after I met a friend who runs a production unit for incense sticks in Delhi,” Tej Pratap told reporters. “We are manufacturing these incense sticks from used flowers procured from temples and also various other natural aromatic materials. We are not using any chemicals. Their aroma lingers for a long time even after the stick gets burnt out,” he said. Fifteen varieties of incense sticks, including agar, sandalwood, rose, parijaat (night-flowering jasmine) and basil are available. The prices range from Rs 90 to Rs 1,020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
