11-07-2021||India||Ministers have increased but not vaccines: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at the central government, saying the number of ministers has increased but not the Covid vaccines. He also shared a chart of the average vaccinations per day, which are falling short of the target to vaccinate all adults by December 2021. "The number of ministers has increased, not of vaccines," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "WhereAreVaccines" His comments came after 43 ministers were inducted into the Modi government, taking the total number of ministers to 77. The chart shared by Gandhi was on India's vaccination equation that aims to stop the third wave of Covid-19. The chart stated that the target is to vaccinate 60 percent population with both doses by December 2021 and the required vaccination rate per day is 8.8 million. However, it pointed out, that the actual vaccinations in the last seven days were at an average of 3.4 million per day, leaving a shortfall of 5.4 million per day. It also highlighted that the actual vaccination on July 10 is 3.7 million, leaving a shortfall of 5.1 million for the day. The Congress has been raising the issue of shortage of vaccines in the country and has urged the central government to speed up inoculations, saying it is the only way to stop the third wave of Cpvid-19. The BJP had hit back at the opposition party by targeting the performance of Congress-ruled states and had also accused it of encouraging vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||UP polls 2022: Bhupesh Baghel to play key role, meets Priyanka Gandhi||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel is likely to play a key role in preparing the Congress organisation in Uttar Pradesh for the assembly polls next year with a focus on strategising and booth management, sources said on Sunday. Baghel, who had played a crucial role in the run up to the Assam Assembly polls with his team carryng out extensive booth training of party workers, met Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal and Rajeev Shukla here at party chief Sonia Gandhi's 10 Janpath residence. According to sources, Priyanka Gandhi has asked Chhattisgarh Congress leaders be sent to Uttar Pradesh, and during the meeting, an outline of booth management and worker's conference in the poll-bound state was also discussed. There was also a discussion on intensifying the activities of the Congress organisation in Uttar Pradesh. On the recommendation of Baghel, his parliamentary advisor Rajesh Tiwari has been made AICC secretary-in-charge of Uttar Pradesh. Amid speculation about an agreement in 2018 that Baghel would be chief minister of Chhattisgarh for two and a half years after which the state's health minister, T S Singhdeo, would take over, Baghel told reporters that he had taken oath after the high command asked him to and if the party top brass asks someone else to step in, it will be so. However, sources in the Baghel camp said the party's top leadership has assured him that he would continue as the chief minister. P L Punia, the AICC in-charge Chhattisgarh, said the speculation over leadership change was only in the media and was not true. "Whatever is being circulated in the media (about leadership change) has no truth in it and there is no such agreement or decision on it that is being talked about," Punia told PTI. Asked if Baghel would continue as the chief minister, he answered in the affirmative. Baghel had also met Punia at the latter's residence here earlier in the day before heading back to Chhattisgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi holds meeting with BJP national secretaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with the BJP national secretaries, along with party president JP Nadda, at his official residence here on Sunday.  Almost all the national secretaries of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were present at the meeting chaired by Modi. BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh was also present.  Earlier in the day, Nadda chaired a meeting with the BJP national secretaries at the party headquarters here. The meeting lasted for about an hour.  Modi held similar meetings last month with the BJP general secretaries and the heads of the saffron party's different wings at his residence.  Both meetings had lasted for about five hours and wide-ranging political discussions were held, mainly on the recently-held and the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||CBI books BOC officials for getting newspapers empanelled for govt ads on 'false' documents||The CBI has registered a case against unidentified officials of the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC), along with Harish Lamba, Aarti Lamba and Ashwani Kumar, for allegedly getting newspapers empanelled for government advertisements on the basis of false and fabricated documents, officials said on Sunday. After a preliminary enquiry, the agency has alleged that unidentified public servants of the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP), now the BOC, in collusion with the Lambas, got six newspapers -- two editions each of the Arjun Times, the Health of Bharat and the Delhi Health -- empanelled with the DAVP by furnishing false and fabricated documents. The agency had initiated the preliminary enquiry on the basis of a joint surprise check on August 30, 2019. It came to light during the check that in spite of not meeting the criteria to become eligible for empanelment with the DAVP, these newspapers got empanelled in collusion with unidentified officials of the directorate. The agency has alleged that false documents, including certificates of chartered accountants, were submitted in the department to get empanelled for government advertisements. "It was further alleged that the above named newspapers were shown to have printed and circulated around 1.5 lakh copies (each containing eight pages) per day whereas, the collective circulation of the said newspapers may not be more than 100-150 copies per day," the FIR alleges. The CBI has alleged that the advertisements given to these papers resulted in a loss of crores of rupees to the exchequer. No active printing and publishing work was being carried out at the addresses of the publishers or the press of the said newspapers, it has alleged. During the enquiry, the agency found that in its papers submitted in 2017 for the Arjun Times, Ashwani Kumar was shown as the publisher. Harish Lamba is the owner or proprietor of the newspaper. "The name of the printing press was shown as Dolphin Pictography in Jhandewalan Extension, New Delhi-110055. Enquiry revealed that Darshan Singh Negi is the owner of Dolphin Pictography and he does not know any person namely Harish Lamba or Ashwani Kumar. The newspaper, Arjun Times, was never printed from this printing press," the CBI has alleged. It has alleged that the contract between the publisher and the printer and the form of declaration submitted with the application, purportedly issued by Negi, were forged as those were never issued by him. The enquiry further revealed that the chartered accountant certificate was also forged purportedly showing the number of copies printed per publishing day as 25,800. However, no copy of the newspaper was ever printed from Dolphin Pictography. Similar irregularities were found in connection with the other newspapers as well. The agency has alleged that these newspapers fraudulently and dishonestly got empanelled with the DAVP and got advertisements of Rs 62.24 lakh from 2016 to 2019. "This amount may be more if calculated from the starting of the empanelment of the newspapers," officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||IT rules 2021 empowering and protecting users: Ashwini Vaishnaw||IT and communications minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Sunday said the new information technology rules are empowering and protecting users. The new IT rules will ensure a safer and more responsible social media ecosystem in India, the minister said. “Reviewed the implementation and compliance of Information Technology Rules, 2021 along with my colleague Shri Rajeev Chandrasekhar ji. These guidelines are empowering and protecting users and will ensure a safer and responsible social media ecosystem in India,” Vaishnaw said in a post on Twitter's Indian competitor Koo platform. The new rules which came into effect from May 25 mandate social media companies to establish a grievance redressal mechanism for resolving complaints from the users or victims. All significant social media companies, with over 50 lakh user base shall appoint a grievance officer to deal with such complaints and share the name and contact details of such officers. The big social media companies are mandated to appoint a chief compliance officer, a Nodal Contact Person and a resident grievance officer. All of them should be a resident in India. Twitter, which had been in the eye of the storm over its alleged failure to comply with the new IT rules in India, has named Vinay Prakash as its Resident Grievance Officer for India, according to the company's website. However, Facebook-owned Whatsapp has challenged the new IT rules for social media intermediaries requiring the messaging app to trace chats and make provisions to identify the first originator of information, saying they violate the right to privacy and are unconstitutional. Whatsapp further alleged the requirement of intermediaries enabling the identification of the first originator of information in India upon government or court order puts end-to-end encryption and its benefits at risk. Some of the media houses have also challenged the new IT rules and the matter is sub-judice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||Women and Child Development identifies 268 children orphaned due to pandemic||The Delhi government's Women and Child Development (WCD) Department has identified 268 children who have been orphaned during the coronavirus pandemic, an official said on Sunday. There are nearly 5,500 children who have lost either of their parents ever since the virus hit the national capital, WCD director Rashmi Singh told PTI. "The 268 children who have been identified include those who lost their parents to other ailments apart from coronavirus. There are also some children who were abandoned by their fathers and were living with single mothers. After the mother died, the children were left orphaned since the father could not be contacted," she said. Of the 268 orphaned children, 27 have been placed in institutional care while the others were found living with extended family, grandparents, or elder siblings, Singh said. The WCD is conducting a survey to identify orphan children and has appointed 20 welfare officers for the purpose. The officers have been given time till July 20 to complete the survey. Over 2,000 children in the city have lost either one or both their parents to the novel coronavirus infection, with 67 of them losing both their parents, since the pandemic outbreak in March last year, according to a survey conducted by the Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR). As many as 651 children have lost their mothers and 1,311 children their fathers to the infection, it stated. The WCD department data comprises these figures too, the official added. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that those children who have lost both or either of the parents to COVID-19 will be given financial assistance of Rs 2,500 per month till the time they attain the age of 25. A WCD official said that the child welfare committees and district child protection officers are in touch with the families and completing their paperwork. The official said efforts are also being made to enroll those children, who lost their parents to other reasons apart from coronavirus during the pandemic, in other welfare schemes. Kejriwal had on May 14 said his government would bear the cost of education and upbringing of the children orphaned during the pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last month announced a number of welfare measures for such children, including ensuring a corpus of Rs 10 lakh when they turn 23 years of age and providing for their education. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Bhopal cops use water cannons to disperse protesting Cong workers ||The Madhya Pradesh government's decision to allot land in an industrial estate to an RSS affiliate associated with small industries prompted the opposition Congress to stage a protest under senior leader Digvijaya Singh here on Sunday wherein police used water cannons. The incident occurred when Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP, and other Congress workers were trying to climb on a barricade during the protest held at Govindpura industrial area, officials said. Police have filed a case against Singh and eight other Congress leaders along with 200 workers of the party for organising a protest without prior permission and violating Covid-19 rules. Police used water cannons but we will continue to fight against the land allotment till the association of Industrial area is with us. The water got into my ears,"' Singh told reporters. He alleged Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had given this land worth crores to the Laghu and Madhyam Udyog Bharti at the rate of Re 1 despite opposition from the Industrial Association. "This is the only park where workers take their lunch and rest, Singh said. The former chief minister said the Govindpura industrial estate was developed for ancillary units of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) in Bhopal. The park land in the estate is being allotted to this organisation without changing the land title and securing due permissions. 95 per cent of the industrialists are opposed to the land allotment to this body, he said. "I, CM Chouhan, former CM Babulal Gaur had planted saplings in this park," Singh recalled. Eyewitnesses said a heated argument broke out between Singh and Bhopal DIG Irshad Wali during the demonstration in the presence of police personnel. When Singh said the Congress will demolish the foundation stone on the allotted land, Wali is heard saying the police will keep an eye on him, they said. District Collector Avinash Lavania told Singh that the work at the allotted land is allowed only after securing necessary legal permissions including from the Industry Department. Reacting to the Congress' protest, Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang said the upcoming project of the Laghu Udyog Bharati will provide skill development and create jobs. "This land was allotted to the Laghu Udyog Bharti after considering all the aspects," he told reporters. Sarang said contrary to the claims made by Singh, no industrialist was seen during Saturday's protest. Digvijaya Singh is always opposed to every new creation and brings negativity into every positive thing. The youths will be prepared for employment. Digvijaya Singh was CM for ten years but instead of giving jobs, he deprived the daily wagers of their employment. He is now feeling bad when something new is created," Sarang alleged. Congress leader and former Union minister Arun Yadav condemned the use of force by police against the party workers and Singh. The BJP regime allotted the land to an organisation affiliated to the RSS. Police used force when Congress workers staged a protest. The CM should take action against erring officials, Yadav demanded. Ashoka Garden police station in-charge Alok Shrivastava told PTI that police filed cases against eight leaders including Digvijaya Singh, MLA PC Sharma, Vibha Patel and others, besides 200 party workers. "These leaders were booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code," he said. Shrivastava said only water cannons were used to disperse the protestors and no excessive force was used during the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||NIA carries out raid in Kashmir in connection with circulation of ISIS propaganda||The National Investigation Agency on Sunday carried out searches at seven places in Srinagar and Anantnag in south Kashmir in connection with a case related to circulation of propaganda by banned terror group ISIS, the agency said. The spokesperson of the NIA said a case was registered on June 29 in connection with the conspiracy of the proscribed terrorist organisation ISIS to radicalise and recruit impressionable youths in India to wage violent jihad against the Indian State. In this connection, an India-centric online propaganda magazine 'the Voice of Hind' ( VOH) is published on monthly basis to incite and radicalise youths by projecting a skewed narrative of imagined injustices in India to arouse a feeling of alienation and communal hatred, the spokesperson said. To execute its nefarious plan, an organised campaign has been launched in cyberspace which is supplemented by on-ground terror financing activities. ISIS terrorists operating from various conflict zones along with ISIS cadres in India, by assuming pseudo online identities, have created a network wherein ISIS-related propaganda material is disseminated for radicalising and recruiting members into its fold. Searches in the case on Sunday led to the recovery and seizure of a large number of incriminating documents and digital devices such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops and hard disks, and T-shirts having the ISIS logo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Al Qaeda unit busted in UP, Calcutta Police arrest 3 suspected terrorists in Bengal||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Sunday said they had busted an Al Qaeda unit in Lucknow, which was reportedly planning suicide attacks in crowded areas of the city and other places in the state. Two men named Minaz Ahmad and Masiruddin, also known as Mushir, both residents of Lucknow, have been arrested as part of the operation, the police said, as per a report by ndtv.com. "ATS (Anti-Terrorism Squad) UP has uncovered a big terror module. The team has arrested two terrorists linked with Al Qaeda's Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind. Cache of arms, explosive materials have been recovered," senior police officer Prashant Kumar was quoted as saying by the media organisation. The two suspects were detained from Kakori town in Lucknow district after searches were conducted, the police said. In a related incident in Bengal, three suspected terrorists of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) were arrested from south Calcutta's Haridevpur area on Sunday afternoon, police said. The arrests were made by the Calcutta Police's Special Task Force (STF), they said. The three suspected JMB terrorists were living in a rented accommodation for a few months in the middle-class locality, raising concern among the locals. The three suspected terrorists were nabbed following a tip-off, a senior police officer said. "We are investigating the matter and interrogating them. It is at a very initial stage," the officer told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Kejriwal promises 300 units of free electricity to Uttarakhand if voted to power||If elected to power in Uttarakhand, the Aam Aadmi Party will give free electricity up to 300 units per month to every family, waive old bills and give free electricity to farmers, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. Making the announcements in the hill state where assembly elections are due next year, Kejriwal said his government has done it in Delhi and can do it in Uttarakhand also as the state generates power. "These things are guaranteed if we come to power in the state. If we can do it in Delhi, then why can't we do it in Uttarakhand, which not only produces electricity but also gives it to other states," Kejriwal said at a press conference here. "There will be no power cuts. Free electricity doesn't mean long outages. When we took over in Delhi 7-8 hours long power outages were common. We set that right," said the AAP leader who recently promised free electricity to every household in Punjab that consumes up to 300 units of power if his party forms government in the state next year. Kejriwal had last year announced 100 percent subsidy to those who consume up to 200 units of electricity in Delhi. Consumers of 201-400 units received approximately 50 percent subsidy. In Uttarakhand, he said, every household will be provided 300 units of free electricity if the AAP forms the government. The freebies announced on Sunday are being seen as his attempt to woo voters and steal the ruling BJP's thunder by going one step ahead of it. Uttrakhand Power Minister Harak Singh Rawat had also recently announced that the state government will give free electricity to people of the state up to 100 units The AAP which has not been able to win a single seat in the state in the past elections has plans to emerge as an alternative to both Congress and BJP in the next assembly polls. The AAP leader remembered how he and his ministers went door-to-door to get transformers and wires replaced. He claimed that AAP workers touring different areas of Uttarakhand have found that exaggerated bills have been issued on a large scale to people "deliberately to dupe them". "So we have decided to waive the old bills and start afresh if elected to power. We will also give free electricity to farmers for agricultural purposes," Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||India's vaccination drive not as bad as it looks, one-third of target already met ||First the good news – and then a host of qualifications. India’s vaccination drive’s been a jerky stop-and-start affair but it’s closer to its targets than might have been expected just a few weeks ago. Nearly one-third of all adult Indians to be vaccinated have received at least one jab. Will that be enough to stall a future third wave? That’s an altogether different question. A total of 366 million people have been vaccinated since the drive started on January 15. Out of that number, 296 million have received their first jabs and another 69.8 million have had their full quota of two injections. Don’t forget that India’s target is to vaccinate around 940 million people who are over 18. We’re a very young nation and almost 400 million people are under 18 and, therefore, under the current regulations don’t need to be vaccinated. So, for the first jabs, we’re almost one-third of our way to the target. Don’t start celebrating too quickly, though. The first jab of Covishield, the Indian version of AstraZeneca, confers just 32.9 per cent protection against symptomatic infection by the now dominant Delta strain, according to a Public Health of England study, but it does provide 71 per cent against hospitalisation. After the second dose, protection against symptomatic infection ranges rises to around 73 per cent. And two doses gives 92 per cent against hospitalisation. Still, the vaccination pace has been picking up. Between July 2 and July 9 we’ve vaccinated 27.6 million people and, if we can keep up this pace, we should easily be able to vaccinate 100 million a month. By December we could do around 600 million more vaccinations if nothing goes seriously wrong with the drive. At a rough estimate, 400 million of these could be first jabs and 200 million could be second ones. In fact, the numbers could rise even further because the vaccine-making companies are aiming to hike production very soon. Serum Institute has informed the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) that it will be turning out 100 million doses monthly. And, in its filing, Bharat Biotech told the DGCI, output could hit 78 million doses in August. (That Bharat Biotech target would be up steeply from its 20 million production in April).  And there could be even more on the market as it’s not known what others like Russian Sputnik V, Pfizer and Moderna might be delivering to the Indian market by then. While the overall vaccination numbers look like they are heading in the right direction, vaccination progress differs sharply from state to state. Among the big states, the two leaders are Kerala and Gujarat. Just over 42 per cent of the populations of both those states have received their first jabs. In Jammu & Kashmir, 44.1 per cent of the population has had one jab. In terms of the percentage of the population which has received their first jabs, the smaller states are far out in front. In Himachal Pradesh, 61.5 per cent of the population has had their first jabs. Uttarakhand is at 47.4 for the first jabs. In Kerala, 14 per cent of the population and in Gujarat 12.8 per cent have had both injections. The picture’s grim at the other end of the scale. In Uttar Pradesh, 19.9 per cent have received one jab and 3.5 per cent both jabs. Similarly, in Bihar, the figures are 20.5 per cent with one jab and 3.4 per cent with two. In West Bengal, the figures are 23.9 per cent and 8 per cent. As far as heading off a third wave, experts say a lot will hinge on a combination of the vaccination rollout and people's observation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour which Prime Minister Narendra Modi red-flagged this week as beginning to fall apart. The daily positivity rate India-wide on Saturday was 2.19 per cent -- it’s now been below 3 per cent for 19 days. Some 42,766 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, after hitting an 11-day low of 34,703 cases on July 6. While the numbers are clearly better than two months ago when the country hit a peak of more than 414,000 new daily cases on May 7, among the good numbers are some worrying figures. Kerala continues to be a Covid-19 hotspot, reporting 13,563 fresh cases on Friday, while Maharashtra reported 8.992 infections. Kerala attributes its recent surge in cases to relaxations of the state government's lockdown programme. Tamil Nadu has extended its lockdown until July 19 with some easing of restrictions. And what is concerning on the positivity score, is that some 66 districts across India had a positivity rate of 10 per cent in the last week. There’s also an additional complication. Do the under-18s need to be vaccinated? That’s a global debate that’s inconclusive as yet. But in Israel, where the vaccine drive rollout has been extensive, the Ministry of Health is vaccinating teens and pre-teens in response to an ever-increasing proportion of new infections in the country in younger age groups. The US has also started vaccinating children over 12. Says Health Economist Rijo M. John: “Potentially 80 per cent plus of the entire population need to be jabbed to reach any sort of herd immunity. The virus doesn’t care for this 18-plus cut off.” Anyone who might think we have beaten the pandemic should look at the UK. There, the vaccination programme has been super-efficient -- some 66 per cent of the adult population has now been double-jabbed. Nonetheless, the UK is seeing a huge sudden surge in infections and on Friday, July 9,  had 35,707 new cases – that’s the highest since January 22. What’s also astonishing, is that more than 400,000 people in the UK tested positive in the week to July 3, according to the Office of National Statistics. The Government has warned that there could be up to 100,000 fresh cases daily as summer rolls on. Most people in Britain have received the AstraZeneca and the Pfizer vaccines. Some have also received the Moderna and Janssen vaccines. Despite Covid-19 infections soaring, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has nevertheless announced the lifting of pandemic restrictions on July 19 which many scientists in Britain and globally have condemned as reckless. Johnson also ominously warned when announcing the plans to lift all restrictions that, “We must reconcile ourselves, sadly, to more deaths from Covid-19.” By lifting all restrictions and with still millions of people to be fully vaccinated, scientists have warned that the UK could be creating a "variant factory" where new, potentially more lethal variants could emerge. Russia, South Korea and neighbouring Bangladesh are all reporting a serious upsurge in infection numbers. From the UK experience, it appears clear that observing Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is going to be crucial in the coming months.  If people continue to flout Covid-19 safety measures such as mask-wearing and social distancing in markets and tourist hot spots such as Himachal Pradesh and  Uttarakhand, case numbers could again explode, warns Dr V.K. Paul, the head of India’s pandemic task force. “The rate of decline of the number of (Indian) cases is somewhat slow… and if we do not make concerted efforts to control the virus, the virus may have an upper hand over us,” Paul told reporters in New Delhi. “We have seen this in the past, there were predominantly localised infections and then they exploded,” he says. India needs to wrestle cases down to a baseline 10,000 a day for at least three weeks before cases can be said to be under control, Paul says. “The war is not over…. The nation is not safe,” he insists. While experts say the COVID-19 virus will reach its endemic stage like influenza after a while, it is going to take time. "Influenza, commonly known as flu, was a pandemic 100 years ago but today it is endemic. Similarly, in the case of Covid-19, we expect it will gradually become endemic from its current state of being a pandemic,” says Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Indican Council for Medical Research’s epidemiology division. For the Modi government though, the way the pandemic plays out over the coming months is of crucial concern with the all-important Uttar Pradesh elections due in February 2022. The state government is installing oxygen plants and hopes its vaccination drive will ensure that the horrific scenes witnessed in the second wave in UP aren’t repeated. The rebooted Modi government has a big stake in getting its act together in tackling the pandemic. Its political future may be riding on it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||‘Pressure fuse’ used in bombs dropped on Jammu IAF station indicates role of Pak military||The ‘pressure fuse’ used in the bombs that were dropped on the Indian Air Force station in Jammu through drones in a first-of-its-kind attack indicates that some elements of the Pakistan army or the ISI helped terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba in fabricating the IEDs, according to security sources. The improvised explosive device (IED) that pierced the rooftop of one of the IAF buildings at the Jammu airport carried less than one kg of RDX and a cocktail of other chemicals whereas the one that was dropped on the ground contained a little over one kg of the deadly explosives along with some ball bearings, they said. The sources said the IED used in the June 27 attack on the IAF station ‘definitely’ used the technical expertise of the Pakistani military. The ‘pressure fuse’ used is similar to the ones used by the Pakistani army. A ‘pressure fuse’ is generally used in minefields, anti-tank mines and those dropped by the air force in the fuselage between the explosive and main detonator of a shell or an IED. The explosive devices are activated by the pressure of either falling on the ground with force or some individual or vehicle passing over it. However, in these sophisticated IEDs, the 'pressure fuse' had been deployed at the nose of the bombs so that they trigger with a force after falling on the ground, the sources said. Most of the artillery shells and mortar bombs have this type of fuse and that's why they don't explode in the air but on impact, they explained. Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh had said earlier that Pakistan-based terrorists of Lashkar-e-Taiba were suspected to be behind the bombing of the IAF station in Jammu through drones, which may have come from across the border. The National Investigation Agency took over the investigation into what was the first instance of Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike vital installations in India on June 29. Two IAF personnel were injured in the explosions that took place within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari on the outskirts of Jammu. The second one was on the ground. It is mentionable that Pakistan has been procuring armed drones from China and Turkey of late. The sources said drones can fly up to three hours and can be monitored and manoeuvred remotely through Global Positioning System technology. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km. In September last year, five Lok Sabha members from the YSR Congress, in a written question, had asked whether the government had issued any guidelines in the light of the possibility of drones being used as weapons of attack on high-security installations. The then Minister of State for Home G K Reddy had stated, “In order to counter the threat of drones in the country, necessary guidelines have been issued, which include measures to be taken by the central and the state governments in consultation with the security agencies.” Earlier in March last year, four Lok Sabha members and a BJP leader had asked whether the government had formulated a comprehensive policy to prevent attacks by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) on vital security installations. In a written reply, the then Minister of State for Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said, “The government had issued a standard operating procedure to prevent drone attacks on vital installations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy's custodial death unjustified, says Shiv Sena MP||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the death of Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case accused Jesuit priest Stan Swamy in custody cannot be justified even if Maoists are "more dangerous than Kashmiri separatists". In his weekly column Rokhthok in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana', Raut wondered whether India's foundation was so weak that an 84-year-old man could can wage a war against it, and said being critical of an incumbent government doesn't mean being against the country. Swamy, 84, possibly the oldest person to be accused of terrorism in India, died in a Mumbai hospital recently in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. "A government that is scared of an 84-year-old physically challenged man is dictatorial in character, but weak in the mind," said Raut, who is the executive editor of 'Saamana'. The activities of the Elgar Parishad cannot be supported, but what happened later should be called a "conspiracy of cracking down on freedom", Raut said, referring to the arrest of activists like Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gaurav Navlakha and others in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Raut said all those arrested (in the case), including (scholar-activist) Anand Teltumbde, belong to a particular ideology who voice their rebellion through literature. "Can they overthrow the government with this?" he asked. Raut said Stan Swamy died in custody while Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks with those who want autonomy for Kashmir and are demanding restoration of Article 370 there. "We may not agree with the ideology of Maoists and Naxals. Swamy's death in custody cannot be justified even if Maoists and Naxals are more dangerous than Kashmiri separatists," the Rajya Sabha member said. He expressed surprise over Prime Minister Modi's name figuring in the list of global leaders who crack down on press freedom. "The situation has not gone out of hand in India even if it is true that the government's critics are put in jail under sedition laws. The Indian press also raises its voice against such incidents," he said. "Is the country's foundation so weak that it can be threatened by an 84-year-old man?" Raut asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Yogi unveils population control draft bill to eliminate 'hurdle'||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the increasing population was a "hurdle in development" and that more efforts are needed to control it. He was speaking during a function held at his official residence here on the occasion of World Population Day. Unveiling the Uttar Pradesh Population Policy 2021-2030, Adityanath said, "Across the world, from time to time, concerns have been expressed that increasing population can be a hurdle in development, and for the past four decades discussions on it are going on." "The countries and states which have made efforts in this direction have seen positive results. However, more efforts are needed in this regard," he said, adding that the UP government was implementing this policy keeping in mind all sections of the society. The unveiling of the policy comes days after a draft of the population control bill was put up on the state law commission website. The draft says it is necessary to control and stabilise the population of the state for the promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution. It also says that anyone violating two-child policy in Uttar Pradesh will be debarred from contesting local bodies elections, from applying for or getting promotion in government jobs, and receiving any kind of government subsidy. Listing incentives for public servants who adopt the two-child norm, the draft bill says, "Public servants who adopt the two-child norm will get two additional increments during the entire service, maternity or as the case may be, paternity leave of 12 months, with full salary and allowances and three per cent increase in the employer's contribution fund under national pension scheme."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Delhi schools to open for training & meeting purposes||Auditoriums and assembly halls in Delhi schools will be allowed to be used for training and meeting purposes but physical teaching and learning will continue to remain suspended, stated a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The order issued by DDMA on Saturday said that the auditoriums and assembly halls in schools and educational institutions can be used for training and meeting purposes with a 50 per cent seating capacity limit. All schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed and online or distance learning will be permitted, said the order. Other prohibited activities and services include cinema halls, multiplexes, spas, theatres, entertainment parks, political, social, cultural festivals and such other gatherings. These were banned with the imposition of lockdown in Delhi on April 19 due to surging Covid infections. Public transport, including Delhi Metro, will continue to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity. DTC and cluster buses will also run with 50 per cent seating capacity, the order stated. Activities that are prohibited and restricted will remain so till 5 am on July 26, said the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Twitter names resident grievance officer for India to comply with IT Rules||Amid tensions with the government, Twitter has appointed a Resident Grievance Officer, days after it designated a chief compliance officer, as it also released its first India Transparency Report to meet the new IT rules. The US social media giant's website has listed Vinay Prakash as the new grievance officer, providing contact details and procedure for users to report potential violations of its rules and terms. Twitter had previously appointed Dharmendra Chatur as its interim grievance officer for India after the new IT rules came into force on May 26. However, Chatur stepped down within weeks of taking over the key role. California-based Jeremy Kessel was named as India's grievance redressal officer, on the platform's website - although the appointment did not meet the requirements of IT rules that clearly mandate key officers - grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer - to be resident in India. Twitter's website on Sunday showed Vinay Prakash as the Resident Grievance Officer (RGO). Users can contact him using an email ID listed on the page. "Twitter can be contacted in India at the following address: 4th Floor, The Estate, 121 Dickenson Road, Bangalore 560 042," the page further said. Prakash's name appears along with Kessel, who is the Global Legal Policy Director, and is based in the US. Twitter did not share additional details of the new resident grievance officer. Twitter has also published its maiden compliance report. In its India Transparency Report: User Grievances and Proactive Monitoring July 2021 report, Twitter said it had received 94 grievances and "actioned" 133 URLs between May 26 and June 25, 2021. Twitter said the majority of complaints received via Grievance Officer - India channel during the reporting period fell into categories including defamation (20), Abuse/Harassment (6), Sensitive Adult Content (4), Impersonation and privacy infringement (3 each), IP-related Infringement (1), and Misinformation/Synthetic and Manipulated Media (1). In addition to this, Twitter processed 56 grievances which were appealing Twitter account suspensions. In a separate category - 'Proactive Monitoring Data', Twitter said 18,385 accounts were suspended over the issue of Child Sexual Exploitation, Non-Consensual Nudity, and similar content, while 4,179 accounts were suspended for Promotion of Terrorism. However, the 'Proactive Monitoring Data' -- content proactively identified by employing internal tools and industry hash sharing initiatives -- represents global actions taken, and not just actions related to content from India. Twitter noted that going forward, it will publish this report on a monthly basis and that it will make improvements over time, based on feedback received from the government, or in accordance with internal changes that allow it to provide more granular data. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 50 lakh users) are required to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The new IT rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of digital platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Under these rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity and pornography. Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. The rules also mandate appointment of three key personnel - grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer. These officials need to be resident in India. The Indian government had confronted Twitter over deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the IT rules, despite repeated reminders. Twitter -- which has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India -- lost its legal shield as an intermediary in India, becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. Ashwini Vaishnaw, who has recently taken charge as Information Technology Minister, had on Thursday said all those who live and work in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. On the same day, Twitter had informed the Delhi High Court that it has appointed an interim chief compliance officer (CCO), who is a resident of India, and that it will make an endeavour to fill the regular position within eight weeks as per the IT rules. In an affidavit, Twitter had said Twitter has posted publicly a job announcement for a CCO as a direct employee and is accepting applications at this time. Twitter will endeavour in good faith to make an offer of employment to a qualified candidate to fill this position within 8 weeks . Earlier, Twitter had advertised for filling the positions of Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Officer and Resident Grievance Officer in India on the careers section on its website. The Delhi High Court had granted two weeks' to Twitter Inc to file an affidavit, notarised in the US, on compliance with the IT rules and had made it clear that it was not extending any protection to the microblogging platform. The High Court had said the centre was free to take action against Twitter Inc in case of any breach of the IT rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||India records 41,506 Covid-19 cases in a day, 895 fatalities||With 41,506 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,08,37,222, while the active cases declined to 4,54,118, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll has climbed to 4,08,040 with 895 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.47 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.20 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed A decrease of 915 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,43,500 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,08,85,470. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.25 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for 20 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.32 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,99,75,064 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.60 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 895 new fatalities include 494 from Maharashtra and 109 from Kerala. A total of 4,08,040 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,25, 528 from Maharashtra, 35,779 from Karnataka, 33,371 from Tamil Nadu, 25,012 from Delhi, 22,693 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,903 from Bengal and 16,177 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Mother gone, teens cry to sleep but shield siblings||In a small, colourfully painted house on India’s eastern coast, G. Sonali Reddy cooks meals and feeds her younger siblings by day and rocks them to sleep at night, hoping to assuage their fears, just as her mother would. Sonali, still a child at 14, is her family’s caretaker. Several years ago, her father took his own life after the failure of the family’s business selling spare trolley parts. Then in May, her mother, Sabita, contracted Covid-19 as a calamitous wave of infections swept across India. Within hours of reaching the closest city hospital with medical oxygen, Sabita was dead. “My mother kept us safe like an umbrella does, from the heat and rain of life,” said Sonali, holding back tears. “I imagine her being close to me. That’s what keeps me going.” Sonali and her siblings are among more than 3,000 Indian children who have been orphaned during the pandemic, according to state governments. They are a heart-rending testament to the devastation wrought on families as the coronavirus has erased hundreds of thousands of lives across the country. States have announced compensation for each orphan, along with promises of food and free education. Prime Minister Narendra Modi vowed in a tweet to “ensure a life of dignity and opportunity” for the children. But advocates fear that when the attention inevitably fades, the orphans will be left susceptible to neglect and exploitation. Already, the children, shell-shocked in some cases from the loss of their entire families, have found it difficult to obtain death certificates to qualify for government benefits. Some will also find it hard to return to school. In the longer term, the many orphans from poor families in remote areas face the risk of human trafficking and child marriage. “The government is trying to save its face as the catastrophic tragedy ravaged India,” said Medha Pande, a law student at Delhi University who has written about sociolegal issues arising from the pandemic. “They came out looking unprepared,” she added. “They are just creating a subgroup out of a larger group of vulnerable children, saying they can easily look after them.” On a recent morning, officials in the village of Pattapur, in Odisha, arrived at Sonali’s home, where her maternal grandmother moved in after her daughter’s death. They had come to deliver an “orphan pension” to the children, enough money to last for the summer. Bank accounts were opened in their names. The officials dropped off large bags of rice. Saucer-eyed, Sonali listened carefully as they rattled off a list of instructions for using her bank account. Her siblings — Jagabalia, 8, and Bhabana, 5 — looked on listlessly, clutching their sister’s blue dress. Even before her mother’s death, the family had a meagre existence. Newly widowed, Sabita opened a small snack shop in the front room of their home. She spent what little money she had to provide after-school study for Sonali. With her father gone, Sonali was especially close to her mother. “My siblings beg me: ‘We want to go to mummy,’” Sonali said as she fiddled with her thumbs. “When our father passed away, we thought, ‘At least mummy is there.’ Now, the virus has taken her away too.” Hundreds of miles away in the southern city of Hyderabad, G. Sathwik Reddy, 13 — no relation to Sonali — hears similar pleas from his sister after their parents died during the peak of India’s recent wave of infections. When his sister, Haanvi, 3, asks for “mummy” and “daddy,” he tells her simply: “They will come home tomorrow.” Their father, Gopal, had a small business making iron fences for farms. Like millions of middle-class Indian families, they saved as much as they could to send their children to a private school. Their mother, Deepa, cooked special chicken dishes for her children every Sunday and helped Sathwik with his homework. In April, Gopal, Deepa and the children’s grandmother contracted the virus within days of each other. With chronic oxygen shortages in India and hospitals turning away patients, the family worried about their chances. Once at a hospital, Deepa became gravely ill. She remained intubated for two weeks, unconscious. Gopal’s lungs, too, rapidly deteriorated. By early May, all three were dead. At the crematory, Sathwik saw his father’s face for a brief moment from behind a plastic sheet. He became numb with shock. Now, he often cries himself to sleep. “I must stay strong for my sister,” he said. In the dusty plains of northern India, Shawez Saifi, 18, also finds himself sniffing back tears in the dark of night, when his sister jolts awake, screaming out for their mother. Their parents, Shamshad and Shabnam, became sick in April, and Shawez took them to a local doctor, who recommended a coronavirus test. But with little money to go around from the dwindling work that father and son did on construction sites, Shabnam suggested that they return to their home in Murad Nagar to recuperate. The children slept on the veranda outside their one-room shack while the parents locked themselves inside. After their condition quickly worsened, they moved to a relative’s house. A few days later, Shabnam was dead. Her husband died a few days after that. When Shawez, who had given up his studies to work with his father, returned home without his parents, the landlord had locked them out, saying he would give them the key only after the rent was paid. His uncle borrowed money to cover some of the debt so that Shawez and his siblings could collect their belongings. Shawez’s younger sister, Kahkashan, 9, has been hit the hardest. Nearly every day, she picks up the phone and dials her mother, talking to her as if she were on the other end. “Mother, when will you come? I miss you,” she says. “My only dream is to educate my siblings,” Shawez said. “My mother would call me when I would be out for work and ask, ‘Son, it is getting late. When will you come home?’ Now no one will call me anymore,” he said. In Pattapur, Sonali, too, feels as if she has lost her most powerful protector. In a thick diary, on the page next to the one on which she has noted the dates of her parents’ deaths, Sonali jotted a poem dedicated to her mother. On a recent day, she read it aloud to her siblings. Undergoing the ups and downs of life, our mother brings us up. Our mother is the tallest in this world, she is the one who can keep us well. This world is barren without mother, this world is not the same place without her. Mother bears the pain on our behalf, but we fail to bear the pain on mother’s behalf. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Village Cooking Channel gets YouTube badge after hitting 1 crore subscribers||For years, Subramani, his brothers and cousins had dreamt of leaving the country and working as chefs in places like America, Thailand or Malaysia. None had ever cooked even for a roadside eatery. But in southern Tamil Nadu’s Chettinad region — famous for its cuisine with its unique blend of pastes and spices — even the men in many families not just cook regularly but take pride in their expertise and innovation. Then, in 2018, Subramani and two others from the family saw their hopes dashed when their efforts to secure employment in the US fell through at the last moment. However, amid the gloom came the spark of a bright idea. “We asked ourselves, why not make cookery videos on the splendorous variety of Chettinad cuisine and upload them on YouTube?” Subramani, who is in his 30s, told The Telegraph. So began their rural start-up, the Village Cooking Channel, in early 2019, with the participation of cousins Subramani, Murugesan, Ayyanar, Muthumanickam and Tamilselvan— all in their 30s — and their 75-year-old grandfather Periyathambi. The channel hit 1 crore subscribers last month to win YouTube’s “diamond play button” and left chief minister M.K. Stalin deeply moved on July 4 by donating Rs 10 lakh towards Covid relief. No cookery group from south India has ever before notched a diamond play button, which YouTube awards to creators of channels that have over 1 crore subscribers. Subramani credits the surge in subscribers to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who had in January-end this year featured as a guest in one of the group’s videos and participated in cooking “mushroom biryani”. “Our channel averaged 10,000 viewers for months, but after Rahul Gandhi joined us it suddenly crossed 30,000 subscribers,” Subramani said. The surge continued over the next five months, with the 1 crore mark attained by the third week of June. This despite the lessons being in Tamil, without English subtitles, and despite the pandemic having forced the group to cut down the number of videos from three to four a week to just one a week. Grandfather Periyathambi, the main chef of the channel who has been cooking at home for over 50 years, said he felt deeply emotional when the silver-paper-wrapped designer suitcase from YouTube arrived from California in early July, bringing the diamond play button. “If I can get this recognition at 75, all the credit goes to the viewers of our cookery videos the world over,” he said, voice choking. “Heartiest congratulations to the Village Cooking Channel for their ever-expanding viewership,” Rahul wrote on his Facebook page on July 5, sharing a link to his interaction with them. “I also congratulate them for the much appreciated gesture of making a significant donation to the Tamil Nadu Covid relief fund. Looking forward to seeing you all again someday.” Meals for all The channel’s videos provide recipes and cooking lessons, with the group’s six members filming themselves preparing various Chettinad dishes under the open sky. They sometimes cook entire multi-course meals in one session. So far, they have uploaded 172 videos. While they mostly cooked in their village of Chinnaveeramangalam in Pudukkottai district, 420km from Chennai, in the pre-Covid days they often travelled to a different village to shoot their videos, the idea being to change the background visuals and avoid monotony. If the village was nearby, they carried the large pots and other utensils, ingredients and firewood on their heads. If it was far off — they once travelled to Tuticorin, 200km away — they hired pick-up vehicles. Whether in their village or elsewhere, the group — which focused on “bulk cooking” for a large number of people — distributed the food among local people and nearby orphanages and old-age homes. The group cooks both vegetarian and meat dishes. It uses fish, crabs and snails from local streams besides eggs and mutton, Subramani said. During the group’s pre-Covid travels, “we went for lobsters in areas close to the sea”. In keeping with tradition, they cook only over firewood and use stone grinders in preparing the pastes and powders. The Covid outbreak, however, not just put a stop to their travels but wrecked the group’s overseas ambitions a second time just when its younger members were thinking of using the channel’s popularity to secure assignments at foreign hotels. But it turned into a blessing in disguise, thanks to Rahul. The big break Rahul had been campaigning in Karur in January-end for the April Tamil Nadu elections when the local Congress MP, Jothi Mani, suggested he meet Subramani’s group. “I was so impressed by the group’s simplicity, enthusiasm and compassion that I mentioned this channel to Rahul Gandhi,” Jothi Mani told this newspaper. “We thought of taking him to their village in Pudukkottai (172km from Karur) but as Rahul’s election tour had already been finalised, we brought the group for a cookery session to a village near Karur with great difficulty (because of the Covid restrictions).” “I enjoyed the food; it’s excellent Tamil food,” Rahul is heard saying in the video. He promised to help the group get in touch with his “friend in the US” (Sam Pitroda) to see whether he could organise a cooking event for the channel at Chicago. “That was how we could not only set up a new benchmark but earn more and contribute Rs 10 lakh to the chief minister’s Covid relief fund,” Subramani said. The group’s earnings come from YouTube advertisements. After they met Stalin at the state secretariat in Chennai and handed over the cheque, the chief minister told reporters he was deeply impressed at such a small group donating so large a sum. While Rahul’s backing helped, the channel’s fans believe the group owe their success to themselves. “Your cooking is very clean; congratulations,” Sujatha, a homemaker, commented on a recent video showing “mutton liver biryani cooking”. “I like one thing; they are helping poor people. I am proud of them,” wrote another YouTube watcher, Sravan Patel. “You guys are great ambassadors of amazing India,” wrote a third while a fourth suggested they introduce English subtitles. MPhil chef Subramani’s family has 10 acres of farmland but the dry Chettinad climate means it lies fallow six months a year, which made it necessary for the young men to look for greener pastures elsewhere. Subramani has a master’s and an MPhil in commerce but that he set his hopes on becoming an international chef rather than seeking a regular office job probably owes to the importance of cuisine to Chettinad’s culture. Chettinad, which sprawls 1,550sqkm across the Sivaganga and Pudukkottai districts, is home to the Nagarathars or Chettiars, traditionally a community of bankers. It’s known mostly for its food and architecture. While small Chettinad hotels and eateries are common in Tamil Nadu, its cuisine had hardly been explored outside, Subramani said. “We are now looking at how to improve the quality of our videos,” he added. Chettinad cuisine is essentially family-based, with the cooking skills passed down from one generation to another, said Sivakumar, who runs a Chettinad restaurant in Karaikudi town near Chinnaveeramangalam. “What makes Chettinad food stand out is that apart from a lot of masala, we use lots of curd. No synthetic stuff is used,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Doyen of Ayurveda passes away at 100||Dr P.K. Warrier, doyen of Ayurveda and managing trustee of Arya Vaidya Sala (AVS), Kottakkal, passed away here on Saturday, family sources said. He was 100. In his lifetime, Dr Warrier treated tens of thousands of people from across the globe and his patients included former Presidents and Prime Ministers. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Dr Warrier was instrumental in leading Ayurveda to global fame and acceptance. Dr Warrier worked towards ensuring that money should not be a barrier to treatment. “He was the patriarch of Ayurveda in Kerala,” Vijayan said. The renowned Arya Vaidya Sala in Kottakkal near here and the Ayurveda Medical College flourished and became synonymous with Ayurveda after Dr Warrier took up the reins of the institution decades ago. The country had honoured him with the Padma Shri in 1999 and the Padma Bhushan in 2010. Born to Sreedharan Namboodiri and Panniyampilly Kunhi Warrisyar in June 1921, Panniyampilly Krishnankutty Warrier did his schooling in Kottakkal and joined AVS at the age of 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh population draft bill proposes two-child policy, stringent measures for violators||Uttar Pradesh is set to introduce a two-child norm and anyone violating it will be barred from applying for or getting promotion in government jobs, receiving any kind of government subsidy and contesting local body elections, according to a draft of the proposed population control bill. The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSLC) has said the provisions are part of the draft Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021. The UPSLC website says: “The State Law Commission, UP, is working on control, stabilisation and welfare of the population of the state and has prepared a draft bill.” Suggestions have been invited from the public to improve the draft bill and they have to be submitted by July 19. The draft bill says: “Public servants who adopt the two-child norm will get two additional increments during the entire service, maternity or as the case may be, paternity leave of 12 months, with full salary and allowances, and three per cent increase in the employer’s contribution fund under the national pension scheme.” A State Population Fund will be constituted for the purpose of implementing the act. A.N. Mittal, the UPSLC chairman, said: “There is a provision in the draft that those who have two children will receive the benefits of the state government’s schemes quickly. They will get houses at a subsidised rate. Those who have more than two children wouldn’t be given such benefits. Ration will be granted for up to four members per family. Those violating the two-child policy will not receive the benefits of government schemes.” Asked about the apprehension of the minority communities that the provisions would work against them and that they had been planned keeping next year’s Assembly elections in mind, Mittal said: “The bill doesn’t have anything to do with elections or a community. It was to be done in any case.” A government source said chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said at a meeting with officials on Friday that the administration would launch a campaign to sensitise people about population-control measures. “Poverty and lack of literacy are the main reasons behind population expansion,” the official quoted Adityanath as saying. Listing the government’s duties, the draft bill says maternity centres will be established at all primary health centres. The centres and NGOs will distribute contraceptive pills and condoms, spread awareness about family planning methods through community health workers and ensure mandatory registration of pregnancies, deliveries, births and deaths across the state. The draft bill also says that it shall be the duty of the government to introduce a compulsory subject relating to population control in all secondary schools. The draft bill says: “In Uttar Pradesh, there are limited ecological and economic resources at hand. It is necessary and urgent that the provision of basic necessities of human life including affordable food, safe drinking water, decent housing, access to quality education, economic/livelihood opportunities, power/electricity for domestic consumption, and a secure living is accessible to all citizens.” It is necessary to control, stabilise the population of the state for promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution, it adds. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||UP poll violence: India never witnessed this kind of anarchy, says Congress spokesperson||Videos showing a senior Uttar Pradesh police officer narrating how he was slapped by people who were carrying sticks, bricks and bombs. A Congress leader pointing to the torn papers and broken bangles of his wife who was prevented from filing her nomination for the heartland state’s block pramukh elections, held on Saturday. A BJP leader and a supporter of a ruling party MP being arrested after being accused of pulling the saris of a woman candidate and her proposer. An IAS officer assaulting a journalist. These will remain some of the abiding images of the local body election, marred by violence and abductions of block development council members — the sole voters in the election. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said India had never witnessed this kind of anarchy in any election. “When did we see elections of this kind? Kidnappings, threats, blackmail, violence, attacks on women — what is going on?” she told The Telegraph. “In the 21st century, we want blood on the streets, women being disrobed, goons running amok with guns and bombs? If the BJP can go to this extent in local polls, imagine what they will do in the Assembly elections?” Saturday’s elections were held to elect the heads of the block development councils (BDCs), the second tier of the panchayat system. Earlier, violence had been reported during the polls to elect the chiefs of the top tier, zilla panchayats. The BJP had performed badly in the April polls to elect panchayat members but has since then managed to win the majority of zilla (district) heads and, according to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, has now won most of the block pramukh posts. Shrinate dismissed the BJP’s claim that local body polls under Samajwadi Party rule too had witnessed extreme violence and coercion, and that the violence was worse during the recent Bengal Assembly polls. “What the country witnessed in Uttar Pradesh is unprecedented. And if violence happened in the past, should that be an inspiration?” Shrinate said. “Violence was always wrong and must stop. What is shocking is that the violence is happening under State patronage; police are either helping the goons or watching silently. The buck stops with the chief minister — he has to take responsibility.” Congress leaders recalled how the BJP had kicked up a row over the post-poll violence in Bengal, with the governor running a campaign against the state government and the Prime Minister and Union home minister getting involved. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Violence has been renamed masterstroke in Uttar Pradesh.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had tweeted on Friday: “Some years ago, a rape victim raised her voice against the BJP MLA who was involved. There were attempts to finish off her entire family. Today, the BJP crossed all limits to stop a woman from filing nomination. The same government, the same behaviour.” The state Congress posted a video in which party general secretary Vidit Chowdhary described how his wife Sangeeta had been stopped from filing her nomination. “She had already filed the first set of papers. It was taken out by some people and torn. They manhandled her; you can see the broken pieces of bangles and injuries on her neck and hands,” Chowdhary says. “The second set of papers was torn by the BJP MLA, Devendra Singh Lodhi, himself. When we tried submitting the third set, they said the time was over.” Shrinate said: “What is the message we are sending? With great difficulty, women step out to enter public life and you are indulging in such violence to tell (them) to stay indoors? This is a step against women’s empowerment. “The world has seen that video in which goons tried to disrobe a woman. If this can be done to an elected representative, imagine what ordinary women would be facing daily. It’s shameful that the BJP’s top leadership is silent. The BJP has 11 women MPs and four women ministers from Uttar Pradesh, and none cared to utter a word.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||BJP ‘sweeps’ Uttar Pradesh block pramukh polls marred by violence||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath “announced” the results of Saturday’s Uttar Pradesh block pramukh polls before the state election commission (SEC) did, raising further questions about an election marred by allegations of the BJP kidnapping voters and the official machinery working “like party cadre”. By the time Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his congratulations on the BJP’s “bumper victory” about two hours later, the state poll panel had still not officially declared the results. Elections were held only to 476 of the state’s 825 block pramukh seats, with candidates elected unopposed in the remaining 349 or 42 per cent of seats, state election commissioner Manoj Kumar said. Adityanath said 334 of these 349 winners were from his party, a claim consistent with allegations of violence to prevent Opposition candidates from filing nomination, including women aspirants’ saris being pulled, papers snatched and torn, and bangles smashed — all in front of returning officers and police. While Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav condemned what he called the BJP’s “naked dance”, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate feared this was a preview of the upcoming Assembly elections that the BJP is desperate to win. “Kidnappings, threats, blackmail, violence, attacks on women... goons running amok with guns and bombs — if the BJP can go to this extent in local polls, imagine what they would do in the Assembly elections,” she said. Saturday’s polls were meant to elect the heads of block development councils (BDCs) — the second tier of the panchayati raj system — whose members had been elected during the state-wide rural polls in April. BDC members alone vote in the pramukh elections. Around 6.24pm, Adityanath held a news conference to say: “We have won 635 of the 825 seats, including 334 where we won unopposed.” He betrayed no trace of irony as he added: “It’s a victory of democracy. The people voted against casteism, communalism and professional criminals.” At 8.12pm, Modi tweeted in Hindi: “The BJP has registered its victory in the block pramukh elections in Uttar Pradesh. The benefits of the government’s policies and welfare schemes are reflected in the bumper victory. All the party workers deserve to be congratulated.” State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and party spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi blamed the violence on the Samajwadis. Yet Lakhimpur Kheri district BJP president Yash Verma and Brij Singh, said to be a supporter of party MP Rekha Verma, have been arrested on the charge of preventing a candidate from filing her nomination on Thursday and pulling her sari and that of her proposer and fellow BDC member. A Congress general secretary has accused BJP MLA Devendra Singh Lodhi of tearing his wife’s nomination papers, saying the jostling left her with broken bangles and injuries to her neck and hands. There were allegations of BJP supporters breaking several journalists’ cameras on Saturday. News channels showed sporadic clashes between BJP and Samajwadi workers. Umesh Kumar, a BDC member from Firozabad, said: “I had gone to cast my vote in Lotan block but someone snatched the voter’s slip from my hands and pushed me out of the room.” Kumar is a supporter of Ashish Singh, an Independent pramukh candidate. Surendra Mani Tripathi, the BJP candidate, said he had not heard of the incident. Kidnappings The alleged spate of attempted and successful kidnappings of BDC members to prevent them voting — with the fingers pointed mostly at the BJP — has already led to murder. The husband of a BJP pramukh candidate is among five named in the murder of Mayaram, whose family says he was hit with a rifle butt while resisting the kidnapping of sister-in-law and BDC member Yadurai Devi in Bharaich on Friday. On Saturday, a BDC member from village Thathar in Sant Kabir Nagar, Ajay Kumar Yadav, alleged that BJP supporters had kidnapped him at gunpoint on Friday afternoon from the funeral of his father and held him captive for four hours. Ajay’s uncle Chandrabhan Yadav said the BDC member was in his car watching mourners prepare for his father Maniram’s cremation on the Saryu’s banks, when “some people arrived in four SUVs fitted with BJP flags and kidnapped him at gunpoint”. “We took my brother’s body to Dhanghata-Umariya Bazar and sat on a dharna. The kidnappers dropped Ajay back at the ghat around 7pm,” Chandrabhan said. Ajay said: “They blindfolded me and drove for about 30 minutes. I was pushed into a room. Later, two kidnappers dropped me back in one of the SUVs.” Badri Prasad Yadav, the district BJP president, said: “Ajay planned his own kidnapping with Opposition members to malign us.” Rohit Prasad, the local station house officer, said the police were probing the kidnapping complaint. In Ghazipur, however, the Samajwadis faced kidnapping charges. A complainant, Ram Pyare, told the police that Akshay Raj Prajapati, son of Samajwadi-supported candidate Mohra Devi, had abducted his elder sister Binda Devi, a BDC member from Jaitpur. “They kidnapped her two days ago but the police registered a case only on Friday evening. My sister has not returned home,” he told reporters. Ghazipur city superintendent of police Om Prakash Singh said investigations were on. Additional reporting by Sanjay K. Jha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Joe Biden nominates Los Angeles mayor to head American diplomatic mission in India||US President Joe Biden on Friday nominated close associate and Los Angeles mayor Eric Garcetti to head the American diplomatic mission in India, the move prompting many Angelenos to rejoice at seeing the back of the controversial politician and wish India luck. The long-anticipated nomination of Garcetti, who had studied Hindi and Urdu for a year in college, now needs clearance from the Senate. Garcetti is known to have the President’s ear — he is among those who had urged Biden to run in 2016 and was co-chair of the successful 2020 presidential campaign. He was also one of the four members of the search committee that picked Indian American Kamala Harris to be Biden’s running mate. Garcetti, a climate advocate, has been mayor of America’s second-largest city since 2013, following 12 years as member of the city council. He has travelled several times to India. According to the White House brief on Garcetti, he led Los Angeles’s successful bid to host the 2028 summer Olympic Games. He co-founded the bipartisan Climate Mayors network and led more than 400 US mayors to adopt the Paris Climate Agreement. As an intelligence officer in the US Navy Reserve Component, Garcetti had served under the commander of the US Pacific Fleet, and with the Defence Intelligence Agency. He has lived and conducted fieldwork on nationalism, ethnicity and human rights in Southeast Asia and Northeast Africa. But a vocal segment of Los Angeles residents holds a poor view of Garcetti, going by the social media comments posted since the White House picked the pro-immigrant politician for New Delhi. No sooner had Garcetti announced his nomination from his official social media handles than the floodgates opened on Twitter and Instagram, with users essentially saying “good riddance”, peppered with expletives. The People’s City Council-Los Angeles tweeted: “Never forget Eric Garcetti’s legacy in Los Angeles: really ineffectual leadership that at its best was just self-serving, but at its worst was very deadly. He gave $3 billion to LAPD (Los Angeles Police Department) every year and he marched… under a Blue Lives Matter flag. #GoodRiddanceGarcetti.” Blue Lives Matter is a counter-movement in the US advocating that those convicted of killing law-enforcement officers should be sentenced under hate crime statutes. The Los Angeles chapter of Black Lives Matter said: “Eric Garcetti, the mayor of increasing police budgets, gentrification, displacement and appropriator of movement language, is finally leaving LA.” Many such posts made the hashtag #GoodRiddanceGarcetti trend all day. Some of these posts came with warnings and sympathy for India. Angel Martinez tweeted: “Omg, @ericgarcetti. Run. Don’t walk. Do not pass Go. Go directly to your ‘service calling’ to India. Why the @POTUS would consider you for this position is beyond logic. You know you destroyed LA…. Watch out, #India.” Speculation of this posting has been rife in LA for months now, with the “waiting game” pushing the city into what the Los Angeles Journal described as “political purgatory”. For Garcetti, the Journal said, this could be a turning point. “He has been mayor for eight years, and with the coronavirus, an intractable homelessness crisis, harsh media coverage, and occasional protests outside his home, the gig is now a grind. A diplomatic assignment could start a new chapter for the ambitious 50-year-old politician,” the Journal said. Garcetti issued a statement saying he was “honoured” to accept the nomination, which has to be confirmed by the US Senate. If confirmed by the Senate, Garcetti will replace Kenneth Juster, who served as the US ambassador to India during Trump’s tenure. “Today, the President announced that I am his nominee to serve as US ambassador to India. I am honoured to accept his nomination to serve in this role,” Garcetti, a Democrat, said in a statement. In an interview to the Los Angeles Times, Garcetti said the Biden administration had raised the idea of the India posting in early spring. The White House called him on Thursday to finalise his nomination, he said. “It’s the largest democracy in the world, soon to be the most populous country in the world, one of the top handful of superpowers in the world,” Garcetti said. “We can’t get our climate goals without India hitting its climate goals. We can’t see the economy truly reopened to international commerce and tourism until Covid is under control. We’re all very closely connected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Maneka Gandhi shuts down animal centre after furore on social media||Last year, Maneka Gandhi had rushed into a hate-filled rant on Kerala’s Malappuram district after the death of a pregnant elephant, only to find out through others’ due diligence that the incident had taken place somewhere else. Now, heart-wrenching videos have emerged of a dog being flung against a wall by a para-vet and left bleeding at the BJP parliamentarian and animal rights crusader’s care centre for destitute and rescued animals in the capital. On Saturday, Maneka closed the centre after a furore on social media. While Maneka is known to publicly hound suspects of real or perceived crimes against animals and has also campaigned to end slaughter of any animal, the Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre she runs with sister Ambika Shukla has been mired in controversy. On Monday, Animal Help Media’s Instagram handle tweeted videos of a dog being flung against a wall; the canine bleeding from its mouth, right anterior limb and vagina; and a statement from a girl who described herself as an employee of the centre in west Delhi’s Raja Garden. The dog died. In a video, the girl accused two para-vets named Satyam and Pradeep of cruelty to the dog, and Satyam of assaulting it on its vagina. She also accused them and another employee of threatening her. The phone numbers of both the para-vets, shared in Instagram posts, were switched off. In subsequent videos, the girl, who did not reveal her name, said the dog had died, the post-mortem had been delayed and that police had not written her specific allegations in the FIR. Delhi police officers did not respond to queries on the case from this newspaper. Maneka, the chairperson of the centre, tweeted on Saturday: “Recently a dog was brought in for rescue to Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre (SGACC) in New Delhi. Over the last one year SGACC has been short staffed due to Covid-19 and the two newly hired para-vets were providing support. The rescue took a regrettable turn when the dog — naturally agitated as she was in extreme pain — bit the para-vet, who in turn retaliated with frightful violence. The dog died from her injuries.” She added: “We immediately filed an FIR against the para-vets and they have been arrested. The doctor-in-charge of the section has been given notice to leave…. SGACC has faltered in its mission and needs to be rebuilt again.” Maneka said the centre, started in 1983 on a grant to her late husband Sanjay Gandhi from Australian benefactor Ruth Cowell, would shut on August 1. “It will be closed to any future rescued, and existing animals will be rehabilitated. We will rebuild this institution again — physically (with the entire dog section rebuilt, with new infrastructure) and more importantly, in terms of staffing,” she said. The video went viral after an online petition for action against the centre and government supervision of such institutions was shared even by Maneka’s associates like Noida-based animal rights activist Kaveri Rana Bharadwaj. The Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre has faced allegations in the past as well. In April, a Delhi court had ordered an FIR against Shukla, an administrator of the centre, for not complying with a court directive to return three Persian cats to their lawful owner. The order was later stayed by Delhi High Court. In 2014, a couple had accused the centre of exhuming and dumping without authorisation their dog’s carcass from the facility’s cemetery despite having charged a burial fee. Maneka herself has been at the receiving end of public ire after threatening an Agra veterinarian over the phone to compensate for an allegedly botched-up tubectomy. A purported audio of her telling a police officer in Sitapur, Uttar Pradesh, to slap a man accused of hitting a dog last month was widely shared on social media. The man was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
11-07-2021||India||Activists stir up a Twitter storm with #UmarKoRihaKaro to mark 300 days of his arrest||Many activists on Saturday tweeted appeals for the release of human rights activist Umar Khalid, marking 300 days of his arrest on the charge of inciting riots through his protests last year against the new citizenship regime. The Twitter storm with the hashtag #UmarKoRihaKaro comes against the backdrop of Monday’s custody death of Father Stan Swamy, a priest jailed in connection with an alleged Maoist plot, whom activists consider a “prisoner of conscience” like Umar. A cultural event was conducted on Facebook in solidarity with jailed activists and in memory of Fr Stan, at which theatre personalities Danish Hussain and Quasar Thakore Padamsee, singer Moushumi Bhowmik and actor Suhaas Ahuja performed. Poet Nabiya Khan recited a new poem titled You are the Revolution on Umar and other “political prisoners”. Poet Hussain Haidry tweeted: “Whether it is Umar Khalid or Sharjeel Imam or any other young Indian Muslim figure with an original voice, they are being hounded and punished by the State because they have the potential to be the fresh blood of diverse leadership of Muslims in Indian politics.” Manhattan-based author and lawyer Suchitra Vijayan tweeted: “Minute by minute, hour by hour, they stole 300 days from Umar. Every time we remember Umar, every time we speak of their dreams, we reclaim a bit of what is stolen. Let’s reclaim a day. Storm the Twitter with #UmarKoRihaKaro.” Congress social media convener Hasiba Amin drew parallels with a youth who shot and injured a Jamia Millia Islamia student last year, and recently delivered an incendiary speech in Pataudi, Haryana, while out on bail. She tweeted: “300 days of being behind bars for exercising his constitutional right to dissent against an unconstitutional law, while those like Rambhakt Gopal who shoots a gun & threatens to kill Muslims remain free. What a shame!” Others contrasted Umar’s speeches, which called for people to respond to hate with love, with BJP leader Kapil Mishra’s threats to anti-CAA protesters. All India Students’ Association president N. Sai Balaji tweeted: “It has been 300 days since arrest of #UmarKhalid. The UAPA case filed by Delhi Police is fictitious & politically motivated, devoid of any substance as shown by Delhi HC in its bail order of Asif, Devangana & Natasha. #UmarKoRihaKaro #ReleaseAllPoliticalprisoners #RepealUAPA.” The three activists, charged in the same case as Umar, were recently released on bail with Delhi High Court highlighting flaws in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
11-07-2021||India||Odisha DGP airlifts jawans injured in encounter with Maoists ||Odisha director-general of police Abhay airlifted two jawans of the Special Operations Group of the state police, who had suffered bullet injuries in an encounter with suspected Maoists along the Boudh-Kandhamal border on Saturday, and brought them to Bhubaneswar. The DGP, along with director (intelligence), inspector-general (operations) and other senior officers of the department were on a tour of Malkangiri and Koraput districts to review anti-Maoist operations. Abhay cancelled all his engagements after hearing the news of injuries to the SOG jawans during the encounter and rushed to the area in his helicopter. He airlifted the injured jawans to the state capital for treatment. The exchange of fire between the police and Maoists took place in a dense forest on the Boudh-Kandhamal border, around 290km from here. “Based on reliable input an operation was launched under Gochapada police station of Kandhamal district on July 9. During search of the core area, Maoists opened indiscriminate fire on the security forces this morning. Two commandos of SOG sustained bullet injuries. When the DGP heard the news at Sunabeda, he cancelled all his programmes and rushed to Padelpada in Boudh district adjoining Kandhamal district. He himself airlifted the injured jawans to Bhubaneswar. Doctor accompanied him,” said Amitabh Thakur, IG (operations). Later Abhay said: “Two commandos of SOG sustained bullet injuries. Both of them with the help of CRPF were rescued and brought to the road head from the operational area. An IAF helicopter was also requisitioned but could not make it to Padelpada because of bad weather. However, the BSF pilot found an alternative route and safely landed the chopper in a small patch of land. Later we were successful in airlifting the two SOG jawans from Padelpada to Bhubaneswar. Now they are undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. Both of them are stable. With the help of the CRPF, Odisha police have intensified its operation against the insurgents.” The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, has constituted a six-member team for the treatment of the injured jawans. Former DGP Sanjeev Marik told reporters: “The fight between police and Maoists is continuing for the last eight hours. It’s a matter of concern. Such a long fight indicates that the rebels have a large quantity of arms and ammunition.” Sources said a number of Maoists have also sustained injuries in the operation but they managed to escape in the dense forest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
11-07-2021||India||Covid jab shortage forces Odisha govt to suspend vaccine drive in 10 districts||The shortage of Covid-19 vaccines forced the Odisha government to suspend the ongoing vaccination campaign in as many as 10 districts on Saturday. This is the second time this month that the government has been forced to stop the vaccination drive. The districts where vaccination was stopped on Saturday are Balasore, Dhenkanal, Jajpur, Kalahandi, Kendrapara, Koraput, Malkangiri, Nayagarh and Sonepur. However, the inoculation drive continued at 308 centres in other parts of the state, said officials. Odisha has 30 districts. “We will intensify the vaccination drive after we get the vaccines. The vaccination programme has got a good response in the state and because of a coordinated effort, there is no wastage of vaccines. The cold chain has been maintained successfully,” additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, P.K. Mohapatra told The Telegraph. A senior official said: “We are facing the heat at ground level. The people are pointing fingers at us. There are long queues outside the vaccination centres. If we don’t stop the vaccination programme and continue with a minimal stock, it may lead to a law and order problem. In order to avoid that, we have been forced to stop the vaccination programme for the time being. Once the vaccines arrive in the state, we will expedite the drive. We require at least 31 lakh doses in the month of July.” Currently, the state has only 59,920 doses of Covishield and 393,010 doses of Covaxin. The state has vaccinated 1.32 crore people so far. However, the death toll due to Covid-19 remains a cause of concern for the state. During the last 24 hours, the state reported 58 more deaths due to coronavirus, with the toll touching 4,534. Odisha registered 2,334 new cases on Saturday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 937,470. Of the 2,334 new cases, 1,342 were recorded in quarantine centres and 992 detected during contact tracing, a health department official said. Khurda district, of which Bhubaneswar is a part, reported the maximum number of new cases at 380, followed by Cuttack at 371, and Kendrapara at 196. Eight districts reported new cases each in triple digits. Eleven fresh fatalities were reported from Khurda, seven each from Bargarh and Puri, six each from Ganjam and Sundergarh, four from Sambalpur, three from Kendrapara and two each from Cuttack, Dhenkanal, Keonjhar and Nayagarh. One each succumbed to the infection in Angul, Gajapati, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Kalahandi and Mayurbhanj. This apart, 53 Covid-19 patients in the state have died due to comorbidities. Amid allegations that the state government was suppressing casualty figures, the health department, in a statement, said: “The list does not reflect deaths that have occurred on a particular day. It gives details of past deaths for which the audit process has been duly completed and the cause identified as Covid-19.” Odisha currently has 26,364 active cases, while as many as 906,519 patients, including 3,341 on Friday, have recovered. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
11-07-2021||India||Odisha earns praise from Centre for setting up 10,000 rainwater harvesting structures ||Odisha has earned praise from the Centre for setting up 10,000 rainwater harvesting structures in the state to aid water conservation and groundwater recharge ahead of the onset of the southwest monsoon under “Catch the Rain” campaign. Hailing the achievement of the Odisha government, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted: “Brilliant effort Odisha! 10,000 Rain water harvesting structures in 75 days across 114 local bodies is a commendable feat. This campaign run under Mukhya Mantri Karma Tatpara Abhiyan will help #CatchTheRain at a mammoth scale across the state.” The campaign, which will benefit 114 towns, was completed in 75 days under the Mukhyamantri Karma Tatpara Abhiyan Yojana (Mukta). “The Mukta scheme is an urban wage employment scheme that provides opportunities to needy people. The scheme is launched by the chief minister,” said a media release issued by the housing and urban development department of the Odisha government on Friday. Under the scheme, the state government built 5 to 10 rainwater harvesting structures in each ward in small towns, while under municipal corporations, it has built 20 to 25 such structures. The campaign began on April 15 with the aim of constructing rainwater harvesting structures to facilitate in-situ water conservation and ground water recharge in all Odisha towns before the onset of southwest monsoon. These are low-cost structures specially designed based on hydro-geological parameters. The government plans to build at least 15,000 rainwater harvesting structures and has earmarked Rs 70 crore for this project. “Though we are a water surplus state and we receive rainfall that varies from 1,200mm to 1,800mm, most of the rainwater goes waste as we have not developed harvesting structures. Besides, Odisha also faces drought like situation because of the erratic nature of rainfall. “The groundwater level has also depleted. Now with the construction of the rainwater harvesting structures, we can reap the benefits as the groundwater level will always remain charged,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
