12-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh remark on cops sparks political backlash||Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav's comment appearing to raise doubts about the arrest of two terrorists in Uttar Pradesh has sparked a political backlash in poll season. "I cannot trust the UP police and especially the BJP government," Akhilesh Yadav told reporters on Sunday. However, his party alleges that an edited clip is being circulated to create a wrong impression and that the former Chief Minister spoke at a time nothing was known about the arrests, least of all that the terrorists are believed to be linked to global terror outfit Al Qaeda. According to NDTV report, the UP government said on Sunday that two terrorists of the Al Qaeda-supported Ansar Ghazwatul Hind had been arrested by its Anti-Terror Squad from the outskirts of Lucknow on Sunday. They were planning explosions, including using "human bombs", at several places in Uttar Pradesh, according to the police. Minhaz Ahmed and Maseeruddin were arrested and a huge amount of explosives was also seized from their homes in Lucknow, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar was quoted by news agency PTI as saying. According to Mr Kumar, the two were planning to "unleash terror activities before August 15 (Independence Day) in different cities including Lucknow". He also said Ahmed and Maseeruddin were acting on the instructions of Umar Halmandi, the head of the Uttar Pradesh branch of the Al-Qaeda. "They were planning explosions at important places, memorials and crowded places, and also to use human bombs. For this, they were collecting weapons and explosives," Mr Kumar said. According to the police officer, Maulana Asim Umar, who headed the Al-Qaeda in the sub-continent and was killed in 2019, had links with Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh. As political sparring intensifies ahead of the UP polls next year, BJP leaders shared Akhilesh Yadav's comments on social media, along with their recriminations. "It is shocking to see former Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav declare that he does not trust UP Police and BJP Government. This is the same dynast who claimed that he doesn't trust BJP Vaccine. Whom does he trust? Pakistan Government and its Terrorists?" tweeted BJP leader CT Ravi. The party's Amit Malviya wrote: "Akhilesh Yadav first had doubts about the vaccine, now says can't trust Uttar Pradesh police's action against terrorists. If he does not trust anybody, neither the state nor the administration, then why does he want to become Chief Minister? Let him sit at home."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||BJP MPs to introduce population control bills in Parliament monsoon session||BJP MPs will introduce private members' bills on population control and uniform civil code in the upcoming Monsoon session of Parliament, according to information from the secretariats of both Houses. The private members' bill on population control comes close on the heels of the law commission of BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state in the country, putting up a draft bill on the issue on its website, inviting suggestions from the public till July 19. BJP Lok Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh Ravi Kishan and Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan Kirori Lal Meena are scheduled to introduce the private members' bills on population control and uniform civil code respectively in the very first week of the Parliament session which is starting from July 19. A bill introduced by a member other than a minister is known as a private member's bill and there is little possibility of it becoming a law without the government's support. The proposed legislations on population control and uniform civil code, issues that usually trigger heated polemics in the country, are in line with the BJP's ideological agenda. Opposition parties have criticised the BJP's moves in this regard, claiming that they are aimed at targeting one specific community, while the BJP has accused them of pursuing appeasement politics. According to the details available with Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats, Kishan and Meena will get an opportunity to introduce their respective private members' bills on July 24, which was decided through the lottery system. A notice for a similar bill on population control has also been given by BJP MP in Rajya Sabha Rakesh Sinha. The proposed legislations on population control emphasise on deincentivising couples having more than two children, by making them ineligible for government jobs and subsidies on various facilities and goods given by the government. The draft UP population control bill says people having more than two children will be debarred from contesting local bodies polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy. Similar legislation is under discussion in another BJP-ruled state Assam. Meanwhile, Vishva Hindu Parishad, a member of the ruling BJP's ideological family, has objected to the one-child policy norm of the draft population control bill in UP, saying it is likely to further increase the imbalance between different communities and contract the population as well. "The preamble of the bill states that this is a bill, inter alia, to stabilise the population and promote the two-child norm. The Vishva Hindu Parishad agrees with both objects," the organisation's working president, Alok Kumar, said in a letter to the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSCL) on Monday. However, Sections 5, 6(2) and 7 of the bill, which incentivise public servants and others to have only one child in the family, go "well beyond the said objects", he said. Asked about the bill he intends to introduce, Sinha said population growth has been ringing an "alarm bell" for the country and asserted that a central law is "most required" as it will be applicable across the nation. The unchecked population growth needs to be regulated, he said. Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made a critical intervention in the debate over the issue during his speech on August 15, Sinha said that Modi had called for a balance between resources and population. The discourse over the issue should not be seen through caste and religious angles, Sinha said. According to PRS Legislative, no private members' bills have been passed by Parliament since 1970. A total of 14 such bills have received Parliament's nod.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||In Parliament, Congress to target Centre on inflation, fuel prices||Stating that the issue of inflation and the rise in fuel prices will dominate the Parliament session beginning July 19, senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday alleged the Centre had collected Rs 25 lakh crore through fuel tax but it is neither using this fund for the welfare of people nor giving it to state governments. Addressing a press conference here, the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha said the Narendra Modi government had made the lives of ordinary people “miserable” in the last seven years. “Prices of fuel, LPG, edible oil are at an all-time high. The Centre has collected Rs 25 lakh crore as tax on fuel but it is not being used for people’s welfare or being given to state governments,” Kharge alleged. He said the Modi government had raised prices of fuel “326 times including 38 times in the last two months”. “The Central tax on fuel during the UPA rule was Rs 9.48 (per litre) which is now Rs 32.90 (per litre). During the tenure of the UPA, the rate of crude oil was Rs 111 per barrel and the petrol price was Rs 71 (per litre). Contrary to this, when the rate of crude oil is 44 USD per barrel the price of petrol is Rs 107 per litre now,” he said. He said while the Union government has “collected Rs 25 lakh crore in the fuel tax” and the rate of LPG cylinder has reached Rs 834 the subsidy has also been withdrawn. “The prime minister had said direct benefit transfer (DBT) would ensure savings of Rs 15,000 crore, which means the government has saved almost Rs one lakh crore this way. But the Modi government is not using this money for the welfare of people and also not providing it to state governments,” Kharge said. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had suggested that Rs 6,000 be transferred in bank accounts of the poor, but that idea was rubbished. “During the UPA rule, 27.1 per cent people were lifted above the below poverty line whereas 23 crore people were below the poverty line (BPL) as of last year. Due to the wrong policies of the Modi government, the income of 97 per cent of families had reduced,” Kharge said. He said 1.33 lakh people lost their jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic while the per capita income fell by Rs 10,000 and GDP dipped by 9 to10 per cent. Kharge said Maharashtra is yet to receive Rs 32,000 crore in GST refund from the Centre. The Congress is one of the ruling constituents in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government comprising the Shiv Sena and the NCP. Retail inflation remained above the RBI’s comfort level for the second consecutive month despite slipping slightly to 6.26 per cent in June while the factory output recorded a growth of 29.3 per cent in May, mainly on account of the base effect, the government data showed. The marginal slippage in the Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based inflation was noticed despite little firmness witnessed in the food inflation which inched up to 5.15 per cent in June from 5.01 per cent a month ago. Retail inflation based on Consumer Price Index (CPI) was 6.3 per cent in May 2021 and 6.23 per cent in June 2020. As regards the factory output, the Index of Industrial Production rose sharply by 29.3 per cent in May against a decline of 33.4 per cent in the corresponding month of 2020. As per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on June CPI, the inflation on annual basis in the ‘oils and fats’ segment was 34.78 per cent in June. The manufacturing sector -- which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) -- grew 34.5 per cent in May this year, as per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Monday. The mining sector output rose 23.3 per cent in May while power generation increased 7.5 per cent during the same month. In May 2021, the IIP stood at 116.6 points compared to 90.2 point in the same month last year. The index was at 135.4 points in May 2019 as per the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered but was still below the pre-pandemic level in May 2019. Industrial production had plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the COVID-19 outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020. Commenting on the CPI data, Suresh Nagpal, Chairman of Central Organisation for Oil Industry and Trade (COOIT), an apex association of edible oil, said internationally, the prices of edible oil started correcting in the second fortnight of June. “The Government of India has also reduced duty and has lifted restriction on imports of certain edible oils for the next few months. As a result, the prices of edible oils have softened in both wholesale and retail market since mid of June. We expect prices to remain at the current level over the next few months,” he said. Upasna Bhardwaj, Senior Economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, said the softer-than-expected CPI inflation comes as a relief after a shockingly high May reading. While the headline inflation still remains elevated and risks remain, the high frequency mandi data shows further moderation in food prices in July signalling towards a return of sub-6 per cent readings going ahead, she said. “We continue to expect the MPC to retain its current policy guidance in the August policy in favour of growth. However, towards the end of the year gradual policy normalization will be underway,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||Dominica court grants bail to fugitive jeweller Mehul Choksi on medical grounds||The Dominica High Court has granted bail to fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, allowing him to travel to Antigua and Barbuda for treatment of his neurological condition, local media there reported.  The high court has granted a consent order permitting Choksi to go to Antigua, where he has been staying as a citizen since 2018 after he left India, after depositing Eastern Caribbean Dollars 10,000 (approximately Rs 2.75 lakh as per exchange rate) as bail money, Antigua Breaking News reported.  The court has also stayed the ongoing trial before a magistrate for his alleged illegal entry into Dominica on May 23, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra's daily case tally falls to 7603, less than 500 new infections in Mumbai||Maharashtra reported 7,603 new coronavirus case and 53 fresh fatalities on Monday, taking the tally of infections to 61,65,402 and the death toll to 1,26,024, a health department official said.  The state reported a decrease in the daily COVID-19 cases and the fatalities as compared to Sunday, when it had registered 8,535 infections and 156 deaths.  The official said as many as 15,277 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recovered cases to 59,27,756.  The state now has 1,08,343 active COVID-19 cases.  Maharashtra's COVID-19 recovery rate is 96.15 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.04 per cent, the official said.  According to the official, out of 4,41,86,449 COVID-19 tests done so far, 1,75,899 tests were conducted on Friday, indicating an overall positivity rate of 13.95 per cent.  The official said currently 5,82,476 people are in home quarantine and 4,654 people in institutional quarantine across the state.  Out of 1,08,343 active COVID-19 cases across the state, the highest - 16,925 - are in Pune district, followed by Thane and Mumbai at 16488 and 11106, respectively.  According to the health department, of the total 5927756 recovered patients, the highest number of 1034523 are from Pune district, followed by Mumbai and Thane at 699119 and 558631, respectively.  The official said Mumbai recorded 496 new COVID-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 728190, while the death toll increased to 15636 with nine fresh fatalities.  He said 207 people tested positive in Pune municipal limits, pushing the tally to 498510, while the death toll remained unchanged at 8548 as no fresh fatality was reported in the city.  According to the official, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 46, 204, 28, 12 and eight new COVID-19 cases, respectively.  Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 61,65,402; new cases 7603; total deaths 126024; recoveries 5927756; active cases 108343; total tests so far 4,41,86,449. Mumbai reported 478 new coronavirus cases and nine fresh fatalities on Monday, while 701 patients recovered from the infection, the city civic body said.  According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) updated data, with the addition of 478 cases, the COVID-19 tally rose to 7,28,174, while the death toll increased to 15,636.  This is the third time since the beginning of July that Mumbai has reported less than 500 COVID-19 cases and under 10 fatalities for the second time.  On July 5 and 6, the city had reported 489 and 453 new COVID-19 cases, respectively, and nine fatalities on July 7.  Generally, the city reports a lesser number of new infections at the start of week as the number of tests conducted on weekends goes drops as compared to other days.  The civic body said in the last 24 hours, a total of 27,827 tests, the lowest in July so far, were conducted for detecting coronavirus, taking their cumulative number to 75,62,401.  Since the start of July, the daily number of COVID-19 tests conducted in the city has been over 30,000. On July 9, as many as 39,000 tests were carried out in the city.  According to the BMC, the number of discharged patients outnumbered the new cases on Monday. With 701 patients discharged from hospitals during the day, the number of recovered cases climbed to 7,03,077.  Mumbai has COVID-19 recovery rate of 96 per cent, BMC officials, adding the city has 7120 active cases.  According to the officials, Mumbai's average doubling rate of COVID-19 cases has reached 926 days, while the average growth rate of cases between July 5 and July 11 was 0.07 per cent.  The count of containment zones in slums and chawls has reduced to just five, while the number of sealed buildings is 63, the civic body said.  The financial capital of the county had reported the highest-ever 11,163 COVID-19 cases on April 4, while the most deaths in a day during the second wave - at 90 - were recorded on May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||Delhi runs out of Covishield, some jab centres to remain closed on Tuesday||Delhi has run out of Covishield stock and some Covid vaccination centres are likely to be closed on Tuesday, officials said on Monday. The national capital had 19,000 doses of Covishield and 2,39,000 doses of Covaxin on Monday morning, according to a bulletin. Raising the issue of shortage of Covid vaccines in the city, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia tweeted, "Vaccines have run out in Delhi again. The central government gives vaccines for a day or two, then we have to keep the vaccine centres closed for several days." "Why is our country's vaccine programme faltering even after so many days?" he added. A total of 36,238 vaccine doses were administered on Monday, taking the total number of jabs given so far to 89,37,904, the bulletin stated. Government vaccination centres in the city were shut on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||For Priyanka's son photography is the pivot||His life path is still uncharted and he doesn't know quite where it will take him but Raihan Vadra, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's son, is certain photography will be pivotal in whatever he does in the future. The 20-year-old, born to politics some would say as a scion of the Nehru-Gandhi family, says he would like to use his lens to connect with people and forward his own understanding of life. “I would never say yes or no to anything. But photography is going to be definitely one of the things that I would like to do for a long time,” said the young Vadra, the son of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Robert Vadra. He has begun charting the course of what was a hobby and is now a full-time passion and maybe profession with his debut exhibition of photographs titled Dark Perception - an exposition of space, light and time". On exhibit are over 40 photographs -- from wildlife to old architecture and buildings to abstract. "I do not know where life will take me in the future. What I know is that I want to concentrate fully on photography right now," Raihan told PTI on the sidelines of the exhibition. Born in Delhi and educated in Delhi, Dehradun and London, Raihan said he would like to focus on people through his photography. To a question on whether he was trained in photography, the young man said he does not have any formal grounding in the art except for some tips from his mother when he was a child and a two-week course in New York "I started out with photography as a 10-year-old. The jungle has always fascinated me and my initial frames depicted the forest and the wildlife," he said. "Later, as I moved to London for my education and found it difficult to visit the forest, the nature of my pictures also changed and I ventured into a myriad range, including street photography, event photography and photography of life itself. "My mom gave me some tips when I was a kid. I did a two-week course at the International Centre of Photography in New York, but I have been basically self-trained. I may be looking at a Masters in photography," he said. Commenting on the title of his exhibition, Raihan said darkness offers a full perspective on issues. "In the dark there is no judgement and you are free to evolve your thoughts darkness is freedom and perception is the prison." "I am just trying to mirror the world as I see in my photographs, I inhabit a world in which light, space and time constantly realign themselves and give way to imagination and freedom," he said. Raihan has already started as a professional, curating an Instagram page as well as accepting commercial photography assignments on interior design, food, brands and products and architecture. He said his biggest inspiration when it comes to photography is showing life and his subjects from multiple perspectives. "One of the things I would like to add to my work is people. The next time I display my work, you would see more work on people. Portraits and crowds are some of the stuff that I would be working on," he said. Raihan, who uses different cameras, including his iPhone, spends about four hours a day on his passion. "Proud of my boy for finding his own path and working hard towards his goals, Priyanka Gandhi said on Twitter. The exhibition, Dark Perception - an exposition of space, light and time", started on Sunday and is on till July 17 at New Delhi's Bikaner House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||NEET postponed to September 12 from August 1||Medical entrance exam NEET, which was earlier scheduled for August 1, will now be conducted on September 12, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced Monday. "The NEET-UG 2021, will be held on 12th September across the country following Covid-19 protocols. The application process will begin from 5 pm tomorrow through the NTA website," Pradhan said in a series of tweets. "To ensure adherence to Covid-19 protocols, face mask will be provided to all candidates at the centre. Staggered time slots during entry and exit, contactless registration, proper sanitisation, seating with social distancing etc. will also be ensured," he said. The Education minister further said that in order to ensure social distancing norms, the number of cities where examination will be conducted has been increased from 155 to 198. The number of examination centres will also be increased from 3,862 used in the previous exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Centre, HP govt working in sync to deal with Himachal floods, says Anurag Thakur||As a cloudburst in Dharamshala triggered a flash flood in Himachal Pradesh Union minister Anurag Thakur Monday announced that the Centre and the Himachal Pradesh government are working together to deal with the ‘fierce’ With the flashflood affecting lives, he urged people not to leave their houses unnecessarily and be careful. Thakur, who recently took charge of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry as well as of the Sports and Youth Affairs Ministry, hails from Himachal Pradesh. “The Central and State Governments are working with better coordination to deal with the fierce form of natural calamity in Devbhoomi Himachal. There is an appeal to all the tourists and the general public to take full care, do not leave the houses unnecessarily and do not go towards the water sources,” he tweeted. Flashfloods triggered by heavy rains swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots in Himachal Pradesh while bad weather also led to the closure of the airport in Dharamshala. The Dharamshala district administration also instructed tourists to postpone their visit to Dharamsala in view of the heavy rains. A drain near Bhagsu Nag in upper Dharamsala adjoining Mecleodganj changed its course owing to heavy rains, sweeping away four cars and several bikes, video clips showed. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that the situation caused by heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh is being closely monitored with central authorities working in coordination with the state government. “The situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. Authorities are working with the State Government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in affected areas,” Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Covid: Third wave inevitable; pilgrimage and travel can wait||Indian Medical Association (IMA) has expressed concern on Monday over governments and people being complacent and engaging in mass gatherings without following Covid-19 protocols, saying these events are potential super spreaders for a third wave of the pandemic. Stressing that tourist bonanza, pilgrimage travel, religious fervour are needed, but can wait for a few more months, IMA, in a statement, said global evidence and the history of any pandemic suggest that “the third wave is inevitable and imminent”. “However, it is painful to note that in this crucial time, when everyone needs to work for the mitigation of the third wave, in many parts of the country, both governments and the public are complacent and engaged in mass gatherings without following Covid protocols. Tourist bonanza, pilgrimage travel, religious fervour, all are needed, but can wait for a few more months. “Opening up these rituals and enabling people without vaccination to go scot-free in these mass gatherings are potential super spreaders for the Covid third wave,” the IMA said. The statement by the doctors’ comes on a day when the annual Rath Yatra began in Puri and amid talks of allowing the “Kanwar Yatra” in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The IMA appealed to all the states to control mass gatherings. Based on the experience of the last one-and-a-half years of the war with the virus and the emerging evidence, it is obvious that by making the universal vaccination drive reach the maximum number of people and strictly following Covid-appropriate behaviour, people can face the third wave with confidence and mitigate its impact, the doctors' body said. “The consequences of treating a patient with Covid in a hospital and its impacts on the economy will be much better than the economic loss we suffer by avoiding such mass gatherings. It is the duty and responsibility of everyone at this moment to strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour for minimum three more months and ensure that everyone near our houses is getting vaccinated,” the statement said. With 37,154 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,08,74,376, while the total recoveries crossed three crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities. The active cases have declined to 4,50,899 and comprise 1.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.22 per cent, the data updated at 8 am today. But that doesn’t call for a complacent behaviour maintained the doctor’s body. It called for every individual to adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour to avoid a medical crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||How To Take Care of Your Fashion Accessories in Monsoon||intense heat, the monsoon comes as a relief. The rainy season has a lovely aura, pleasant vibes, and unique happiness pervading everyone’s heart. From a fashion standpoint, rain might sometimes hinder us from wearing what we want and damage our ensembles. But it does not have to be that way all the time. The idea is to choose clothing and accessories that can be worn in the rain. Apart from having an umbrella, a raincoat, and rain boots, the following are some tips to take care of your fashion accessories in the monsoon. Taking Care of Jewelry Rain may offer enormous delight, but it is not a good indication for jewelry. When gold jewelry is placed in humid environments, it quickly attracts dust and filth. As a result, during the monsoon, gold ornaments must be cleaned with warm soapy water. When it comes to jewelry like pearls, corals, or amber, it is best to preserve them in separate boxes. They should not be mixed with other jewels because scratches are unavoidable. Pearls are also sensitive to fragrances and sprays. So, after you have used these pearls, it is better to put them in soft pouches or plastic wraps to protect them from friction. Silver jewelry can be harmed by excessive exposure to air and humidity. It should be kept in individual, airtight bags made of paper with anti-tarnish properties. These bags reduce air exposure, thus keeping the jewelry new for a long time. Silver is also prone to oxidation and requires extra attention to prevent it from corrosion. One way to clean the silver jewelry is by using toothpaste along with a soft cotton cloth. The other effective option is to take it to a jeweler for a ‘silver dip’ to regain its luster. Protecting Canvas Bags and Shoes To protect your canvas accessories, get some translucent candles from any local store, rub them all over your shoes and bags, run a hot air blower over them until the wax melts into the fabric. Now your items are ready to be used during the monsoon. Also, most canvas shoes have white edges; to keep them clean during the monsoon. Use toothpaste and then clean it with wet wipes or a moist towel to clean the fringes. Mobile phones are an integral part of everyone’s life, and they have become a fashion statement now. To protect your smartphone from rain, use a waterproof case. There are numerous mobile cases available in the market that come in various colors and styles. Though iPhone 12 Pro is a water-resistant smartphone, still a dent or crack on the outer casing can damage the phone so go for an iPhone 12 Pro Cover. However, iPhone 12 is also a water-resistant mobile. It has a 30 minutes submersion rating in the water of up to 6 meters depth, but it is better to get it covered with an iPhone 12 Cover. Preserving Leather Accessories The monsoon season is difficult; moisture from the air can collect in the leather, increasing the risk of fungus that eats away the leather, causing irreparable damage. Try not to use leather items during monsoon season. However, if you can’t do without it, follow the given instructions. Keep your leather accessories dry to avoid fungus. As soon as you return home, dry your shoes with a cloth and insert newspaper or toilet paper in them to absorb moisture. Also, if you’ve walked through muddy waters, make sure to clean your shoes before storing them. Your leather accessories might be damaged by direct sunlight and high temperatures. Never dry your leather bag or shoes in bright sunlight or near a heater. For your shoes, use a wax-based polish and a waterproofing compound for bags and belts. This is the most effective method for maintaining the condition of your leather accessories. Just like your skin, leather needs some ventilation to prevent mildew and decay. The leather allows air to pass through, permitting moisture to evaporate. But that won’t be possible if your leather is completely sealed. The longer you wait to treat your leather accessories, the more difficult it will be to clean them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Himachal cloudburst: Home Minister calls CM, assures of all help||Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday to take stock of the situation arising due to the floods in several districts of the state and assured him all possible help from the Centre. He also conveyed to the chief minister that teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are reaching the affected areas for rescue and relief work. “I have spoken to the Chief Minister Shri @jairamthakurbjp ji regarding the natural calamity caused by heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh. NDRF teams are reaching there soon for relief work. The Ministry of Home Affairs is continuously monitoring the situation. Himachal Pradesh will be given all possible help from the Centre,” Shah tweeted in Hindi. According to reports, heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh crippled the normal life and triggered a flood-like situation in several districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Priyanka holds strategy meet with UP Congress leaders ||AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Monday brainstormed with senior Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh on the preparations for the next year's assembly polls, as the party resolved to hit the streets against the BJP government over issues such as unemployment, price rise and law and order. With the Congress seeking to intensify organisational activities in the run up to the polls, Priyanka Gandhi held a virtual meeting with the party's advisory council to the general secretary and the working group on strategy and planning for the state. They discussed the rising prices, the coronavirus situation, the recently held panchayat elections in the state and organisational training camps, sources said. The Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh noted during the meeting that people are troubled by soaring inflation with prices of petrol, diesel, mustard oil, fruits and vegetables "sky high". She also pointed out that though input costs of farmers had doubled, their income had come down. Priyanka Gandhi also flagged the violence during the panchayat polls and alleged that BJP workers indulged in stone-pelting and firing. The Congress leaders who participated in the meeting denounced the Yogi Adityanath dispensation, saying it had failed on all counts. It was resolved at the meeting that the Congress will take the fight against the BJP government to the streets over issues such as rising prices, unemployment and the "jungle raj" prevailing in the state, the party sources said. Congress' state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, senior party leaders Salman Khurshid, Rajiv Shukla, Pramod Tiwari and Rashid Alvi, among others, participated in the meeting. The meeting comes a day after Priyanka Gandhi met Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who the sources said is likely to play a key role in preparing the Congress organisation in Uttar Pradesh for the assembly polls with a focus on strategising and booth management. Last week, Lallu had expressed confidence that his party has the capacity to fight the elections without aligning with either the SP or the BSP and form the next government on its own. His remarks had come days after the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party ruled out forging any major alliances for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. In an interview with PTI, Lallu had also said the Congress would fight the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year under Priyanka Gandhi's "dekh-rekh (supervision)", and that under her leadership, the party would make a comeback in the state after over three decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||All Covid protocols will be followed during Monsoon Session, says Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla Monday said all Covid-related protocols will be followed during the Monsoon Session of parliament scheduled to begin from July 19. He said those who have not been vaccinated against coronavirus will be requested to undergo an RT-PCR test before entering the parliament premises during the session. Addressing a press conference in the parliament complex, Birla said 323 MPs have been fully vaccinated against the virus, while 23 have not been able to take their first jab due to some medical reasons. Birla said both the Houses will sit simultaneously and proceedings will start from 11 am. The Monsoon Session of parliament will begin from July 19 and conclude on August 13. Since the pandemic began, three sessions of Parliament were curtailed while the winter session last year had to be cancelled. The Monsoon Session, which usually starts in July, had begun in September last year owing to the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Delhi's Janpath Market shut for Covid norm violation||The Delhi government Monday ordered the closure of Janpath Market here for the violation of Covid protocols and for not following the guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), according to an order. "The Janpath market is, hereby, closed till further orders for violation of DDMA order and for not following COVID appropriate behaviour norms. The Director (Enforcement), NDMC and SHO, Connaught Place are hereby directed to enforce the order with immediate effect and submit a compliance report," the Delhi government said in the order. Delhi was under a lockdown from April 19 to May 30 during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Markets were allowed to open from June 7 under a phased reopening plan of the city government. Markets in Lajpat Nagar, Laxmi Nagar, Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and parts of Sadar Bazar and Karol Bagh were among those shut in recent weeks by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for violation of COVID-19 norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Govt data shows dip in average daily vaccination since June 21||A decline in average daily vaccination against the coronavirus has been seen since June 21, when the new phase of universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination commenced, government data showed. According to data available on CoWIN platform, an average of 61.14 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine were administered daily in the week from June 21-27 which dropped to 41.92 lakh doses daily in the subsequent week from June 28-July 4. In the week from July 5 to July 11, the daily average vaccine doses number further dipped to 34.32 lakh doses. Among states, however, a mixed trend has emerged with some states and UTs reporting a sinusoidal trend of vaccination while others a dip. States such as Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh showed a decline in average daily vaccinations since the week of June 21-27 while a sinusoidal trend in administration of daily doses of COVID-19 was seen in states and UTs like Kerala, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Jammu and Kashmir, according to CoWIN data. In the states of Assam and Tripura which recently reported a rise in fresh COVID-19 cases, a declining trend in administration of average daily vaccine doses can be seen. Even then the daily average vaccination remained higher than the previous phase of COVID-19 vaccination. In the week from June 14-20, just 33.97 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine were administered daily on an average. On Monday, the Health Ministry said over 1.54 crore balance and unutilised COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered. The cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.73 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India on Monday recorded over 37,000 fresh Covid cases, pushing the total tally to 3,08,74,376, while the total recoveries crossed three crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities. The active cases declined to 4,50,899 and comprised 1.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate increased to 97.22 per cent. A decrease of 3,219 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Rajinikanth disbands 'Mandram' designed for political entry||Top star Rajinikanth on Monday announced disbanding the Rajini Makkal Mandram, launched for his political entry and reiterated that he has no intention of involving himself in politics in future. Hours after he flagged questions among fans and Mandram functionaries as to "whether or not I am going to come to politics in future," the actor, following discussions with office-bearers said he would not join politics. Due to circumstances, "what we thought did not materialise," he said apparently referring to his previoulsy proposed political entry which he subsequently dropped. "I have no intention of involving myself in politics in future," he asserted in a statement. Hence the RMM is disbanded and the functionaries would as before work under the Rajinikanth Fans Forum (Rajinikanth Rasigar Narpani Mandram) which is aimed at carrying out activities for people's welfare, he said. After he announced last year that he would not take the political plunge, it was his duty to clarify on the status of the Mandram which was created as a precursor body to facilitate the launch of a political party, he added. The fans forum, an apolitical welfare body, was converted into RMM and this new outift was launched in 2018. Office-bearers were appointed in both districts and at the state-level while separate wings were also formed to support the launch of political party. Before meeting the functionaries at a marriage hall owned by him here, the actor, speaking to reporters referred to questions being raised on Mandram and 'whether or not' he would be in politics, which led to a flutter of excitement among his fans till he came out with a statement reiterating his 'no to politics' stand. While fans were briefly excited, others on social media wondered why the actor was revisiting this matter as he had himself, last year, given a quietus to the over two-decade old political entry debate. The actor, who returned from USA days ago after a health check-up told reporters: "Should the Makkal Mandram be continued and if so, what will be its functions and these are questions among the functionaries and fans. "There are also questions as to whether or not I am going to come to politics in future," he said, adding he would consult Mandram functionaries and then spell out the outcome of the deliberations. On 3 December, 2020, the actor had said that he would launch his party in January 2021 ahead of the Assembly elections. However, during the last week of December last year, he did a u-turn and announced that he would not join politics. Since then, several functionaries had joined political parties including the DMK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu appears before court in R-day violence case||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence that ensued at the Red Fort on Republic Day, appeared before a Delhi court on Monday. Sidhu and several other accused appeared before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar through video conferencing. One Mohinder Singh Khalsa moved an exemption application on medical grounds, which was allowed by the court. The chief metropolitan magistrate directed the police to supply chargesheet to all the accused and listed the matter for further hearing on July 22. Last month, the court had taken cognizance of the chargesheet in the case and summoned all the accused to appear before it on July 12. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against the Centre's three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. According to the Delhi Police, they have electronic evidence to show that Sidhu entered the Red Fort with supporters carrying lathis and flags and provoked the violence. He was in jail for over two months and released on bail on April 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Eleven dead, many injured in lightning strike in Jaipur||Tragedy struck in the form of a lightning strike in front of the 12th century Amer Palace near Jaipur, leaving eleven people dead and many injured. The incident took place when people were taking selfies at a watch tower amid rain in the Rajasthan capital, NDTV.com reported. According to reports, dozens of people were present at the watch tower when the lightning struck. A number of them jumped off the watch tower in panic and sustained injuries. Twenty-seven people were reported to have been on the watch tower and the fort wall when the incident happened. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has announced a compensation of ₹ 5 lakh for the families of those killed. Apart from the incident at Amer Palace, nine more casualties by lightning were reported from across the state on Sunday - One death each in Baran and Jhalawar, four deaths in Kota and three in Dholpur districts. Seven of those killed were children. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed pain at the loss of lives in various parts of the country due to lightning and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. In a tweet quoting Modi, the PMO said, "Saddened by the loss of lives due to lightning in parts of Madhya Pradesh. The State Government will provide all possible assistance to the affected. From the PMNRF, Rs. 2 lakh would be given to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured: PM Modi." The prime minister also expressed anguish at the deaths caused by lightning in two other states and announced similar relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Rajinikanth says he will 'consult' Mandram functionaries on 'political' entry||Top star Rajinikanth on Monday said he would consult his Rajini Makkal Mandram functionaries on whether or not to join politics in future, six months after he opted out of politics. Indicating a fresh start to the topic of if or not he would enter politics, that was debated for over two decades in Tamil Nadu, the actor said 'questions' lingered among the Mandram functionaries on the forum's future. RMM was previously considered a launch vehicle for the actor's political entry. However, last December the actor said he would not join politics and had cited factors like his health condition, him undergoing kidney transplant in 2016. The actor, who returned from America days ago after a health check-up told reporters: "Should the Makkal Mandram be continued and if so, what will be its functions and these are questions among the functionaries and fans. "There are also questions as to whether or not I am going to come to politics in future," he said, adding he would consult Mandram functionaries and then spell out the outcome of the deliberations. On 3 December, 2020, the actor had said that he would launch his party in January 2021 ahead of the Assembly elections. However, during the last week of December last year, he did a u-turn and announced that he would not join politics. Since then, several functionaries had joined political parties including the DMK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||India logs over 37,000 fresh Covid cases, 724 casualties in a day||With 37,154 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,08,74,376, while the total recoveries crossed three crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities. The active cases have declined to 4,50,899 and comprise 1.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.22 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 3,219 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,32,343 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,23,17,813, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.59 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.32 per cent, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,00,14,713 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.73 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Rath yatra commences with curfew in Gujarat amid Covid concerns||The 144th annual rath yatra of Lord Jagannath began in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city on Monday morning, but it was devoid of the usual festive fervour and crowds due to the curfew imposed on its route to bar people from taking part in it in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Instead of the usual cavalcade of around 100 trucks, decked up elephants, akhadas and singing troupes, this year's procession consisted of only three chariots, pulled by nearly 100 youths from the Khalasi community, and four to five other vehicles. To prevent people from gathering on roads for a glimpse of the deities, a curfew has been imposed on the entire 19-km route of the procession from early morning till afternoon, Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja told reporters. The journey of the chariots of Lord Jagannath, his brother Balbhadra and sister Subhadra began from the 400-year-old Jagannath temple in Jamalpur area here around 7 am, after Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy CM Nitin Patel performed 'Pahind Vidhi'- a symbolic ritual of cleaning the way for the 'raths' (chariots). Before the idols of the deities were placed on the chariots, Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited the temple at around 4 am and took part in the 'mangla aarti'. According to the city police, around 23,000 armed personnel, including nine companies of the Central Armed Police Forces, have been deployed along the route to prevent any unwarranted situation, as the procession passes through some communally sensitive areas also. Although the rath yatra would cover the entire 19-km route, the procession this time would be a shorter affair in terms of duration as the authorities have planned to conclude it in four to five hours as against the usual time of around 12 hours. Before the COVID-19 outbreak last year, lakhs of people used to gather along the route on 'Ashadhi Beej' every year to catch a glimpse of the decorated elephants and tableaux moving around in some 100 trucks. The procession used to come back to the Lord Jagannath temple after covering a distance of 19 km in about 12 hours, which included an hour-long lunch break at Saraspur. However, this time, authorities have ensured there is no large gathering in Saraspur. Since people from other districts and those living in western parts of the city also flock the route to watch the procession, police are regulating the traffic movement on all bridges to stop people from reaching near the route. The government also appealed to people to watch the live telecast of the rath yatra on television. Last year, only a symbolic rath yatra was organised in the premises of the Lord Jagannath temple here after the Gujarat High Court denied permission for the usual public procession due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Delhi likely to receive light rain today||Light rain is likely in the city on Monday with the weather department saying conditions are favourable for advance of the monsoon over the national capital. The long-delayed monsoon missed yet another date with Delhi on Sunday. The city woke up to a humid morning with the minimum temperature settling at 27 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature is expected to settle around 37 degrees Celsius, it said. "Conditions were favourable for further advance of southwest Monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan today," the India Meteorological Department said. The relative humidity was recorded at 74 per cent at 8.30 am. The arrival of the monsoon will be announced in Monday's midday bulletin based on observations at 8.30 am on July 12, IMD scientist Sunitha Devi had said on Sunday. According to the standard operating procedure, the monsoon onset is declared based on the rainfall reported during the past 24 hours ending at 8.30 am, she explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Woman jumps in front of train with two-year old daughter in Maharashtra||A 28-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide along with her two-year-old daughter by jumping in front of a speeding train here in Maharashtra, police said. The incident took place at Asangaon railway station on Saturday night, they said. The woman jumped to death along with her daughter before the Tapovan Express which was heading towards neighbouring Mumbai, the official from Kalyan railway police station said on Sunday. The reason behind the extreme step was not yet known, he said. The bodies were sent for postmortem and the police registered a case of accidental death, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Covid: Sewage surveillance may help predict future surges||A nationwide research consortium has signalled plans to sample sewage water from select cities amid mounting evidence that regular wastewater surveillance combined with genome sequencing may help predict surges in Covid-19 days to weeks in advance. The Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genome Consortium, an initiative funded by the Union science and technology and health ministries, hopes to expand sewage surveillance for Covid-19 in the country, scientists with the consortium said while declining for now to provide details. “Regular sewage wastewater surveillance could inform us about a possible surge well in advance,” said Chaitanya Joshi, director of the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Council (GBRC), Gandhinagar, one of the 28 labs nationwide that make up the consortium. Joshi and his colleagues have found genetic signatures of the highly transmissible Delta coronavirus variant in Ahmedabad’s wastewater, collected in February 2021, a month before the city’s first Delta case. The finding demonstrates the importance of wastewater sampling as an early indicator of the circulating variants. Researchers have known for more than a year through observations in several countries that the genetic residues of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can show up in wastewater shed by people who may or may not know that they are infected. The GBRC team collected two samples each from Ahmedabad’s wastewater streams in September 2020, November 2020 and February 2021, sequenced the genetic residues in the samples and found the Delta variant in the February samples. “The wastewater sample can also tell us how prevalent a variant might be in the local population,” Joshi told The Telegraph. The analysis has suggested that the Delta variant accounted for about 57 per cent of the circulating coronaviruses in the city a month before health authorities detected the first Ahmedabad patient infected by the strain in March 2021. The early detection in wastewater samples is not surprising, Joshi said. About 80 per cent of patients infected by the coronavirus have mild or no symptoms at all and a large fraction of such patients do not seek a diagnostic test but shed the virus while they are infected. In such circumstances, Joshi said, the viruses circulating in a locality are likely to enter the local wastewater streams before they are picked up through diagnostic tests on patients. The Ahmedabad study points to the silent circulation of the Delta variant in early February, a period when scientists had not yet fully appreciated the speed at which the variant was spreading, scientists with the consortium who were not associated with the study said. A document on the consortium released by the science ministry’s department of biotechnology on June 23 mentions sewage surveillance among its objectives, but a senior consortium scientist declined to discuss details of the sampling plans or timeline. “I won’t shy away from saying that I’m disappointed at the pace of wastewater surveillance in the country,” said Manish Kumar, an assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, who collaborated with the GBRC in the study. Kumar said other countries such as Britain had already initiated wastewater surveillance efforts to monitor coronavirus variants circulating in specific localities. “Wastewater surveillance along with sequencing would be a cost effective means of keeping track of the variants in our cities,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||UP block parmukh polls: Opposition alleges violence by the BJP||Several videos and statements have emerged from Uttar Pradesh where the Opposition has alleged violence by the BJP during voting and counting for Saturday’s block pramukh polls, and accused government officials of acting like ruling party cadres. ⚫ Videos purportedly show Unnao chief development officer (CDO) Divyanshu Patel catch a video journalist, Krishna Tiwari, by the ear and thrash him at the Miyanganj block office. Fallout: Tiwari, who described Patel as a “goonda” before journalists on Saturday and confirmed the assault, prompting a media dharna before the district magistrate’s office, on Sunday released a video saying he was withdrawing the police complaint. He said Patel had not recognised him — contradicting what Tiwari had said on Saturday — and had later called him twice to apologise. ⚫ A senior police officer in Etawah has been filmed complaining over the phone, apparently to a superior, on Saturday that a BJP member slapped him and that a BJP MLA and district unit chief were moving about with supporters who were carrying bombs. Fallout: Vimal Bhadauria, a local BJP leader, has been booked on the charge of assaulting the officer and attempting to murder cops by opening fire at the Badpur block office. ⚫ Dharmendra Singh, the newly elected Independent block pramukh of Miyanganj, has said one couldn’t tell “who was a government officer and who a BJP worker” during the counting. He said that even after his son was assaulted by the police, he had kept quiet for fear of being killed. Tiwari, video journalist for a regional news channel, had told reporters late on Saturday evening: “I was filming some BJP members arguing with a block development council (BDC) member. The CDO, who was in a black T-shirt and a helmet, shouted that I shouldn’t record the scene. “When I ignored him and continued doing my job, the CDO caught me by the ear and dragged me away. While I was trying to free myself from his grip and protect my video camera, he started thrashing me like a goonda and hurling abuses at me.” The video clips show a man in a black T-shirt and another in a white kurta beat a man with a camera. Tiwari had displayed bruises on his hands and neck and said: “My camera was on when the CDO started beating me. The CDO knows me very well. Some BJP workers also beat me.” But on Sunday, a video surfaced purportedly showing him saying: “I am Krishna Tiwari. I had gone to the Miyanganj block office yesterday for election coverage. Some workers suddenly came. At that time the CDO somehow got into a dhakka mukki (pushing and shoving) with me. “He had taken charge only six days earlier and didn’t recognise me. He called me late in the night and apologised. He has also tendered apologies to his senior officers. This morning too he called me and said he had committed a mistake.... I am satisfied with whatever he said and am withdrawing my complaint.” Tiwari’s number was switched off. Patel refused to talk to reporters. On Saturday, Tiwari had also said some people wearing saffron scarves had attacked him an hour before the incident with the CDO. “I had come to know that some policemen and BJP workers were beating a BDC member near Sarambha Bridge, 2km from the block office. However, the attackers and the victim had left by the time I arrived there with Raja Rajput, a fellow journalist, on his motorcycle,” he said. “On our way back to the block office, we were intercepted by two SUVs. Five or six youths with saffron scarves around their neck attacked both of us and broke my mobile phone.” Later, journalists sat on a dharna at the district collectorate till 1am, leaving only after district magistrate Ravindra Kumar promised to have a case registered for the double assault on Tiwari. However, on Sunday morning, Ravindra merely said an “inquiry was on”. SP Anand Kulkarni said: “We have identified one of the attackers as Ankit Yadav. We are interrogating him to find out which party he belongs to.” Dharmendra Singh, the newly elected Independent block pramukh of Miyanganj, said on Sunday: “It was difficult to identify during voting and counting who was a government officer and who was a BJP worker.” He added: “The police baton-charged my son Abhay Singh in the afternoon and left him injured. His friends took him to a doctor but we remained silent because counting was on and the police, officials and BJP workers were very aggressive. They could have killed us.” Cop’s complaint In a video purportedly showing Etawah additional superintendent of police Prashant Kumar Prasad talking over the phone, with people milling around, the audio goes: “They were pelting us with stones, Sir. Sir, a BJP member slapped me. The BJP members are carrying bombs; the MLA and district president too. Vimal Bhadauria was with them.” The local BJP MLA is Sarita Bhadauria (no relation to Vimal) and the district BJP president is Anil Dhakre. Both are seen in the video, shot apparently by a journalist near the Badpura block office on Saturday. Badpura police station-in-charge Jitendra Kumar Sharma’s complaint says Vimal and 125 supporters had fired to terrorise the police and public and attacked Prasad. Prasad didn’t answer calls. Superintendent of police Brijesh Kumar Singh told reporters on Sunday: “We have booked the BJP leader (Vimal) and 125 others on several charges including rioting with deadly weapons and attempt to murder. The accused will soon be arrested.” A call to Sarita’s number in the afternoon was taken by a woman who said the MLA would call back. She had not till late in the evening. Earlier, Sarita had told reporters the police had caned her supporters and booked them in false cases. She accepted that she and Dhakre were at the trouble spot near the block office. Adityanath “declared” the results of the block pramukh elections early on Saturday evening, pre-empting the state election commission by hours. He has claimed the BJP has won 635 of the 825 seats. The pramukh election is not held on party symbols, and the poll panel does not give party-wise breakups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||How Bodh Gaya averted an Ayodhya||The dispute over Ram’s birthplace in Ayodhya may have helped bring the BJP to power but a similar problem was resolved amicably in Bihar’s Bodh Gaya without violence or social-political turmoil despite the involvement of devotees from several countries. What helped shape the peaceful solution was support from a galaxy of Indian stalwarts of the time, from Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi to Swami Vivekananda, Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajendra Prasad. The history of the dispute over the Mahabodhi temple in Bodh Gaya has been told vividly in a new book by Jairam Ramesh who has compared it with the Ayodhya issue, recalling how the Babri Masjid was demolished by rampaging mobs on December 6, 1992, after a long legal and political battle. The Bodh Gaya dispute too took 67 years to resolve but the two sides — Buddhists and Hindus — have been living in peaceful coexistence since an agreement was worked out in a truly democratic spirit. Ramesh’s book, The Light of Asia: The Poem that Defined the Buddha, is mainly a tribute to Sir Edwin Arnold, author of the much celebrated The Light of Asia, a narrative poem published in 1879 that shaped the larger world’s understanding of the Buddha. Ramesh himself describes his book as a biography of the original book, seen as a milestone in the 19th-century rediscovery of the Buddha. It was Arnold who had first raised the issue of the Mahabodhi Temple, starting a campaign in 1886 to restore to Buddhists the ownership of the site, which had been in the control of Hindus since the 18th century. Bodh Gaya was where Siddhartha Gautama attained enlightenment under the sacred tree and became Gautama Buddha. It was Emperor Ashoka who built a temple there first, in the third century BC. Ramesh writes: “Sometime in the last decade of the 16th century, a wandering Sivaite sanyasi established his abode close to the ruins of the temple.” “In August 1727, a Mughal prince gave the Sivaites a deed to establish ownership rights in the area. The Sivaites took control of the temple and its surroundings following the grant of the deed and from then on, both Hindus and Buddhists had access to it.” Arnold, anguished by the plight of the temple, started writing about it. A monk from Ceylon (now Sri Lanka), Anagarika Dharmapala, who later founded the Mahabodhi Society, launched the struggle to regain Buddhist control over Bodh Gaya. Arnold was clear that Bodh Gaya (he called it Buddh-Gya) was to the Buddhists what Jerusalem is to Christians, Mecca to Muslims and Varanasi to Hindus. What lent credence and force to his campaign was the explicit support from personalities like Tagore, Vivekananda, Gandhi and others who were all fascinated by his book, The Light of Asia. In January 1922, Ramesh wrote, Tagore visited Bodh Gaya and issued a statement: “I am sure it will be admitted by all Hindus who are true to their own ideals, that it is an intolerable wrong to allow the temple raised on the spot where Lord Buddha attained his enlightenment to remain under the control of a rival sect which can neither have the intimate knowledge of or sympathy for the Buddhist religion and its rites of worship. I consider it to be a sacred duty for all individuals believing in freedom and justice this great historical site to the community of people who still reverently carry on that particular current of history in their own living faith.” Tagore’s friend Okakura Kakuzo, an artist from Japan, too had visited Bodh Gaya with Vivekananda. He wanted to buy land adjacent to the temple to erect a rest house for Japanese pilgrims. The Hindu mahant agreed as this was a deviation from the Mahabodhi Society’s insistence on total control of the premises. Okakura must have had the backing of Vivekananda as the local address he gave for the purchase of the land was that of Belur Math. But Vivekananda’s sudden passing derailed the proposal. The trajectory of the dispute had several similarities with the Ayodhya issue. Much like the Ram idol that was placed inside the mosque, Dharmapala had placed a Buddha statue he had got from Japan in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. The Hindu priests got it thrown out, compelling Dharmapala to file a case. The Hindus too filed a case and hearing began in Calcutta High Court. In 1922, when the Congress was holding its session in Gaya, Buddhists pleaded with Gandhi to resolve the issue. Gandhi asked Rajendra Prasad to tackle it. The dispute was lingering without any solution in sight. Ramesh’s book says: “Jawaharlal Nehru organised an Inter-Asian Relations Conference in New Delhi between 23 March and 2 April 1947, even before India attained her freedom. Leaders from 30 countries participated in the conclave, which was also addressed by Gandhi. “On 31 March, while this assembly was in session, an All-Asia Buddhist Convention was also held in the city with representatives from Ceylon, Siam, Burma and Tibet attending along with leading Indian Buddhists as well.” The book explains that Nehru met a delegation of this Convention, whose most pressing demand was that the management of the Mahabodhi Temple at Bodh Gaya be with Buddhists. Nehru promised them “all support for the restoration of Buddha-Gya to the Buddhists”. A year later, a bill was introduced in the Bihar Legislative Assembly proposing joint management of the site through a committee made up of both Hindus and Buddhists. Nehru suggested that an advisory committee including members from countries where Buddhists reside be attached to the management committee. Nehru was very mindful of the role that the Mahabodhi Society had played in the restoration of a number of sites associated with the Buddha, most notably Sarnath. The bill was passed by the Bihar Assembly on June 19, 1949, and the transfer of ownership from the mahant to the management committee took place on May 28, 1953. The Mahabodhi Temple was declared a Unesco World Heritage Site in 2002. Ambedkarite Buddhists demanded full control of the Mahabodhi Temple after the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992 but their campaign never took off. Asked whether an amicable solution was possible only because there was no political party to hijack the issue, Ramesh said: “Remember that the dispute was in an era of non-competitive politics. Also everybody of note — Tagore, Gandhi, Subhas Chandra Bose, Nehru, Rajendra Prasad — were very great admirers of the Buddha and were very sensitive to Buddhist concerns regarding control over the Mahabodhi Temple. But the agitation took (more than) 65 years to resolve.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
12-07-2021||India||Covid: Puri Rath Yatra without devotees||Only 500 servitors will pull each of the three gigantic 45ft-high wooden chariots of the 12th-century Puri Jagannath temple deities on Rath Yatra on Monday. Last year also, 500 servitors had pulled each of the three chariots on Rath Yatra. Supreme Court guidelines allow up to 500 servitors to pull each of the three chariots. The apex court has allowed the conduct of the Rath Yatra without devotees like last year. The Shree Jagannath Temple administration has listed names of 3,000 servitors for various tasks connected with the yatra, the biggest religious festival of Odisha. While 1,500 servitors will pull the three chariots, the rest will be used as reserve and engaged in other sevas like carrying the massive idols of the deities, each around 7ft tall with arms, from the temple’s sanctum sanctorum to install them on the chariots. The East Coast Railway’s engineering department has estimated the weight of each of the three chariots between 200 and 300 tonnes. The chariots become heavier and all the more difficult to pull when devotees crowd their decks as they are pulled along the 2.5km Grand Road. The chariot of Lord Jagannath, popularly known as Nandigosh, is the heaviest among the three. “We do follow a systematic method to calculate the weight. We put 12 jacks to lift Nandigosh, the chariot of Lord Jagannath, two to three feet above the ground for jobs like repairing the axel and wheels. Each jack is capable of lifting 25 tonnes. So, roughly the chariot of Lord Jagannath weighs around 280 tonnes to 300 tonnes. “The weight of the chariot of Lord Balabhadra (Taladwaja) is around 250 tonnes as we use 10 jacks to lift it. The chariot of Goddess Subhadra (Darpadalan) is around 200 tonnes and eight jacks are used to lift it. I can’t tell you how servitors pull such gigantic chariots without the help of machines or elephants. It is nothing short of a miracle,” East Coast Railway engineering department’s senior section engineer, Puri Coaching Depot, Chidananda Acharya, told The Telegraph. Nearly 10,000 cubic feet of wood is used in the making of the three chariots. Heavy iron pieces are fitted into them at different points for support and strength. Jagannath Swain Mohapatra aka Jaguni, the 70-year-old daitapati (servitor), who had performed a puja at the residence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee on February 26, feels that the love and devotion of servitors for the deities makes the chariots roll on during the Rath Yatra. The senior servitor told this newspaper, “It’s the faith of servitors that does the miracle. Though we servitors generally have a good physique, which is important to be able to serve Lord Jagannath and his siblings properly, it is pure love for him and His blessings that make the wheels of the chariots move.” Mohapatra who walks for an hour daily to keep himself fit during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
12-07-2021||India||Mysore language institute gets a regular director after five years||The Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysore, has got a regular director after five years with the government appointing linguist Shailendra Mohan. Prof. Mohan is currently associated with the department of linguistics, Deccan College, Pune. He has been appointed as CIIL director for a period of three years or until further orders, whichever is earlier, a government notification issued on Friday said. Prof. Awadesh Kumar Mishra, the last regular CIIL director, retired in August 2016. Since then, an in-charge director had been helming the institution. The director’s post had been advertised twice. Prof. Mohan was selected through an interview in December 2020. However, it took six months to finalise his appointment. The CIIL, set up in 1969, trains schoolteachers in second languages, helps in research on Indian languages, maps and revitalises minor languages and also translates books written in different Indian languages. What has further hobbled the CIIL’s functioning has been the education ministry’s inordinate delay in clearing the proposed revision of recruitment rules for the autonomous institution. The CIIL had submitted the proposal in 2016. Without a regular director and in the absence of revised recruitment rules, the CIIL has not been able to fill up nearly 100 faculty positions. This has affected the institution’s key functions such as mapping of minor languages and recording and revitalising their vocabulary and grammar. “Work has been going on at the usual speed. Had a regular director been appointed and the vacant posts filled up, the activities could have gathered pace,” a CIIL official said. The ministry last year prepared the National Education Policy that advocates teaching of schoolchildren in the mother tongue up to Class V. The CIIL has been verbally sounded out on mapping all the mother tongues and preparing learning materials, sources said. The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has not had a regular director since November 15, 2020, when Prof. Hrushikesh Senapati’s term ended. The education ministry has assigned to the NCERT several activities under the NEP, such as the preparation of a National Curriculum Framework and textbooks for school students. “A regular director takes ownership of tasks and monitors and implements them. An in-charge director does not feel encouraged to take new initiatives,” an NCERT faculty member said. Another institution that has not had a regular head is the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), which frames policies on teacher education and gives approval to teacher education institutions. Since 2015, bureaucrats, not academics, have been holding the post of NCTE chairperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
12-07-2021||India||Covid: Faulty journal report on jabs gets four lakh readers ||A scientific report published on June 24 this year in a renowned international journal, Vaccines, was accessed online by over 400,000 readers by July 2. That comes to well over 40,000 readers per day. The study was carried out by three scientists from institutions in Poland, Germany and the Netherlands. However, four days after its publication, the journal issued an “expression of concern” to alert readers to significant concerns regarding the paper. The journal initiated a probe and agreed to “provide an update following the conclusion of our investigation”. What followed was dramatic. The journal retracted the publication on July 2, because the editorial investigation had revealed that there was “misrepresentation of the Covid-19 vaccination efforts and misrepresentation of the data”. The drama had started immediately after the paper was published. One after another, scientists who were associate or section editors of the journal had begun to resign. I have never seen such a phenomenon in my scientific career, spanning over four decades. Vaccines is a respectable journal from a well-known publisher — the Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute, Switzerland. What was this paper all about and what were the issues? The paper had claimed: “Covid-19 vaccines have had expedited reviews without sufficient safety data. We wanted to compare risks and benefits.” Usually, it takes a long time to assess the various aspects of a new vaccine — most importantly that of safety for the individual recipients of the vaccine, based on data collected from a large number of people administered with the vaccine — before it is launched. During the pandemic, the new vaccines were rolled out in a hurry with some assessment of their safety and efficacy, but not in as much detail as would have been done under normal circumstances. The authors used two large data sets (Israeli and Dutch) and concluded: “For three deaths prevented by vaccination we have to accept two inflicted by vaccination. This lack of clear benefit should cause governments to rethink their vaccination policy.” Scientists went ballistic on reading this. Of course, if the data supported this conclusion, there was cause for worry. But the data did not. The study was flawed because, among other reasons, the authors had assumed that every death that occurred after vaccination was because of the vaccination. This is obviously not true, especially because many vaccine recipients are likely to be aged or have co-morbidities. This episode is both to be decried and to be celebrated. Decried because the authors did not use the critical methods of modern science for their conclusions. Celebrated because science is self-correcting, even if through the use of drastic measures by scientist peers, as in this instance. Incorrect conclusions drawn by scientists can impact civil society adversely. Vaccine hesitancy is a major problem in controlling the spread of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Vaccines are a sure way of preventing the spread of the coronavirus. If a substantial proportion of a population is vaccine hesitant, the coronavirus will continue to circulate in the population. The more it circulates, the greater the chance it will change its character and become more ferocious, as we are seeing with the Delta variant. Vaccine hesitancy arises primarily from fear and misinformation. Much has been written about vaccine hesitancy in India. The proportion of hesitant people varies across populations and can be as high as 20 per cent. Incorrect conclusions expressed in studies by scientists can fuel vaccine hesitancy. In India, such incorrect conclusions can be a double whammy. There is already a dearth of vaccine doses in our country, and any addition to vaccine hesitancy will further increase the circulation of the coronavirus. Fortunately, the self-correcting nature of science prevents the spread of incorrect information, as in the case of the present retraction. Partha Majumder is the National Science Chair, Govt of India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
12-07-2021||India||BTech courses to be offered in eight Indian languages ||India’s technical education regulator is set to allow engineering colleges to offer BTech courses in eight Indian languages, including Bengali, from the upcoming academic session. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Thursday advocated the teaching of technical courses in Indian languages while interacting with heads of the IITs and other centrally funded technical institutions. “PM added that we need to develop an ecosystem of technological education in Indian languages and translate global journals into regional languages,” a release from the Press Information Bureau, the central government’s publicity arm, said. All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) chairperson Anil Sahasrabudhe told The Telegraph that translating first-year engineering textbooks from English into Hindi, Bengali, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Gujarati and Malayalam was almost complete. He said 14 colleges had already come forward to offer BTech courses in Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi or Gujarati. Some of the premier engineering colleges like the IITs, NITs and the IIEST Shibpur are not affiliated to the AICTE and will not be offering the vernacular option, at least during the 2021-22 session. Sahasrabudhe said the AICTE would translate textbooks also into Odia, Punjabi and Assamese soon. “We have almost completed translating the first-year textbooks. The technical terms have been kept as they are,” he said. “Since the material is ready, colleges can be allowed to offer courses in the vernacular medium.” Sahasrabudhe added that the translation of second and third-year textbooks was going on. Linguist and former director of the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Awadesh Kumar Mishra, welcomed the move but warned that retaining all the English technical terms in the vernacular textbooks would “weaken the Indian languages”. Some terms, such as “oxygen” and “oxide”, can be retained but words such as “pressure”, “temperature”, “volume” and “refraction” should be translated into the Indian languages, he said. Sahasrabudhe had not clarified which English terms would be retained in the vernacular textbooks. Bengali school textbooks already use vernacular equivalents for words like “pressure” and “refraction” — even “photosynthesis” — while retaining the English “oxygen” or “nitrogen”. “Use of the entire range of English technical terms in Indian-language textbooks would weaken the Indian languages. A language is strengthened by its own words and syntax. Each word or term has an association with the culture of the speakers of the language. Such words do not naturally fit into different languages,” Mishra said. He said the objective of having textbooks in Indian languages was, ideally, to reduce the dependency on English, and the use of English terms would run counter to that purpose. “If words like ‘photosynthesis’ or ‘coefficient’ are directly implanted in Hindi books, the students will struggle,” Mishra said. He said the Commission of Scientific and Technical Terminology had prepared glossaries of English technical terms translated into Indian languages. Besides, the National Translation Mission under the CIIL has developed lists of equivalent words in many areas, he said, adding that the AICTE should collaborate with these organisations to use their Indian technical terms and develop more of these if necessary. Mishra, however, expressed concern about the employability of vernacular-medium technical graduates. “They may not find jobs outside their states unless they improve their English-language skills,” he said. The AICTE had in 2011 set up a committee under former IIT Delhi director R.K. Shevgaonkar to study the possibility of teaching engineering subjects in the regional languages. The committee advised against the idea citing a lack of material, Indian equivalents for technical terms, and teacher-training for the purpose. Last November, then education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had told the IIT directors that the government intended to offer technical courses in Indian languages from the 2021-22 academic session. Under the proposal, each IIT was to create 50 supernumerary seats for students seeking to pursue engineering courses in the regional language of the state where the institute was located. The plan appears to have been shelved, at least for this year. Sourav Pal, director of the Indian Institute of Science Education Research, Calcutta, said teaching technical courses in Indian languages would benefit large segments of students from rural areas and disadvantaged sections of society. “It will allow the students to conceptualise in their vernacular language. But they should have sufficient knowledge of English to be able to understand the content of journals,” Pal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
