13-07-2021||India||Mahakumbh Covid testing scam: 60,000 phone numbers verified, SIT close to 1st arrest||The committee probing alleged fake Covid-19 tests conducted during Mahakumbh in Haridwar told Hindustan Times that it had completed verification of about 60,000 phone numbers of visitors, who the laboratories under scanner claimed to have tested for the infection during the mega religious event earlier this year. Meanwhile the Uttarakhand Police, which is also investigating the alleged scam, said it was about to make its first arrest in the case in the next couple of days. The probe committee led by chief development officer (CDO) of Haridwar, Saurabh Gaharwar, told Hindustan Times that another 35,000 phone numbers remained to be verified and the process was likely to take 10 more days to complete. However, he refused to reveal any detail from the investigations conducted so far. Gaharwar led committee earlier questioned the representatives of the agency named Max Corporate Services which had subcontracted testing to two laboratories — Nalwa Laboratories and Dr Lal Chandani Laboratories. The labs claimed to have conducted about 1.50 lakh tests but have been marred by allegations that they had made up the figures by including fake and fudged data such as contact numbers and Aadhaar card numbers. The Gaharwar committee is examining the phone numbers in its investigation to find out the number of actual fake tests conducted. “We had to verify about one lakh phone numbers mentioned in the tests. Of that, we have completed verifying 60,000 phone numbers while about 35,000 are still left,” CDO Gaharwar told Hindustan Times. He added that the verification would take at least 10 days to complete. Meanwhile, the special investigation team (SIT) of the Haridwar district police, which is also probing the case, told Hindustan Times that it was likely to make the first arrest in the next few days. “The SIT has gathered many details after questioning the accused involved and examining the documents. With to the findings so far, it is somewhat sure that a scam had happened in the Covid-19 tests to siphon off money from the administration by the testing laboratories in a fraudulent manner,” said one of the officers in the SIT, who was privy to the probe details but didn’t wish to be quoted. “The SIT would soon make its first arrest in the next few days with the accused from one of the testing laboratories,” said the official. Haridwar’s senior superintendent of police Senthil Avoodai K Raj refused to confirm anything, but said, “The SIT is probing all the angles of the alleged scam by questioning different people. It will soon be completed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
13-07-2021||India||Covid: PM concerned over big crowds without masks in hill stations, markets||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed concern over people crowding at hill stations and markets without wearing masks or observing social distancing norms, as he urged all to guard against complacency to prevent a third wave of the coronavirus spread. He asked the people to shun the argument that they "want to enjoy before the third wave of coronavirus" and stressed that there should be no compromise in following Covid-19 protocols. "It is true that tourism, trade and business have been greatly affected due to the coronavirus. But today I will say with great emphasis that having huge crowds in hill stations, markets without masks and not following Covid protocols is a matter of concern and is not right," Modi said during an interaction with chief ministers of eight North-Eastern states through video conferencing. The third wave can be prevented by remaining cautious and strictly following all protocols, he said and emphasised that the vaccination drive needs to be continuously ramped. Modi said the Covid-19 situation was worrisome in some districts of the Northeastern region and urged the chief ministers to stay alert and act fast to check the further spread of the virus. The health ministry has also flagged concerns over a surge in coronavirus cases in the Northeast states in the past few days and central teams have been deputed to seven states from that region -- Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland and Tripura -- to support them in Covid-19 management. The prime minister said stricter steps were needed at the micro-level to check the virus spread and called for greater emphasis on micro-containment zones. During the interaction, the chief ministers discussed the issue of vaccine hesitancy and measures being taken to overcome it. While Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told Prime Minister Modi that his government is trying to increase the vaccination rate in the tea garden areas of the state, which have witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases, Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu sought an increase in the supply of Covid-19 vaccines to the state. The CMs gave an assurance of taking timely action to bring down the positivity rate as well as the number of cases in their respective states. Prime Minister Modi will interact with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala on July 16 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in these states. These are among the states where the infection numbers have seen an increase in several districts or have not in general seen a dip, unlike most other states. Noting the fast mutating nature of the coronavirus, Modi advised strict monitoring of the changes and keeping track of all variants. Experts are studying the mutations and their impact and in such a scenario, prevention and treatment are critical, he said. Modi emphasised that the utility of physical distancing, masks, vaccines is clear and the path of testing, tracking and treatment is a proven strategy. "Kai baar hum ye tark sunte hain aur kuch log toh bada sina taan ke bolte hain 'arey bhai teesri leher aane se pehle hum enjoy karna chahte hain' ( Many times we hear the argument and some say it with great assertion that 'we want to enjoy before the third wave comes'). "It is important to make people understand that the third wave will not come on its own)," Modi said. The main question in our mind should be how to prevent the third wave and implement the COVID protocol strictly, he said. Experts are repeatedly warning against carelessness and crowding as that can lead to a massive surge in cases, Modi said. The prime minister strongly advocated preventing avoidable gatherings. "If we remain cautious and take precautions we will be able to prevent the third wave...there should be no compromise in this," he said. The virtual meeting was attended by chief ministers of Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, as also by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, among others. The chief ministers thanked the prime minister for timely action in handling the COVID-19 pandemic and appreciated his special care and concern for the Northeast. In his remarks, the prime minister said that in the 'vaccine for all-free for all' campaign of the central government, the Northeast also has the same importance, as he stressed the need to keep accelerating the vaccination process. To deal with the myths about vaccination and for mobilising people, Modi asked the chief ministers to enlist the help of social, educational institutes, celebrities and also religious organisations. He called for accelerating the vaccination drive in areas where the spread of the virus is expected. Referring to the recent Cabinet approval of a Rs 23,000 crore package for improving the infrastructure for testing and treatment, the prime minister said that it will help in strengthening the health infrastructure of the Northeast. This package will expedite testing, diagnostics and genome sequencing in the Northeast, he said. Modi also stressed the need for rapidly increasing the number of beds, oxygen facilities and paediatric care infrastructure in the Northeast. The prime minister said that hundreds of oxygen plants are being established in the country through the PM-CARES fund and the Northeast also has got about 150 plants. He urged the chief ministers to complete the process of establishing these plants quickly. Modi underlined the need to establish temporary hospitals due to the geographical situation of the Northeast. Modi also called for preparing trained manpower as oxygen plants, ICU wards and new machines that are reaching block level hospitals will need this. He assured all help from the central government. Noting the capacity of 20 lakh tests per day in the country, the prime minister highlighted the need to augment the testing infrastructure in the affected districts on priority. He called for aggressive testing along with random testing. The prime minister also expressed the hope that with collective efforts "we will surely be able to "contain the spread" of coronavirus. Modi lauded the people, health workers and the governments of the Northeast for their hard work in the fight against the pandemic and creating infrastructure for testing, treatment and vaccination despite the difficult terrain of the states. Union Home Minister Shah talked about the reduction in the overall daily number of cases but forewarned that this should not lead to one becoming lax and letting one's guard down. He said that some areas of the country are witnessing high positivity rates and emphasised the importance of testing, tracing, tracking and vaccination. The Union Health Secretary gave an overview of the COVID-19 cases in the country and discussed the high positivity rate in some Northeastern states. He also briefed about the steps taken to boost the supply of medical oxygen and also gave an overview of the progress of vaccination, according to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office. While most parts of the country have seen a steady decline in the COVID-19 numbers, the northeast region has been a cause of concern with the number of cases either rising or not falling in line with the nationwide trend, experts have noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
13-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Samyukt Kisan Morcha to press opposition parties to address demands in Parliament||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday said that it will press the opposition parties to ensure that the farmers' demands on the three new agriculture laws and MSP are addressed in Parliament before any other business is transacted during the upcoming Monsoon session. The umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions that is spearheading the agitation for the scrapping of the central agriclture laws said the preparation for their planned protests at the Parliament from July 22 is in full swing. "Farmers and leaders from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and even from distant states like West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka are arriving at the borders of Delhi to participate in the protest. "As planned by SKM, the protest will be planned and executed methodically and peacefully, with 200 farmers participating in the protest every day," it said. The SKM said that any attempt to stop the farmers from protesting "will be illegal and unconstitutional". The amalgam said it will issue letters to all the opposition MPs of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on July 17 as a precursor to the protest on July 22, "demanding that they raise the demands of the farmers in Parliament and ensure that these demands are discussed and met before any other business is transacted in Parliament," it said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over seven months. They are demanding a rollback of the three contentious agriculture laws and also seeking a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP). Most of the opposition parties have openly supported the farmers' agitation. The three laws - The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 - were passed by Parliament in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||We may seek India’s military assistance if Taliban talks fail: Afghanistan ambassador ||The government of Afghanistan may, at some future point, seek India's military assistance if talks with the Taliban fail amid a withdrawal of US troops from there, the country's Ambassador to India told NDTV. He, however, made it clear that the aid sought would not involve sending troops but could be in areas like training and technical support. Representatives of the Taliban and the Afghanistan government have been holding talks amid the insurgents’ increasing control over the country even as the US looks to wind up its almost two-decade war there by the end of August. However, the peace talks supposedly taking place in Doha have largely fizzled out, and the Taliban now appear set on a complete military victory, AFP reported on Tuesday. “Should we not get to a stage in the peace process with the Taliban, then maybe a time (will come) where we would be seeking India’s military assistance, more military assistance in the years ahead,” Farid Mamundzay, Afghanistan's Ambassador to India, told NDTV. “We are not seeking India's assistance with sending troops to Afghanistan. Their footprint in Afghanistan to fight our war would not be needed at this stage,” he clarified. He explained how, for instance, how the Air Force is an area where his country would require assistance in and that more opportunities could be explored on this front. The envoy cited pilot training, for which India is “naturally a place” it would want involvement from. “India has also, again, helped us with two key components, one was to help with providing us military training (and) scholarships for our cadets,” Mamundzay said. On the civilian front, he listed the 1,000 annual scholarships India provides, the 20,000-odd Afghan students studying here now, the building of the new Afghan parliament, and the construction of dams, besides other infrastructure projects. The current situation in Afghanistan is “very dire” and “very problematic”, with the government forces actively fighting the Taliban in around 150 of the 376 districts, the Ambassador said. “So one-third of the country is in active fight… Over two lakh people have been displaced internally in the country since April 2021 alone, with close to 4,000 killed,” he said. The insurgents have swept through much of northern Afghanistan in recent weeks and the government now holds little more than a constellation of provincial capitals that must largely be reinforced and resupplied by air, AFP reported on Tuesday. The Taliban have, however, said they do not want to battle government forces inside cities. Referring to the recent killing of 22 government forces personnel, Mr Mamundzay said: “This happened in the province of Faryab last month where 22 of our special forces were brutally murdered by Taliban at a time when they were surrendering.” “We were under the assumption that Taliban would take the peace process seriously and they would negotiate a lasting and dignified peace with the Afghan government, yet they chose the path of violence.” On Sunday, India evacuated diplomats and security personnel from its Kandahar consulate in the wake of intense fighting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Future of IT new normal in 2021 : Tushar Kamble||2020 has been quite a year. Hijacked by a global pandemic and exposed to major disruption, the world has experienced a lot of heartache and even more uncertainty. But as a result of all this chaos, Organizations across the globe are accelerating their digital transformation initiatives at breakneck speeds in a bid to reset and survive. For better or worse, we can all agree, this year will be memorable. So, as 2020 draws to a close and we enter 2021, here are some of the technologies that are expected to come around and define this next normal. Cloud's reign continues Even before the events of 2020, cloud had already established its value for many businesses by providing  cost efficiencies across all industries. This year, however, the technology is helping add a layer of resilience to many organisations by making the sudden shift in working habits less disruptive. This has sealed cloud's place as an essential piece of enterprise tech. In the next five years, the cloud computing industry is expected to huge revenue. Next year specifically, businesses will focus more on managing their cloud costs better and look to unify their different cloud environments. In the face of increased competition due to greater prevalence, cloud providers will need to focus on enhancing and integrating security, compliance, and privacy with firewall securities and surveillance our data privacy. Cloud will also grow in popularity as the ideal execution venue for new and emerging technologies such as blockchain, and edge computing and SAAS. Thus, making it integral to the digital transformation journey many more businesses are now on. Intelligent networks are the new normal The COVID-19 pandemic is forcing businesses to innovate reactively and creatively in order to make work pattern shifts that they thought would take years. While it might have been a necessity that got them there, the results of this mass experiment have been eye-opening. Despite many preconceptions, remote working has largely been a success where cloud solutions helps with budget cost. Some 95% of remote workers say their productivity has increased this year, which is great for employers and employee’s as well. This new normal will put new pressures on companies, as there will be an increasing need for networks capable of supporting virtual architectures - be it cloud, on premises, or edge computing. As a result, more organisations will start seeking intelligent and intent-based networks that offer integrated security - such as SD-WAN for the WAN with SASE and Zero Trust security or virtual networks for multicloud - to deal with the increased cybersecurity threat of their new perimeter-less ecosystem. Being able to offer platform stability, ease of use, and personalisation, while maintaining a human touch, will only grow in importance. More onus will be placed on digital trust. Businesses capable of ensuring the safety of customers' identity, data, and transactions, as well as employee data and transactions, will be rewarded with customer loyalty. IoT will play a greater role in securing and analysing data . So competition, more companies will start focusing on data analytics technology capable of securely handling information as well as analysing and deriving greater insights from their mostly unused operational data. For instance, many of the COVID-19 restrictions are expected to be lifted by end of 2021, However, the ability to offer enhanced experiences by using data better will likely still be a strong deciding factor for many organizations. So, in all of this, IoT is expected to play a pivotal role - helping to automate processes and make more information readily available to enterprises. And as IoT becomes increasingly intertwined with AI, and more deeply embedded in organisational structures and transformation programmes, devices will become increasingly 'smart' and capable of driving greater intelligence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand cancels Kanwar Yatra in view of possible third wave||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday cancelled the Kanwar Yatra in view of a possible third wave of Covid-19, sources said. It is for the second consecutive year that the yatra is not being held due to the pandemic. The Indian Medical Association had also written to Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami recently asking him to not allow the yatra to go ahead in the interest of the people of the state and the country. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had said that though Kanwar Yatra is part of Sanatan culture, saving lives in the time of the pandemic was paramount. "Kanwar is part of the Sanatan culture but saving lives is paramount. Government's focus is to ensure that Covid does not spread," Dhami said addressing a meeting of all morchas (wings) of the state BJP In Dehradun. Dhami, who met central leaders in Delhi including the Prime Minister to discuss a range of issues, had been saying repeatedly that saving human lives is important. The fortnight-long yatra which begins with the onset of the month of Shravan by the Hindu calendar goes on till the first week of August and sees a large gathering of Kanwariyas in Haridwar from neighbouring states including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to collect the holy waters of the Ganga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||PM Modi hails struggles of Indian athletes of Olympics||Back stories of struggle, sacrifices and grit dominated Prime Minister Narendra Modi's interaction with India's Olympic-bound sportspersons during which he urged them to forget expectations and focus only on giving their best in Tokyo. Among others, the PM spoke to iconic boxer M C Mary Kom, badminton ace PV Sindhu, talented shooters Saurabh Chaudhary, Elavenil Valarivan and veteran table tennis player A Sharath Kamal during a virtual interactive session. Well aware of their preparations and formative years, Modi's conversations touched upon the making of their success stories and also some fun queries like the one posed to world champion P V Sindhu. "There was a ban on eating ice creams on you during the 2016 Olympics, has another ban been imposed for Tokyo," he asked to a grinning Sindhu, who would be aiming to better the silver she won five years ago. "Sir, I have to be careful of my diet," she responded. Modi called the athletes a reflection of new India said they look bold and confident ahead of the Games. He said all possible help has been extended to them through the government's target Olympic Podium Scheme. "Don't be bogged down by expectations, just give your best," Modi said in the interaction. "I would have been happier to meet you in person, I always look forward to that. But I promise to spend time with you after you come back," he said. "I am happy that country is cheering for you. I wish all the luck to you. The whole country's emotions are attached to you. "I find a few things common among you all, you are bold, confident and positive. That's a common factor along with, discipline, dedication and determination. As the athletes are giving their all for India, Modi said the country should stand by them at all cost. Modi started the session by asking the athletes about their ambitions and challenges ahead of the sporting extravaganza. He asked Olympic bronze medallist and six-time world champion M C Mary Kom about her favourite athlete and favourite shot, and her reply was Muhammad Ali and the hook. Then he went to Rio Olympics silver medallist and reigning world champion Sindhu and her parents and praised them for the sacrifices they have made during the journey. To begin with, Modi spoke to archers Deepika Kumari and Pravin Jadhav and asked them not to feel the pressure of expectations at home. Modi told Deepika the nation is talking about her following her gold in the World Cup in Paris. "You're world number 1 now. Your journey is very special," he said. "My journey has been good from the beginning, I started with bamboo bow and then moved to modern bow gradually," Deepika said. "There are expectations, but one expects the most from oneself. So, I am focusing on my practice and the way in which I will perform." Offering his personal touch, Modi also spoke to the parents of Sindhu and lauded them for backing their daughter during her journey to success. The Olympics, in which on-site spectators will not be allowed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, are scheduled to be held in the Japanese capital from July 23 to August 8. Newly-appointed union sports minister Anurag Thakur and his deputy Nisith Pramanik, law minister Kiren Rijiju, who was succeeded by Thakur, were also present during the interactive session. The PM said the people of India are cheering for their athletes to do well at the Olympics. Modi also praised the role played by the government's Khelo India initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||NEET-PG to be held on September 11, says Mansukh Mandaviya||The NEET Postgraduate exam will be held on September 11, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Tuesday. "We have decided to conduct the #NEET Postgraduate exam on 11th September 2021. My best wishes to young medical aspirants," he tweeted. In view of the spike in Covid-19 cases, the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET)-PG which was scheduled to be held on April 18 was postponed. The decision was taken keeping the wellbeing of young medical students in mind. On Monday, the Centre announced that the NEET (UG) 2021 will be held on September 12, 2021 across the country while following the Covid-19 protocol. The application process will begin from 5pm on Tuesday on the National Testing Agency (NTA) website, a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau had said. Last week, the NTA had announced that the remaining two rounds of the Joint Entrance Examination-Main to select students for admission to BTech courses in NITs would be held from July 20. The third session has been scheduled from July 20 to July 25 while the fourth round will be held from July 27 to August 2. Both the rounds were scheduled in April and May. The NTA has already held two rounds. A student can appear in all four rounds and the best performance will be considered for selection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||AAP always recognised my work for Punjab, says Sidhu amid Congress tussle||Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday targeted the Aam Aadmi Party saying even the main opposition party has always recognised his vision and work for Punjab. Sidhu's remarks came a day after AAP Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann took a dig at him and asked him to tweet about the "funds" allegedly accepted by the ruling Congress from private power companies in the state. The cricketer-turned-politician also shared on Twitter old videos of senior AAP leader Sanjay Singh praising him for raising his voice on several issues including the drug mafia and corruption during the previous SAD-BJP regime and Mann himself calling him as a "damn honest" person. Sidhu's tweets come amid attempts by the Congress high command to resolve infighting in the party's Punjab unit and speculation that he may be appointed as the state unit president. "Our opposition AAP has always recognised my vision & work for Punjab. Be it Before 2017- Beadbi, Drugs, Farmers Issues, Corruption & Power Crisis faced by People of Punjab raised by me or today as I present "Punjab Model" It is clear they know - who is really fighting for Punjab," Sidhu said in a series of tweets. He said, "If the Opposition dares to question me, yet they can't escape my Pro-People Agenda ... This means they have resigned to their fate!!" "Our Opposition singing about me and other loyal Congressmen:- tum agar AAP mein aaoge to koi baat nahin tum agar Congress mein rahoge to mushkil hogi (if you join AAP then there is no issue if you stay in Congress, then there will be a problem)," he added. On Monday, AAP leader Mann had alleged that the Punjab government was not scrapping the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government as the ruling Congress had accepted "funds" from the three private companies that have set up thermal plants in the state. He asked Sidhu to tweet on this issue. "@sherryontopp Saab, If not anything else, we hope you could bother to at least tweet on the issue as you are used to," he said in a tweet. Sidhu, who has been raising power supply-related issues through social media, had demanded that a white paper on PPAs signed during the previous SAD-BJP regime be released to make the Badals "accountable" to the people for these "corrupt agreements". A few days ago, Sidhu had attacked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government over its petition in the Supreme Court seeking the closure of 10 coal-fired power plants in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The petition was later withdrawn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Govt notes gross violations of Covid-appropriate behaviour across country||People are talking about the third wave of coronavirus as casually as a "weather update", the government said on Tuesday, noting that "gross violations" of Covid-appropriate behaviour being seen in several parts of the country can nullify the gains made so far in pandemic management. Addressing a press conference on the pandemic situation in the country NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said globally, the third wave of Covid-19 is being seen and called on people to make efforts to ensure that it does not hit India. "The world is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19. We have to join hands to ensure that the third wave doesn't hit India," he said. "We talk about the 'third wave' as casually as a weather update. This isn't like one plans that we should go somewhere before monsoon, it is virus versus human being and it is a continuous battle. "More than the environment, it is our behaviour that can cause the third wave. What we fail to understand is that adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour or the lack of it is what will prevent or cause any future waves," he said. Referring to scenes in hill stations and markets like Sadar Bazaar and Janpath market in Delhi, Ranganathan street in Chennai, Vilaripatti in Tamil Nadu, Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh and Bhushi Dam in Maharashtra, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said "gross violations" of Covid-appropriate behaviour are being seen "which can nullify the gains" made so far in the management of the pandemic. Earlier, too, the government had warned from the same platform against thronging and crowding hill stations and markets, saying the second wave was not yet over. Agarwal said even though active cases and daily new cases are declining, recovery rate is increasing and cases are restricted to a limited geography, there is no room for complacency. "A surge in cases is being reported globally which remains a cause of concern," he said, citing examples of the UK, Russia, Bangladesh and Indonesia. He said in India, too, a rise in cases is being seen in states of Manipur, Mizoram Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh. "We have to be vigilant," Paul stressed. Agarwal said approximately 73.4 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases reported so far in July are from Kerala (30.3 per cent), Maharashtra (20.8 per cent), Tamil Nadu (8.5 per cent), Andhra Pradesh (7.3 per cent) and Odisha (6.5 per cent). In the last few days, central teams have been deputed to 11 states to help their governments in Covid-19 management, he said. Besides seven northeastern states, the teams have been sent to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Odisha, where a high case growth trajectory was seen or high positivity was noted, he said. "On a continuous basis, we monitor the evolving situation in states of concern and discussions are held to ascertain how Covid can be tackled," Agarwal said. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi also held a review meeting with the chief ministers of northeastern states and asserted that it is a matter of concern that big crowds are thronging hill stations and market areas without maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. India's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 4,10,784 on Tuesday with 2,020 new deaths recorded after Madhya Pradesh reconciled its fatality data while 31,443 new coronavirus cases pushed the infection tally to 3,09,05,819, according to Union health ministry data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Elgaar case had national secturity implications, NIA tells Bombay HC||The NIA told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that the Centre suo motu (on its own) decided to transfer the probe into the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case from Pune police to the central agency as it had implications on national security. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) also said its credibility is being questioned, while it is fighting for the prevention of unlawful and terrorist activities in the country, in which "Naxal plague" has caused destruction at many levels. It further claimed that while considerable autonomy and functional prerogatives have been accorded to state governments, greater powers and prerogatives over a complex range of all-encompassing subjects are vested with the Union government. The central agency submitted its affidavit in the HC in response to a petition filed by human rights lawyer Surendra Gadling and activist Surendra Dhawale, arrested in the case, challenging the January 2020 decision of the Union government to transfer the probe into the case from the Pune police in Maharashtra to the NIA. The petition, filed through advocate S B Talekar in 2020, alleged that the case was transferred by the central government after the BJP lost power in Maharashtra and hence, the decision was politically motivated. On Tuesday, Talekar told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that the probe into the case was transferred to the NIA two years after the FIR was registered. He submitted to the court that the NIA had filed an affidavit in the case, but the Centre and the Maharashtra government were yet to file their affidavits. However, NIA's counsel Sandesh Patil said he was not aware of the affidavit filed by the probe agency. The earlier advocate appearing for the NIA must have filed it. I will have to check. Give me a week's time to put our house in order, Patil said. The bench then posted the petition for further hearing on July 19. The NIA in its affidavit said considering the gravity of the offence and its "inter-state link and implications on national security", the Centre suo motu directed the NIA to take up the investigation into the case. The present petition is malafide and vexatious as it is a desperate attempt by the petitioner to thwart the investigation into the case related to the Elgar Parishad, the affidavit said. It further said the petitioners were questioning the credibility of the agency which is fighting towards prevention of unlawful and terrorist activities in the country, in which the Naxal plague has caused destruction at many levels. The affidavit said the NIA was probing the case against the petitioners and other co-accused in a responsible and impartial manner and it had no personal agenda against them. After the NIA took over the probe into the case, a Pune court transferred the case to the special NIA court in Mumbai, it added. The NIA in its affidavit also said the continuous preservation and promotion of national security is the first and final sovereign function of a country". It claimed that while considerable autonomy and functional prerogatives have been accorded to state governments, greater powers and prerogatives over a complex range of all-encompassing subjects are vested with the Union government. A contextual construction of the provisions of the Constitution of India would show that the sovereign function of maintenance of national security is squarely vested with the Union (government), it said. The affidavit further said the primary objective to establish the NIA was to better tackle cross-border crimes with inter-state and international originations and ramifications. Apart from Gadling and Dhawale, several other activists Varavara Rao, Gautam Navlakha, Sudha Bharadwaj, Anand Teltumbde, Shoma Sen - have been arrested in the case. They are accused of being active members of the CPI (Maoist) and propagating Maoist ideology and inciting violence. The activists have been booked under provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), apart from various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy was also arrested in the case. The 84-year-old tribal rights activist died in a Mumbai hospital last week in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Prashant Kishor meets Rahul Gandhi amid Punjab crisis||Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Tuesday met senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi, amid a crisis in the Punjab government involving Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and rebel leader Navjot Singh Sidhu. According to a report by ndtv.com, the meeting is underway with the Punjab agenda on the cards, and Kishor, who has held a series of political meetings in the past few weeks, was seen arriving at Rahul Gandhi's home for the meeting. Rahul had last collaborated with Kishor in the Congress's failed campaign for the Uttar Pradesh election in 2017. Meanwhile, Prashant Kishor had last month met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar in New Delhi multiple times, fuelling speculations about the possibility of opposition parties coming together to form a third front against the BJP. Kishor, who was instrumental in the thumping victory of the Trinamool Congress in the Bengal Assembly polls, had met Pawar over lunch at his residence in Mumbai on June 11. He again called on the NCP chief at his residence in Delhi on June 21 and 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||UIDAI, Centre’s response sought on procedure to allow existing card holders get new Aadhaar number||Apart from seeking a direction to Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to issue fresh Aadhaar number for Arora, the petition also seeks directions from court for protection of the fundamental right of privacy and prevention of further breach and damages. Advocate Zoheb Hossain, appearing for UIDAI, submitted that the moment an Aadhaar number is issued, the person concerned and the number are locked together for life. The court, however, responded that had that been the case, power would not have been given to UIDAI under Section 23(n) of the Aadhaar (Targeted delivery of Financial and other subsidies, benefits and services) Act of 2016 to lay down conditions and procedure for issuance of new Aadhaar number for existing holders. “You have the power. It can't be read in such a pragmatic manner (if it can't be changed) then the rule has to go. It can be exercised in some manner,” the court said. The court added that it nonetheless agreed that an Aadhaar number could not be changed at the whims and fancies of a user. In the petition filed through advocates Sonal Anand and Surabhi Singh, the petitioner informed the court that his Aadhaar number was found to be linked with certain overseas entities unknown to him. Thereafter, he requested UIDAI to issue him a new Aadhaar number in light of a serious threat to his identity, the plea said adding that UIDAI took a stand that no resident could have a duplicate Aadhaar number and that there was no process for issuance of a new Aadhaar number to any citizen. It is further stated in the petition that although there is a provision under the Aadhaar Act for issuance of new Aadhaar number to the existing users, yet UIDAI is not inclined to issue a new number to him. The petitioner said he is facing difficulties in his business on account of the exiting Aadhaar being linked to the overseas entity. The matter would be heard next on September 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Maharashtra government submits medical records of Stan Swamy to HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday submitted to the Bombay High Court the medical records of Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an 84-yar-old accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case who died in a hospital in Mumbai while being in judicial custody last week awaiting a medical bail. Chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai told a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar that the state had submitted "a compilation of Swamy's complete medical records" since the time he was lodged in the Taloja prison as an undertrial. Swamy was arrested by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) from Ranchi in October 2020. He was interrogated at the time of his arrest by the NIA but the central agency never sought his custody. Suffering from Parkinson's disease and a host of other medical ailments, Swamy, who was then 83-year-old, was remanded to judicial custody following his arrest. He was then admitted to the Taloja prison hospital in Navi Mumbai. After informing the high court about Swamy's death on July 5 this year, senior counsel Mihir Desai, who had represented the tribal rights activist in the HC, had told the court that Swamy's death was a result of negligence on part of the NIA and the Maharashtra prison authorities who had failed to provide him timely and adequate medical aid. Desai had also urged the HC at the time to keep Swamy's plea for medical bail and his plea challenging the bar on grant of bail under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act pending. He had also urged the HC to call for Swamy's medical records. On Desai's request, the high court had passed an order calling for the medical records to ascertain the veracity of the allegations made against authorities. On Tuesday, Pai submitted that the "Taloja prison authority had placed on record a 300-page long compilation of documents including medical reports from the time Stan Swamy was brought to Taloja Jail till his postmortem report". Besides the state government, the private Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai, where Swamy died during treatment, also submitted the late activist's medical records and the treatment provided to him. The high court took all the documents on record. The bench also said that since Swamy died in judicial custody, a magisterial inquiry into his death, as mandated by section 176 of the CrPC, will be conducted. "Whatever inquiry or investigation by the magistrate under 176 (CrPC) takes place, someone will have to participate in it now," the high court told Desai. Desai said he had some submissions to make on such inquiry and he will do so on the next date of hearing. The HC will hear Desai and all other parties on July 19. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh Cabinet to provide additional pension to those widowed by Bhopal gas tragedy||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday decided to provide an additional pension of Rs 1,000 per month to widows of the Bhopal gas tragedy victims, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said. "This is in addition to the social security pension for the surviving widows of the Bhopal gas leak victims," Mishra, who is also the government's spokesperson, told reporters after the cabinet meeting. The decision was taken despite the finance department's objections to the proposal of providing additional Rs 1,000 to these women, he said. Mishra said the previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government had stopped the additional pension in 2019. He said the earlier BJP government started this pension in 2013 and now, the present ruling dispensation decided to resume it. Welcoming the decision, Rachna Dhingra of NGO Bhopal Group for Information and Action said, "Several announcements have been made in the last one year, but these widows are yet to receive a single rupee into their account." She claimed the widows of the gas leak victims have not received their pension since December 2019, and said the arrears need to be paid immediately. Dhingra also said there is no clarity in the Gas Relief Department's policy due to lack of understanding on the needs of the Bhopal gas tragedy victims. Over 15,000 people were killed after methyl isocyanate leaked on the intervening night of December 2-3, 1984 from the pesticide plant of Union Carbide India Limited, then located on the outskirts of the state capital Bhopal. More than five lakh people were affected due to the toxic leak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Serum Institute to manufacture Sputnik V shots from September||Serum Institute of India (SII) will start production of Sputnik vaccine at the company's facilities in September, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Tuesday. As per the agreement between RDIF and SII, the parties intend to produce over 300 million doses of the vaccine in India per year. "The first batch of Sputnik vaccine is expected to be produced at SII's facilities in September," RDIF said in a statement. "As part of the technical transfer process, SII has already received cell and vector samples from the Gamaleya Center. With their import approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the cultivation process has begun," it added. RDIF has earlier reached agreements with a number of pharmaceutical companies in India such as Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen for the production of the Russian vaccine, the statement said. "India is the leading production hub for the production of the Sputnik vaccine," it added. "RDIF is delighted to cooperate with Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer. This strategic partnership is a major step to substantially increase our production capabilities demonstrating a perfect example of joining forces and expertise to save lives both in India and around the world," RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said. With technology transfer underway, "we expect the first batches of the vaccine to be produced jointly with SII in coming months," he added. As of now Sputnik V vaccine has been registered in 67 countries globally, RDIF said. "We hope to make millions of doses in the coming months with trial batches starting in the month of September," Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said. "With high efficacy and a good safety profile, it is critical that the Sputnik vaccine is accessible in full measure for people across India and the world," he added. Efficacy of Sputnik V is 97.6 per cent based on the analysis of data on the coronavirus infection rate among those in Russia vaccinated with both components of Sputnik V from December 5, 2020, to March 31, 2021, RDIF said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Monsoon brings in relief and woes in north India||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India|| Crowds without masks at hill stations, markets cause of concern, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it is a matter of concern that big crowds are thronging hill stations and market areas without masks and social distancing. During an interaction with chief ministers of eight North-Eastern states through video conferencing, the prime minister also said the vaccination drive needs to be continuously ramped up to combat the third wave of the pandemic. The virtual meeting was attended by chief ministers of Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, as also by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, among others. Modi urged people not to compromise on Covid protocols to prevent a third wave of coronavirus. "It is true that tourism and business have been greatly affected due to Corona. But today I will say with great emphasis that it is not right to have huge crowds in hill stations, markets without masks," Modi said. "We all need to work together to stop the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic," he said. Emphasizing the need to keep an eye on every variant of the coronavirus, he said experts are constantly studying how troubling the virus could be after mutations, but in such a dynamic situation, prevention and treatment are very important. "We have to move forward by improving the infrastructure related to testing and treatment. For this, recently the cabinet has also approved a new package of Rs 23,000 crore. Every state in the North East can take help from this package to strengthen its health infrastructure," Modi said. The prime minister said the Covid-19 situation was worrisome in some districts of North-East and urged the chief ministers to stay alert and act fast to check the further spread of the virus. The PM said stricter steps were needed at the micro-level to check the virus spread and called for greater emphasis on micro-containment zones. "We need to continue accelerating our vaccination drive," he added. While most parts of the country have seen a steady decline in the Covid-19 numbers, the northeast region has been a cause of concern with the number of cases either rising or not falling in line with the nationwide trend, experts have noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Interfaith marriage called off in Nashik after social media protests||Buckling under pressure from their Hindu community members, parents of a 28-year-old woman in Maharashtra's Nashik district have called off her marriage ceremony with a Muslim man, sources said. In a letter to the community body, the woman's father, a jeweller, said they decided not to go ahead with the July 18 wedding ceremony due to the present situation', referring to the protests on social media after the wedding invitation card went viral. He said his daughter and the man had a registered marriage in May. "However, due to the present situation, I can't say if they will stay together," he said, adding his daughter is staying with her parents since the marriage registration. The woman was scheduled to tie the nuptial knot as per Hindu rituals. The online protesters had described the upcoming wedding ceremony as a case of 'love jihad'. A member of the woman's community said the man was her private tutor a few years ago and that was how they got to know each other. The registered marriage did not evoke any harsh reaction within the community but the family came under a lot of pressure after the invitation card of the wedding ceremony went viral on social media, a community member said. Social media posts and messages related to the marriage ceremony were widely circulated on WhatsApp groups and the woman's family members also received telephonic threats, he said. The woman's father, who is an office-bearer of the community body, consulted family members after the stiff opposition on social media and decided to call off the wedding ceremony, he said. The woman's father has informed us through a letter that he is calling off the marriage ceremony of his daughter due to certain circumstances, said Sunil Mahalkar, president of Sant Narhari Maharaj Lad Suvarnakar Sanstha, Nashik. The decision to call off the wedding ceremony was also circulated on WhatsApp, with community members thanking various suvarnakar' (jewellers) community organisations and also the OBC Andolan Samiti, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal and Hindu Ekta Manch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Delhi High Court asks activist to remove tweets against Hardeep Puri, his ex-diplomat wife||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed activist Saket Gokhale to immediately delete alleged defamatory tweets against Lakshmi Murdeshwar Puri and restrained him from posting "scandalous" tweets against her and her husband, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. In an interim order, Justice C Hari Shankar also said if Gokhale fails to comply with the directions within 24 hours of the order, Twitter shall take down the tweets. The court asked Puri, a former Assistant Secretary-General at the United Nations, to also implead Twitter like a party to the proceedings. Gokhale, in his tweets on June 13 and 26 made reference to certain property purchased by Puri in Switzerland and also referred to her husband. The court passed the order on a defamation suit filed by Lakshmi Puri seeking Rs 5 crore damages from Gokhale and a direction that he deletes the tweets. In her suit, filed through Karanjawala and Company, she alleged that in the tweets, Gokhale has made false and factually incorrect, per-se defamatory, slanderous and libelous statements/ imputations against her and her family. The court, while pronouncing the order, said: "The defendant (Gokhale) is directed to immediately delete from his Twitter account all tweets against the plaintiff (Puri) which the present plaint makes reference, as well as all connected tweets, which form part of the trail of tweets by the defendant against the plaintiff." "The defendant is restrained, pending further orders of this court, from posting any defamatory, scandalous, or factually incorrect tweets on his Twitter account against the plaintiff or her husband." The court also issued summons to Gokhale on the main suit and directed him to file his written statement within four weeks and listed the case before the Joint Registrar on September 10. It also said the observations made in the order are prima facie and made to decide the application for the interim relief. The high court on July 8, had questioned Gokhale for putting out alleged defamatory tweets against Puri, without verifying the facts from her or approaching any government authority. Observing that the right to reputation is recognised as a fundamental right, it had asked Gokhale, also a freelance journalist, as to how he could vilify people, particularly when the tweets put out by him were prima facie incorrect. "So according to your understanding of the law, any Tom, Dick and Harry can write anything against anyone on the Internet irrespective of the fact that it destroys and damages the reputation of a person," the judge had remarked. The court had asked him as to what exercise he had carried out with public authorities before putting out the tweets on social media. During the arguments, senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing Puri, had contended that the tweets were defamatory, malicious and based on false information and that Gokhale was nobody to put questions to her. He had said Puri does not hold any public office for these details to be put in the public domain and if he was putting her name in public, he should have the minimum civility to ask her before he publishes this which was deliberately ignored. Advocate Sarim Naved, representing Gokhale, had said as a citizen, he has the right to go into the assets of public functionaries. He had also said Puri's husband is a Union minister and that assets of such persons along with spouse should be in the public domain but in this case, the money received from their daughter is not in the public domain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Southwest Monsoon covers entire country after delay of five days||The Southwest Monsoon covered the entire country on Tuesday after a delay of five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Southwest Monsoon usually covers the entire country on July 8. The monsoon covered its last outposts - the desert town of Jaisalmer and Ganganagar in Rajasthan - on Monday but evaded Delhi. On Tuesday, several parts of the NCR received rainfall following which the IMD declared monsoon's arrival in Delhi. In association with the continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal in the lower levels since past four days, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall, the Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into remaining parts of the country including Delhi, remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan," the IMD said. The Southwest Monsoon has covered entire country on July 13, against the normal date of July 8, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Chidambaram hits out at Centre's national  vaccination programme||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday hit out at the government's Covid-19 vaccination programme, terming its promise of vaccinating all adults by December end as an "empty boast". He said the states of Odisha and Delhi are facing vaccine shortage and asked the Union health minister to spell out his plans to ensure regular and uninterrupted supply of vaccines to states. "Vaccine shortage is a fact. Vaccine production is exaggerated. Vaccine import is a mystery. Vaccinating the entire adult population by December 2021 is an empty boast," he said. "Will the new Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tell the nation the truth about the vaccination programme," he asked. In a series of tweets, he said after Odisha, Delhi has run out of vaccines. "Will the new Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya please tell us how he plans to ensure regular, adequate and uninterrupted supply of vaccines to the States," he said. The former union minister said Odisha has reported that 24 out of 30 districts have run out of vaccines. "Odisha is governed by the BJD, an ally of the BJP.What has the central government that dismissed complaints of vaccine shortage got to say now," Chidambaram asked. The Congress has been criticising the government over its vaccination programme alleging that it is slow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||India's Covid toll sees big jump after Madhya Pradesh reconciles fatality data||India's COVID-19 death toll climbed to 4,10,784 with 2,020 new deaths recorded after Madhya Pradesh reconciled its fatality data, while 31,443 new coronavirus cases were reported, the lowest in 118 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases mounted to 3,09,05,819. The active cases have declined to 4,31,315 and comprise 1.40 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 17,40,325 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,40,58,138. The daily positivity rate has decliend to 1.81 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for 22 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate stands at 2.28 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,00,63,720 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 38.14 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Sputnik V soft-launched in over 50 Indian cities, says Dr Reddy's||Dr Reddys Laboratories Ltd, which soft-launched Russia's COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V here on May 14 has expanded the pilot project to over 50 other cities and towns in the country. In a tweet on Monday night, the city-based drug maker said it will strengthen the commercial rollout of Sputnik V in the coming weeks. "Starting initially in Hyderabad today, the soft launch rollout of Sputnik V has scaled up speedily and reached cities and towns all over India- including but not limited to Hyderabad, Vizag, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, NCR, Chennai, Miryalaguda, Vijayawada, Baddi, Kolhapur, Kochi, Raipur, Chandigarh, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik it said in the tweet. Recently, Dr Reddy's received nearly three million doses of Sputnik V from Russian Direct Investment Fund with whichit has a pact to sell 125 million people doses (250 million vials) in India. The Indian drug regulator has granted permission for restricted emergency use of SputnikV, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr Reddys has partnered with major hospitals across the country for this purpose all of whom have successfully administered Sputnik V in India including ongoing commercial rollouts to the public, the company added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Government rejigs Cabinet Committees||Days after a major reshuffle of the Modi ministry, the government reconstituted the powerful cabinet committees, bringing in Union ministers Smriti Irani, Bhupender Yadav and Sarbananda Sonowal as the new members of the Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs headed by the prime minister. Union ministers Arjun Munda, Virendra Kumar, Kiren Rijiju and Anurag Thakur have been included in the rejigged Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs, according to a notification issued by the Cabinet Secretariat last night. However, there has been no change in the composition of the country's highest decision-making body on security affairs -- the Cabinet Committee on Security -- and the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, which takes call on all important government appointments in the rank of joint secretary and above. The members of the Cabinet Committee on Security are Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar. The two-member Appointments Committee of the Cabinet comprises the prime minister and the home minister. The reconstituted Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs comprises the prime minister, and Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Smriti Irani, Piyush Goyal, Pralhad Joshi, Sarbananda Sonowal, Giriraj Singh, Mansukh Mandaviya and Bhupender Yadav. Irani, Sonowal, Giriraj Singh, Mandaviya and Yadav are the additions while former ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Harsh Vardhan are no longer part of it following their exclusion from the ministry. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has nine members: PM Modi, Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, S Jaishankar, Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan, according to the notification. Earlier, former ministers D V Sadananda Gowda and Ravi Shankar Prasad were also part of this committee. The members of the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs are: Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Arjun Munda, Pralhad Joshi, Virendra Kumar, Kiren Rijiju and Anurag Thakur. Union Ministers of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Muraleedharan are special invitees to the committe. Earlier, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar were also part of it. The rejigged Cabinet Committee on Investment and Growth comprises PM Modi, Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal, Narayan Rane, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Ashwini Vaishnaw. Rane, Scindia and Vaishnaw are the new members. The members of the Cabinet Committee on Employment and Skill Development are: PM Modi, Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Ashwini Vaishnaw, Hardeep Singh Puri and Bhupender Yadav. The special invitees in this committee are: Nitin Gadkari, RCP Singh and G Kishan Reddy. Ashwini Vaishnaw and Bhupender Yadav are the new members while RCP Singh and G Kishan Reddy are new special invitees. Earlier, former union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' and Santosh Kumar Gangwar and union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey were members of this committee while Smriti Irani and Prahalad Singh Patel were special invitees. The members of the Cabinet Committee on Accommodation are Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal and Hardeep Singh Puri while Jitendra Singh is a special invitee. Earlier, Puri was a special invitee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Monsoon lands in Delhi 16 days behind schedule, brings rain||The Southwest Monsoon finally reached the capital on Tuesday, 16 days behind the usual date of onset, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In 2002, monsoon had covered Delhi on July 19. "The monsoon has arrived in Delhi," senior IMD scientist K Jenamani confirmed after a spell of rains drenched parts of South Delhi Tuesday morning. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27. It covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. The weather department had a tough time forecasting the advancement of monsoon over Delhi this year. After several wayward forecasts, the IMD acknowledged Monday that "such type of failure by numerical models in the prediction of monsoon over the capital is rare and uncommon". The IMD had earlier said monsoon would hit Delhi on June 15, which would have been 12 days early, but the wind system entered a "break" phase. In early June, the Met office said the conditions will become favourable for the monsoon to advance to Delhi and other parts of northwest India by July 7. Later, it said Delhi will get its first monsoon rains around July 10. The weather department revised the forecast yet again on Saturday, saying the monsoon may reach the capital in the next 24 hours. But the wind system kept the city waiting on Sunday and there was hardly any rainfall on Monday too. As monsoon played truant in the region, Central Delhi is now the most rain-deficient district in the country, receiving only 8.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 132 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts. It has recorded a shortfall of 94 per cent. Overall, Delhi has so far received 67 per cent less rainfall than normal, putting it in the category of "large deficient" states. The IMD said it is continuously monitoring the further progress of monsoon into the remaining parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Appeal challenging constitutional validity of sedition law to be heard by Supreme Court||The Supreme Court will on July 27 hear an appeal challenging the constitutional validity of the sedition law, on a joint petition by two journalists who have argued it is increasingly being used to silence the central and state governments’ critics. The Centre had earlier on Monday sought two weeks’ time from the Supreme Court to submit its views on the petition that seeks the quashing of Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code as unconstitutional. Journalists Kishore Chandra Wangkhemcha from Manipur and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla from Chhattisgarh have filed the petition. Both face sedition charges in their states. Wangkhemcha spent 210 days in custody before obtaining bail, while Shukla had obtained anticipatory bail. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi posted the matter to July 27 after attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, both representing the Centre, sought two weeks’ time. The top court had issued notices to the Union government on the petition in April. The petition seeks reconsideration of the 1962 Supreme Court judgment in the Kedar Nath Singh case that upheld the constitutional validity of the colonial-era sedition law, ruling that the restrictions it imposes on freedom of speech and expression are reasonable. “The central tenet of the petitioners’ argument is that while the Hon’ble Supreme Court may have been correct in its finding nearly 60 years ago, Section 124A no longer passes constitutional muster today,” the petition says. A total of 149 cases of sedition have been registered over “critical” or “derogatory” remarks against the Prime Minister and 144 cases over remarks against the Uttar Pradesh chief minister since 2010, the petitioners have said quoting a database prepared by the online portal Article 14.com. The petition argues that the sedition law, which can lead to a life term, had been invoked by the British raj to silence dissent and suppress the freedom movement, and was no longer required in a free and democratic India. “Highlighting a failure of government falls squarely within one’s democratic rights; given the importance of the media in ensuring the accountability of government to the electorate, such action should not attract sedition charges,” it said. The petitioners have underlined that outspoken and responsible journalists have been charged with sedition for questioning their state governments or the Centre — and sometimes for sharing comments or cartoons on social media. Wangkhemcha said one of the FIRs registered against him since 2018 relates to his criticism of the government in a Facebook post over a crisis at Manipur University, where students were agitating against the vice-chancellor over charges of corruption and high-handedness. An FIR for sedition was registered against Shukla in Chhattisgarh on April 28, 2018, after he shared cartoons on Facebook. He says it was the state government’s revenge against him over his work as a human rights activist and journalist. “These FIRs have an unacceptable ‘chilling’ effect on the petitioners as well as on other journalists and threaten their work and their right to freedom of expression,” the petition says. Section 124A says: “Whoever, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise, brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India, shall be punished with imprisonment for life, to which fine may be added, or with imprisonment which may extend to three years, to which fine may be added, or with fine.” It explains that “disaffection” includes disloyalty and all feelings of enmity and that criticism of the government “without inciting or attempting to incite hatred, contempt or disaffection do not constitute an offence under this section”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||LAC: China builds concrete towers with CCTV cameras to watch India ||China has erected concrete watchtowers with CCTV cameras atop them inside India-claimed lines in Ladakh to monitor Indian troop deployment, sources in the security establishment told The Telegraph on Monday. The Indian Army has in a “tit for tat” put up wooden poles fitted with digital cameras to watch Chinese movements, the sources added. The episode comes at a time military veterans have been saying the Indian government’s serial capitulations on the talks table have emboldened the Chinese to get more aggressive by the day instead of adhering to the terms of the disengagement agreements. The sources said the Chinese observational posts were among various military structures, including camps, that the People’s Liberation Army was continuing to build at the remaining friction points of Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra besides deploying more soldiers and tanks. “The watchtowers and posts erected by the Chinese overlook areas held by the Indian Army. It’s a matter of extreme concern,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said. He said Chinese deployment of men and machines too was continuing along the Line of Actual Control between altitudes of 14,000 and 15,000 feet. “The Indian patrols at these friction points are outnumbered by the Chinese,” an Intelligence Bureau official said. He said there had been an unwritten understanding over decades that the two armies would not build permanent (concrete) or semi-permanent (makeshift) structures within 10-15km of the LAC on either side. However, the Chinese watchtowers — manned by armed guards — clearly count as permanent structures, he said. “In a tit for tat, the Indian Army too is erecting poles fitted out with digital cameras to monitor Chinese movements inside their occupied zones,” the IB official said. Military veterans have attributed China’s aggressive strategies amid the disengagement talks to what they see as India’s unwarranted concessions. The retired generals have in particular questioned New Delhi’s agreement to having “buffer zones” in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake where there has been partial disengagement. Under the formula, troops of both sides moved back by an equal distance, meaning the Chinese still remained within India-claimed lines while the Indian Army stepped back further. To the veterans, this amounts to “ceding further Indian territory” to the Chinese. They have also criticised India’s failure to push for the restoration of status quo ante instead of continuing to negotiate only piecemeal matters. It’s these shows of “softness” that the veterans believe have encouraged China to go back on assurances given at previous disengagement talks. “The disengagement process agreed upon between the two sides seems to have hit a dead end now. The Chinese are in no mood to retreat from India-claimed lines,” a former lieutenant general said. Another veteran said: “The problem is also that the Indian government has so far been very economical with the truth on the Chinese incursions on multiple fronts. The government talks about disengagement of the Chinese but has not revealed officially how far they have entered inside Indian territory.” On June 19 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts, prompting Beijing to immediately claim ownership of all the areas it held. Defence ministry sources said the political leadership had been informed about the ground situation. “Recently, the military brass apprised the political leadership on the ground situation at the China frontier,” a defence ministry official said. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. It has cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May last year. China had agreed to disengage from Hot Springs and Gogra in July last year but continues to hold its positions inside India-claimed lines. Eleven rounds of military talks have taken place without any breakthrough since June last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Nitish Kumar criticises Adityanath’s draft population bill||Bihar chief minister and BJP ally Nitish Kumar on Monday appeared critical of his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath’s draft population bill and asserted that making laws to curb population growth would not work. Nitish rooted for women’s education as the best alternative to bring down the fertility rate and check population growth. “A state can do whatever it wants to, but my opinion is crystal clear. It is not possible to control population by making laws. Take a look at China or any other country,” Nitish told reporters on the sidelines of his Janata Darbar (public interaction) here. “If women are properly educated then there is so much awakening and consciousness that fertility rate goes down on its own. We researched and surveyed on this aspect and found it was true. It was an Eureka moment for us.” Total fertility rate is the average number of children that would be born to a woman by the time she ends childbearing. Its ideal figure is 2.1, also known as the replacement rate. “The fertility rate in Bihar was over 4, but it has now come down to around 3. If this is implemented wholly, I am sure that population growth will stop by 2040 and then start declining,” Nitish said. “We believe in how to bring a decline in the fertility rate. It will affect everybody, irrespective of any community. If women are educated, fertility rates are low across communities,” Nitish added. Asked about the judiciary favouring a uniform civil code for the country, Nitish said: “Uniform civil code is at number 44 among the Directive Principles of State Policy. So why not pay attention to number 47, which talks about implementing prohibition,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||NEET to be held on September 12 instead of August 1||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) to select students for MBBS and BDS courses will be held on September 12 instead of August 1 in view of Covid-19 cases that are still very high in many states. The application process will begin from 5pm on Tuesday on the National Testing Agency (NTA) website, a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau said. Face masks will be provided to all candidates at the exam centre and there will be staggered time slots for entry and exit. The NEET will be held in 198 cities against 155 cities last year. Nearly 14 lakh students appear for the test for around 80,000 MBBS seats and 32,000 BDS seats in the country. Last week, the NTA had announced that the remaining two rounds of the Joint Entrance Examination-Main to select students for admission to BTech courses in NITs would be held from July 20. The third session has been scheduled from July 20 to July 25 while the fourth round will be held from July 27 to August 2. Both the rounds were scheduled in April and May. The NTA has already held two rounds. A student can appear in all four rounds and the best performance will be considered for selection. The top 2.5 lakh scorers are allowed to take the JEE-Advanced test for admission into IITs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Covid cloud on India's tuberculosis eradication drive||A 25 per cent fall in India’s counts of new tuberculosis patients during the first half of 2021 compared with the corresponding period in 2019 indicates trouble with the country’s efforts to juggle its resources for Covid-19 and TB, health experts have said. The national TB control programme had registered 995,639 patients from the government and private sector between January 1 and July 12 this year, about 25 per cent of the 1.33 million notified in the same period in 2019, or the pre-Covid-19 era. The fall in notifications has stirred concerns among public health experts that many TB patients could remain undiagnosed and untreated, which could cause their illness to worsen while posing the threat of infection to the people around them. The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic had reduced India’s TB notifications last year, too. But doctors and public health experts had hoped that special efforts and guidelines to manage both Covid-19 and TB circulated in August last year would have increased notifications this year. The guidelines from the Union health ministry had recommended “bi-directional screening” — testing for TB in all Covid-19 patients who also have symptoms of tuberculosis (cough or fever for two weeks or longer, weight loss and night sweats) and testing all TB patients for Covid-19. “Bi-directional screening could turn a challenge into an opportunity — if done well, it would help increase TB detection and notifications. But the data so far and ground reports suggest that implementation has been frightfully low,” said a health expert who requested anonymity. The number of new TB cases notified so far this year is slightly lower than the 1,000,580 cases notified between January 1 and July 12 in 2020. After sharp falls in registrations during the early months of the pandemic last year, the numbers had increased. India had detected around 174,000 new TB cases in December 2020, close to around 179,000 patients registered in December 2019. But as Covid-19 counts began to rise after mid-February this year, doctors say, diagnostic services for TB patients weakened again. “Many private clinics closed down, and people would also have had difficulty with finding transport to reach diagnostic centres,” Nita Jha, a Patna-based public health expert with the non-government World Health Partners, who is tracking access to TB care in Bihar, told The Telegraph. Jha and other experts said the diversion of staff and diagnostic equipment for Covid-19 has also likely contributed to the fall in notifications. During April and May this year, the country registered around 206,000 TB patients, a 53 per cent decline from over 443,000 patients in April-May 2019. The Covid-19 crisis and its consequences may “derail” India’s target to eliminate TB by 2025, Digambar Behera, a pulmonary medicine specialist had cautioned in a commentary earlier this year in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. The TB elimination target seeks to reduce India’s incidence of the disease from 217 per 100,000 population in 2015 to below 77 per 100,000 by 2025 and reduce deaths from tuberculosis from 32 per 100,000 in 2015 to less than 3 per 100,000 by 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir:  Woman loses job to state's latest crackdown||Raziyah Sultan of Anantnag lost her father 25 years ago to an attack by gunmen who were never identified. Now, the Jammu and Kashmir government’s latest crackdown that allows it to sack any employee without citing a reason has cost her the job she had got on compassionate grounds. Raziyah, the head teacher of a school in Anantnag, was among 11 government employees whose services were terminated on Saturday. The termination letter she received from the administration of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha mentions a “case” and “information” on her “activities”. Raziyah, in her late-40s, said she had no clue what case the letter, which also mentions “security of the State”, was referring to and alleged she had been sacked over “baseless and imaginary allegations”. She said she had never been involved in any “undesirable or unlawful activities” The latest set of terminations is part of a government crackdown initiated in April this year against employees the administration thinks are involved in anti-national activities. The administration is invoking a provision in Article 311 of the Constitution that allows the President or the governor to dismiss a government servant without an inquiry “in the interest of the security of the State”. Many in Kashmir believe the government’s latest action is aimed at weeding out employees it believes have separatist connections, even the relatives of deceased separatists. Raziyah’s father Mohammad Sultan Bhat had been a member of the Jamaat-e-Islami, which during his time was involved in the democratic process but later joined the ranks of the separatists. Bhat, a lawyer turned politician, had contested the 1987 Assembly elections on a Muslim United Front (MUF) ticket and was killed in 1996 by unknown gunmen. Bhat, a graduate from Aligarh Muslim University, had sided with the MUF, which had challenged the National Conference-Congress alliance, and lost by around 100 votes. The elections, it was widely believed, were rigged and became one of the reasons for the rise of militancy a year or two later. Raziyah had got the job on compassionate grounds under provisions of a law that empowers the government to offer employment to a close relative of a victim of militancy-related violence. The termination order says: “The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied that after considering the facts of the case and based on information available that the activities of Raziyah Sultan, a head teacher in the government middle school (at) Khiram, Anantnag, are such as to warrant her dismissal from services.” No details of her alleged activities or the case were mentioned. “Whereas the Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an inquiry in the case of Ms Raziyah Sultan. Accordingly, the Lieutenant Governor hereby dismisses Ms Raziyah Sultan, head teacher in the government middle school (at) Khiram, Anantnag, from service, with immediate effect,” the order added. Raziyah said the government’s decision had come as a shock to her as she was never involved in any “undesirable or unlawful activity during my entire life”. “These are baseless and imaginary accusations…. Provide me the details as I know absolutely nothing about the case,” she said. Raziyah had been in government service for two decades. The other terminated employees include Syed Shakeel Yousuf, a health worker at a government hospital, and Syed Shahid Yousuf, an employee in the agriculture department, both sons of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief commander Syed Salahuddin. Shakeel and Shahid were arrested by the NIA in 2018 in a terror-funding case and remain in custody. The family has denied the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Covid:  Sputnik V rollout hits second dose hurdle||India’s full rollout of the Sputnik V vaccine for Covid-19 will have to be put on hold until the Russian producer provides equal quantities of its two differing doses, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd said on Monday. Dr Reddy’s had received about 3 million first doses by June 1 and about 360,000 second doses by early this month, the company and the Indian government have said. “As a matter of responsibility, we would not like to announce a full-fledged commercial launch until we have an equivalent quantity (of the second dose),” Dr Reddy’s said in an email to Reuters. Dr Reddy’s, which originally planned a full rollout in mid-June, is currently running a pilot programme under which more than 195,000 doses have been administered at hospitals across the country. “It is our commitment to ensure the supply of component 2 in equal quantity and on time to all partner hospitals to whom we have supplied dose 1,” the company said, declining to share more details ahead of its financial results. India has approved a gap of 21 days between the two doses. The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which markets the vaccine abroad, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The Indian government expects 100 million locally produced and imported Sputnik V doses to be available in the country between August and December. India is expected to be one of the biggest manufacturing hubs of the vaccine. India has administered more than 375 million vaccine doses, the world’s most after China, inoculating 32 per cent of its estimated 944 million adults with at least one dose. It is mainly relying on the AstraZeneca shot and one developed at home by Bharat Biotech and the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research. Daily vaccinations hit a national record of 9.2 million doses on June 21 but have dropped to around 4 million per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
13-07-2021||India||Kerala HC seeks response on grant of parole to convicts in nun murder||Kerala High Court on Monday issued notice to the state government seeking its response on the grant of parole to convicts serving life terms for murdering a nun in 1992. The division bench of Justices Ziyad Rahman A.A. and K. Vinod Chandran issued the order after hearing a plea by rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal who had sought a stay on the parole granted to the convicts, both clergy, who have spent just five months in prison. Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Stephy were sentenced to life imprisonment in December 24, 2020, for murdering 19-year-old Sister Abhaya by attacking her with an axe and dumping her in a well in the compound of the St Pious X Convent hostel in Kottayam on March 27, 1992. But the state had released the two convicts on May 11 and 12, respectively, along with several others to decongest prisons amid the second wave of Covid. The move drew criticism since the two had been in jail for only five months, that too 28 years after the grisly murder. The Supreme Court had authorised a high-powered committee to release prisoners who meet certain criteria on parole considering the pandemic. “But I found that the committee had not allowed convicts serving life terms to be released on parole,” Puthenpurackal told The Telegraph on Monday. He had pursued the Abhaya case by forming a citizens’ action council. The Kerala State Legal Services Authority had in June clarified to Puthenpurackal that the clergy had not been released under the relaxation allowed by the committee. “So I approached the court to cancel their parole and know why the government allowed the relief to them,” he said. A CBI special court had found Kottoor and Stephy guilty of murdering Sister Abhaya, who had seen them in a compromising position around 4am on the day of her murder. They then hit her with an axe and strangled her before dumping her in a well while she was still alive. Abhaya was a Class XII student at BCM College in Kottayam and a pupil of Kottoor. Although the police wrote it off as a case of suicide, sustained pressure from locals, including Puthenpurackal who formed the Sister Abhaya Action Council, had forced the state government to hand over the case to the CBI. It was the eyewitness account of a thief named Adakka Raju, who had entered the convent compound to steal copper strips from a lightning arrester, that proved to be the clincher in the case. Raju stood by his statement that he had seen two men, one of them Kottoor, in the convent meant for nuns, throughout the case in spite of alleged police torture, false theft cases, threats and offer of money and property. The special CBI court had in December convicted the clergy based on his account and forensic evidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
13-07-2021||India||Cong anger at Patole for posturing on alliance with Shiv Sena, NCP||The majority of Congress leaders disagree with their Maharashtra chief Nana Patole’s hostile posturing on the alliance with the Shiv Sena and the NCP, arguing that the very purpose of weakening the BJP would be defeated if the incumbent Uddhav Thackeray government was destabilised. While Maharashtra leaders are livid and have conveyed their sentiment to the high command, even central leaders have rejected Patole’s provocative statements, insisting that the task of strengthening the party organisation can be accomplished without getting into conflict with the government. They say there is no plan to break away from the coalition government and Patole may have overreached himself by talking about contesting elections alone at this stage. The relations of senior Maharashtra Congress leaders with Patole, who came from the BJP in 2018 and was appointed state unit chief in 2021, have got strained and most of them have started blaming Rahul Gandhi for “picking the wrong person”. They say Patole had failed to internalise the Congress culture and is making statements without evolving consensus within the organisation or getting approval from the central leadership. A senior leader told The Telegraph from Mumbai: “We don’t support his contention of going alone. Sonia Gandhi took the difficult decision of joining a coalition that had the Shiv Sena in it after a thorough analysis of the pros and cons. The overriding objective was to weaken the BJP. Loss of government in Maharashtra was a severe jolt to Narendra Modi. This experiment will be rendered meaningless if we disturb the coalition now and allow the BJP to regain power. It is shocking that the tremors are being caused by us, not the Sena.” While the Sena has accepted a secular agenda of governance and has done nothing to create any ideological crisis, the MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) government has generated much unease within the BJP. Those who left the NCP and the Congress to join the BJP before the Assembly elections are desperate to return and the only factor that has prevented a major exodus from the BJP is the frequent doubts created about the stability of the Uddhav government. Senior Congress leaders wonder why should there be any attempt to strengthen the BJP before the 2024 elections in Maharashtra, which sends 48 members to Parliament. “With huge losses expected in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh due to the farmers’ agitation and some setbacks in Rajasthan and Bihar, there is no way the BJP can come to power in 2024. But their return to power in Maharashtra can trigger a turnaround, placing the BJP on a path to recovery. Why Nana Patole doesn’t understand this is a mystery,” another Congress leader said. Sources in the Maharashtra Congress said former chief minister Ashok Chavan and ex-state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat were angry with Patole’s posturing. “Thorat once rebuked him (Patole) when he wanted to call a meeting of MLAs. Patole was bluntly told he cannot call a legislature party meeting and he should restrict himself to party affairs. What is worse, Patole’s conduct has generated distrust about Rahul Gandhi,” a source said. NCP veteran Sharad Pawar has intervened to send out a message of discomfort with Patole’s statements. Pawar on Sunday said: “I don’t want to get into this duel. They are small people, why should I comment on them? If Congress president Sonia Gandhi had said something, I would have commented on it.” At a Congress meeting on Saturday, Patole had said he was firm on his view that the party should fight future elections alone. “Even chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has told Sena workers and leaders to prepare for polls on their own strength,” Patole had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
13-07-2021||India||J.P. Nadda looks to fill vacancies in the party organisation||BJP president J.P. Nadda is looking to fill vacancies in the party organisation, with several of the ministers dropped during the cabinet shuffle expected to be handed key responsibilities. Party insiders said it was Nadda who had called senior ministers ahead of the cabinet rejig and asked them to put in their papers. Now he has been ringing up some of them again to ask them to get ready to handle important party assignments. Twelve ministers — including seven cabinet ministers — were sacked ahead of last Wednesday’s cabinet shuffle. Of the 12, Thaawar Chand Gehlot had a day earlier been appointed Karnataka governor. Not all the rest are expected to be accommodated in the party organisation. However, axed senior ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad (who held the law and IT portfolios) and Prakash Javadekar (who held information and broadcasting, and environment) are tipped to receive key assignments, probably relating to the poll-bound states, sources said. Prasad, who has been sulking silently, is learnt to have received a phone call from Nadda’s office. There’s talk of his filling the vacancy left by general secretary Bhupender Yadav’s shift to the government. Yadav was general secretary in charge of Gujarat and Bihar. Gujarat votes late next year. Ramesh Pokhriyal, dropped as education minister, and Sadananda Gowda, axed as chemical and fertilisers minister, are being considered for party assignments too. Some of those sacked —such as Santosh Gangwar, who was labour minister —could be appointed state governors. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah have been systematically edging out leaders older than 70 years by shifting them to the Raj Bhavans. Gangwar, an eight-term MP, falls in this age bracket. The most important vacancies are in the BJP parliamentary board, the party’s highest decision-making body. It has five vacancies, created by the deaths of Arun Jaitley, Sushma Swaraj and Ananth Kumar, the elevation of M. Venkaiah Naidu as Vice-President, and the appointment of Gehlot as Karnataka governor. The parliamentary board, headed by party chief Nadda, now has Modi, Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh as its members. With most of the old guard having been sidelined or sent to the Raj Bhavans, the selections for the five vacancies will be keenly watched since these will reflect who has the blessings of the Modi-Shah duopoly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
