14-07-2021||India||Rajiv Pratap Rudy flies Dayanidhi Maran in a 'flight to remember'||So, how does it feel when a fellow Parliamentarian doubles up as your commercial aircraft pilot? Ask Dayanidhi Maran.  "A flight to remember indeed," Maran said, after he travelled in a private aircraft from Delhi, piloted by none other than Rajiv Pratap Rudy, MP, with the face mask initally hiding his identity, before the Captain declared he will fly the DMK MP and others all the way here in the three hour flight on Tuesday.  In a series of tweets and a statement, the Central Chennai MP described how it came as a surprise when Rudy, a former Union Minister, made the revelation.  "So you are traveling in this flight as well, said a person dressed in the Captain's uniform. I could not recognize him with his mask on, although his voice sounded familiar. I nodded my head, still wondering who it could be. He looked at me and his eyes gave away the smile behind the mask," Maran said.  "So you dont recognize me,he exclaimed. I realized then that it was none other than my colleague, senior Member of Parliament and former Union Minister- my very good friend Thiru @RajivPratapRudy!" Maran added. He recalled that just two hours from then, the two were part of intense discussions at the Estimates Committee and now "I couldn't believe my eyes, seeing his transformation from a politician to a pilot." "I was pleasantly surprised and told Rudyji that I couldn't believe that he was going to be the captain flying us from Delhi to Chennai. He laughed and said "Yes, I noticed that you didn't recognize me. I fly frequently!," Maran said. He added he was honoured to be flown by his good friend and colleague and recalled that Rudy served as a Minister of State (in the NDA government), when his father, the late Murasoli Maran, was the Union Minister for Commerce. "A flight to remember indeed! How often does a sitting Member of Parliament captain a commercial flight? I'm sure I will be talking about this for a long time. Thank you Captain @RajivPratapRudy , MP for flying us safely from Delhi to Chennai!" the DMK leader said. Rudy, Lok Sabha MP from Bihar, responded to Maran in a series of tweets in Tamil and expressed joy and surprise over Maran being a passenger in his piloted craft on Tuesday. While recalling his days with Murasoli Maran, Rudy also hailed Dayanidhi as a "successful aviation entrepreneur and union minister."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Coronavirus: Delta sub-lineages AY.1, AY.2 unlikely to be more transmissible than Delta||Delta variant sub-lineages -- AY.1 and AY.2 -- are unlikely to be more transmissible than Delta said INSACOG, a consortium of government panel involved in genome sequencing of coronavirus. In a recent bulletin, it also said that AY.3 has been identified as a new sub-lineage of Delta and it is defined by 'ORF1a:I3731V common AY.1 mutations except for S:417'. It is primarily seen in the US with single reclassified case in the UK and India. There are no known significant properties of this mutation but since it is a Delta VOC sub-lineage, INSACOG will continue to monitor it, the bulletin stated. "It is likely that neither AY.1 nor AY.2 is more transmissible than Delta. They also continue to be below 1 per cent in available sequences from June in India," the INSACOG said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||India accounted for highest number of govt requests for account info in Jul-Dec 2020: Twitter   	||India was the single largest source of government requests for account information received by Twitter, accounting for 25 per cent of the global volume, in the July-December 2020 period, the microblogging platform said on Wednesday. India also ranked second in terms of volume of legal demands for content removal after Japan, Twitter said in a blog that provided an update to its transparency report. Twitter comes out with a biannual report where it shares details on the number of government and legal requests, removal requests and data around accounts actioned for various violations and breach of rules. In its latest blog, Twitter said it produced some or all of the requested information in response to 30 per cent of the global information requests by governments in July-December 2020 period. “India is the single largest source of government information requests, accounting for 25 per cent of the global volume and 15 per cent of the global accounts specified. The second highest volume of information requests originated from the US, comprising 22 per cent of global information requests,” it added. Twitter said the US submitted the highest volume of global emergency requests (34 per cent), followed by Japan (17 per cent), and South Korea (16 per cent). During the reporting period (July-December 2020), Twitter received 38,524 legal demands to remove content specifying 1,31,933 accounts. The platform withheld or otherwise removed some or all of the reported content in response to 29 per cent of these global legal demands. “Although there was a 9 per cent decrease in the number of legal demands Twitter received, compared to the previous reporting period, these requests sought removal of content from the largest number of accounts ever in a single reporting period,” Twitter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Parliamentary panel meet: Rahul raises national security issues||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi raised the issue of national security vis- -vis Pakistan, the standoff with China and the Taliban capturing fresh territories in Afghanistan at a parliamentary panel meeting Wednesday and demanded a discussion on them, sources said. However, he left the meeting of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence minutes before it concluded as chairman and BJP leader Jual Oram denied a discussion on these issues saying they were not part of the pre-decided agenda, the sources said. The committee met here to 'Review the Working of Cantonment Boards. Gandhi stressed that rather than discussing the working of board, the panel should deliberate on more relevant and important security issues like the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and the terror threats from Pakistan, the sources said. Gandhi also raised the issues of the Taliban capturing fresh territories in Afghanistan, China's growing influence in Sri Lanka and the impact of these developments on India, the sources said. He said these issues are also more serious and need an urgent discussion in the parliamentary panel. Responding to Gandhi's demand, chairman Oram said the meeting's agenda is on the working of Cantonment Boards so the discussion should be limited to that only. If any member wants a discussion on other subjects, he should follow the procedure and to give prior notice of 14 days, Oram said, according to the sources. The panel chairman noted that neither Gandhi nor any other Congress member was present in the previous meeting in which the committee's agenda for the year was decided, otherwise their issues would had been taken up, they said. After putting forward his case, Gandhi left the 90-minutes long meeting just before its conclusion, the sources said. Other members of the panel raised several questions related to the functioning of the cantonment board to the officials from Defence Ministry and armed forces who deposed before the committee, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Jaishankar holds talks with Chinese counterpart amid LAC tensions||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi held a one-hour meeting on Wednesday in Dushanbe with a focus on resolving the outstanding issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. After the talks, Jaishankar said he highlighted that unilateral change of status quo was not acceptable to India and that both sides agreed on convening an early meeting of the senior military commanders. The meeting took place on the sidelines of a foreign ministerial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). "Concluded a one-hour bilateral meeting with State Councilor and FM Wang Yi of China on the sidelines of Dushanbe SCO Foreign Ministers Meeting. Discussions focused on the outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector," Jaishankar tweeted. He said full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas was essential for the development of the bilateral ties. "Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our ties," Jaishankar said. Earlier during the meeting, Jaishankar presented a three-point roadmap for Afghanistan that entailed cessation of violence and terrorist attacks, settlement of the conflict through political dialogue and steps to ensure that neighbouring countries are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism. Russian Foreign Minister Serge Lavrov, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammad Hanif Atmar were among those who participated at the meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) contact group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Centre directs states not to detain anyone under scrapped Section 66A of IT Act||The Centre on Wednesday asked the states to direct their police not to register cases under the repealed Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 related to posting online comments. The Supreme Court in 2015 had struck down the controversial Section 66A of the IT Act that made posting "offensive" comments online a crime punishable by jail, after a long campaign by defenders of free speech. However, recently, the apex court had said that it was shocking that the judgment striking down the law has not been implemented even now. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has requested states and Union Territories (UTs) to direct all police stations under their jurisdiction not to register cases under the repealed Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, a home ministry statement said. The ministry said it has also asked the states and UTs to sensitise law enforcement agencies for the compliance of the order issued by the Supreme Court on March 24, 2015. The MHA has also requested that if any case has been booked in states and UTs under section 66A of the IT Act, 2000, such cases should be immediately withdrawn. The Supreme Court in its judgment on March 24, 2015 in the matter of Shreya Singhal Vs. Union of India had struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. This made Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 null and void with effect from the date of the order and hence no action could be taken under this section. The section of the law provides police power to arrest a person for posting "offensive" content online and provides for a three-year jail term. The Supreme Court early this month issued a notice to the Centre on the use of Section 66A of the IT Act and said that it was shocking that the judgment striking down the law has not been implemented even now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Jaishankar presents 3-point roadmap to ensure peace in Afghanistan||Emphasising that the future of Afghanistan cannot be its past, India on Wednesday presented a three-point roadmap for the conflict-ridden country that entailed cessation of violence and terrorist attacks, settlement of the conflict through political dialogue and steps to ensure that neighbouring countries are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar put forth the roadmap at a meeting of the SCO foreign ministers' contact group on Afghanistan in Dushanbe amid growing global concerns over the Taliban fighters gaining control over large parts of the country. Russian Foreign Minister Serge Lavrov, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammad Hanif Atmar were among those who participated at the meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) contact group. "The world, region and the Afghan people all want the same end state: 1. An independent, neutral, unified, peaceful, democratic and prosperous nation," Jaishankar tweeted. "2. Ceasing violence and terrorist attacks against civilians and state representatives, settle conflict through political dialogue, and respect interests of all ethnic groups, and 3. Ensure that neighbours are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism," he said. Amid escalating violence in Afghanistan, India has been pressing for a comprehensive ceasefire. "Peace negotiations in earnest is the only answer. An acceptable compromise that reflects Doha process, Moscow format and Istanbul process is essential The future of Afghanistan cannot be its past. A whole new generation has different expectations. We should not let them down," Jaishankar added. The Doha process, Moscow format and Istanbul process are separate frameworks for dialogue to resolve the conflict in Afghanistan. "The challenge is to act seriously and sincerely on these beliefs. Because there are forces at work with a very different agenda. The world is against seizure of power by violence and force. It will not legitimise such actions," Jaishankar said. Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US aimed to complete the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan by August-end, ending a nearly two-decade of its military presence in the war-ravaged country. Earlier this month, the Indian embassy asked all Indians visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan to exercise the utmost caution with regard to their security and avoid all types of non-essential travel in view of rising incidents of violence in various parts of the country. In an advisory, the embassy said the security situation in Afghanistan remains "dangerous" and that terror groups have carried out a series of complex attacks including targeting civilians, adding Indian nationals additionally face a "serious threat" of kidnapping. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly USD three billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||India should ‘reverse’ actions in Kashmir to start dialogue: Pak NSA||Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf said on Wednesday that it was India's responsibility to start the dialogue with Islamabad by ‘reversing’ its actions in Jammu and Kashmir. India abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two Union territories. According to an official statement, Yusuf briefed the Senate Committee on Defence & National Security on Pakistan's role in the changing regional scenario, Pakistan-American relations, Pakistan-India relations and the impact of the evolving situation in Afghanistan following the American military's exit. “The onus was on India to start the dialogue process after reversing the wrongs in Kashmir,” Yusuf said, referring to the August 5, 2019 decision. India has maintained that the issue related to Article 370 of the Indian Constitution was entirely an internal matter of the country. India has made it clear to Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. Pakistan had downgraded ties with India and suspended trade after the Indian government revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Talking about ties with the US, Yusuf said a broad-based roadmap is being developed for Pak-American relations which includes cooperation in commerce and trade, investment including vaccine manufacturing, climate change and military-to-military relations as well as promoting regional economic connectivity. Regarding Afghanistan, he said Pakistan's perspective is very clear in promoting an inclusive political settlement with a view to ensure that Afghan territory is not used against Pakistan and Pakistan to ensure his commitment that its territory will not be used against any country. "The international community is also being informed about Pakistan's concerns about the potential fallout of the Afghan crisis particularly in the new influx of refugees, he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Congress: Covid third wave may hit India ‘very badly’||The Congress on Wednesday attacked the Centre over the ‘shortage’ of Covid-19 vaccines and said the third wave of the pandemic may hit the country very badly due to the ‘slow’ pace of vaccination and the government's ‘failure’. Senior Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said the weekly pace of vaccinations has declined to nearly 60 percent of what was seen in the week after June 21. Rahul Gandhi, who has been persistently targeting the Centre over its handling of the pandemic, said there are "jumlas (rhetoric)" but no vaccines. “Jumle hain, vaccine nahin (There is rhetoric, no vaccines),” Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag ‘WhereAreVaccines’. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh pointed to complaints of shortage of vaccines in several states and urged the Modi government to double the vaccine procurement and allocate the same to states fairly. “Vaccine shortages are now hampering drives even in states friendly to Modi government - Odisha, Andhra and Telangana - in addition to states governed by Opposition. The only way forward is: Double vaccine procurement and allocate to states fairly and transparently,” Ramesh said. The two leaders pointed to the shortage of vaccines in several states including Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Telangana, Odisha, Kerala and Delhi. “The Government led by PM Narendra Modi claimed that it will fully vaccinate all adults by year end. For that, 80 lakh doses need to be given daily. Yet, only 34 lakh doses are being given daily,” Kharge said in a series of tweets. “Thanks to Modi Government's failure, the 3rd wave may hit India very badly,” he said. However, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday dismissed statements claiming shortage of vaccines, saying they are being made only to create panic among the people. He asserted that states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the doses. To enable vaccination through government and private hospitals, Mandaviya said, 11.46 crore vaccine doses were made available to the state governments and union territories in June and this availability has been increased to 13.50 crore in July. Hitting out at leaders who make statements that create confusion and concern in the media, he said they need to introspect whether they are so far removed from the governance process that they are not even aware of the information already being given in the context of vaccine supply. Kharge, however, claimed that the shortage of vaccines in several states has forced them to shut down vaccination centres. The Congress leader pointed out that Tamil Nadu has received only 1.67 crore doses of the two vaccines, against a demand of 11.5 crore doses and Maharashtra has administered 3.7 crore doses but the state government has passed a resolution demanding three crore doses per month to vaccinate enough people in the state. "Several Covid vaccination centres in Telangana have run out of Covaxin doses. "Kerala has the capacity to deliver 2.5-3 lakh doses per day but the huge supply-demand mismatch has reduced the pace of vaccination. 24 of 30 districts have run out of vaccines in Odisha," he noted. He claimed Delhi's vaccine stock is so low that 500 centres had to be closed due to shortage. "The lack of sufficient doses of the vaccines has forced Andhra Pradesh to prioritise giving the second dose to the beneficiaries due to receive it by limiting giving the 1st dose to certain groups," he claimed. In another tweet, Kharge cited a media report saying, "Reportedly, Gujaratis have mortgaged gold worth ?10K crores in the past 1.5 years. Families have had to pledge their gold to meet routine expenses, pay staff, pay medical bills and pay for weddings." "PM Narendra Modi's policies have destroyed India's middle and lower income groups," he alleged. The Congress has been critical of the government's vaccination policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Minister Piyush Goyal to be Leader of House in Rajya Sabha||Union minister Piyush Goyal has been appointed as the leader of house in Rajya Sabha, sources said on Wednesday. He will succeed Thawar Chand Gahlot who has been appointed the governor of Karnataka. The Parliamentary Affairs Ministry has intimated the Rajya Sabha Secretariat that Goyal will be the Leader of House, the sources said. Goyal, a two-time Rajya Sabha MP, is currently the deputy leader of the NDA and is also Union Minister in the Cabinet. He is holding the charge of various ministries, including commerce and industry, food and consumer affairs, and textiles. Prior to becoming a minister in 2014, Goyal was the treasurer of the party. He was also engaged by the BJP in poll management activities and for managing logistics during the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Home ministry flags 'blatant' violation of Covid norms, asks states to take action||The Union Home Ministry Wednesday said blatant violations of Covid -19 norms have been observed in several parts of the country, including hill stations, and asked states and union territories to take action against officials responsible for ensuring compliance to laid down guidelines. In a letter to all states and UTs, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also said Covid-appropriate behaviour is not being adhered to in public transport and massive crowds are thronging marketplaces, violating social distancing norms. Bhalla emphasised the second wave of Covid is not yet over and there is no room for complacency and everyone must follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. He said that with the decline in the number of active cases, states and UTs have started reopening economic activities in a gradual manner but the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated. During the periods of low positivity, efforts must be stepped up to prevent any probable future surge, he said. "However, blatant violations of Covid norms have been observed in several parts of the country, especially in public transport and at hill stations. Massive crowds are also thronging the market places, violating norms of social distancing," he said. The consequent increase in the 'R'-factor (reproduction number) in some of the states is a matter of concern, Bhalla said. The 'R'-factor indicates the speed at which the infection is spreading in the country. An 'R'-factor below 1 indicates that each infected individual is on average passing on the disease to less than one person. "You may be aware that any increase in 'R' factor above 1.0 is an indicator of spread of Covid -19. Therefore, it is important that the authorities concerned shall be made responsible for ensuring Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) in all crowded places, such as shops, malls, markets, market complexes, weekly markets, restaurants and bars, 'mandis, bus stations, railway platforms, stations, public parks and gardens, gymnasium, banquet halls, marriage halls, stadia, sports complexes (if opened up by the State) as well as at all areas identified as hotspots for transmission of Covid 19 virus," he said in the letter. Any establishment, premises, markets and other such places where Covid-appropriate behaviour is not being maintained is liable for the re-imposition of restrictions and the defaulters may face action under the relevant laws, the home secretary said. He also said Covid testing needs to be continued with the same vigor as it is extremely essential for an early identification of cases and checking the virus spread. "You would appreciate that we must guard ourselves against complacency and laxity, which creep in as positivity declines. Instead, during the periods of low positivity, efforts must be stepped up to prevent any probable future surge," he said. Bhalla said there should be continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for effective management of Covid -19 i.e. test-track-treat-vaccinate and adhere to Covid-appropriate behavior. "I would, therefore, urge you to issue strict directions to the district and all other local authorities concerned to regulate the crowded places and take necessary measures for management of Covid -19. The officers concerned should be made personally responsible for any laxity in strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour," he told the states and UTs in the letter. "I would also advise that orders issued by the respective state governments and UT administrations and district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and to the field functionaries, for their proper implementation," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Will take action if digital crowd funding platform for rare diseases is not made operational: HC||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said it would take action for "wilful non-compliance" if the Centre failed to make operational a digital platform for crowd funding of the expensive medicines and treatment for rare diseases. The high court said despite specific directions on January 28 that the digital crowd funding platform be made operational by March 31, it has not been done. Justice Rekha Palli was informed by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma that he was not aware if the platform was working or not. Directing that instructions be sought in this regard by the counsel for central government, the judge said, “This court would be constrained to take action for wilful non-compliance.” "I will have to say you are in contempt", the court orally cautioned during the course of the hearing. The court was hearing a batch of petitions on behalf of children suffering from rare diseases, including Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) and Mucopolysaccharidosis II or MPS II (Hunter Syndrome), and seeking direction to the Centre to provide them uninterrupted and free of cost treatment as the therapy is very expensive. DMD, one of the various forms of muscular dystrophy, is a rare genetic disease that affects boys almost exclusively and causes progressive weakness. MPS II is a rare disease that is passed on in families and it mainly affects boys and their bodies cannot break down a kind of sugar that builds bones, skin, tendons and other tissues. On January 28, Justice Prathiba M Singh had passed an order directing central government to make operational the digital crowd funding platform for medicines and treatment for rare illnesses. The court had said that it was issuing the direction to finalise the policy and operationalise the digital platform by March 31. An affidavit filed by the Health Ministry had said that both things were "likely" to be done by March 31. Subsequently, on March 23, the court passed a slew of directions in connection with the treatment of persons with rare diseases, including a direction to notify the National Health Policy for Rare Diseases by March 31 and setting up a National Consortium for Research, Development and Therapeutics, a rare diseases committee at AIIMS and a fund for such ailments. It directed that the entire unspent budget allocated for rare diseases for the past three years shall be immediately moved into the rare diseases fund, which shall be managed, supervised and utilised by nodal agency AIIMS. The digital platform created under the Policy for receiving crowd funding shall be linked to the fund and those individuals and companies wishing to contribute shall make direct contributions into it, the court had said. The matter would be heard next on August 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Health Minister rebuts jab crunch charge, explains with ‘actual analysis of the facts’||Amid complains by some states about shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday said "useless"' statements are being made only to create panic among the people, and asserted that states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the doses. “The Centre has informed states about the allocation of doses in advance,” he said. In a series of tweets, Mandaviya said the availability of vaccines can be better understood by an "actual analysis of the facts". "Regarding the availability of the vaccine, I have come to know from statements and letters of various state governments and leaders. This situation can be better understood by an actual analysis of the facts. Useless statements are being made only to create panic among the people," he said in a tweet in Hindi. To enable vaccination through government and private hospitals, Mandaviya said, 11.46 crore vaccine doses were made available to the state governments and union territories in June and this availability has been increased to 13.50 crore in July. The Centre had informed the states on June 19 about how many doses of the vaccine would be made available to them in July, he said. On June 27 and July 13, the states were informed about the availability of vaccines every day for the first and second fortnight of July. "... So the states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the vaccine doses. The central government has done this so that the state governments can do the work of vaccination up to the district level by planning properly and people do not face any problem," he said, "If the Centre is already giving this information in advance on its behalf and yet we see mismanagement and long queues of vaccine takers, then it is very clear what the problem is and who is the reason for it," he said. Hitting out at leaders who make statements that create confusion and concern in the media, he said they need to introspect whether they are so far removed from the governance process and related information that they are not even aware of the information already being given in the context of vaccine supply. Some states like Rajasthan, West Bengal and Maharashtra, which recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases on Monday, have raised the need for more vaccine doses. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said, “The state needed a minimum of three crore vaccine doses per month to inoculate the entire eligible population against coronavirus at the earliest.” Covid-19 inoculation sessions were not conducted in at least 25 of Rajasthan's 33 districts on Monday due to vaccine shortage, a state official said. A senior West Bengal health department official also said that the state government was finding it difficult to evenly distribute the doses among its 23 districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Activists, groups seek more time from HC to file comments on draft anti-trafficking bill||Activists and civil society groups have asked the government to extend the time for submitting comments on the draft anti-trafficking bill by four weeks, saying the 10-day period originally provided by it does not do justice to the subject's complexity and importance. The Ministry of Women and Child Development put the Draft Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021 in the public domain on July 4 to invite suggestions from stakeholders. The last date for offering suggestions and comments is July 14. In the letter to the Women and Child Development Ministry, 80 civil society groups, health and social activists said, "The short notice given by the MWCD for submitting feedback does not do justice to the complexity and importance of the subject." They said they are concerned that the draft bill conflates trafficking in persons with sex work, which may have significant consequences for the community. "Our members, partners would like the opportunity to examine the bill and its clauses carefully in order to make comments and suggestions to the government. "The tight deadline given by the MWCD does not allow us to communicate and consult with our groups and network, which are spread across the country including in towns and cities that are still under lockdown or restricted movement orders on account of the second wave of COVID-19. Since the draft bill is only available in English, we also need time to factor in translation in regional languages," they added. The draft bill proposes severe punishments for aggravated forms of trafficking. The ministry has said the objective of the bill is to prevent and counter trafficking in persons, especially women and children, to provide care, protection and rehabilitation to the victims while respecting their rights and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them. It also seeks to ensure prosecution of offenders and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Once finalised, the bill will be sent to the Union Cabinet for approval and then tabled in Parliament for passage. It will apply to every offence of trafficking in persons with cross-border implications. According to the draft bill, a person guilty of an offence of trafficking can be imprisoned for a term which shall not be less than seven years but may extend up to 10 years. Such a person shall also be liable to a fine which shall not be less than Rs 1 lakh but may extend up to Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court calls police probe 'callous and farcical'||A court here has slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on the Delhi police and called its investigation into a Delhi riots case callous and farcical. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav directed that the amount of fine to be recovered from the station house officer (SHO) of Bhajanpura police station and his supervising officers, saying tthey miserably failed in their statutory duties. The police had challenged a magisterial court order that had directed it to register an FIR on the complaint of one Mohammad Nasir, who lost his left eye after suffering a gunshot injury during the riots. Investigators, however, maintained that there was no need to register a separate FIR as it had already registered one earlier and there was no evidence against the persons who allegedly shot him as they were not present in Delhi at the time of the incident. The judge pulled up the police for lack of efficacy and fairness in the investigation and said that it has been done in a most casual, callous, and farcical manner. A copy of this order be sent to the Delhi Police Commissioner for bringing to his notice the level of investigation and supervision in the matter and to take appropriate remedial action under intimation to this Court, he urther added in an order dated July 13. The judge said that Mohammad Nasir is free to exhaust his remedies available to him in accordance with the law to get a separate FIR registered in respect of his complaint. According to advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing the accused, one Naresh Tyagi had allegedly opened fire upon Nasir, as a result of which he suffered a gunshot injury in the left eye. Despite the request, no FIR was registered by the police, following which they moved the court seeking its registration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||SC asks CBSE to tell within 8 weeks if they would return exam fee money||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed CBSE to decide within eight weeks if it would refund the examination fees taken for class 10 and class 12 board examinations as they have been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Prateek Jalan ordered CBSE to consider as a representation a petition by Deepa Joseph, mother of a Class 10 student studying in a CBSE affiliated school here, who had paid Rs 2,100 as examination fee. "CBSE's decision would be open to challenge if Joseph is not satisfied," the court clarified as it disposed of the petition. There has to be reasonableness on both sides, the judge added. Justice Jalan also recorded that the parties had no objection to him hearing the petition even though he would be beneficiary of the petition on account of his son being in Class 12. Advocate Robin Raju, for Joseph, contended that since the board examination have been cancelled, at least some part of the examination fees ought to be refunded to the students. Claiming that the expenditure incurred by CBSE to conduct board examination, as well as its role in the process, had been reduced, Raju said that schools were uploading the marks . The court, however, disagreed with Raju and remarked: "If CBSE is not doing anything, you take the marks-sheet from schools and go." Advocate Rupesh Kumar submitted that CBSE was a self-financing body and its expenditure was principally funded by the examination fees collected from students appearing in class 10 and class 12 board examination. He added that there was no direct correlation between the physical conduct of board examinations and fees charges from students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||If India is going Whiskey-Tango-Foxtrot in Afghanistan, here’s why||Dusk fell easy in the Kabul garden of a modest hotel in the late summer. The day was hard. An Indian Prime Minister was visiting the Afghan capital for the first time in nearly 30 years. Within the space of a few hours he had laid the foundation stone of a new Afghan Parliament, opened a chancery for the Indian embassy and inaugurated a renovated Habibia High School among whose alumni are Hamid Karzai and Ashraf Ghani, the former and current presidents of Afghanistan. The Habibia school in a large building with multiple wings in Karteh Seh was damaged in fighting among the many Mujahideen in the 1990s. India funded its re-building with $ 3 million. The reopening of the school was announced by Manmohan Singh and Hamid Karzai in the magnificent central hall that resembled a banquet room in a five-star hotel on August 29, 2005. At the inaugural, as Karzai and Manmohan Singh sat on the dais, security guards from an American military contractor (DynaCorp) took position, many of them armed with M15 rifles. At the doors to the hall, Gorkhas from a British entity were on guard, also armed with submachine guns and carbines. In the lobby around the hall, soldiers from the Afghan National Army with newly-issued American firearms stood guard. There were soldiers with firearms in the balconies that overlooked the quadrangle. Smartly suited men from the Indian Prime Minister’s Special Protection Group (SPG) detail escorted Manmohan Singh and took position around the dais. Just before they were escorted in, Bharat Vir Wanchoo, the French-bearded head of the SPG nervously surveyed the dais and the hall packed with officials, diplomats, students and of course soldiers. In the garden of the Kabul hotel later in the evening where dusk fell easy, Wanchoo joined us for a quiet chat. Most of the journalists who were members of the Prime Minister’s media entourage were taken with Rahul Gandhi who was also visiting Kabul concurrently. But Siddharth Varadarajan (now editor of The Wire) was in the lawns. I was not part of the media entourage, having being pre-positioned in Kabul by the editor of The Telegraph (Aveek Sarkar) who wanted stories from Afghanistan that went beyond an Indian VIP’s day tour. I was in the lawns for the chat. Wanchoo was more relaxed now, as we gathered around him. “Tough day”, he acknowledged. Kabul was still far from secure for VIP visits of the order he was protecting. Four days back, when I had landed, mortars fired from the hills flanking the city exploded in the outskirts. Security coordination for the Prime Minister’s visit had involved multiple national and international agencies. In the course of the day we had been to Darulaman in the southwestern suburbs and driven through Kabul for the chancery opening. But it was really, really dangerous inside Habibia. Why? “Too many guns,” explained Wanchoo. “Too little space.” Even if a bullet fired from a potential assassin missed the target, the ricochet could be fatal. So many soldiers with so many guns facing one another would cause fatalities in a cross-fire. That nightmare scenario is the picture of all Afghanistan today as the Americans cut and run. Too many guns with too many men leading a hardscrabble life in a landlocked country for too long. If India has now gone Whiskey-Tango-Foxtrot – the phonetic alphabet is also the name of a Hollywood movie based in Afghanistan – by evacuating its mission staff from Kandahar, there is reason. In the 15 years since that Manmohan Singh visit, India’s Afghanistan policy has swung from non-lethal support to lethal support for the regime in Kabul. The most visible of this of course is the gifting of Hind (Mi-25) Helicopter gunships from the Indian Air Force’s Firebirds squadron. The Soviet-built helicopters were refurbished before the gifting. Their role cannot be disguised. They are attack gunships seen in Rambo movies that fire cannon at hidden guerrillas in secluded valleys. In December 2015, when he made that famous stop over in Lahore to visit Nawaz Sharif, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was photographed in Kabul with one of the India-gifted attack helicopters in the background. In the civil war that has now begun in Afghanistan, Ghani’s Afghan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) have only one advantage over the Taliban – air superiority. And even that is in danger of being whittled down because aircraft are difficult to maintain. India’s aid to Afghanistan has totaled more than $ 3 billion. The military outfit, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), built the Zaranj-Delaram Highway that connects to the Garland Expressway. A strategic project that was to connect to Iran’s Chabahar port through which India has supplied goods. That road was among the first Indian projects to be overrun. Last week, the Taliban overran the Salma Dam, that was grandly named the Afghanistan-India friendship Dam, to the country’s west as rough men reached and drove out Afghan National Army troops and blocked half that 900-km-long border with Iran. The Afghan troops fled into Iran and were later airlifted to Kabul. The Parliament House near Kabul that was announced by Manmohan Singh and inaugurated by Narendra Modi was built by the India’s Central Public Works Department (CPWD). The irony of both, the venue of the Kabul Parliament – it is overlooked by the cannibalized Darulaman Palace where Soviet Spetznaz troops parachuted in 1979 and invaded Afghanistan, and the fact that India’s own Parliament House was built by the British – is stark. India’s military assistance to Afghanistan till the delivery of those gunships was restricted to supply of vehicles made by the Mahindras and training about 50 officer cadets each year in defence academies. Pakistan, that has always considered Afghanistan its backyard, strongly objected and is suspected to have orchestrated attacks on Indians – multiple attacks on the Indian embassy in Kabul among them. On one of my half-a-dozen reporting assignments in Afghanistan for The Telegraph I saw the khaldar – denotified old Pakistani currency – being used in Jalalabad and Torkham at the Afghan end of the Khyber Pass. Tajik soldiers guarded the little bridge over the Kabul River on which buses pasted with posters of Aishwarya Rai and Rani Mukherjee trundled into Landikotal on the Pakistan side. Pakistan’s Frontier Works Organisation (FWO) was rebuilding the road to Jalalabad, a highway lined on both sides by burnt-out Soviet T-54 tanks and mangled BMP armoured troop-carriers. On the Safed Koh, the White Mountain on the Afghan side, a stone castle from the time of the Mughals was in ruin, the bluffs of mountains opposite fell sharply into a sandy brown fog raised by over-decorated trucks grudging in from Pakistan. At a Pakistan Rangers’ base on the Khyber across the Kabul River that was now marked by a Pepsi hoarding that also read “Welcome to Pakistan”, former US National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski had famously stood with a Koran in one hand and a Stinger missile in the other while briefing the Mujahideen on attacking the Soviet occupiers of Afghanistan in 1980. Both, the Koran and the Stinger have boomeranged with unerring accuracy as the US troops vacated their largest military base in Bagram in the dark last week ‘as if they would be ashamed in the morning of what was done in the night.’ In reality, the American troops actually distrusted the Afghan security forces so much that they did not disclose their time of departure. They left behind more than three lakh pieces of military equipment, Afghan journalists have reported. This adds to the unquantifiable arsenals that have built up through more than 40 years of wars and battles. Unlike the Soviets who withdrew across the Amu Darya after a scorched earth policy – destroying materiel that could be used by the enemy – there is little evidence that the US troops have done so. Instead, they have left behind the Humvees – the armoured all-terrain vehicles – for the Afghan security forces that are now already with the Taliban, some of them mounted with recoilless guns. The Soviet withdrawal in 1989 re-shaped the world, presaging the end of the Cold War, and reshaping India’s non-aligned status because the world itself was no longer to be divided in two superpower blocs. The American pullout that is happening as we speak is leaving India’s foreign policy in shreds in its aftermath. There is only one certainty of a repeat for India: the blowback, the shrapnel from the blast of an exploding geopolitical bomb in the immediate neighbourhood. An Indian minister who was the army chief (General V K Singh) has already done a Ph.D thesis in which he has talked of a Chinese tunnel in the Wakhan Corridor, the panhandle in Afghanistan’s North East between Tajikistan and Kashmir. Shortly after the collapse of the Soviet Union that followed it’s withdrawal from Afghanistan, celebrated spy novelist (and former spy himself) John le Carre was asked if the bottom had fallen out of his plots with the end of the Cold War. Many of his dry and angsty thrillers were till then set in the real backdrop of the NATO-versus-Warsaw Pact scenarios, in a bisected Berlin, in Budapest, in London. “I don’t think so,” he responded. Not with “all those Kalashnikovs sloshing around in eastern Europe”. As with the Kalashes, so with the Humvees. They are sloshing around across the Khyber and India is in the line of the fire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Shanghai Cooperation Organisation must stop terror financing, says Jaishankar at SCO meet||Combating terrorism and extremism is the key purpose of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and it must stop terror financing, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said at a key meeting of the grouping that was attended by his counterparts from Pakistan and China. In his address at the meeting in Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan, Jaishankar described the situation in Afghanistan as well as public health and economic recovery as pressing issues facing the region. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi were amongst the participants at the meeting. "Spoke at the FMM of SCO this morning at Dushanbe. Afghanistan, public health and economic recovery are pressing issues. Combating terrorism and extremism is the key purpose of SCO. Must stop terror financing and deter digital facilitation," Jaishankar tweeted. In his remarks, the external affairs minister also highlighted the "One Earth One Health" message and urged early universal vaccination to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. Jaishankar said he also spoke on reformed multi-lateralism and underlined the need to rejuvenate this domain. Earlier, in a separate tweet, Jaishankar said the 20th year of establishment of the SCO is an opportune time for the grouping to reflect on achievements and deliberate on challenges. "Afghanistan and post-Covid recovery are pressing concerns," Jaishankar said. Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US looked to complete the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan by August-end, ending a nearly two-decade of its military presence in the war-ravaged country. The volatile situation in Afghanistan has triggered global concerns. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest trans-regional international organisations. India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017. The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the presidents of Russia, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India has shown keen interest in deepening its security-related cooperation with the SCO and its Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (RATS) which specifically deals with issues relating to security and defence. India was made an observer at the SCO in 2005 and has generally participated in the ministerial-level meetings of the grouping which focus mainly on security and economic cooperation in the Eurasian region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Kejriwal promises free electricity of up to 300 units in Goa||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said each family in Goa will get up to 300 units of electricity free per month if his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is voted to power in the state Assembly elections, due in February next year. Unveiling four "guarantees", the AAP national convener promised to waive all the old electricity bills if his party gets a chance to rule the coastal state. "Every family will get up to 300 units of electricity free per month. We will start on a clean slate. Once the AAP government is formed in Goa, 87 per cent of consumers will start getting a zero electricity bill," he told a press conference on the last day of his two-day visit to Goa. Kejriwal also promised free electricity to farmers in the state. "If people in Delhi can get free electricity, then why not free power for people in Goa," he said. "Despite Goa being a power-surplus state, there are frequent power-cuts in the coastal state," he added. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the AAP had drawn a blank. During his two-day visit, Kejriwal met various stakeholders and claimed that the AAP was getting a good response from the common people "who are looking for a clean politics after a spate of defections in the state during the current tenure". Kejriwal slammed the MLAs who left Congress and other parties to join the BJP after the last Assembly elections in Goa. "The party (Congress) that had won 17 seats is now left with only five MLAs whereas the party (BJP) which had won only 13 seats is currently having 28 MLAs," Kejriwal said. "These MLAs who switched sides claimed that they were joining the BJP to get people's work done. Did they do people's work as they claimed? Now people are saying that they switched sides for the lure of money. People feel betrayed," he said. The AAP leader said the people of Goa now want change. "The people of Goa have seen how Delhi government has been providing free electricity to its residents. If Delhi can do it, why can't Goa," he asked. Kejriwal said 73 per cent of Delhi gets zero electricity bill under the AAP government. "Despite being a power surplus state, Goa is witnessing an erratic supply," he wondered. "Delhi once faced a similar situation. When we took over, this situation was corrected within two to three years and people started getting uninterrupted power supply," the Delhi CM said. He blamed defective power transmission lines for the irregular power supply, which, he said will be fixed. Kejriwal also pointed out that consumers in Goa are getting huge power bills that are not corrected by the concerned department. People in Goa are asked to pay money if they go to correct their power bills, he added. Kejriwal said that he felt "encouraged" as even opposition leaders are talking about his party, a day after Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu tweeted that the AAP has always recognised his vision and work for Punjab. "Navjot Singh Sidhu? He is in Punjab. I am happy that AAP is doing such a good job that even Opposition leaders are praising us. So, one feels encouraged about it," the Delhi Chief Minister said when asked about Sidhu's tweets. He also assured justice in a matter related to the demolition of a church in the Chattarpur area of Delhi saying the action was taken by the Delhi Development Authority which comes under the Central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||India army monitoring PLA activities in Eastern Ladakh||There has been no attempt by the Indian or the Chinese side to occupy the areas in eastern Ladakh from where they disengaged in February and both sides are engaged in talks to resolve the remaining issues in the region, the Army said on Wednesday. The Army said it has been monitoring activities by the People's Liberation Army (PLA) including turnover of troops in the region. The Army made the comments as part of a statement trashing a media report that said the Chinese military has again crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh at several places and that there has been at least one incident of clash between the two sides. "Ever since the disengagement agreement in February this year, there has been no attempt by either side to occupy the areas from where the disengagement had been undertaken. There have been no clashes in Galwan or any other area, as reported in the article," the Army said. It also said that the report mentioning that agreements with China have collapsed is "false and baseless". "Both sides have continued with negotiations to resolve the balance issues, and regular patrolling in respective areas continues. The situation on ground continues to be as hithertofore. PLA activities, including turnover of troops continue to be monitored by the Indian Army," the Army said. India and China have been locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. The two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||SC takes cognisance of UP govt's decision to allow 'Kanwar Yatra'||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took cognisance of the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to allow 'Kanwar Yatra' in the state in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman issued a notice to the state government and posted the matter for hearing on Friday. The Yogi Adityanath government on Tuesday allowed the yatra from July 25 despite concerns raised in various quarters over the risk posed by such events in triggering a possible third wave of COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand government has cancelled the 'Kanwar Yatra' in view of a possible third wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||India logs over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 624 casualties in a day||India recorded 38,792 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,09,46,074, while the death toll reached 4,11,408 with 624 more fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Wednesday. The active cases have declined to 4,29,946 and comprise 1.39 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 2,832 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 19,15,501 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,59,73,639, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 23 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.25 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,01,04,720, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 38.76 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 624 new fatalities include 196 deaths from Maharashtra and 124 from Kerala. A total of 4,11,408 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,26,220 from Maharashtra, 35,944 from Karnataka, 33,502 from Tamil Nadu, 25,020 from Delhi, 22,704 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,944 from West Bengal and 16,199 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Union Cabinet to physically meet today after over a year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a Union Cabinet meet on Wednesday, its first physical meeting in over a year. The Union Cabinet will meet at 11 am on Wednesday. Sources told news agency PTI that the last Cabinet meeting held physically was in the first week of April last year, when the coronavirus pandemic struck the country. The Union Cabinet had, however, been meeting regularly almost every week through video conferencing, even during lockdown. The Prime Minister will also chair a meeting of the Council of Ministers at 4 pm through video conferencing. This is the second time in a week that the Council of Ministers will meet after its expansion on July 7, with the induction of 43 new ministers. The new Council of Ministers had met on July 8. Sources said the upcoming Monsoon session of Parliament may have been one of the reasons for the frequent convening of the meeting of Council of ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Three LeT militants killed in encounter with security forces in J-K's Pulwama||Three Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militants, including a Pakistani national, were killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said. A gunbattle broke out in Pulwama town of the south Kashmir district after the security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation following information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated. Three militants were killed in the gunbattle. "One of the slain terrorists had been identified as LeT commander Aijaz @abu Huraira," the official said, adding the slain ultra was a Pakistani national. The official said a search operation was going on in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams govt, asks where are the vaccines||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the Centre over the alleged vaccine shortage in states, saying there are 'jumlas (rhetoric)' but no vaccines. He tagged a media report which claimed that Delhi along with many other states was facing a shortage of vaccines but the Centre had denied it. "Jumle hain, vaccine nahin (There is rhetoric, no vaccines)," Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag 'WhereAreVaccines'. Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday had hit out at the government's COVID-19 inoculation programme, terming its promise of vaccinating all adults by December end as an "empty boast" and a "false promise". The Congress has been criticising the government over its vaccination programme alleging that it is slow. The Health Ministry on Tuesday had said more than 1.91 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals to be administered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Cong blames govt for staggering fuel, essential commodity prices||The Narendra Modi government is directly to blame for the steep prices of petroleum products and other essential commodities that are squeezing people already struggling with loss of incomes or jobs in a pandemic, the Congress said on Tuesday. “The government and the RBI have set an inflation target of 4 (+/- 2) per cent. Consumer price inflation has breached the upper limit of 6 per cent and is now 6.26 per cent. Food inflation is at 5.58 per cent, pulses inflation is at 10.01 per cent, fruits at 11.82 per cent, transport at 11.56 per cent, fuel and light at 12.68 per cent and oils at 34.78 per cent. “Will the government please tell the people what they should eat, how they should light their homes and how they should go to work?” former finance minister P. Chidambaram said at a news conference here. Demanding an immediate and substantial reduction in petroleum prices, Chidambaram said: “Inflation, even in a normal time, would be intolerable. The present is not a normal time. A pandemic is raging across the country. The pandemic has resulted in jobs being axed, unemployment rising to 8.1 per cent and incomes/ wages being cut for millions of working people. In such a situation of widespread distress, inflation has broken the back of the people, and we hold the Narendra Modi government directly responsible for it.” Chidambaram said the inflation “has not been caused by a spurt in demand”. “On the contrary, private consumer demand is low,” he said. “This inflation has not been caused by excess liquidity or too much money in the hands of the people. This inflation has been caused by the wrong policies of the government and its inept management of the economy,” he added. Pointing out that the UPA government had kept petrol price at Rs 65 a litre and diesel at Rs 44 when international crude oil price was $125 per barrel, Chidambaram said the Modi government was selling petrol for over Rs 100 and diesel for over Rs 90 when crude was around $75 per barrel. “The sole reason for the exorbitant prices is the levy of cesses by the government. Total cesses levied by the central government on petrol and diesel are Rs 33 per litre and Rs 32 per litre, respectively. Through these cesses alone the Centre collects approximately Rs 4.2 lakh crore every year and keeps all that money to itself. This is exploitation and greed of the worst kind,” the veteran leader said. The Congress has been holding demonstrations across states and will now organise news conferences to send the message that the Modi government was profiteering off people’s miseries. Senior leaders, including some from the rebellious group of 23, have been tasked to communicate the message effectively. Mallikarjun Kharge, Kamal Nath, Salman Khurshid, Anand Sharma, Digvijaya Singh, Shashi Tharoor, Shaktisinh Gohil, Ajay Maken and Manish Tewari will address the media across the country. Rahul Gandhi set the tone of the discourse with an acerbic tweet: “Khaya bhi, mitron ko khilaya bhi — bas janata ko khane nahin de rahe (Ate and fed friends — just not letting the public eat).” The tweet appeared to be a response to Modi’s campaign slogan “Na khaoonga, na khane dunga”, through which he had made a promise of honesty. Posting another article that suggested millions of Indians pushed into poverty were selling family gold for survival, Rahul said: “Come rain or shine, no respite from the Government of India’s economic mess.” Chidambaram had earlier said: “A government that is concerned about the welfare of the people — and their hardships and burdens — will not turn the other way when every household is agitated about the rise in prices. The government has continued to pretend that the concern about price rise is a false concern and, if the government ignores the issue, the issue will go away. The Congress condemns the callous negligence on the issue of price rise.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||'Breakdown of governance' in UP, ex-bureaucrats pen concern||Retired bureaucrats and police officers have written an open letter expressing alarm at the “complete breakdown of governance and the blatant violation of the rule of law in Uttar Pradesh”, warning that it could result in the destruction of democracy if left unchecked. The letter has been written under the banner of the Constitutional Conduct, a collective of retired bureaucrats, diplomats and police officers, and has been endorsed by over 200 academics and civil society activists. It details the excesses committed since 2017 when Yogi Adityanath took office. “We note with mounting alarm that the present ruling regime in UP has ushered in a model of governance which swerves further and further away from the values of the Constitution and the rule of law with each passing day. It seems clear that all branches of the administration, including the executive magistrates and the police, have collapsed. We fear that, unless checked now, the damage to the polity and institutions in the state will result in the decay and destruction of democracy itself,” the letter says. The letter speaks of the use of detentions, criminal charges and property recoveries to suppress dissent, extra-judicial killings as “official hate targeting”, institutionalisation and legitimisation of vigilantism, the bogey of “love jihad”, the misuse of the National Security Act in cow-slaughter cases and the handling of the pandemic which saw countless bodies floating in the Ganga. The signatories to the open letter have demanded that arbitrary detentions and torture of peaceful protesters be stopped immediately, as also the practice of recovering from them the cost of alleged damage to property. They have called for an end to encounter killings and vigilantism, using “love jihad” to target minorities, and demanded that the administration beef up health facilities to deal with the pandemic instead of trying to cover up cases by booking those reporting from the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Vaccination drive unlikely to meet 516 million doses-target by July-end||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign is unlikely to administer its planned 516 million doses by July-end without a sharp increase in the doses procured and supplied by the Centre for daily inoculations, health experts have said. The campaign had until Tuesday night administered nearly 384 million doses and will need a steady supply of around 7.3 million doses daily for the rest of the month to achieve the planned 516 million doses by July 31. But the weekly average of daily doses administered has declined for a second consecutive week after the week starting June 21 during which India achieved an average of 6.1 million doses daily. It fell to 4.18 million between June 28 and July 4 and to 3.44 million between July 5 and 12. “At this pace, we’re certain to miss the July 31 target,” said Rijo John, a health economist and faculty member at the Rajagiri Institute of Social Sciences, Kochi. “The daily average in July so far has been less than June’s 4.1 million — at this rate, it’s simply unachievable.” John and other experts tracking the campaign have said the average daily doses administered likely reflect the country’s current vaccine production capacity, which they say does not appear in line with projections made by the Centre. The Union health ministry had told the Supreme Court in a June 26 affidavit that it “will make available for administration” 516 million doses by July 31 that would leave a requirement of 1,350 million doses to fully vaccinate the eligible 940 million population. But R. Ramakumar, a professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, said the projection of 516 million appears “impossible” to achieve for now, given the average number of doses being rolled out this month so far. Even if the average this month reaches 4 million per day, the total doses administered by the end of July would range between 450 million and 460 million. Two medical experts who are advising the government on its Covid-19 vaccination policy had told this newspaper earlier this month that India has the capacity to administer 10 million doses per day if supplies become available. Experts say the vaccination campaign will need to increase the daily administered doses even higher to over 8.8 million per day to use up the 1,350 million doses during the 153 days from August to December to vaccinate all adults by the year-end. The campaign had until Tuesday fully vaccinated about 75 million people, or only about 8 per cent of the eligible population. “How quickly India can vaccinate its people will depend entirely on supplies — and there is still some uncertainty about the new vaccines which the government has projected will be part of the 1,350 million doses,” a senior public health expert said. The health ministry has said it expects 500 million Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India, 400 million Covaxin doses from Bharat Biotech, 300 million doses of a new vaccine from Biological E, 50 million doses of a new vaccine from Zydus Cadila and 100 million Sputnik V doses. India’s regulatory authority is yet to approve the Zydus Cadila and Biological E vaccines. “There is opacity about the current monthly production capacity,” said Ramakumar. The Centre had said in May this year that Serum produces about 65 million doses per month and Bharat produces 20 million doses per month. “Supplies from the ministry during June and July suggest that India has access to about 4 million doses day,” he said. “This would need to more than double to complete vaccination by the end of the year.” A Serum spokesperson had said earlier this year the company would achieve 100 million doses per month production between March and June. Both companies have said they are ramping up production and executives from both firms have said increasing production cannot be done very quickly. Spokespersons for both Serum and Bharat Biotech on Tuesday declined to comment on their current production capacities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Covid crisis: India's 'budget' private schools stare at closure||Amit Srivastava, principal and proprietor of Lotus Public School, is eagerly waiting for the Uttar Pradesh government to let schools reopen for in-person classes. He says it’s a question of survival. “If the school reopens, I think parents will prefer to pay the tuition fees. If the schools continue to remain closed for physical classes, it will be difficult to sustain ourselves,” Srivastava said from Pipraich town in Gorakhpur, where his school is located. The country’s 4 lakh “budget” private schools that mostly charge monthly tuition fees between Rs 500 and Rs 3,000 have been struggling because many of the parents, their earnings hit by the pandemic, are not paying the tuition fees regularly — or at all. Some parents, who are largely from the lower middle class, have stopped their children from attending the online classes to avoid any moral obligation to pay up. S. Madhusudan, vice-president of the National Independent Schools Alliance, said feedback from the ground suggested that nearly 1 lakh budget schools — 25 per cent of the total — had closed over the past one year because of financial problems. “Most of the schools that operated out of rented buildings have vacated them and closed operations,” he said. Madhusudan added that the schools that had taken loans to set up their infrastructure were “struggling”. The more expensive private schools in the cities, numbering about 50,000 across the country, have seen their students largely attending the online classes and their parents mostly paying up. Srivastava said: “We currently have eight teachers. Till last month, we paid them a reduced salary. From this month, I’ve told them no salary can be paid.” Srivastava had set up his school on his own land with a bank loan. He is still paying the EMIs. The school, which teaches up to Class VIII, charges Rs 600 a month till Class V and Rs 700 a month for the higher classes. Nearly 200 students are enrolled in the school but most of the parents are not paying, Srivastava said. Payment of tuition fees had dwindled right from the start of the Covid outbreak in spring last year. Most budget schools have slashed their tuition fees by about 20 per cent. But with most parents paying intermittently or not at all, Madhusudan said, the collection tends to be 25 to 30 per cent of the due amount. Madhusudan has been running a school, the Pragati Vidya Niketan, from two rented buildings in Hyderabad for the past 31 years. He has to pay Rs 4 lakh as rent a month. Of the 1,350 students enrolled in the school, only 550 are attending the online classes. “The past one year has been very difficult for me. I have been able to run the school somehow because it has more students (than most) and some of the parents are paying regularly,” Madhusudan said. He said the schools running with 300 to 500 students on Hyderabad’s outskirts had been hit very hard. Many of the parents whose children are enrolled in these schools are from the working class and have seen their earnings plummet during the pandemic, Madhusudan said. Another blow to the budget schools was the drying of admissions to Class I, the lowest level in most of these schools, last year after the pandemic hit. Most parents of very young children seem to have decided to wait, sceptical of how much good online classes would do to a beginner. Of the 11,000 private schools in Telangana, for instance, some 2,300 schools witnessed zero admission to Class I in 2020-21. This caused the total number of children in all private and government schools in the state to drop from 32 lakh in 2019-20 to 30 lakh in 2020-21, Madhusudan said. He did not have figures for the current academic year. Usha Ram, former principal of the Laxman Public School in New Delhi, said the state governments must help the struggling budget schools. “Otherwise, how can they run? Many have already closed,” she said. Ram said that children from lower middle class families were yet to become comfortable with online education, and not all their parents could provide them with their own electronic device to attend the classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||Smriti Irani included in Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs||Women and child development minister Smriti Irani has for the first time been included in the Prime Minister-helmed Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs, signalling her renewed importance in the current regime after a prolonged trough. The government reconstituted various cabinet committees after the ministry expansion and shuffling of portfolios on Monday night. The Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs headed by the Prime Minister is seen as the core group of the administration, empowered to discuss and take a call on the political issues confronting the government. Although first-time central ministers such as Bhupender Yadav, Mansukh Mandaviya and Sarbananda Sonowal have also made it to the select group, it was the appointment of Smriti that was noted the most. Smriti, an actress turned politician, had been seen as a rising star when Narendra Modi made her human resource development minister in his first government in 2014. Her glory days, however, were short-lived and she was shunted out just after two years in office and given charge of the low-profile textile ministry. In BJP circles, this was seen as a big demotion and it was widely believed that she had lost Modi’s trust. Despite staging an electoral stunner in 2019, when she defeated then Congress president Rahul Gandhi in his family bastion Amethi, Smriti couldn’t regain her high point. She was rewarded with the charge of two ministries — women and child development, besides textile — but it was not as flattering as her start in 2014. In the latest shuffle too, she lost the textile ministry and had to settle for only women and child development. Smriti getting a place in the cabinet’s political affairs committee may not have restored her glory but has certainly underlined her maturity and political importance, BJP leaders feel. She is likely to be deployed extensively in the campaign for the Uttar Pradesh elections early next year. “Only the core ministers get a place in the political affairs committee. It’s a prestigious appointment and Smritiji should be proud to have made it,” a BJP leader said. After the Cabinet Committee on Security, which only has the Prime Minister and the other four top ministers, the political affairs committee is regarded as the second most important core group of the government. The 12-member political affairs committee has Prime Minister Modi at its helm while the others are Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Smriti, Piyush Goyal, Pralhad Joshi, Sonowal, Giriraj Singh, Mandaviya and Yadav. The exclusion of Rajnath from the political affairs committee in 2019 had created a flutter. He was, however, quickly re-inducted.Apart from Smriti, the inclusion of first-time ministers Yadav and Mandaviya, who has been given charge of the crucial health ministry besides chemicals and fertilisers, points to the new lot of leaders being promoted by the current regime. These leaders appeared to have made it to the important committee after six senior ministers were dropped in the reshuffle, including Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Harsh Vardhan and Ramesh Pokhriyal. In BJP circles, the reconstitution of the cabinet committees was also seen as offering clues to the leaders who could fill the vacancies in the party’s highest decision-making body, the parliamentary board. There are five vacancies in the parliamentary board and speculation is rife that either Smriti or Sitharaman could be picked to fill the void created by the passing of Sushma Swaraj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||Don’t misuse laws to quell dissent or harass citizens: Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge D.Y. Chandrachud has said criminal laws, including anti-terror legislations, should not be misused to quell dissent or harass citizens. He asserted that the apex court plays the role of a counter-majoritarian institution whose duty is to protect the rights of socio-economic minorities and those deprived of personal liberty. “While it is important that prisons are decongested because they are highly susceptible to becoming hot spots for the virus, it is equally important to examine why prisons are congested in the first place. The criminal law, including the anti-terror legislation, should not be misused for quelling dissent or for the harassment of citizens,” Justice Chandrachud told a seminar late on Monday night. The Supreme Court has decided to examine the colonial-era sedition law under IPC Section 124A, which is being frequently used by the central and state governments to stifle any view critical of the dispensation in power. There has also been a growing tendency in the country to brand as “anti-national” dissenters and people expressing views contrary to those of the government. Addressing an India-US seminar on the “Role of the Supreme Court in protecting fundamental rights in challenging times”, Justice Chandrachud made the observations while pointing to the various directions the apex court has passed amid the pandemic, including asking the government to offer free vaccines to citizens, supply free rations and provide transport facilities as a matter of fundamental right. The seminar was jointly organised by the Society of Indian Law Firms and Chartered Institute of Arbitrators and the American Bar Association. The government has been showcasing the free vaccination drive as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s gift to the nation. However, the announcement had been made after the Supreme Court had in June described as “prima facie arbitrary and irrational” the Centre’s policy of leaving adults aged below 45 to pay for their Covid-19 jabs while providing for free vaccination of those aged 45 or above. Justice Chandrachud pointed out that the Centre changed tack after the Supreme Court’s observations. At the seminar, Justice Chandrachud, who had been on the bench that commented on the vaccination drive, referred to his recent judgment on Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami’s bail plea in a criminal case registered by the Maharashtra government. The top court had observed that “our courts must ensure that they continue to remain the first line of defence against the deprivation of the liberty of citizens. Deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one too many. We must always be mindful of the deeper systemic implications of our decisions”. Justice Chandrachud noted on Monday night that the Centre had earlier introduced a vaccination policy under which it had been inoculating people above 45, healthcare and other frontline workers for free. People in the 18-44 age group had to go to state government vaccination centres or private hospitals for jabs for which they had to shell out money. The people in this age group were also required to book appointments digitally. Justice Chandrachud said the Supreme Court could not remain a silent spectator although it was cautious that it could not transgress into the domain of policy-making and usurp the role of the executive.“However, in a humanitarian crisis, it (the court) could not stand as a silent spectator. It adopted a ‘bounded deliberative approach’ seeking justifications from the government for its policy, which it reiterated must be bound by a human rights framework which in this case implicated the right to life under Article 21 and the rights to equality under Article 14 of the Constitution,” the judge said. “The Supreme Court observed that prima facie, the Union government’s policy of differential pricing where a certain class of citizens is given free vaccines and another class has to pay for vaccines or depend on the financial wherewithal of each state to avail (themselves of) free vaccines was arbitrary and inconsistent with the right to life (which includes the right to health) under Article 21 of the Constitution,” Justice Chandrachud told the seminar. “We noted that the social strata of the 18-44 age group also comprises persons who belong to underprivileged and marginalised groups. Such persons may not have the ability to pay for essential vaccines, which is a public good in a pandemic. Hence, we noted that prima facie, a rational policy would require the Union government to take up the responsibility of procuring vaccines and negotiating with the vaccine manufacturers as a monopolistic buyer, and subsequently allocate the vaccines to the states for distribution to people free of cost,” he added. He noted that the apex court had prima facie held that the government’s then policy could have serious implications on the fundamental right to equality and the right to health of those in the 18-44 age group.Justice Chadrachud pointed out that following the Supreme Court’s observations, “…the Union government thereafter revised its policy, bearing the responsibility of procuring 75 per cent of the vaccines and administering them free of cost to persons above the age of 18 years, while also capping the price that could be charged for the remainder 25 per cent of the vaccines being procured by private hospitals from manufacturers. Further, the Union government also allowed on-site registration and vaccination of persons in the age group of 18-44 years along with digital registration…” Justice Chandrachud said the court plays the role of a counter-majoritarian institution and it is its duty to protect the rights of socio-economic minorities. “As the guardian of the Constitution, it has to put a break where executive or legislative actions infringe on fundamental human rights. Even in the context of the separation of powers, the scheme of checks and balances through supervision results in a certain degree of interference by one branch into the functioning of the other,” Justice Chandrachud said while referring to criticism over alleged judicial overreach in executive functioning. He said the Supreme Court had used various methods in holding the executive and legislature accountable, whether by striking down a law and ruling on the ground of unconstitutionality or by intervening in certain matters of policy or through a deliberative approach of making the other two arms of governance aware of the constitutional implications of the decisions at hand. “The Supreme Court has to act in furtherance of its role as sentinel on the qui vive (on the alert) and respond to the call of constitutional conscience and it is this role that prompts it to address the challenges of the 21st century, ranging from the pandemic to the rise of intolerance, features which we find across the world,” Justice Chandrachud said. The judge said the Indian Supreme Court had often relied on the comparative jurisprudence of the US Supreme Court, encouraging a trans-national judicial dialogue. For instance, in the Navtej Johar v. Union of India, where the Indian Supreme Court decriminalised same-sex sexual intercourse, Justice Chandrachud said that while delivering the verdict he had relied on comparative legal developments from the UK, European Court of Human Rights and the celebrated case of Lawrence v. Texas of the US to hold that there was a growing liberal consensus towards equal treatment of LGBTQ rights and India could not be left behind in this transformational vision. Similarly, in the Puttuswamy v. Union of India (Aadhaar card case), where the Indian Supreme Court upheld the right to privacy as a guarantee under the Constitution, specific comparison was made with the US, Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||Vaccine: Serum Institute signs pact to produce Sputnik V||The Serum Institute of India has signed a pact with a Russian agency to produce the Sputnik V vaccine and is set to become a source of three Covid-19 vaccines. The first batch of the Sputnik vaccine from Serum is expected to be produced at its facilities in September, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, and the vaccine maker announced on Tuesday. They said they intended to produce 300 million doses of the vaccine in India per year. “We hope to make millions of doses in the coming months with trial batches starting in September,” Adar Poonawalla, Serum’s chief executive officer, said in a statement. “With high efficacy and a good safety profile, it is critical that Sputnik is accessible in full measure for people across India and the world.” India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines had approved Sputnik V in April this year but its use into the vaccination campaign has been limited by supplies. But the Union health ministry has counted 100 million doses of Sputnik V in its projected inventory of 1,350 million doses with which it hopes to fully vaccinate India’s eligible population by the year-end. The Sputnik V vaccine uses two differing doses and India has received 3.1 million first doses and 360,000 second doses, a Reuters report had said on Monday. The unequal numbers has meant the vaccine’s full rollout in India is currently on hold. Serum has already received the raw materials for the vaccine — cell and vector samples — from Russia’s Gamaleya Centre and has initiated the cultivation process, the RDIF and the company said. The Sputnik V vaccine is registered for use in 67 countries. Serum is already producing Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine, currently used in the vaccination campaign, and Covavax, another Covid-19 vaccine designed by the US-based Novavax. The company had said earlier this year that it is ramping up Covishield production to 100 million doses per month and its pact with Novavax announced last year had set a target of a billion doses of Covavax in 2021. Russia is hoping India will emerge as a leading production hub for Sputnik V. The RDIF had earlier signed production pacts with other companies — Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen.“The more the manufacturers the better — but much of the Sputnik produced in India is also likely intended for the international market,” said R. Ramakumar, a professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. The RDIF has said the Sputnik V vaccine has shown an efficacy of 97 per cent based on the analysis of data on the coronavirus infection rate among those in Russia vaccinated with both doses between December 5, 2020, and March 31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||'Martyrs’ graveyard' sealed in Srinagar||Srinagar’s “martyrs’ graveyard” was on Tuesday sealed to prevent pro-India politicians from paying tributes to the victims of the first popular uprising against the despotic Dogra rule. For decades since 1931, July 13 has been observed as “Martyrs’ Day” in Jammu and Kashmir in memory of the men who were killed by Dogra forces that year, with politicians from across the separatist-pro-India divide treating the victims as their own. But there was no state holiday last year on July 13 for the first time in decades after the government struck it down from the list of official holidays. Politicians too were not allowed to visit the graveyard to pay tributes but what had looked like a one-off incident last year seemed more of a norm this time round. The restrictions around the graveyard last year had coincided with a pandemic-related lockdown, prompting some officials to claim in private that Covid was the reason. There was no Covid-related lockdown in the Valley on Tuesday but the roads leading to the graveyard were sealed to prevent visitors from thronging the place. Officially, no restrictions were announced and no reasons were given, neither last year nor on Tuesday, as part of a new normal in Kashmir where the government offers no explanation for such action. All an officer in Srinagar had to say to this newspaper after requesting anonymity was that the “order has come from above”. Security forces were deployed in large numbers outside the Naqshband Sahib shrine in Srinagar, where the graveyard is located. The forces had erected barricades to prevent people from converging at the shrine. Two main pro-India parties — the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party — said they had applied to the Srinagar district magistrate for permission to visit the graveyard but were not allowed. The parties, however, joined others in paying tributes elsewhere. Parts of Kashmir observed a shutdown to mourn the losses of the “martyrs”. The NC held a programme headed by party president Farooq Abdullah at its main office. In a joint statement, Farooq and son Omar Abdullah described the 1931 episode as “a landmark in the history of J&K”. “Their sacrifices resulted in the transformation of the state from a feudalistic to a democratic one. The brave men belonged to a generation of wisdom and vision. They saw in darkness and despair a vision for the forthcoming generations; they envisioned a society free from bondage, discrimination and oppression,” the statement said. Farooq’s father Sheikh Abdullah, the founder of the NC and the first prime minister of Jammu and Kashmir after its accession to India, had emerged as a mass leader from the uprising. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said the party was denied permission and the gates leading to the shrine were locked. “Attempts to distort and rewrite Kashmir’s history are being made only to create a sense of defeat and helplessness amongst Kashmiris. Nevertheless, as we pay homage to the heroes of 13th July, 1931, our resolve to strive for restoration of J&K’s dignity remains firm,” she tweeted. CPM veteran Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami had said on Monday that the “supreme sacrifices of the July 13 martyrs” had ultimately led the way for a “Naya (new) Kashmir” during which the erstwhile state made “significant strides including landmark agrarian reforms, free education to all, political and economic rights to women, (and the) uplift of weaker sections of the population, including peasants and tenants (of the land, who) got empowered”. “With a stroke of the pen, J&K’s special status under Article 370 was abrogated and the erstwhile state was downgraded and bifurcated into two Union Territories. The new narrative of the BJP government is to make a ‘Naya Kashmir’ where you are not even allowed to mourn and visit the graves of the July 13 martyrs to pay homage to them. In the last two years, silence of the people, achieved by force, is being projected as acceptance of the BJP government’s unconstitutional and arbitrary decisions,” he said in a statement. The BJP-led Centre has been accused of launching an assault on Kashmir’s pre-Partition symbols of resistance against “Hindu” Dogra autocrats, literally disowning the “Muslim martyrs” who laid down their lives fighting Dogra rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||CoBRA: 37 women personnel train in jungle warfare||Thirty-seven women personnel of the CRPF, the country’s largest paramilitary force, are undergoing strenuous training after being recently inducted into the force’s jungle warfare commando wing CoBRA. This is the first time the CRPF has inducted women constables into the Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), the elite wing specialising in jungle warfare and anti-Maoist operations. “The 37 women constables are undergoing training and it covers, among other things, firing, handling special weapons, tactical planning, field craft, explosives and jungle survival skills,” a CRPF official said. They will be deployed, he said, in Maoist-infested areas, including Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, after the completion of their four-month training in October. In March this year the CRPF had also for the first time formed an all-women brass band. In 2008, the Centre had raised the 10,000-strong CoBRA under the command and control of the CRPF to counter Maoists, also helping the personnel grasp Naxalite intelligence-gathering techniques and strategy. CoBRA personnel are now deployed in Maoist-affected regions across the country. The CoBRA is headquartered in the National Capital Region and has battalion headquarters in every Maoist-hit state, including Jharkhand, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Another CRPF official said CoBRA commandos get an incentive of 15 per cent over and above the salary drawn by a CRPF jawan. The CRPF has had women personnel in combat since 1986 when its first “Mahila” battalion was raised. It has six such units now. The women troops are deployed across the country for rendering law-and-order duties, anti-Maoist operations and other operational tasks. The CRPF, having a strength of about 3.25 lakh personnel, is the lead internal security combat unit and is also posted in Jammu and Kashmir for counter-terror operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||Senior BJP leaders hit back at Nitish for criticising Yogi's population bill||Senior BJP leaders hit back at ally Nitish Kumar on Tuesday after his apparent criticism of the draft population bill brought by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, accusing the Bihar chief minister of indulging in doublespeak. Nitish had asserted on Monday that making laws to curb population growth would not work and that the best alternative was to educate women. Panchayati raj minister and BJP legislator Samrat Choudhary pointed out that Nitish had led the passage of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, which barred candidates with more than two children from contesting urban local body elections. The threshold date was fixed at April 1, 2008, under the law for counting the children of the contestants. Choudhary asserted that it was time to implement similar norms in the panchayat polls and said that preparations were afoot to bring a legislation. “Nitish Kumar had brought the law that barred candidates having more than two children from contesting municipal polls in Bihar. It is now time to implement the law in panchayat elections as well. We are preparing the draft for it,” he said. Choudhary clarified that such provisions will not affect the upcoming panchayat polls in the state. Deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Renu Devi also hit out at Nitish’s stand on population control and said his statements were inherently flawed. “Men should be made aware and enlightened to curb population. They are too afraid to go for vasectomy as a family planning method. The number of vasectomy operations in various districts of Bihar is negligible. Just educating women will not control the population growth. It’s a fact that family members put pressure on women to have more children due to their desire to have sons,” Renu said. The deputy chief minister, however, denied that her opinion could have been influenced by the forcible vasectomies performed during the Emergency between 1975 and 1977. Union rural development minister Giriraj Singh, the MP of Begusarai, said: also refused to accept Nitish’s stance on checking population growth. “A law is needed because population growth has become a major obstacle to national development,” he said. As the BJP leaders cornered Nitish over the issue, leaders of his Janata Dal United leaders returned the fire, asking them to check facts. “The work done to provide education to girls over the last 16 years has led to a decline in the fertility rate in the state The experiment has been successful and the country should follow it. It is not possible to control population with the help of laws,” JDU chief spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said. Nitish had also disapproved the talks about imposing a uniform civil code in the country. The JDU has opposed the National Register of Citizens, National Population Register, Citizenship Amendment Act, scrapping of Article 370 and uniform civil code, which have been supported by the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||No need to publish draft legislations in Malayalam, Lakshadweep admin tells Kerala HC||The Lakshadweep administration has told Kerala High Court that there is no need to publish draft legislations in Malayalam, which is the medium of instruction in schools. This was stated in a counter-affidavit the administration filed on Monday in reply to a plea by the Lakshadweep Lok Sabha member and six others who sought judicial intervention to get all draft legislations published in Malayalam, and not just English. P.P. Mohammed Faizal, who represents the Union Territory in the Lok Sabha, and others had in a writ petition said that all the draft legislations are published only in English, a language that majority of the islanders are not well-versed in. They had sought the draft legislations and notifications to be published in Malayalam as well to help the people understand them and file their objections, if necessary. But the administration has maintained that Malayalam has not been adopted as the official language in the Union Territory. “The language mainly spoken by the people of Lakshadweep, except Minicoy, is ‘Jeseri’ which has no script and English is taught in all schools of Lakshadweep,” the administration told the court. The lawmaker, had in his petition, cited the lack of people’s participation in the consultation process ahead of finalising rules governing the islanders because of the non-availability of the draft legislations in Malayalam. Another reason cited in the petition is the slow Internet speed that hampers downloads of the drafts from the administration’s website. While the administration admitted the Internet speed was slow, it informed the court that objections and suggestions filed via email are more than letters. According to the affidavit, the administration received 182 suggestions and objections via email while only 97 were received through the postal service. But Faizal said the numbers were hardly significant since the population of the islands is around 68,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
