15-07-2021||India||Amarinder Singh opposes Sidhu's elevation as party state unit chief||According to a NDTV report, the differences between the warring factions in Punjab Congress escalated after the Central leadership's new peace formula that involves the elevation of Navjot Sidhu to the post of the party's state unit chief. Sources in Punjab said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is not on board with the idea. This evening each faction held meetings with MLAs supporting them, sources said. Sidhu, on the other hand, held a meeting with six MLAs including two cabinet ministers from the anti-Amarinder Singh camp. Sidhu is yet to be officially announced as the state Congress chief. Earlier on Thursday, sources said according to the Central leadership's peace formula, Sidhu will replace Sunil Jakkar. Two other leaders - one from the Dalit community and the other a Hindu face - are likely to be named Working Presidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
15-07-2021||India||Another Pakistani drone intrudes Indian space on LoC, jawans fail to bring it down||Another drone was spotted inside Indian territory along the Line of Control (LoC) in Pallanwala sector in Akhnoor late Wednesday, officials told Hindustan Times. This happened barely a day after the Border Security Force (BSF) opened fire at a suspected Pakistani drone along the Indo-Pak international border in Arnia sector, Both the strategic sectors fall in Jammu district. “Alert soldiers observed a Pakistani quad-copter, which had intruded around 150 metres inside the Indian territory along the LoC in Pallanwala late Wednesday,” the officials told Hindustan Times. “The jawans immediately opened small arms fire but couldn’t bring it down. The UAV flew back into Pakistani territory. Such machines are being used by the adversary for surveillance on the borders,” they added. An officer said that the incident occurred around 9.10 pm on Wednesday. He informed that during searches of the area nothing was found. Pakistan used such drones to drop arms, ammunition, weapons, drugs and money to fund and fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. On Tuesday BSF troops fired on a suspected Pakistani drone along the India-Pakistan border at Arnia in Jammu. On June 27, two explosive-laden drones dropped payloads on the Indian Air Force station in Jammu that left two personnel injured. Since then, drones are being spotted hovering over military stations in Kaluchak, Ratnuchak, Kunjwani and Sunjuwan in Jammu at regular intervals. The IAF has beefed up air defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks. There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region. Meanwhile, a section of media reported that another drone was spotted by the forces hovering over the IAF station in Jammu late Wednesday. They also reported that alert forces were able to thwart the alleged terror bid with the help of the anti-drone equipment which detected the UAV and eliminated it. However, there’s no confirmation of the drone by the defence authorities in Jammu. “A white light was seen by the guards near the IAF station late Wednesday. It was likely to be a satellite and unlikely to be a drone,” an official, who insisted on anonymity, told Hindustan Times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
15-07-2021||India||Covid-19 third wave likely to hit end of August, might be less intense: ICMR ||The third wave of Covid-19 is likely to hit India at the end of August and chances are that it will not be as intense as the second wave, Dr Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Infectious Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, has told NDTV. In an exclusive interview to NDTV, Dr Panda said, “There would be a nationwide third wave but that does not mean that it would be as high or as intense as the second wave.” According to him, four things could lead to the third wave. The first of these is an instance where the immunity acquired in the first and second wave due drop. "If that goes down, it could lead to a third wave," he said. Secondly, there could be a variant that can bypass the immunity acquired. Third – the new variant may not be able to bypass immunity but can circulate fast in the population. Fourth – if the restrictions are lifted prematurely by states, it could lead to a fresh surge, Dr Panda said. Asked if the variant involved could be Delta Plus, he said both Delta and Delta Plus have swept the country and "I'm not expecting any more public health havoc from the Delta variant". Earlier this week, the top doctors' body in the country, the Indian Medical Association, said the third wave is "inevitable and imminent", pointing out that "in many parts of the country both the government and public are complacent and engaged in mass gatherings without following Covid protocols". The government has also said the people are taking predictions about the second wave about as seriously as "weather predictions". World Health Organisation chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday warned nations that they have entered the early stages of the third wave of Covid-19. The health expert sounded alarms over the fresh rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths, which were declining as a result of increasing vaccination rates in Europe and North America in the recent months, UN News said. “Unfortunately…we are now in the early stages of a third wave”, he was quoted as saying by UN News. Ghebreyesus said that the virus was evolving continuously and into more transmissible variants. “The Delta variant is now in more than 111 countries and we expect it to soon be the dominant Covid-19 strain circulating worldwide if it isn’t already,” he said. The WHO chief also noted that the cases are being "fuelled by increased social mobility and the inconsistent use of proven public health and social measures", and called out the "shocking disparity" in vaccine distribution. "We expect it to soon be the dominant COVID-19 strain circulating worldwide if it isn't already," the WHO chief had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
15-07-2021||India||China ready to seek mutually acceptable solution to issues at border: Wang to Jaishankar ||With India firmly conveying to China that the prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a “negative manner”, Beijing on Thursday said it is ready to seek a mutually acceptable solution to the issues that require “emergency response” through negotiation and consultation. During their hour-long in-person meeting on the sidelines of an SCO conclave in Dushanbe on Wednesday, External affairs minister S. Jaishankar also told his Chinese counterpart and State Councilor Wang Yi that any unilateral change in the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was “not acceptable” to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. The meeting in Tajikistan's capital took place amidst a stalemate in the disengagement process between the two militaries in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh after they withdrew troops and weapons from the Pangong Lake areas in February following series of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the standoff since May last year. In a statement posted on its website on Thursday on Wang's talks with Jaishankar, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said, the minister stated the overall situation in the border area has de-escalated after the withdrawal of troops from the Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake areas. However, the relations between India and China are still at a “low level” which is not in the interest of either side, Wang said. While reiterating China's oft-repeated stand that it was not responsible for the China-India border standoff, Wang, however said that “China is ready to find a solution acceptable to both sides on the issue that needs emergency response through negotiation and consultation.” ”The two sides must place the border issue in an appropriate position in bilateral relations, expand the positive momentum of bilateral cooperation and create favourable conditions for resolving differences through negotiation,” he said. The nature of China-India relations is how two adjacent developing countries look at each other, co-exist in harmony and help each other succeed, he said. “China's strategic assessment of China-India relations has not changed. China and India pose no threat but offer development opportunities to each other. The two countries are partners rather than rivals or enemies,” the Chinese foreign minister said. The principles of China-India relations should still be mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, non-interference in each other's internal affairs, and mutual respect for each other's core interests, he said. The interaction between the two countries should still be seeking mutual benefits and complementarity, pursuing healthy competition and avoiding confrontation, with cooperation as the main theme, Wang said. While China moved its troops from Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso, the disengagement has not been completed from other friction points like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh. In his meeting with Wang, Jaishankar firmly conveyed to that the prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a “negative manner” and rued that there was no forward movement from the Chinese side since the disengagement in Pangong Lake areas in February that had created conditions for resolving the remaining issues. Jaishankar told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was “not acceptable” to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh, according to statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs on the talks. Wang, according to the Chinese foreign ministry, also said that the two sides must consolidate the results of disengagement that have been achieved, strictly abide by the agreement and common understanding of the two sides, and “refrain from taking unilateral actions in sensitive and controversial areas, in order to avoid any recurrence of tensions due to misunderstanding and miscalculation.” “We must take a long-term perspective and gradually move from emergency response toward regular management and control, to avoid unnecessary interruptions of border-related issues to China-India relations,” he was quoted as saying by the Chinese foreign ministry statement. Recalling their last meeting in Moscow, in September 2020, Jaishankar also emphasised the need to follow through on the agreement reached then and complete the disengagement, resolving the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh at the earliest. It has been reported that each side currently has around 50,000 to to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector. The Chinese foreign ministry statement pointed out that during the meeting between Wang and Jaishankar, both sides believe the two countries must lift bilateral relations out of the low level and achieve healthy and stable development. The two sides encourage strengthening consultations on the border issue through the existing mechanism to consolidate the achieved results, and working towards turning emergency response to regular management and control to safeguard the peace and tranquillity of the border area, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
15-07-2021||India||Farmers from 22 states to join protests outside parliament: SKM||Farmers from 22 states will participate in the protests planned outside parliament from July 22 to demand scrapping of the contentious farm laws and for a legal guarantee on MSP, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Thursday. The umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions has planned that around 200 farmers will hold protests outside parliament every day during the monsoon session. The leaders have not commented on whether they have permission to hold demonstrations outside parliament but have maintained that the protests will be "peaceful". "The Samyukta Kisan Morcha's call for Parliament March from July 22 till August 13 has received an overwhelming and enthusiastic response from across the country," it said in a statement. Besides Punjab and Haryana, a large number of farmers from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra, Telangana, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Manipur, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan will participate in the protest, SKM said Special marches by women on July 26 and August 9 will also see huge participation from across India, including the northeastern states, it said. "The parliamentarians shall see farmers from all over India march in a disciplined manner to parliament to place their demands and have their voices heard," SKM said. Extending their support to the farmers' movement, Punjabi artists, including Gul Panag, Amitoj Mann and Babbu Mann, performed on Thursday for the protestors camping at the Singhu border, the statement said. They also appealed to the Indian citizens to extend their solidarity with the farmers' movement. "It is noteworthy that all sections of the country are coming out in support of the farmers and it is unfortunate that the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is unable to do justice to the farmers and stand with them," the statement said. Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at the Delhi borders against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws at major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||WhatsApp banned 2 million Indian accounts between May and June||WhatsApp banned two million Indian accounts while it received 345 grievance reports between May 15 and June 15, the company said in its maiden monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules.  The new IT rules require large digital platforms -- with over five million users -- to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken.  "Our top focus is preventing accounts from sending harmful or unwanted messages at scale. We maintain advanced capabilities to identify these accounts sending a high or abnormal rate of messages and banned two million accounts in India alone from May 15-June 15 attempting this kind of abuse," WhatsApp said on Thursday.  WhatsApp clarified that more than 95 per cent of such bans are due to the unauthorised use of automated or bulk messaging (spam).  "We expect to publish subsequent editions of the report 30-45 days after the reporting period to allow sufficient time for data collection and validation," WhatsApp said in the report.  The Facebook-owned company explained that the number of accounts banned have risen significantly since 2019 as the sophistication of systems has increased, and "so we are catching more accounts even as we believe there are more attempts to send bulk or automated messages".  The vast majority of these accounts are banned proactively, without relying on any user reports, it added.  About eight million accounts are banned/disabled globally on an average per month.  WhatsApp said besides the behavioural signals from accounts, it relies on available "unencrypted information" including user reports, profile photos, group photos and descriptions as well as advanced AI tools and resources to detect and prevent abuse on its platform.  In the report, WhatsApp said it had received 345 reports in total, cutting across categories such as ban appeal, account support, product support, safety issues and others.  Against this, 63 accounts were "actioned" by WhatsApp during May 15-June 15, 2021.  WhatsApp said user reports received by the platform via the grievance channel/s are evaluated and responded to.  Majority of users who reach out to WhatsApp are either aiming to have their account restored following an action to ban them or reaching out for product or account support, it added.  'Accounts Actioned' denotes reports where WhatsApp took remedial action based on the report. Taking action denotes either banning an account or a previously banned account being restored as a result of the complaint.  The IT rules -- which came into effect on May 26 -- mandate that significant digital platforms include the number of specific communication links or parts of information they proactively remove by using automated tools.  Other platforms like Google, Koo and Twitter have already submitted their compliance reports. Instagram and Facebook have also submitted their reports.  The IT rules have been designed to prevent abuse and misuse of digital platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Under these rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity and pornography.  The rules also mandate appointment of three key personnel -- grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer. These officials need to be residents in India. Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Delhi schools won't open now, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Thursday ruled out any plans for the reopening of schools in the national capital for now. "Like we are seeing trends internationally that there will be a third wave of Covid-19. So, until the vaccination process is complete we would not like to take risk with children. So there aren't any plans to reopen schools as of now," Kejriwal told reporters. He was responding to a question about whether schools in Delhi will begin to reopen like in other states. The national capital meanwhile recorded 72 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Thursday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.10 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. The single new fatality has pushed the death toll in the city to 25,022, according to the latest bulletin. On Wednesday, Delhi had recorded 77 new cases and one death, while on Tuesday the daily infection tally was 76 with two deaths. On February 16, ninety-four people were diagnosed Covid positive while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. The infection rate, which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has come down to 0.10 per cent now. Last Friday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had passed a colour-coded response action plan under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the COVID-19 situation here to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Fourth edition of JEE-Main postponed, says education minister||The fourth edition of engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been postponed to August 26-September 2 to give aspirants a four-week gap between two sessions of the crucial exam, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday. The fourth edition of JEE (Main) was earlier scheduled to be held from July 27 to August 2. "In view of the persistent demand from the student community and to enable the candidates to maximise their performance, the National Testing Agency has been advised to provide a gap of four weeks between session three and four of the JEE(Main) 2021 exam. "Accordingly, the JEE (Main), 2021, session four will now be held on August 26, 27 and 31, and on September 1 and 2. A total of 7.32 lakh candidates have already registered for JEE (Main), 2021, session four," Pradhan tweeted. The minister said that registration for the JEE-Main session four is still in progress and dates for registration will be extended up to July 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Opposition leaders welcome Supreme Court observations on sedition law||Several Opposition leaders and civil society activists on Thursday hailed the Supreme Court for asking the Centre whether the sedition law was still needed 75 years after Independence and expressed the hope that it would be "thrown out". Concerned over the "enormous misuse" of the colonial-era penal law, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked the Centre why it was not repealing the provision used by the British to "silence" people like Mahatma Gandhi to suppress the freedom movement. The bench, which agreed to examine pleas challenging the constitutionality of section 124A (sedition) in the IPC, also issued notice to the Centre. We do not know why the government is not taking a decision. Your government has been getting rid of stale laws," it said. Reacting to the Supreme Court terming the sedition law colonial and asking whether it was still needed 75 years after Independence, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said, "We welcome this observation by the Supreme Court." Some leaders, including Trinamul Congress MP Mahua Moitra and Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, pointed out that about 100 farmers in Haryana were charged with sedition, among other charges, in connection with an attack on the state deputy speaker's car during a farmers' protest. Moitra said she was finally hoping "this archaic law misused by GoI will be thrown out". "Ironic that Haryana police charge over 100 farmers with sedition after alleged attack on BJP leader's vehicle while SC questions why we have this outdated law!" the Lok Sabha MP said on Twitter. On the Supreme Court asking the Centre whether it was necessary to keep the sedition law in the statute books, Yadav said. "Yes, that's the question. Case in point: Yesterday, sedition case was registered against farmers in Sirsa for breaking the windshield of a minister's vehicle!" That's what this law is being used for, he alleged. Former law minister Ashwani Kumar did not directly comment on the Supreme Court's observation but tweeted that the sedition charge against Haryana farmers is an insult to India's democratic traditions. "Government should withdraw the charges immediately and unconditionally," he said. Activist and lawyer Prashant Bhushan said, "Kudos to the SC & the CJI for standing up to the Govt on the gross misuse of this colonial law of sedition to silence dissent." According to Congress leader Jaiveer Shergill, the British used the sedition law to silence Mahatma Gandhi and the BJP is "using it to kill principles of transparency and accountability espoused by Mahatma Gandhi". In a tweet, he said, "28% rise per year in registration of sedition cases since 2014 -- well thought strategy to kill freedom of speech!" Actor and Shiv Sena leader Urmila Matondkar said, "'Do we still need it after 75 years of Independence?' Honorable #SupremeCourt has referred to #Sedition law as 'Colonial'." Filmmaker and former MP Pritish Nandy also reacted to the Supreme Court asking the Centre whether the sedition law was needed and said, "Good point, Supreme Court. Gone hoarse saying this." He added that we want to remove all traces of British rule but won't give up this terrible law under which our freedom fighters were jailed. The Supreme Court bench, which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, said, "Mr attorney (general), we want to ask some questions. This is the colonial era law and the same law was used by the British to suppress freedom movement." "It was used by British to silence Mahatma Gandhi, Gokhale and others. Is it still necessary to keep this in statute even after 75 years of independence?" it asked. Observing that the provision on sedition has been put to "enormous misuse", it also referred to alarming misuse of Section 66 A of the Information Technology Act even after the top court set it aside long back. and observed: It can be compared to a carpenter, asked to cut a wood, cut the entire forest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||India has highest unjabbed, under-vaccinated kids: UNICEF||India has the highest number of under-vaccinated or unvaccinated children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million from 2019, amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, the UNICEF said. It also noted that over 3 million of zero-dose children in 2020 lived in India. At nearly 4.4 million, South Asia recorded the highest number of children having failed to receive any routine vaccination in the past ten years, in 2020. "More than 3 million of these 'zero-dose children' in 2020 lived in India," the United Nations Children's Emergency Fund, (UNICEF) said in a statement. Globally, the UNICEF said the data shows that just 10 countries account for 62 per cent of all under- or unvaccinated children globally. India - particularly hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic - had the highest number of unprotected children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million compared with 2019, when the number of unprotected children was 2.1 million, the children's body said. Unprotected children are those who are unvaccinated (no vaccine) or under-vaccinated (incomplete vaccination), that is, any child who has not received any or few doses of their due vaccination. “Pakistan had 1.3 million unprotected children in 2020, an increase of 0.4 million,” the statement said. "Most of these children did not receive a single vaccine during the year, an indication that the most vulnerable, hard-to-reach children are paying the steepest price for pandemic-related disruptions to vaccine access," the statement said. Noting that the majority of countries in South Asia experienced drops in childhood vaccination rates, the UNICEF said the rates for diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP3) vaccine reduced by 9 per cent points in Nepal; 7 per cent points in Pakistan; 6 per cent points in India; 3 per cent points in Sri Lanka; and 2 per cent points in Bhutan and Afghanistan. "However, robust recovery efforts mounted in many countries towards the end of the year helped to blunt the impacts of overall declines. In India, for example, vaccination drives in remote areas are helping to reach missed children," the statement said. Yasumasa Kimura, Officer-in-Charge and Deputy Representative programmes, UNICEF India said, While the health systems are strained by the COVID-19 response, we must be cautious in our fight against the pandemic so as not to interfere with decades of gains against other preventable diseases. We cannot afford to lose out on routine immunisation and letting vaccine-preventable diseases endanger children's health. UNICEF is partnering with the Government of India to support continuity of essential health and immunisation services through planning, implementation, and monitoring of various strategies to identify and vaccinate missed children. We also support generating awareness and confidence among communities to vaccinate their children and strengthening the cold chain for routine immunisation, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Haryana Police book 100 farmers on sedition charge, arrest 5||The Sirsa police on Thursday arrested five people days after lodging an FIR, which included a sedition charge, over an alleged attack on the Haryana deputy speaker's car during a farmers' protest. The incident had taken place on Sunday and police had booked over 100 people, mostly unidentified, for sedition, obstructing public servants in discharge of their duty, murderous attempt on an elected representative and damaging public property. Meanwhile, to protest the arrests, a group of farmers sat on a dharna near Baba Bhuman Shah Ji Chowk in Sirsa, demanding that they be released. Police, however, said the arrests were made after they were identified based on the video footage of the incident. "Five protesters have been arrested. We analysed the video footage of the incident in the past two days. The pictures were magnified and later based on the evidence, the five who were identified have been arrested," Sirsa Superintendent of Police Dr Arpit Jain told PTI over the phone. He said more people who were present near the site on Sunday have been identified and further action will depend on to what extent their involvement. Earlier, the state government had taken a serious view of the incident, replacing Sirsa district police chief Bhupender Singh with Dr Arpit Jain while suspending an Inspector-rank official. Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa had told reporters here on Tuesday that those who pelted his vehicle with stones on Sunday cannot be called farmers. "They cannot be called farmers. I can say those who attacked looked like addicts...," he had said. Farmers carrying black flags had assembled outside Chaudhary Devi Lal University in Sirsa on Sunday during the day and raised slogans against the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Sharjeel Imam seeks bail in sedition case||JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sedition law, has moved a bail plea before a court here in a case related to making allegedly inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC at two universities. Imam was arrested for his alleged speech at Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on December 13, 2019, and at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on December 16 where he allegedly threatened to cut off Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. He is in judicial custody since January 28, 2020. In the bail plea, which came up before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat for hearing on Thursday, Imam claimed that he never participated in or encouraged any violence during the course of any protest or demonstration and is a peace-loving citizen. During the hearing, advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir, representing Imam, read parts of his speeches to the court and said that they do not fall within the meaning of sedition law. “Where is the call of violence? How does Sedition come into play? The context is to block the roads. How is this seditious? He called for a greater federal structure. That was the intent,” advocate Mir said. Alluding to the speeches, the counsel further said, “Imam spoke about cutting off some cities. When the call ‘rail roko’ is not seditious, why is the call of bringing the country to a standstill seditious? He submitted that the perusal of the contents of the speeches show that there was neither any ‘incitement to violence’ nor have any ‘incidents of violence’ taken place which could be attributed to the Imam's speeches. ASJ Rawat heard the arguments put forth by Imam’s counsel and posted the matter to August 2 for further hearing. Imam is accused of offenses relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the UAPA. Last year, Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central Government and instigated the people which led to the violence in December 2019. “In the garb of CAA, he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block highways leading to major cities and resort to ‘chakka jaam’. Also, in the name of opposing CAA, he openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country,” the charge sheet had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Formula to bring together Sidhu, Amarinder being worked out, says leader||Amid speculation over Navjot Singh Sidhu getting a bigger role in the party in Punjab, the Congress leadership is working out a formula for Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu to work together. AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs of the party Harish Rawat said Singh will continue as chief minister when the next assembly elections are fought. "We are working out a formula where both the chief minister and Sidhu could work together," he told reporters. "Amarinder Singh will continue as chief minister of Punjab and the party will go to polls with him in the top position," he also said. He, however, said that the party president's final approval on the Punjab unit revamp is awaited. Rawat said the Congress wants that both should work towards uniting the party and steering it to victory in the next assembly polls, slated early next year. Both Sidhu and Singh have been at loggerheads with each other and have made public statements against each other, prompting the party to set up a three-member panel headed by Mallikarjun Kharge to end factionalism. Sources said Sidhu could land up with a bigger role in the party's revamp in Punjab ahead of assembly polls. The sources add that the Punjab Congress could have two working presidents too, in a bid to accommodate all sections, regions, religions and castes. The party will announce a major revamp in Punjab in the next few days which may see a new PCC chief. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has met Singh, and Sidhu has met party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The chief minister has told reporters that any decision with regard to the party will be acceptable to all and will be implemented. Sidhu is also learnt to have told the leadership that any of its decisions will be acceptable. Sidhu is keen for a bigger role in the revamped organisation ahead of assembly elections. The party leadership has met almost all senior leaders and legislators from Punjab and taken their views before initiating the changes in the organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Zika virus caseload in Kerala rises to 28||Amid concerns of identifying a cluster of Zika virus in the capital city, five more people, including four women, have tested positive for the infection in Kerala, taking the caseload in the state to 28. Of the fresh cases, two were natives of Anayara here, where a cluster of the disease had been identified within a three kilometre radius, Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. The other infected people were those hailing from East Fort, Kunnukuzhi and Pattom here and all the samples were tested at the National Virology Institute at Alappuzha, she said. Four samples were sent from a private hospital here, while one was collected by the Health Department as part of surveillance, the minister said. Meanwhile, 16 other samples tested negative. "With this, the total number of infections in the state rose to 28," the minister added. The Health Department had said yesterday that acluster of Zika virus was identified within a three km radius of Anayara and steps were being taken for extermination of mosquitoes in the area to prevent its spread to other places. They also said a control room had been set up at the district medical office in the wake of the Zika outbreak in the capital city, where all the 23 cases were reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Kamal Nath meets Sonia Gandhi amid speculations over future role in party||Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday met Congress president Sonia Gandhi amid speculation over his future role in the party. Nath's name is doing the rounds for a bigger role in the revamped Congress organisation. Nath has been a veteran of the party and shares good ties with senior party leaders including those part of the group of 23 leaders who had written to the Congress chief seeking the organisation's overhaul. The former chief minister's meeting also comes ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament. Nath shares good relations with leaders of some opposition parties. Nath had also recently met Sharad Pawar at his Delhi residence, after the NCP chief met some opposition leaders amid talk of the formation of a larger opposition front against the BJP. Meanwhile, according to an NDTV report, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, also plans to be in Delhi on July 25 in connection with political activities targeted around 2024 national elections. If things proceed as planned it would be Mamata’s first visit to the national capital after her landslide victory in the recently concluded Bengal polls. According to the report, she during her four-day stay is supposed to meet several opposition leaders like Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, Aam Aadmi Party chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and a few others. Given the fact that her chief poll strategist Prashant Kishore had recently met the Gandhi’s, it would be interesting to see how her meet with Sonia unfolds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: court to hear Umar Khalid bail plea on July 27||A Delhi court on Thursday said it will hear the bail application of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the northeast Delhi riots conspiracy case, on July 27. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat has sought a reply from the prosecution on Umar's bail plea by the next day of the hearing. Senior advocate Trideep Pais is representing the accused in the case. Khalid along with several others has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. Notably, they are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Besides him, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case. Recently, the Delhi High Court had granted bail to Tanha, Narwal, and Kalita in the case, saying the State blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in anxiety to suppress dissent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Civil aviation ministry issues draft rules for ease of drone-flying in India||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has issued draft rules to ensure ease of using drones in India on the basis of "trust, self-certification and non-intrusive monitoring", an official statement said on Thursday. The number of forms to be filled to operate drones in the country have been reduced to six in draft Drone Rules, 2021' in comparison to 25 forms mentioned in the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, it said. The UAS Rules, 2021 came into force on March 12 this year. The Drone Rules, 2021, once notified, will supersede the UAS Rules, 2021. The fee, in the draft rules, has been reduced to nominal levels and de-linked from the size of the drone, the statement said. The draft rules have also abolished the requirement of various approvals, including certificate of conformance, certificate of maintenance, import clearance, acceptance of existing drones, operator permit, authorisation of R&D organisation and student remote pilot licence, it said. No flight permission will be required up to 400 feet in green zones and up to 200 feet in the area between 8 and 12 km from the airport perimeter, the draft rules stated. The draft rules have also prescribed easier process for transfer and deregistration of drones. The draft rules have been built on a premise of trust, self-certification and non-intrusive monitoring, the ministry stated. No pilot licence will be required for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drone and for R&D (research and development) organisations, the draft rules mentioned. Drone corridors will be developed for cargo deliveries and a drone promotion council will be set up to facilitate drone-friendly regulatory regime in the country, according to the draft rules. The last date for public to submit their comments on the draft rules is August 5. The draft rules also stated that there would be no restriction on drone operations by foreign-owned companies registered in India. Digital sky platform will be developed as a business-friendly single-window online system. "There will be minimal human interface on the digital sky platform and most of the permissions will be self-generated," the draft rules added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Modi calls UP's Covid efforts commendable during Varanasi visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday described as "commendable" the efforts of the Uttar Pradesh government in combating the Covid-19 crisis. "The way in which UP has controlled the second Covid wave and stopped its spread is unprecedented," the prime minister, who arrived at his parliamentary constituency earlier in the morning, said while addressing a gathering. Earlier, even minor problems assumed monstrous proportions due to the shortage of health facilities and the lack of willpower, he said. The prime minister inaugurated projects worth around Rs 744 crore and laid the foundation stones of several projects and public works worth about Rs 839 crore. These include the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET), 143 rural projects under the Jal Jeevan Mission and mango and vegetable integrated pack house in Karkhiyanv. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, the chief minister and state ministers were also present on the occasion. Modi will also inaugurate the International Cooperation and Convention Centre, Rudrakash which has been constructed with Japanese assistance. Thereafter, he will inspect the Maternal and Child Health Wing, BHU. He will also meet officials and medical professionals to review Covid preparedness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||SC concerned about 'colonial-era' sedition law, asks why Centre is not repealing it||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed concern over the misuse of "colonial-era" penal law on sedition and sought response of the Centre on pleas including the one filed by the Editors Guild of India challenging the validity of the provision. A bench headed by Chief justice N V Ramana and comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy said the main concern was about the "misuse of law", and asked as to why the Centre, which is repealing stale laws, was not getting rid of this provision. The sedition law was meant to suppress the freedom movement and was used by the Britishers to silence Mahatma Gandhi and others, the court noted. Some guidelines may be laid down to curb misuse of sedition law, Attorney General K K Venugopal said while defending the validity of the provision. The bench was hearing a fresh plea by former army officer Major-General S G Vombatkere (Retd) challenging the Constitutional validity of section 124 A (sedition) of the IPC on grounds that it causes a "chilling effect" on speech and is an unreasonable restriction on free expression, a fundamental right. "The sedition law is a colonial law. Do we still need the law in our country after 75 years of Independence," CJI Ramana asked, according to a report by ndtv.com. The bench noted that several petitions have challenged the sedition law and all will be heard together. "Our concern is misuse of the law and no accountability of the executive," it said. The top court described the law as "a serious threat" to the functioning of institutions. "There is enormous power of misuse. We can compare it to the carpenter, instead of cutting wood, cutting the forest itself. That is the effect of this law," the CJI observed. He added that there was "minimal conviction or very low rate of conviction" in the history of the law. The plea, filed by Major-General S G Vombatkere (Retd) submitted that Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with the offence of sedition, is wholly unconstitutional and should be unequivocally and unambiguously struck down". The petitioner contends that a statute criminalising expression based on unconstitutionally vague definitions of 'disaffection towards Government' etc. is an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right to free expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) and causes constitutionally impermissible 'Chilling Effect' on speech", the plea said. The petition said there is need to take into account the "march of the times and the development of the law" before dealing with Section 124-A. Earlier, a separate bench of the top court had sought response from the Centre on a plea challenging the Constitutional validity of sedition law, filed by two journalists -- Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla -- working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh respectively. The Supreme Court's observation came days after Justice D.Y. Chandrachud made similar comments saying that criminal laws, including anti-terror legislations, should not be misused to quell dissent or harass citizens. “While it is important that prisons are decongested because they are highly susceptible to becoming hot spots for the virus, it is equally important to examine why prisons are congested in the first place. The criminal law, including the anti-terror legislation, should not be misused for quelling dissent or for the harassment of citizens,” Justice Chandrachud told a seminar late on Monday night. The sedition law under IPC Section 124A is being frequently used by the central and state governments to stifle any view critical of the dispensation in power. There has also been a growing tendency in the country to brand as “anti-national” dissenters and people expressing views contrary to those of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Modi in his constituency Varanasi, to inaugurate projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate an international cooperation and convention centre, 'Rudraksh', in Varanasi today that will offer a glimpse of the cultural richness of the ancient city of Kashi. As many as 108 Rudraksha have been installed at this convention centre and its roof is shaped like a Shiva Linga, officials said, adding that the entire building will glow with LED lights at night. The two-storey convention centre has come up at posh Sigra area on 2.87 hectares of land and has a seating capacity of 1,200 people. The officials said the objective of the project is to provide opportunities for social and cultural interactions between people at the international convention centre in Varanasi that would strengthen the city's competitiveness by developing its tourism sector. It is ideal for holding international conferences, exhibitions and music concerts and other events and the gallery is done up with murals depicting Varanasi's art, culture and music, they added. The Japan International Cooperation Agency-assisted Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre's (VCC) main hall may be partitioned into smaller spaces when needed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||India logs over 41,000 fresh Covid cases, 581 casualties in a day||India recorded 41,806 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,09,87,880, while the active cases increased to 4,32,041, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,01,43,850, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.39 per cent with the country recording 581 fatalities in a day, the data stated. An increase of 2,095 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The active cases comprise 1.39 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 19,43,488 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,80,11,958, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.15 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 24 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.21 per cent, according to the ministry. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far have reached 39.13 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Choksi lands in Antigua and Barbuda after getting bail in Dominica||Diamantaire Mehul Choksi has landed in Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 after leaving India, after 51 days of custody in neighbouring Dominica for illegal entry which his lawyers claim was a kidnapping plan, local media reported. Choksi, 62, was given bail by Dominica High Court to travel back to Antigua for seeking medical help from a neurologist based there. After depositing bail money of EC Dollars 10,000, Choksi in a shirt and shorts flew back to Antigua in a chartered plane, Antigua News Room reported. While seeking bail, Choksi had attached his medical reports, including CT scan, which showed "mildly worsening hematoma". The doctors recommend an urgent review of his medical condition by a neurologist and a neurosurgical consultant. "The services are not currently available on the island (Dominica). All courtesies extended to him would be greatly appreciated," the CT scan report dated June 29 signed by Doctors Yerandy Galle Gutierrez and Rene Gilbert Veranes of Princess Margaret Hospital of Dominica said. Choksi, wanted in a Rs 13,500 crore bank fraud case in India, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen. He was detained in neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was abducted from Jolly Harbour in Antigua on May 23 by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Jagannath temple opposes laser scan on sanctum sanctorum  ||The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple administration has opposed the ASI’s move to conduct laser scanning of the sanctum sanctorum of the 12th century shrine. The temple administration and the servitors feel that the exercise would destroy the sanctity of the sanctum sanctorum (Garva Gruha) and might expose its many secrets that have been hidden from the public. The temple is an Archaeological Survey of India protected monument and the agency has been in charge of its conservation since 1975. “We had decided for complete documentation of the temple including its sanctum sanctorum using the modern advanced laser technology. This is required considering that it is an old monument. We have deliberated on it and it was also decided in one of the meetings of the temple management committee. But as there is stiff opposition to the move from various quarters, we have been asked not to go do the scanning of the sanctum sanctorum,” said a senior official of ASI. The SJTA has allowed the ASI to conduct the laser scanning work of only the interior and exterior parts of Jagmohan (the audience hall facing the sanctum sanctorum), Natamandap (dancing hall) and Bhogamanadap (dining hall where the prasad is placed) during the Rath Yatra period from Tuesday to July 22. The exercise can be conducted smoothly during this period as the deities are out on a sojourn to Sri Gundicha shrine, the abode of their aunt. “We have started work from this morning. This is the right time to inspect the sanctum sanctorum as the presiding deities of the shrine have left for a nine-day sojourn with the beginning of the car festival on July 12. We have our own system of carrying out conservation activities inside the sanctum sanctorum. The sanctum sanctorum will also be cleaned. However, we will not go for laser scanning of this area as per the order of the SJTA,” superintending archaeologist, ASI (Bhubaneswar Circle) Arun Mallick told The Telegraph. The SJTA has asked the ASI to submit all the processed data and analysis relating to the laser scanning of the interior and exterior parts of the Jagmohan, Natamandap and Bhogamanadap after the completion of the exercise. “All the data and analysis should be shared with the temple office and it should be kept confidential. It should not be shared with any other organisation and agency,” the SJTA has directed the ASI in a letter. The SJTA has also made it clear that the instructions of the temple commander (a commander is the supreme authority inside the temple. He is a part of the Shree Jagannath temple administration) should be strictly followed. Chief administrator, SJTA Dr Krishan Kumar said, “The temple administration will consider allowing the ASI to carry out the laser scanning inside the sanctum santorum next year. However, this time they conduct scanning of Jagmohan, Nata Mandap and other parts.” The ASI team will also find out whether there is any seepage of water in any part of the temple. “We apprehend that there are some sources of possible leakage. We will examine this and take necessary remedial steps. In the wake of the havoc caused by cyclone Fani in Puri in May 2019 there is special focus on ensuring that the temple remains fully safe,” said a member of the temple management committee. Meanwhile, the three deities — Lord Jagannath, his brother Balabhadra and sister Subhadra — on Tuesday entered the Shree Gundicha temple where they will remain till their return to their original abode in what is called Bahuda Yatra. Their chariots (Nandighosh of Lord Jagannath, Taladwaja of Lord Balabhadra and Darapadala of Goddess Subhadra) are now parked outside the Shree Gundicha temple, the abode of their aunt. The “darshan” of the deities in the Adapa Mandap (believed to be their birth place) inside the Shree Gundicha temple is considered to be particularly auspicious. “The belief is that by setting eyes on them inside the Adapa Mandap one is liberated from all ones’ sins. However, due to Covid restrictions no one is allowed inside the Shree Gundicha temple,” said senior servitor Ram Krushan Das Mohapatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Covid: SC flags Centre's 'disparate' views on mass gatherings||A “disturbed” Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices suo motu to the Centre, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand towards a possible ban on the annual Kanwar Yatra, and flagged the “disparate” views on mass gatherings expressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders. The bench referred to Modi’s statement, quoted in Wednesday’s news reports, that it was “up to us to stop” a possible Covid third wave and that “we cannot compromise even a bit”. Despite this, the bench said citing a news report, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to allow the Yatra although its Uttarakhand counterpart had withheld permission. The Yatra, which reports say attracted 3.5 crore Shiva devotees in 2019, is scheduled from July 25 to August 6. Citing the short time left, the court sought responses to the notices by Friday morning. The court notices come months after the April Kumbh Mela in Hardwar, where lakhs of pilgrims had congregated, was blamed for the second wave of the pandemic that devastated large swathes of the country. “The headline just above this headline speaks about the Prime Minister’s statement when he met the northeastern chief ministers that when people ask about the third wave of the Covid-19 virus striking the citizenry of India, it’s up to us to stop it and we cannot compromise ‘even a bit’,” the bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and Bhushan Gavai said. “Given the disparate political voices, all speaking at the same time, it is important that the relevant secretary, Union of India, respond to this news report. Given the fact that this yatra is to take off from 25.07.2021, it is necessary to fix a short time period for this case. Affidavits will be filed by Friday morning, the 16th of July, 2021, responding to the aforesaid news article by the relevant secretary, Union of India; principal secretary to the state of Uttarakhand; and principal secretary to the state of Uttar Pradesh.” The annual Kanwar Yatra sees Shiva devotees, called kanwariyas, walk in processions from their homes to the Ganga or a tributary, collect the holy water and visit a Shiva temple of their choice to bathe the idol with it. The Yatra is popular mainly in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Bihar. Last week, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had declined to entertain a batch of petitions seeking permission for this year’s annual Rath Yatra to be conducted in Odisha and other places in the traditional way, with large crowds participating. Justice Ramana had said that as a devotee, he too would have liked to participate in such festivities but the pandemic situation was not conducive to it. On Wednesday, the bench headed by Justice Nariman said: “We were a little disturbed given today’s headline in The Indian Express... about the Kanwar Yatra.... This court has taken suo motu cognisance of the newspaper report....” According to the newspaper, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had on Tuesday met top officials and police and discussed the fears of a possible third wave of Covid-19. Following this, Uttarakhand decided to call off the Yatra, the report said. It added that the Uttar Pradesh administration had begun preparing for the Yatra “with restrictions”, such as an insistence on small processions with physical distancing, short routes and mask-wearing, and a ban on collective singing or dancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court fines police for 'callous and farcical' investigation||A court here has fined Delhi police for its “callous and farcical” investigation into a Delhi riots case and said the force had “miserably failed in their statutory duties”. The police’s investigation into the February 2020 riots in which 53 people lost their lives had earlier too come under the scanner when several retired judges said the probe had “evoked extensive critical commentary in recent times”. The latest court order came in a case involving Mohammed Nasir, who lost his left eye after suffering a gunshot injury during the riots. The Delhi police had challenged a magisterial court order that had directed them to file an FIR on Nasir’s complaint. In his order on Tuesday, Karkardooma court judge Vinod Yadav dismissed the police’s petition and slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on them. The additional sessions judge directed that the fine be recovered from the station house officer (SHO) of Bhajanpura police station and his supervising officers. The police had maintained that there was no need to register a separate FIR as the force had already filed one and there was no evidence against the people accused of shooting at Nasir as they were not present in Delhi at the time of the incident. Judge Yadav pulled up the police for lack of efficiency and fairness in the investigation, which it said “has been done in a most casual, callous and farcical manner”. “The concerned petitioner (the SHO of Bhajanpura police station) and his supervising officers have miserably failed in their statutory duties in this case,” the order said. “A copy of this order be sent to the Delhi police commissioner for bringing to his notice the level of investigation and supervision in the matter and to take appropriate remedial action under intimation to this court,” the judge said. Judge Yadav said Nasir was free to exhaust the legal remedies available to him to get a separate FIR registered on his complaint. In the recent past, the police had ignored requests for information from a Delhi Minority Commission probe that had accused BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, of inciting the riots. The minority panel’s report in October alleged that the Delhi police, who answer to Shah’s ministry, “were complicit in and abetted the attacks” during the riots and tended to arrest the victims rather than the people they accused. Muslims were the worst sufferers of the violence, which began on the night of February 23 and continued till February 27 afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Piyush Goyal made leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha||Commerce and textiles minister Piyush Goyal was on Wednesday made the leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, a post the late Arun Jaitley used to hold. Goyal was already deputy leader of the House and was promoted after the post fell vacant because of the recent appointment of Thawar Chand Gehlot as governor of Karnataka. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the leader of the House in the Lok Sabha. Goyal lost the railways portfolio in the recent cabinet shuffle and was given charge of the textiles ministry instead in addition to commerce. In his new House assignment, Goyal will be tested during the monsoon session beginning on July 19 as the Opposition is gearing up to corner the government over Covid-19 mismanagement and the sliding economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Kerala nun rape case: Dumped by all, Sister Lucy argues own case ||A nun who has incurred the wrath of the Church and is facing eviction from her convent after she stood up for another nun who was raped allegedly by a bishop argued her case before Kerala High Court on Wednesday after her lawyer relinquished his authorisation to represent her. Sister Lucy Kalappura, who has been ordered to leave her convent in Wayanad, appeared before the high court bench of Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan, seeking police protection as she fears retributive action from the Church. The court said she would be provided police protection if she moved out of the convent, which the nun is reluctant to do as she has “nowhere to go”. She decided to argue her case after failing to get a replacement lawyer to appear in the case related to police protection for her. “After my lawyer relinquished his vakalath (authorisation) I tried to get a replacement. But no one was ready since it is a complicated case. So I decided to argue my case,” Sister Lucy told The Telegraph. “I argued before the court that I am a woman and a nun for 39 years fighting for justice and it is important that I stay on at the convent and requested the court not to throw me onto the streets since I have nowhere to go,” she added. “The court gave me a very patient hearing and I sought police protection since I could face any kind of retribution for taking on the Church. Since the high court case is only about police protection for me, I told the court that a civil court had granted an injunction against the eviction,” Sister Lucy said. A munsiff court in Mananthavady, Wayanad, had issued a stay order on the eviction notice more than a year ago. The court is expected to hear the case soon. The high court, in an oral observation, guaranteed police protection if Lucy moved to any other facility since it would be difficult to post policemen inside a convent. “The court has assured me protection at any other place. But for now, I am waiting for the civil court’s order,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Billboards across Delhi fete Yogi and ‘No. 1’ Uttar Pradesh||Over 100 hoardings have come up across Delhi over the past one week carrying pictures of Yogi Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and extolling the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s alleged achievements, the unusual development evoking surprise. “What are these posters doing in Delhi and that also in such huge numbers? Never seen any other state CM from outside Delhi peeping from the billboards this way,” S. Irfan Habib, a historian of science, tweeted on Tuesday. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh information and publicity department, which put up the hoardings, declined to comment. The billboards come weeks after Adityanath was summoned to Delhi in late June to meet Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda amid speculation that he might be removed as chief minister. There was talk of his “autocratic functioning” triggering dissidence within the state unit and his Covid mismanagement partly fuelling international criticism of the Prime Minister. Party sources said the chief minister was told to get his act together before the Assembly polls, due in March next year. The hoardings show a large image of Modi and a smaller one of Adityanath. Some of them claim that Uttar Pradesh is “number 1” in the country in the development of smart cities and highlights an award conferred on the state by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry. The rest say the state is “number 1” because it has given 4 lakh government jobs to youths. Similar hoardings have been reported from Bangalore too. A lawyer, Shishira Rudrappa, had on Tuesday tweeted a picture of a hoarding featuring Modi and Adityanath and making the four lakh jobs claim in Hindi — unusual in a city where hoardings are written in English or Kannada. It had been put up on the way to the airport, he said. Shortly afterwards, Shishir Singh, the director of the Uttar Pradesh information and publicity department, tweeted tagging Rudrappa: “Be responsible. Don’t spread fake news please. No such advertisement given anywhere in the state of Karnataka.” To this Rudrappa responded: “Mr Shishir ji, What fake news is this? I just put a picture of a hoarding you have put all over Bangalore Airport! Anyone can see this!” Rudrappa later posted a video clip of the hoarding being removed by two workers. “Now the hoarding is being removed! Luckily managed to capture on video by my team!” he wrote. Shishir had his phone switched off on Wednesday afternoon. He didn’t respond to a WhatsApp message this newspaper sent him in the morning. Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary of the department, didn’t reply to a message. But a source in the department said: “We had received an order from the chief minister in 2020 to put up his banners in Delhi along with his and Modi’s pictures. We were asked last month to do this more aggressively.” In 2020, a few hoardings had been put up near a few Delhi Metro stations. Adityanath is believed to have nursed prime ministerial ambitions since securing the chief minister’s chair out of the blue in March 2017. When his father Anand Singh Bisht claimed in Pauri Garhwal on August 11 that year that “my son will become Prime Minister in 2024”, Adityanath didn’t issue the expected disclaimer. Yuva Halla Bol, “a nationwide movement against unemployment” conducted largely by youths from New Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, dubbed the billboards “fake advertisements” in a media release from Rishav Rajan, its spokesperson. “We had launched a Berozgar Divas (Jobless Day) campaign on Adityanath’s birthday (June 5) because his government didn’t create any jobs in four years,” Rishav told this newspaper over the phone. He cited how would-be schoolteachers were agitating in Uttar Pradesh with the results of recruitment exams — for 50,000 jobs — unpublished after three years. Dwijendra Tripathi, a Congress leader, said: “Out of the 10 smart cities in Uttar Pradesh, none has a proper sewerage. Many areas of Varanasi, publicised as a smart city, are waterlogged even today.” Saurabh Singh, a social worker in Varanasi, said: “They are removing slums and displacing poor people in Varanasi to make the city look smart, but they are not giving it proper roads or sewer lines.” Additional reporting by K.M. Rakesh from Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Central govt lifts freeze, increases dearness allowance to 28 per cent||The Centre on Wednesday increased the dearness allowance to 28 per cent, an increase of 11 percentage points over the existing rate of 17 per cent of the basic pay, in a relief to central government employees and pensioners. The revised dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) from July 1, 2021, will benefit about 48.34 lakh central employees and 65.26 lakh pensioners. The government had frozen all such hikes because of the strain on its revenues in light of the Covid-19 crisis. The instalments due from January 1 and July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021, had also been frozen. “Cabinet approves restoring of three instalments of Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief with effect from 01.07.2021 representing an increase of 11 per cent over the existing rate of 17 per cent of the Basic Pay/Pension. No arrears for the period from 01.01.2020 till 30.06.2021 shall be paid,” the Press Information Bureau tweeted. After a cabinet meeting, information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said the increase in the DA and DR would result in an additional annual burden of Rs 34,401 crore for the exchequer. The step will offer respite to government employees, especially with rising inflation. The government said that the increase reflected the additional instalments that were earlier frozen. “The rate of Dearness Allowance/Dearness Relief for the period January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, shall remain at 17 per cent,” an official release said. “Our demand for arrears has not been accepted by the government so far. We will continue to press for it. Inflation has spiked and the government continues to earn large sums from increased duties on petrol and diesel. Why should the poor employees suffer?” R.N. Parashar, secretary-general, Confederation of Central Government Employees, told The Telegraph. Amid the pandemic and the ensuing lockdowns in April last year, the finance ministry had decided to put on hold increments in DA for over 48 lakh central government employees and over 60 lakh pensioners till July 2021. Economists said the additional sum could act as a stimulant to boost demand. The additional money could spur spending in consumer durables at a time the economy is recovering after the second wave of the pandemic and could prop up the government’s tax collections as well. This increase is in accordance with the accepted formula based on the recommendations of the 7th Central Pay Commission. The DA/DR is paid to central government employees/pensioners to adjust the cost of living and to protect their basic pay/pension from erosion in the real value. These are revised twice a year from January 1 and July 1. Dearness allowance is part of an employee’s salary. It is calculated as a percentage of the basic salary and transport allowance. This amount is then added along with house rent allowance to get the total salary. The hike in DA/DR is according to the agreed methodology of taking the average of the Consumer Price Index for industrial workers for the past 12 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Gujarat Assembly elections 2022: Rudderless Congress in leader plea||Congress leaders from poll-bound Gujarat, where the party has been rudderless for months amid a decline in fortunes following a brief spell of recovery, met the leadership in Delhi to appeal for swift organisational appointments. Frustrated by the leadership’s indecision in a state that is the wellspring of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s strength, around 20 senior leaders met the party general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, to stress the need for immediate appointments of office-bearers. They wanted to meet Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi as well to explain how miserable the situation in the state was but Venugopal assured them that at least a general secretary in-charge would be appointed within the next 10-15 days. Gujarat will go to polls next year and the Congress is on a downhill journey after doing well in the 2017 Assembly elections. The resurgence was short-lived as the party suffered a wipeout in local bodies polls earlier this year. Gujarat Congress chief Amit Chavda and legislature party leader Paresh Dhanani resigned on March 2 this year but no replacements have been made so far. The party’s central in-charge for the state, Rajiv Satav, died of post-Covid complications on May 16 and since then the Gujarat unit is waiting for a new general secretary. At the national level too, the Congress has been waiting endlessly for a new president after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the crushing defeat in the 2019 parliamentary elections. A seemingly reluctant Sonia Gandhi has stepped in as a stop-gap arrangement as the party muddled along without a functional head, weathering rebellion by senior leaders, apart from desertions, electoral defeats and the grim allegation of weakening Oppositional politics. While a frail central leadership emboldens state leaders to rebel and even minor issues snowball into uncontrollable crises, as manifested in Punjab, the Congress has cited the pandemic to postpone its organisational elections for so long. While the Congress Working Committee had rejected Rahul’s resignation, he could have returned anytime without any formality if he intended to. At the last CWC meeting, senior leader Digvijaya Singh had told Sonia that the party had no objection and it was for her to decide on the leadership in consultation with Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. While the entire party is exasperated by the protracted leadership crisis and enduring uncertainty even after the lapse of two years, the Gujarat leaders’ decision to nudge the high command demonstrated the depth of the unease. They came with the sole demand of a leadership structure — a state unit head, a leader of Opposition in the Assembly and a central in-charge. The same central leadership, which has appeared to be dithering on Gujarat that is the backyard of Modi and his lieutenant Amit Shah, appointed a state chief in Kerala within days of an electoral rout. Gujarat leaders had requested Rahul to make the appointments quickly when he visited Surat some time ago in connection with a legal case. But they felt compelled to knock at the doors of the high command again, only to be assured of an early decision. Sources now say the entire restructuring process will be completed before August 15. However, the Congress had set similar deadlines in the past, only to extend them on the questionable ground that the parliamentary elections are a long way ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Supreme Court to examine fresh plea challenging constitutional validity of sedition law||The Supreme Court will on Thursday examine a fresh plea challenging the constitutional validity of the sedition law, asking the petitioner to serve a copy of the plea on attorney-general K.K. Venugopal who will have to address the court during the hearing. The petition, filed by Maj. Gen. S.G. Vombatkere, has pleaded for quashing of the colonial-era sedition law on the ground that it has a “chilling effect” on the freedom of speech and expression of citizens and is being increasingly used across the country by parties in power to suppress any form of dissent. A bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy adjourned the matter to Thursday because of glitches in the virtual hearing. “Due to a technical glitch, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner was not visible but audible. We direct the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner to serve a copy of the writ petition upon the learned attorney-general for India immediately. List the writ petition on July 15,” CJI Ramana said. On Monday, another bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi had sought the views of the Centre on a similar plea made by two journalists from Manipur and Chhattisgarh. At that time, Venugopal had sought two weeks’ time for placing the government’s views, following which the court had adjourned the matter to July 27 In the wake of Wednesday’s developments, it is unclear whether the bench headed by the CJI will deal with the constitutionality of the sedition law or it will be referred to the other bench headed by Justice Lalit. But there is also a possibility of CJI Ramana, after initial hearing the petition, referring the matter to a constitution bench of five or more judges to examine the constitutional validity of Section 124A in view of the fact that earlier a five-judge constitution bench had in the Kedar Nath Singh vs State of Bihar (1962) case upheld the constitutional validity of the sedition law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Morcha to issue people’s whip to all MPs ||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ protest since November, on Wednesday decided to issue a people’s whip to all MPs to ensure repeal of the three new farm laws and enactment of a legislation guaranteeing minimum support price during the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. Borrowing a leaf out of the parliamentary practice of parties issuing whips to members to vote according to the line taken by the party, SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said MPs should respect the people’s whip as “a direct instruction” from their constituents who have elected them. According to the directive, MPs should not allow any business to be taken up in Parliament till the Centre gives in to the farmers’ demands on the floor of the House. Also, the farmers have made it clear that they will not be satisfied with walkouts, pointing out that this only enables the government to carry on with its business unhindered. The SKM warned that if the MPs failed to follow the whip, the farmers would oppose them in the same manner in which the ruling party legislators are facing the ire of the farming community whenever they are stepping out for public activities in Haryana and Punjab. In both states, ruling party legislators are facing social boycott and being heckled regularly. After some instances of farmers manhandling a couple of legislators, the SKM had sent out instructions against such acts and announced that only the politicians’ presence at public events, not personal engagements, would be objected to. To mount pressure on the MPs and the government, the farmers also plan to march to Parliament daily during the monsoon session in batches of 200. Asked how they proposed to do that given the tight security around Parliament and the heavy police presence at the borders where they had been picketing for the past seven months, Rajewal told reporters that the farmers would remain peaceful. “How the government will respond is for it to decide,” he added. This is the third time that farmers are planning to march to Parliament since January. Both the earlier plans had to be aborted. In the first instance, farmers called off their march on February 1 after the Republic Day violence. An attempt to conduct a march in the first fortnight of May had to be shelved because of the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||India-China clash: Jaishankar holds meeting with Wang Yi amid tension||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday that China was not working with India to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh after the successful disengagement in the Pangong Lake area earlier this year. Jaishankar articulated India’s disappointment at China’s failure to work with New Delhi for further disengagement during his meeting with Wang on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation foreign ministers’ meeting in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, where the two held delegation-level talks. This is the second time the two leaders met face-to-face since the escalation of tensions between the two countries in the summer of 2020. According to the official readout on the meeting, Jaishankar recalled their last meeting in Moscow in September 2020 and emphasised the need to follow through on the agreement reached then and complete the disengagement along the LAC in eastern Ladakh at the earliest. “EAM (external affairs minister) pointed out to State Councillor that the successful disengagement in the Pangong Lake area earlier this year had created conditions for resolving the remaining issues. It was expected that the Chinese side would work with us towards this objective. EAM noted however that the situation in remaining areas is still unresolved,” the statement said. Pointing out that bilateral relations had been impacted in a negative manner because of the prolonged tensions, Jaishankar reminded Wang that peace and tranquillity in the border areas has been the foundation for the development of ties since 1988. “The attempts to change status quo last year that also disregarded commitments under the 1993 and 1996 agreements have inevitably affected ties,” he said, stressing that early resolution of the remaining issues while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols is in mutual interest. Earlier, while addressing the SCO Afghan Contact Group, Jaishankar said the world, the region and the Afghan people wanted an independent, neutral, unified, peaceful, democratic and prosperous Afghanistan. “Besides, what the world is hoping for is an end to the violence and terrorist attacks against civilians and state representatives, settlement of conflict through political dialogue, and respect for the interests of all ethnic groups. And, the region wants an assurance that neighbours will not be threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism,” he said. Arguing that the world will not legitimise seizure of power by violence and force, the minister added: “Peace negotiations in earnest is the only answer. An acceptable compromise that reflects the Doha process, Moscow format and the Istanbul process is essential. The future of Afghanistan cannot be its past. A whole new generation has different expectations. We should not let them down.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Vaccine: Centre blames states for poor management of campaign ||The Union health ministry on Wednesday blamed the states and private hospitals for poorly managing the Covid-19 vaccination campaign amid continued complaints of vaccine shortages by some states and people being denied doses at inoculation centres. The health ministry said many private hospitals had not requisitioned doses earmarked for them. In many cases, payments were pending on orders and, in some cases, vaccines paid for had not been “lifted” by states or private hospitals. States have been “advised to ensure speedy and effective coordination” between private hospitals and the vaccine suppliers to remove bottlenecks, the ministry said after Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a meeting of health officials from 15 states and vaccine suppliers. But health experts said the Centre had flagged classical supply chain management issues that likely coexisted with the vaccine shortages in the country that the health ministry had denied but vaccinology researchers and industry executives had described as inevitable. “There are such problems on the ground — but we need to ask whether they’re being used to cover up for supply shortages,” a public health specialist familiar with the discussions during the meeting told The Telegraph. “It is clear there are gaps between demand and supply.” The country’s vaccination campaign has over the past two weeks administered on an average slightly lower than 4 million doses per day, although it needs to administer over 8.5 million doses daily to fully vaccinate the estimated 940 million population by the year-end. “Irrespective of the supply chain management issues, the shortages are evident from the differences between what we need and what we’re getting,” said the public health specialist who requested not to be named. The lack of orders from private hospitals suggests that the 25 per cent reservation for the private sector is actually slowing down the campaign, said R. Ramakumar, a professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. Under the current vaccine distribution formula, the Centre procures 75 per cent of available doses for free distribution through states and reserves 25 per cent for private hospitals where Covaxin is available for about Rs 1,250 per dose and Covishield for about Rs 780 per dose. “The vast majority of our population cannot afford this. Two doses for a person will eat away half a month’s income for a household at the poverty line,” said Ramakumar, who has filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking changes in the vaccination policy and 100 per cent free vaccines. Experts tracking global vaccination orders and industry executives had earlier this year predicted India would face acute shortages in the early months of the inoculation campaign because it rapidly expanded the campaign without ensuring the availability of required doses. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday claimed that statements on vaccine shortages and slow availability of vaccines “are not based on facts” and the number of available doses had increased to 135 million in July from 114 million in June. Mandaviya said the Centre had provided advance information on available doses to states and appeared to blame the states for mismanagement. “If mismanagement and long queues of vaccination beneficiaries are being seen, it is clearly evident what the real issue is and who is responsible,” he tweeted. But experts said under the current demand-supply circumstances, where exactly vaccine shortages become visible or acute would hinge on factors such as doses supplied and doses demanded, and how many people opted for specific vaccination sites. A nationwide citizens’ survey has found that 65 per cent of people sampled from 278 districts across India knew someone in their social network who was unable to get a dose after reaching a vaccination centre over the past week. Respondents from Delhi, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Tamil Nadu were among those who knew someone — among family or friends — in their social network who was unable to get jabs, the private survey conducted by Local Circles, a community social media platform, has found. Among 8,931 respondents, 20 per cent knew four or more people who couldn’t get a dose after reaching a vaccination centre, 26 per cent who knew two or three people and 19 per cent who knew one person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi walks out of defence panel meet||Rahul Gandhi and some other MPs walked out of a meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on defence on Wednesday after his request for a discussion on the border dispute with China was turned down. The scheduled topic for discussion on Wednesday was a briefing on the working of cantonment boards. Rahul had in the past objected to the discussion of apparently irrelevant issues like soldiers’ uniform in parliamentary committee meetings. Rahul is of the view that parliamentary committees should discuss strategic and policy matters instead of wasting time on subjects which can be decided by officials. The Narendra Modi government will have to face uncomfortable questions on China in the coming Parliament session as the Congress has decided to raise the border issue, in addition to new revelations in the Rafale deal along with price rise, Covid mismanagement, farm laws and unemployment. The issues were decided at the party’s strategy committee meeting called by president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday evening. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge has been assigned the task of coordinating with other like-minded parties to decide the parliamentary strategy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
15-07-2021||India||Bihar minister reiterates need to build dams in Nepal to reduce flood ||A Bihar minister has reiterated the need for building high dams in Nepal to reduce the flood fury in the state and also demanded reconsidering the necessity of the Farakka barrage on the Ganga. Flood in the northern parts of Bihar usually occurs after heavy rainfall in Nepal, which has the catchment areas of major rivers flowing into the state. The huge volume of water gushing down from the neighbouring country through the Gandak, Kosi, Bagmati, Kamla Balan and dozens of smaller rivers result in the annual deluge in Bihar. “There is a need to construct high dams on major rivers in Nepal for a permanent solution of the flood problem in Bihar. The talks between the governments of India and Nepal on the issue have been going on for several decades, but have not yielded any desired result,” said state water resources minister Sanjay Jha. High dams are constructed on rivers for better control of floods, increased storage for irrigation and to generate hydroelectricity. One of the famous examples is the Aswan High Dam over the Nile in Egypt. The multi-purpose high dam over the Kosi in Nepal was conceptualised way back in 1945 by the British, but has failed to take off. High dams on the Kosi, Kamla and Baghmati rivers were proposed in the later decades, without any tangible progress. Experts have attributed the lack of progress to an apparent lack of enthusiasm from the central and state governments. Altogether 28 out of 38 districts in Bihar are flood-prone and around 68.8 lakh hectares or 73 per cent area of the state suffers from flood almost every year, resulting in heavy loss of lives, infrastructure, agriculture and hampering future prospects of development. Jha pointed out that the Farakka barrage has led to huge silt deposit in the upstream of Ganga over the decades, which has affected the perennial, incessant flow of the river. “Bihar has been demanding discussion and reconsideration of the international treaty related to the Farakka barrage, as well as, inter-state and international sharing of water from the Ganga,” Jha said. Meanwhile, the majority of the flood-causing rivers were flowing above the danger level in Bihar. However, the Ganga, into which all these rivers fall, was still flowing below the danger level in the state. West Champaran, East Champaran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Madhubani, Khagaria, Supaul, Araria and Kishanganj are the worst flood-affected districts. The East Central Railway had to cancel 10 trains, divert five and opt for the short termination and short origination of 10 others after the flooded Baghmati surged up to touch the railway bridge between Muktapur and Samastipur stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
