16-07-2021||India||Covid situation currently under control but can deteriorate; next 100-125 days are critical: Govt||The government on Friday said the recent slow decline in number of daily cases is a warning and though the situation is currently under control, it can deteriorate if Covid appropriate behaviour is not followed, and noted that the next 100-125 days are critical, both for the system and people.  Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said the question of the third wave keeps coming up because the population is still "very vulnerable" to the infection.  "We still have not reached the stage of herd immunity... we don't want to acquire herd immunity through infections. We are progressing in terms of vaccines and nearly 50 per cent of our most vulnerable group, above the age of 45 years, is protected. This will also impact mortality and it will come down, but there can be spread of infection. We are vulnerable. Virus is still around," he warned.  Paul said the next 100-125 days are critical.  "We need to be cautious...we have seen that our decline has slowed down and this is a warning to us but the situation is under control. This can worsen. But it is not in our hands to not let it worsen. These are the same tools (COVID-appropriate behaviour) that are being talked about. If we use them, then the third wave may not hit," he said.  "If we all decide then there won't be any third wave. As vaccination drives pick up further...(in) three, four months, then there is a possibility that we will be in a safe zone. But the next 100-125 days are critical, both for the system and people. We have to remain cautious," he added.  Giving rise to fresh worries about the COVID-19 pandemic rearing its head again, the R-factor, which indicates the speed at which the infection is spreading in the country, has risen recently leading to a sluggish pace in the decline of active cases, while Kerala and northeast states have emerged as regions of concern, an analysis by researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai.  Joint Secretary at the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said though the number of cases of COVID-19 have come down there are still some concerns.  "There are 47 districts in the country across 12 states and UTs where the positivity rate is more than 10 per cent. The states and UTs were Manipur, Kerala, Rajasthan, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Assam, Maharashtra and Puducherry," he said.  He further said that 73 districts are reporting more than 100 daily cases.  "The COVID-19 pandemic is still amidst us and even in limited geography but we are still battling the second wave," he said  Agarwal presented a study in which decline in mask usage can be seen.  "With the resumption of activities, decline in mask usage is being seen. We need to incorporate masks as the new normal in our lives," he said.  He also said community mobility data shows that there has been a rise in mobility in the country in comparison to May 20 when most of the country was under lockdown.  "It is important that as we are returning towards relaxation we must keep in mind the precautions that we have to take like the use of masks, maintaining two-feet distance and hand hygiene," he said.  Agarwal said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday also urged states where COVID-19 cases are rising to take proactive measures to prevent a third wave and stressed on moving forward with the strategy of test, track, treat and 'tika (vaccine)'.  Agarwal said worldwide a surge in cases are being seen.  On April 29, when worldwide 9 lakh new cases were being reported now again a growth trajectory is being observed and in the whole world in the last 24 hours, 5,63,416 new cases have been reported and a surge can be seen.  "If we look at countries around us, we will see that countries like Myanmar, Indonesia, Malaysia and Bangladesh have been reporting a surge in cases," he said.  On slump in vaccination, Agarwal said the government has worked towards increasing production of vaccines, collaborated with manufacturers and the government has also given advanced visibility of next 15 days to states on what particular vaccine doses will be made available.  "The logistic management has to be linked at production and availability at field level and while we appreciate the concern of states to get more vaccine doses we must also appreciate how government of India on one side is increasing production and parallelly ensuring that 75 per cent of doses are given free of cost to states," he said.  Paul added that there can be some issues with fine-tuning and that will be worked upon.  "Whatever the availability of vaccines in a month, it is visible and we share it systematically. It is also right that this number increases. We are hopeful that the production will take place as per the roadmap. All kinds of assistance is being provided. Be rest assured. New vaccine candidates as well as the increasing stockpile is visible. Serum (Institute of India which manufactures Covishield) has increased its production in the last few weeks. There is a roadmap, there is an optimistic scenario and we are approaching it," he said.  On availability of moderna vaccine in the country, Paul said talks are going on.  "...to and fro (talks) are going on over the contractual specifics. Discussions have not yet concluded. We are making efforts as to it happens at the earliest. We are now expecting to hear from them anytime. Currently, they have to respond to some of the points we have made and we will take it forward," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha chairman convenes meeting of party leaders ahead of Monsoon session||Ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament beginning July 19, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has convened a meeting of leaders of various political parties on Saturday.  The meeting will be held at the official residence of the Vice President at 5 PM, sources said.  Over 40 leaders of different parties and ministers have so far confirmed their participation, they said.  The opposition is likely to raise various issues like price rice and inflation, Rafale, Covid management and state of the economy.  The Rajya Sabha has a new Leader of the House in Piyush Goyal, after Thaawarchand Gehlot resigned and became the Governor of Karnataka.  Goyal met former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and NCP leader Sharad Pawar on Friday and Anand Sharma on Thursday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||India Meteorological Department predicts heavy rainfall in country next week||A swelled up Mithi river forced the evacuation of 250 people in rain-battered Mumbai's Kurla area on Friday, even as the temperatures were above normal in several parts of north Indian plains in the absence of rainfall despite the revival of the Southwest Monsoon.  Very light rains and thundershowers occurred at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh though, and a fresh warning of heavy showers was issued in Himachal Pradesh as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in several parts of the country, including the northern region, over the next six-seven days.  The meteorological department said rainfall activity is very likely to increase with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall and heavy to very heavy falls over the western Himalayan region and Uttar Pradesh from July 17 to 20.  Heavy falls are also expected over Punjab, Haryana, east Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh from July 18 to 20 and isolated heavy rainfall over Delhi on July 18, it said, adding that isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Uttar Pradesh on July 18, Jammu on July 19, and Uttarakhand on July 18 and 19.  "Moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning very likely at isolated places over Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and south Rajasthan during next 24 hours. They may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoor," the IMD said.  It said widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are also very likely to continue over the west coast and remaining parts of west peninsular India except over Gujarat during the next six-seven days. Heavy to very heavy falls are very likely over Konkan, Goa, ghat areas of central Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe during same period, the IMD said.  Heavy rainfall is also expected over northeast India, it added. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is likely over northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till July 19 which will decrease in intensity and distribution thereafter, the IMD said.  In Delhi, the maximum temperature settled at 37.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's normal, on Friday, and the minimum temperature was recorded at 27 degrees Celsius.  The weatherman predicted partly cloudy skies with light rain or thundershowers for Saturday.  In Himachal Pradesh, the Met office issued a yellow warning for heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightning in the plains, low hills and middle hills on Saturday. It also issued an orange warning for heavy to very heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightning for July 18-20.  Several parts of the state received light to moderate rains during the day. Sarkaghat gauged 86 mm of rainfall, followed by 52 mm in Nadaun, 49 mm in Jogindernagar and 29 mm in Baijnath, 27 mm in Sujanpur Tira, 19 mm in Kasol, 16 mm in Hamirpur, 14 mm in Bhoranj, 13 in Rampur, 11 mm in Sarahan, 9 mm in Palampur and 4 mm in Mandi, the weather office said.  The maximum temperatures in Haryana and Punjab rose on Friday after a few days of respite brought about by monsoonal rains, with joint capital Chandigarh recording a high of 36.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.  Ambala in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 36.5 degrees Celsius and Hisar 38.1 degrees Celsius. In Rohtak, it was 37.3 degrees Celsius, 37.8 degrees Celsius in Gurgaon and 35 degrees Celsius in Karnal.  In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum of 35.6 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 36.7 degrees Celsius and Patiala 36 degrees Celsius.  According to the Met department forecast for Haryana, heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places on July 18, 19 and 20. The forecast for Punjab says heavy rain is likely at isolated places on July 18, and heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places on July 19 and 20.  In Uttar Pradesh, very light rains along with thundershowers occurred at isolated places. The temperature rose markedly in Moradabad division, while no large changes were seen in the remaining divisions of the state.  The highest maximum temperature in the state was 39.8 degrees Celsius, recorded at the Banda observatory, while the lowest minimum was 24.3 degrees Celsius, recorded at the Muzaffarnagar observatory.  In the western coast, heavy rains pounded Mumbai, especially its suburbs, since Friday morning.  Civic body officials said Mumbai island city recorded 55.3 mm rain as the Eastern and the Western suburbs received 135 mm and 140.5 mm downpour respectively between 4 am and 9 am.  Due to the downpour, several low-lying areas in the eastern and the western suburbs witnessed waterlogging, which led to traffic snarls on arterial roads.  As a result of water-logging, mainly between Sion and Vidya Vihar section on the Central Railway's main line, and Chunabhatti-Tikal Nagar section on the Harbour line, the suburban train services were badly affected.  Tulsi lake, one of the seven reservoirs that supply drinking water to the metropolis, overflowed due to heavy rains, officials said.  In Karnataka, a massive landslip occurred near a tunnel on the Kulshekar-Padil stretch of the railway track from Mangaluru to Thokur following heavy rains in the last few days, affecting all trains on the Konkan route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Reports claiming many Indian kids missed routine vaccinations due to Covid not based on facts: Govt   	||The government on Friday clarified that it has worked with states, union territories and development partners towards mitigating negative impacts of Covid-19, and was making efforts to ensure children receive life-saving vaccines under the Universal Immunization Programme. The clarification comes a day after Unicef said India has the highest number of under-vaccinated or unvaccinated children worldwide at 3.5 million. In a statement, the health ministry, without naming anyone, said there have been some media reports alleging that lakhs of Indian children may have missed their routine vaccinations due to disruptions caused by Covid-19, leading to an increased risk of future outbreaks and deaths. ”These reports are not based on facts and do not reflect the true picture,” the ministry said.      It further clarified that since the outbreak of the pandemic, the ministry has been focused towards maintaining essential services, including immunisation under the Universal Immunization Programme (UIP). ”The ministry along with all states and UTs and development partners, has worked towards mitigating negative impacts of Covid-19 and taking urgent actions to ensure that children receive life-saving vaccines under UIP,” the ministry said. Further, as a result of the commitment of the government and the public health workforce, the country has achieved 99 per cent DTP3 coverage in the first quarter of 2021 (January-March) which is the highest DTP3 coverage measured till date, it said. Unicef had on Thursday said that India – particularly hard hit by the Covid-19 pandemic – had the highest number of unprotected children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million compared with 2019, when the number of unprotected children was 2.1 million. Unprotected children are those who are unvaccinated (no vaccine) or under-vaccinated (incomplete vaccination), that is, any child who has not received any or few doses of their due vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Amarinder expresses reservation over Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief in letter to Sonia||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is learnt to have written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing reservation over Navjot Singh Sidhu's possible appointment as the state party chief. The Punjab CM is learnt to have mentioned that there could be an adverse impact on the party's prospects in the upcoming Assembly polls by ignoring the old guard, according to Congress sources. In another development, Congress general secretary and in-charge of Punjab affairs at the AICC Harish Rawat is likely to meet Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh on Saturday. Earlier in the day, Congress MP and senior party leader Manish Tewari gave details of the composition of the state's population, appearing to bat for a Hindu face for the post. There are reports that Sidhu is likely to be made the Punjab Congress chief. There is also talk of appointing two working presidents a Dalit and a Hindu face to balance the caste equations. The names of minister Vijay Inder Singla and MP Santokh Chaudhary are doing rounds for the post of working presidents. But Amarinder expressed his displeasure over Sidhu being given a key post, said the sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Central Vista project: Republic Day parade next year to be held on refurbished Rajpath||The Republic Day parade next year will be held on the refurbished Rajpath as the redevelopment work of the Central Vista Avenue, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, is expected to be completed by this November, officials said on Friday. Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who reviewed the status of construction works, said citizens will get an avenue that they will be proud of. ”Reviewed the status of ongoing construction works of Central Vista Avenue project with the secretary of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, officials of ministry and CPWD, contractor and architect Bimal Patel. The progress so far is satisfactory and on schedule. Citizens will get an avenue they will be proud of,” he tweeted. An official in the ministry said that the Rajpath redevelopment project includes large scale stonework, construction of underpasses, underground amenities blocks and horticulture work and sufficient space for parking. ”Twelve bridges on artificial ponds are being built. People visiting Rajpath will have an amazing experience. The redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue will be completed by November and the Republic Day parade next year will be held on the newly-developed Rajpath,” the official said. Infrastructure firm Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Limited has been executing the project as part of the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new prime minister residence and PMO, and new Vice President Enclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Haryana court denies bail to Jamia shooter in hate speech case||A Haryana court on Friday rejected the bail plea of a 19-year-old man arrested this week for allegedly making hate speeches - he allegedly made comments urging the abduction and killing of girls from a particular religious community at a gathering attended by Haryana BJP spokesperson and Karni Sena president Suraj Pal Amu, reports NDTV. The accused is the same person, identified as Rambhagat Gopal Sharma aka Ram Bhakt Gopal, who fired on anti-citizenship law protesters near Delhi's Jamia Millia University in January last year, injuring one student. He was then only 17 years old. Denying him bail, Judicial Magistrate of Pataudi Mohd Sageer said, “The consequences of these kind of activities may be far more dangerous and it may translate into communal violence." According to the NDTV report, the Gurgaon court said its "conscience was utterly shocked" on viewing a video recording of the incident, and that Indian society needed to tackle "... these kind of persons... who, if given a chance, would organise a mass murder to kill innocent lives based on their own religious hatred..." "The accused standing before the court is not a simple, innocent young boy knowing nothing... rather (his actions) show that (with) what he has done in the past.... now become capable of executing his hatred without fear... and that he can move the mass to involve his hatred." The court slammed the idea that 'free speech' and 'freedom of expression' meant controversial and incendiary comments, such as those allegedly made by the accused, were acceptable. "Freedom of speech is an integral part of any democratic country... however, this freedom has reasonable restrictions. None can be allowed to ignite fire... because he has freedom of speech and can direct hatred towards a particular group or religious community," the court declared. The court also reminded the police and state government of its constitutional duty - "to ensure that citizens of India, of any religion, faith or caste, should not feel unprotected... and that such hate-mongers cannot walk freely without fear". "The act of the accused, i.e., hate speech qua instigating abduction and killing of girls from a particular religious community, is itself a form of violence, and such people and inflammatory speeches are an obstacle to the growth of a true democratic spirit," the court stressed. The accused was arrested on Monday and charged with attacks upon the religion of a particular group and for deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage a group's religious feelings. Arrested in January last year for firing upon a crowd of anti-CAA protesters in Delhi, he was out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Govt formalises registration process of vintage motor vehicles||Road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said his ministry has formalised the registration process of vintage motor vehicles in India, to promote and preserve the heritage of such vehicles. The Centre in November last year had said it intends to formalise the registration process of the vintage motor vehicles, and had sought public comments for proposed rules regarding this. “With an aim to preserve and promote the heritage of vintage vehicles, the MoRTH has formalised the registration process of vintage motor vehicles in India,” Gadkari said in a series of tweets. With no existing rules for regulating the process of registration across different states, he said the new rules shall provide a hassle-free process along with salient features such as retention of old number for already-registered vehicles and a 'VA' series (unique registration mark) for fresh registrations. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) had invited public comments for proposed rules on registering vintage vehicles. “The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has published GSR 734 (E) dated November 25, 2020, seeking comments and suggestions in regards to amendment to CMVR, 1989, relating to vintage motor vehicles,” it had said. CMVR stands for Central Motor Vehicles Rules. The draft rules define vintage motor vehicles as all those vehicles that are two-wheelers and four-wheelers (non-commercial and personal use) and are more than 50 years old from the date of their first registration (including imported vehicle). There is a restriction in the definition — no substantial overhaul of the vehicles that includes modification in chassis or body shell, and/or engine. A vintage motor vehicle is allowed to run on Indian roads only for display, technical research or taking part in a vintage car rally, refuelling and maintenance, exhibitions, vintage rallies, and to and fro to such exhibition or car rally. The government had said the objective is to preserve and promote the heritage of old vehicles in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Delhi BJP stages protest near Kejriwal's residence over water crisis ||Leaders and workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Delhi unit staged a protest near Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence in the Civil Lines area here on Friday over the water crisis in the national capital. Led by Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, the protesters raised anti-government slogans and demanded that clean and pure drinking water be supplied. Gupta, Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and others first gathered at the Chandgi Ram Akhara near Ring Road and then marched towards the chief minister's residence on Flagstaff Road. The protesters were stopped around 500 metres from the chief minister's house by police, a BJP leader said. Addressing the gathering, Gupta alleged that schemes for water production and distribution announced in the last seven years have not yet started. The Delhi government is responsible for the water crisis in the city as it is in connivance with the tanker mafia, the BJP leader alleged. Later in a statement, the BJP claimed that during the protest, party workers tried to cut off the water supply to the CM's residence but the heavy presence of police there thwarted their attempt. ”Gupta alleged that Kejriwal seems to have forgotten many promises on the basis of which he came to power and rather, he is now eyeing other states for the political expansion of his party…he seems to be on political tourism to other states thereby conveniently forgetting all this,” the BJP alleged in the statement. The Delhi government has been blaming Haryana for the shortage of water in the city over the last few days. Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha had alleged that the Haryana government was releasing less water than prescribed for the national capital, thereby creating a shortage in some parts of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Rajnath Singh briefs Sharad Pawar, AK Antony on China issue||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday met Congress leader AK Antony and NCP chief Sharad Pawar and is learnt to have briefed them about the border row with China in eastern Ladakh as well as the current situation in the region, people familiar with the development said. The former defence ministers were also provided with some details about India's military preparedness in the region during the meeting, which was also attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, they said. The meeting is seen as an effort by Singh to reach out to the Opposition ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament beginning July 19. However, there was no official comment about the meeting. Earlier in the day, Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal also met opposition leaders, including Pawar and former prime minister Manmohan Singh. Congress has already indicated that it will raise the border row with China in the Parliament. While Antony served as India's defence minister from October 2006 to May 2014, Pawar held the post from June 1991 to March 1993. On Wednesday, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held talks with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe on the sidelines of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). During the talks, Jaishankar firmly conveyed to Wang that prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a "negative manner" and rued that there was no forward movement since the disengagement in Pangong lake areas in February. At the meeting, the two foreign ministers agreed to hold the next round of military dialogue at the earliest to discuss all the remaining issues. There has been a stalemate in the disengagement process between the two militaries in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh after they withdrew troops and weapons from the Pangong lake areas in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the standoff. The standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh began in early May last year. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been maintaining that full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for the development of overall ties between the two sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||One killed in helicopter crash at Maharashtra's Jalgaon||One occupant was killed and another injured as a helicopter crashed on Friday evening in Jalgaon district of north Maharashtra, a police official said. The incident took place near Wardi village in the district's Chopda area, which is part of the Satpura mountain ranges, and information was received by authorities around 5:15 pm, he said. "One occupant was declared dead on arrival by hospital authorities while the second person has sustained injuries," he said. One of the occupants was a woman but it was not yet clear who was piloting the helicopter, he said. Later during the day, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia expressed shock over the crash and said that the "aircraft belonged to "NMIMS Academy of Aviation", which is based out of Dhule district. An investigation team is being rushed to the site of the crash, Scindia said on Twitter. "Unfortunately, we lost the flight instructor & the trainee is severely injured. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family & prayers for the trainee's quick recovery," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi gets into chatty mode in bid to revamp social media outreach||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday signalled a shift in his social media outreach, going from mostly commentative to conversational with this simple poser: "I'm wondering what you guys are reading these days?" Gandhi's communication on Twitter and maybe other social media platforms is set for a makeover and will get more interactive in the days to come, party insiders said. And the casual, informal question on Twitter is perhaps the first step towards that. Sources said the former Congress president, who has 19.3 million followers on Twitter, may in the next few days share on Twitter the books he is reading. Gandhi -- who usually posts trenchant comments about the government, makes observations on news developments of the day, tagging articles of interest, or condoles the death of a known person now wants his social media engagement to be more interactive so his connect with people increases, the sources added. Pratishtha Singh, a former Mahila Congress functionary, is playing a key role in reshaping his outreach on Twitter. The un-following of some Twitter handles, including of journalists and some of his staff, was also part of his social media revamp, the insiders said. On his birthday on June 19, Gandhi for the first time responded on Twitter to random people who wished him. He also replied to political leaders who had extended wishes to him on the social media platform. In less than an hour, Friday's open ended question on what his followers are reading saw more than 13,000 likes and 2,200 comments many trolling him and some responding earnestly with their book list. In the coming few days, more interactive engagements are in store from Gandhi's handle, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||B.S Yediyurappa in Delhi meets Narendra Modi on state issues||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa Friday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi here and requested him to facilitate early implementation of some pending state works including the Mekedatu dam project. Yediyurappa, who is visiting the national capital amid speculations about a leadership change in the state, sidestepped reporters' questions on the issue. "I don't know. You have to tell," he told the reporters with a smile. "I requested the PM to facilitate for early implementation of some state works. He has agreed for all." Asked if the Mekedatu dam project across the Cauvery river was also discussed, he said "all issues" came up. The CM said he would share the details of the meeting on Saturday before returning to Bengaluru. Before meeting the PM, the CM said he would call on some of the Center's key ministers including Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh on Saturday. He also told reporters before the meeting that the state has got every right to implement the Mekedatu project and will start the work. "They (TN) have been opposing us since the beginning but we have got our rights. I request them not to disturb us." He also assured Tamil Nadu that the implementation of the proposed project will not create any problem to them. "I have written to them (TN CM) about the matter, but they are not letting us (implement the project)." "There is no need to have confusion. I want to assure our state that we will cent percent implement the Mekedatu project," he added. On a likely Cabinet rejig in the BJP-ruled state, Yediyurappa said before meeting the PM, "I will tell you if any discussion (happens) with seniors over the restructuring or expansion of the Cabinet." No state minister is accompanying the chief minister during his trip. However, his son B Y Vijayendra has come. The Rs 9,000-crore Mekedatu balancing reservoir and drinking water project across the Cauvery river in Ramanagara district aims at utilising 4.75 TMC of water for drinking purposes in Bengaluru and neighbouring areas besides generating 400 MW power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi starts two-day Lucknow tour with silent protest against BJP||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrived at Lucknow on a two-day election-preparation visit to a rousing reception by party workers, and started with a silent protest before a Mahatma Gandhi statute against the BJP government in the state. The party's Uttar Pradesh in-charge reached Lucknow's Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport in the afternoon and moved in a procession through the main roads of the state capital to the Hazratganj GPO Park Gandhi statue and garlanded it. After that, she sat on a silent protest before the statue against the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in the state. She was joined by her party leaders including state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu. Lallu said, "Women are not safe in the state. Priyankaji is sitting on a maun vrat (silent protest) at the feet of Mahatma Gandhi for ending this jungle raj and to uproot this dictatorial government." Congress legislature party leader Aradhana Misra alleged widespread irregularities during the recent panchayat polls, especially flagging "the treatment given to women". "The party national general secretary is sitting on the maun vrat against the sad state of affairs in the state," Misra said. Priyanka Gandhi's visit to the state comes as it prepares for the Assembly polls early next year. She faces an uphill task of reviving the party to a position of strength in the politically crucial state where the Congress was relegated to margins in the 2017 polls, swept by the BJP. As she moved through the roads of the city after her arrival at the airport, Congress workers warmly welcomed her, showering flower petals at various places. Ashok Singh, the Convenor of Media and Communication Department of Uttar Pradesh Congress, said Priyanka Gandhi reached Hazratganj via Alambagh, Charbagh and Bapu Bhawan. He said she will hold a meeting with the state executive, office-bearers and district and city unit presidents on Friday at the Congress officer. After that, she will also meet with various farmer organisations. Priyanka Gandhi will also meet the block Congress presidents of Amethi and Rae Bareli on Saturday, the second day of her tour, and hold a meeting with the office-bearers of the 'Berozgar Manch', a body representing the unemployed. She will also hold a meeting with former MPs, ex-MLAs, former district and city presidents and former heads of frontal organisations and departments and members of zila panchayats and block heads. She is scheduled to return to Delhi Saturday evening, Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Disastrous to vaccinate anyone without trials, especially kids: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Friday said it would be a disaster if COVID-19 vaccines are administered, especially to children, without clinical trials and asked the Centre that it should take steps to quickly vaccinate kids of below 18 years of age once the trials are over as the whole nation is waiting for it. The court was informed by the Centre that clinical trials for the vaccines for children under 18 years of age are going on and on the verge of completion and that a policy will be formed by the government and children will be vaccinated when experts give permission. "Let the trials be done, otherwise it would be a disaster if vaccines are administered without trials that too in case of children," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh observed. "Once trials are over, you quickly apply to children. The whole country is waiting," it added and listed the matter for further hearing on September 6. The high court was hearing a PIL filed on behalf of a minor which sought directions for the immediate vaccination of those in the 12-17 age group on the ground that there were fears a likely third wave of COVID-19 could affect them more. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, said pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila which is developing DNA vaccines has concluded its clinical trial for between the age group of 12 to 18 years of age and subject to the statutory permission, the same may be available in near future for children of the age group of 12 to 18 years of age. The Centre, in the affidavit filed through standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, said vaccination is the top most priority of the government and all efforts are being made to achieve an objective of 100 per cent vaccination in the shortest time possible keeping the available resources in mind and availability of vaccine doses into consideration. It said from May 1, onwards under the new liberalised pricing and accelerated national COVID vaccination strategy, all citizens above the age of 18 years including parents of children who are residing in Delhi are already eligible for the vaccination. The Centre said on May 12, Drug Controller General of India has permitted Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials on the healthy volunteers between 2 to 18 years of age for its vaccine Covaxin. Senior advocate Kailash Vasudev, representing the petitioner, said vaccines are being administered to children of the age group of 8 to 18 years in various countries and the court may ask the authorities to conclude the process in a time bound manner. To this, the bench said the government was saying that trials are going on and there cannot be a time bound schedule for a research. "They are only asking for a breathing time. Everybody is working," the bench said, adding that looking into the stand taken by the Centre that the trials are going on and are at the verge of completion, list the petition on September 6. Meanwhile, the court disposed of another petition seeking to vaccinate class 10th and 12th students since they had to appear for board exams. The court noted that trials for vaccines for children are already going on and that the CBSE has cancelled the exams and now there are no offline mode of examination for students of class 10th and 12th this year. "Looking into these two facts we see no reason to entertain this petition at this stage. Liberty is given to the petitioner to move an appropriate authority for the grievances in future, the bench said. When the petitioner's counsel said the children will need to appear for competitive exams, the bench said they can approach the court at that time. The first PIL was filed seeking directions for immediate vaccination of 12-17 year-old children on the ground that there was an apprehension that a likely third wave of COVID-19 could affect them more. The petition has also sought priority in vaccination to parents of children up to 17 years of age as several kids were orphaned after their parents succumbed to COVID-19 during the second wave. There are two petitioners in the matter -- the first is a minor represented through her mother and the second is a mother of a minor child. The petition has claimed that according to the data of number of persons infected between April 2021 to May 2021, the number of reported cases where children were infected "has risen tremendously" than last year. It has alleged that the vaccine policy of India has failed to factor in children or parents of children for vaccination and the Centre and Delhi government have also failed to prepare a national plan for taking of the minors during the present pandemic. "That globally, countries have fully recognised the importance of vaccinating children, alongside adults, to curb, mitigate the ill effects of the present pandemic and have accordingly and effectively taken measures. "Vaccines for children are being produced and administered in countries such as Canada, United States of America (USA), for children between the ages of 12-17 years," it has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||How Amir Syed’s Animated Times Engages Over A Million Comic Book Fans Every Month||It’s not easy being a class apart. In an industry like the entertainment sector, competition is even more cut throat. And the sites that report on the updates on your favorite Marvel and DC superheroes? They are a dime a dozen. Most of them remain obscure, with barely a bragging presence in the field. And even against such incredibly well stacked odds, Amir Syed’s Animated Times has succeeded in creating a niche that serves a million strong fan base and counting. This is the story of a lone man and his dream of creating  Animated Times. How could anyone consider running an entertainment site as a full time career? No one could make it this way. Stop this and focus on something more real, tangible. These are a few comments Amir Syed had been hearing. A hardcore fan of comic books and superheroes, Syed wanted to start a business of his own ever since he was 12. He barely had any support, starting from scratch when he first launched the website. With a motley skeleton crew, Animated Times hoisted its flag back in 2017. In 4 years, the site which has its HQ in Lucknow, has amassed almost a million followers on Facebook. “Why Animated Times is growing”, says Syed,” is because of the strong community building around the niche”. The site’s social media reach and engagement would make even the bigger players sweat. It enjoys millions of fans it engages with on a daily basis via various facebook pages like Official Avengers Group, and Marvel DC and Everything Nerdy. This forms the core of their strategy since these groups have fans that rave in length about everything pop-culture. This creates additional buzz and formidable earned media. The strategy is simple and self-sustaining, banking on Animated Times’ endearing ability to create viral content. In a country that has more than half a billion comic book fans, the global comic book industry which is worth $7.14 Billion USD finds a very strong footing for the future. India consistently ranks in the top 5 biggest contributors to both Marvel and DC movies. In Asia, India is one of the biggest markets for superhero movies after China, Japan, and South Korea.That was not the case just a few years ago. Amii Syed’s idea of a site reporting on all things pop culture was ridiculed. No one’s laughing at him now. The site posts frequent updates on everything under the sky related to the entertainment industry. And it is regularly lauded by the fans for its originality and creativity. How does Animated Times keep its cogs running while simultaneously ensuring costs remain low, you ask? The answer is simple yet not that easy to execute. Animated Times banks on hiring writers with deep ingrained knowledge in the comic book scene. Instead of hiring veterans, it banks on younger writers with a knack to think outside the box. Animated Times is a tightly run ship. Nothing is left to chance. It is one of India’s first ever sites that reports on Anime, an industry that is gaining popularity just like the superhero genre did a few years ago. It is all a matter of long term, calculated risks. And Animated Times is reaping the rewards of the dividends from those gambles. “The road is long and arduous no doubt”, says Syed. Armed with a creative team of writers, video artists and content creators, he believes Animated Times will surely become a force of nature in the Indian entertainment-media space. But the journey doesn’t stop there. Animated Times intends to take not just India but the global entertainment geek culture by storm. And from the looks of it, it seems to be in the right direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||One of the most affordable luxury car rental company in Dubai :  MasterKey Rent A Car||Travel industry in the last couple of decades have grown tremendously. A recent survey done in the unites states showed that the younger age group of population preferred renting a car more than 50% of times then the other age groups, also vis-vis about purchasing of a new car. No doubt the world has growing population of youngsters who are not behind at all in trying new things and experimenting with cutting-edge technologies and advances. It now has become easier for the new age customer to have things easily available as compared to the ones earlier. The world of millennials and Gen Z’s have taken over with their creative and innovative ideas, companies, services and much more. One niche segment which has progressed tremendously in recent time is the car rental services. More and more entrepreneurs are investing in such start ups and it is gaining humongous popularity all across the world. Let’s read about a car rental company which has propelled themselves in achieving the customers trust and is getting more recognition across UAE- MasterKey Rent A Car. MasterKey Rent A Car have swiftly adapted to growing needs of the consumers and improvised to offer better quality, cost, and energy efficient options to not only sustain but also to excel in the niche segment of car rentals. With tremendous growth and potential of this segment to grow exponentially in coming years, MasterKey Rent A Car have decided to excel in offering of premium and luxury car to its customers. MasterKey Rent A Car has put their right foot forward to enter the segment and further develop their strong hold within the market by offering a wide range of luxurious and exotic cars to cream of crowd. They have provided great impetus to travel industry and mobility services across UAE with their creative collection of premium, exotic, superfast luxury cars. The Brand that they have created for themselves in the market have enormously skyrocketed their revenues and boost sales. Driven more by the values and the task rather than money, MasterKey Rent A Car promises to offer best in class services to its customers. Saving time, offering pick up and drop services, 24*7 road-side assistance, car insurance, Wi-Fi services and GPS systems are some of the notable aspects that comes along their offerings. The customer can choose from more than 60+ exotic cars to be rented/hired. Some of the top cars include- Ferrari, Mercedes, Rolls Royce, Bentley, Lamborghini, Range Rover, Porsche, Maserati etc. Whoa! That’s some fuel for the next gen car lover and enthusiastic. Providing the best ever user experience through their services, MasterKey Rent A Car have become a household name in no time across UAE and is gaining popularity day by day. One of their USP is that they are the only one in Dubai to take transaction via Bitcoin or any other digital coins likes crypto, Ethereum etc. More power to endless driving and long drives for passionate car lovers. For more info, do follow them on Instagram @mkrentacar and visit their website https://mkrentacar.com/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Leave Congress if you are scared, Rahul tells members||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said those who were afraid of facing the reality and the BJP were free to leave the party, while fearless leaders outside the Congress should be brought in. Addressing social media workers of the party at an online event, Gandhi said those who were afraid had left the party and cited the example of Jyotiraditya Scindia. "There are many people who are not scared, but are outside the Congress. All these people are ours. Bring them in, and those scared within our party should be shunted out," he told the social media workers. "They are RSS people and they should go, let them enjoy. We do not want them, they are not needed. We want fearless people. This is our ideology. This is my basic message to you," he also said. Citing the example of Scindia, sources said he told the workers, "He had to save his house and he got scared and he joined the RSS." A number of senior Congress leaders have quit the party to join the BJP in the recent past. These include Scindia and Jitin Prasada. Maharashtra Congress leaders Narayan Rane and Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil had also quit in 2019, besides actor Khushboo Sundar. This is the first time Gandhi addressed around 3,500 party workers of the Congress social media department through video conference using Zoom. Gandhi also interacted personally with around 10 young workers from different fields, the party sources said. He also gave them the message that he was always with them. He asked the social media members not to be afraid of talking to him as they were a part of his family. "You are talking to your brother and you should not be scared," he told them. "You should not be scared and you will never see me being afraid," he said, adding that the Congress wants to give equal rights to all but the RSS wants to benefit only a few. Senior party leader and former Telangana chief Uttam Kumar Reddy quoted Mahatma Gandhi to say that Rahul Gandhi was following in his footsteps. "'The enemy is fear. We think it is hate; but, it is fear' ~ Mahatma Gandhi. "Our leader Shri Rahul Gandhi following in the footsteps of the Mahatma. To defeat the hate propagated by the RSS-BJP, the Congress needs fearless people, not cowards," Reddy tweeted, sharing a video of Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Allegations against Teltumbde prima facie true, says court||A special court here has said that there was sufficient material to show that the allegations against activist Anand Teltumbde, arrested in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, were prima facie true. The court has also said it does not find the accusations against Teltumbde to be "inherently improbable" or "wholly unbelievable", and prima facie he was involved in furthering activities of a banned organisation. Special judge D E Kothalikar, presiding over matters probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), made the observations while rejecting Teltumbde's bail application on July 12, although the detailed order was made available on Friday. "Upon perusal of the documents, including the exchange of e -mails and the statements of the witnesses relied upon by the prosecution, and after cross-checking the truthfulness of the allegations made against the applicane, this court does not find that the accusations are inherently improbable or wholly unbelievable, the court said. "On the contrary, I have no hesitation to conclude that there is sufficient material to enable the court reach to prima facie conclusion that the accusations made against the applicant (Teltumbde) are prima facie true," the judge noted. The court further said there is no hitch to record prima facie satisfaction that there is material against the applicant to show his complicity in the crime. It also noted that evidence and documents submitted by the prosecution prima facie indicate that the applicant was prima facie involved in furthering activities of the banned organisation. The NIA had earlier claimed that Teltumbde was an active member of CPI (Maoist) and propagated its activities. "I hold that there is prima facie ample material on record which would reveal active role and participation of the applicant," the court said. Among other grounds, Teltumbde's lawyer, had urged the court to consider the aspect that the probe in the crime has already been completed and the applicant is a well-qualified person. The court, however, cited a Supreme Court order and noted that the fact that that the charge sheet has been submitted against the applicant cannot be used in favour of the applicant, rather it would go against him. "As stated earlier, the courts considering the bail application are required to maintain a fine balance between the societal interest vis-a-vis personal liberty of the accused, by adhering to the fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence. "In this background, the contention of the applicant that his educational qualification and social background, needs to be considered while deciding bail application, is liable to be discarded, the judge observed. Teltumbde, arrested by the NIA in April last year, had in January 2021 filed a bail application stating that the theory of the prosecution that he was "waging a war or attempting to wage a war or abetting others to wage a war or incite the public is humbug." Teltumbde is presently lodged in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||ED attaches assets  of Anil Deshmukh worth about Rs 4 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) Friday said it has attached assets worth Rs 4.20 crore in connection with its money laundering probe in an extortion-cum-bribery case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his family. A provisional order has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) attaching a residential flat worth Rs 1.54 crore in Mumbai's Worli, and 25 land parcels valued at Rs 2.67 crore in Dhutum village in Raigad district. The central probe agency alleged the attached properties are "beneficially owned" by Deshmukh. The 72-year-old NCP leader has skipped at least three Enforcement Directorate (ED) summonses for questioning in this case. His son Hrishikesh and wife were also summoned by the federal probe agency but they too refused to depose. The summonses were issued in connection with the criminal case registered under the PMLA related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April this year. The ED claimed its probe found that "Deshmukh, while acting as home minister of Maharashtra, with dishonest intention has received illegal gratification of approximately Rs 4.70 crore in cash from various orchestra bar owners, through Sachin Waze, then the assistant police inspector of Mumbai Police (now-suspended)." "Further, with the help of Delhi-based dummy companies, Deshmukh family laundered the tainted money of Rs 4.18 crore and projected it as untainted by showing the same as amount received in the Trust namely Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha," the ED claimed. It said the Worli flat is "beneficially owned" by Deshmukh but is registered in the name of his wife. "It was found that the entire payment (for the flat) was made through cash only in 2004, however, sale deed was done in the month of February, 2020 when Anil Deshmukh was home minister of Maharashtra." "Deshmukh family has acquired 50 per cent ownership in Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd including its assets like land and shops totally valued at approximately Rs 5.34 crore (book value) by merely paying amount of Rs 17.95 lakh, that too after a substantial gap, it said. Deshmukh has denied in the past any wrongdoing in these instances and his lawyers have called the ED action unjustified. He recently approached the Supreme Court with a petition seeking protection from any coercive action by the ED. He had said Param Bir Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner. The agency had last month raided Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from those of his aides and some others. It subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case over Param Bir Singh's allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery. After he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The ED had earlier claimed in the court that Waze recorded his statement before the agency stating he "collected" Rs 4.70 crore cash from Mumbai bar owners and "handed it over" to Deshmukh's personal assistant (Shinde). Waze is lodged in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai in connection with a NIA case related to the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near the residence of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani and the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. The ED said Waze also recorded his statement, saying he attended a meeting at the official residence of the then home minister wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and was asked "to collect Rs 3 lakh per month from each bar and restaurant" in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Success Gyan hosts a power packed Super Growth Summit with 15000+ participants||The Super Growth Summit saw enthusiastic participation from 15,000+ unique users from across 50+ cities over a Zoom Webinar with Keynotes from Gaur Gopal Das, Dr. John Demartini, Ashish Vidyarthi, Blair Singer, Surendran J, Rajiv Talreja, Siddharth Rajsekar, Mac Attram, Puja Puneet, Sawan Kapoor, Dr. Meghana Dikshit, Prachi IMayekar, M V Priyank, and Thaddeus Lawrence. In life and business, the most important stage that could potentially define future courses, is the initial stage of plantation or seeding. This stage is generally attributed to struggle and immense nurturing. The human offspring is said to be amongst one of the most underdeveloped offspring amongst the mammal family. In its initial days, there is a lot of care, attention and nurturing that is required from an external source. Although, the human offspring grows up to become one of the most capable and versatile animals in terms of thinking capacity, creativity, etc., in it’s initial stages this isn’t necessarily reflected immediately. It’s only after years of nurturing, teaching and attention that the offspring moves on the stages of surviving independently and fending for itself. A business or startup, could also be compared to these stages of growth or evolution of a human offspring, according to the organizers of the Super Growth Summit, Success Gyan.  In its nascent stage, a business or company may seem to be too weak or sensitive to overcome the struggle required to survive and eventually lead to success. It is at this stage that there is a need for external nurturing, care and expert advice that could help set a strong foundation for the life ahead.Success Gyan aims to do just that by bringing together world renowned leaders, mentors, trainers and coaches under one platform. By making best-in-class learning accessible to all, Success Gyan has truly hit a chord with the young Indian population that was reflected in the sheer turnout at the event that kicked off on a Saturday morning and ran along till the mid-evening. The Super Growth Summit saw 15,000+ unique users logging into a Zoom webinar eager to listen in to the keynotes from the most prominent speakers in the domain.  The event kicked off with Siddharth Rajsekar, Master Digital Coach and Author of the Amazon Bestseller Book — ‘You Can Coach’,  assuming the role of host by introducing the energetic and charismatic Actor and National Film Award winner, Ashish Vidyarthi. Ashish managed to charge up the crowd with his ‘flawsome-awesome’ & ‘power-packed’ keynote that focused on motivating the viewers to take charge of their own lives in the realms of business, relationships and success by assuming the role of the prime-player in their own lives. Game-led interactions from Transformational Coach, Prachi Mayekar, followed soon after, which got the chat box buzzing with energy and enthusiasm, on an early Saturday morning. This truly reflected the interest levels of the participants that had tuned in from across geographical locations over one true motive -- ‘To Grow and Succeed In Life’. The theme of the event was elegantly carried forward by Thaddeus Lawrence, Integral Coach® & TEDx speaker, who tuned in from Singapore, to the participants through intimate analogies that involved overcoming mentally and physically challenging situations and circumstances. He carefully weaved these interpretations to match the similarities of the struggles that we are often faced with life, business and relationships. Dr. John Demartini, drove the audience through the psychology of winning and the mindset-shift required to truly progress through the stages of struggle and survive in a often challenging and cold world around us. Wellness coach and Sound Healer, M V Priyank, led a session on ‘Sound Healing’ and ‘Meditation Techniques’ that could be used to find warmth within oneself that is required to progress through the stages of struggle and survival. His unique expertise managed to put the participants in a truly meditative state, optimized to absorb all of the knowledge, energy and wisdom on display at the day-long event. Rajiv Talreja, Asia’s leading Business Coach, further broke down the core theme of the event, elucidating the challenges one faces while advancing through the stages of Struggle, Survival and Success. “Struggle is the stage of entrepreneurial journey where one isn’t paying themselves, while survival is the stage where you are able to pay yourself but end up being comfortable due to the lack of ambition. Success is the stage where you are able to not-only pay yourself but also loop-back to the business. This is only achieved by adopting a growth-mindset that approaches business problems and challenges through a ‘Never settle attitude”, he concluded. Rajiv’s insightful speech marked the progression of the event tonality to stages of success and growth. The most anticipated speaker at the event, Gaur Gopal Das, who is an Indian lifestyle coach, monk, motivational speaker and member of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), brought his ever calming presence and aura to the forum through his humorous, simple and impactful 21-minute addressal. “When a traveller was faced with the challenge of either giving up a raft that had previously  helped him overcome a river or get stuck in the forest that lay in front of him due to the girth of the tool. He had to let go of the raft. This is much like the learnings that you accumulate through the stages of struggle and survival. The same tools might not be applicable for the next stage of super growth. Learn to let go and detach yourself from the tools of the past and set yourself up to be ready for new and unprecedented challenges that may come your way. This is the true way to success and super growth”, the charismatic monk noted to conclude the event. Motivated by the positive turnout and feedback from the audience, Success Gyan also announced its plans to host the next Super Growth Summit on September 11th, 2021. Find out more at: https://www.supergrowthsummit.com/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Delta variant behind most breakthrough clinical Covid-19 cases, says study||The Delta variant of SARS-COV-2 was behind majority of clinical cases of breakthrough infection of Covid-19 but only 9.8 per cent cases required hospitalisation and fatality was observed in only 0.4 per cent cases, according to a new ICMR study. Breakthrough infection is if one gets infected even after immunisation. The study, the largest and first nation-wide study of post-vaccination breakthrough infections from India, said its analysis shows that the vaccination does provide reduction in hospital admission and mortality. "Therefore, enhancing the vaccination drive and immunising the populations quickly would be the most important strategy to prevent further deadly waves of the Covid-19 and would reduce the burden on the health care system," the study said. Two new SARS-CoV-2 variants Delta AY.1 and AY.2 were also identified in these study samples. "Delta AY.1 and AY.2 is characterized by the presence of K417N mutation in the spike protein region. K417N, E484K, L452R, and E484Q are the mutations known to disrupt receptor binding domain (RBD) binding capacity and make them more infectious by immune escape mechanisms against the current vaccines. This indicates improved virus fitness to evade immune responses and survive against the vaccines," the study said. For the study, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) collected 677 clinical samples (throat swab/nasal swabs) of individuals who had received two doses and one dose of vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin,) and tested positive for COVID-19, from 17 states and Union Territories of the country. This study indicated that the majority of the clinical cases in the breakthrough were infected with the Delta variant and only 9.8 per cent cases required hospitalization while fatality was observed in only 0.4 per cent cases. "The overall majority (86.09 per cent) of the breakthrough infections were caused by the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) of SARS-CoV-2 in different regions of India except for the northern region where the Alpha variant predominated," the study said. The present study revealed the infection among breakthrough cases predominantly occurred through Delta variants indicating its high community transmission during March-June followed by Alpha and Kappa variants. In the study, 67 cases (9.8 per cent) required hospitalization and fatality was observed in only three cases (0.4 per cent). The 17 states and Union Territories from where the samples were collected are Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Manipur, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Chandigarh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Puducherry, New Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand. The study found that southern, western, eastern and north-western regions of India predominantly reported breakthrough infections from mainly Delta and then Kappa variant of SARS-CoV-2. Out of the 677 patients analysed, 85 acquired Covid-19 infection after taking the first dose of the vaccine, while 592 were infected after receiving both doses of the vaccine. A total of 604 patients had received Covishield vaccine, 71 had received Covaxin and two had received Sinopharm vaccine. A total of 482 cases (71 per cent) were symptomatic with one or more symptoms, while 29 per cent had asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||T-Series managing director Bhushan Kumar booked for rape||Mumbai police have registered a case against T-Series company's managing director Bhushan Kumar, son of music baron late Gulshan Kumar, for allegedly raping a woman on the promise of providing a job to her, an official said on Friday. The offence was registered at D N Nagar police station in Andheri (West) on the basis of the complaint lodged by the 30-year-old woman, he said. However, the police did not give details about when the alleged crime took place. As per the complaint, Bhushan Kumar allegedly raped the woman on the pretext of providing a job to her in some projects of his own company, the official said. The woman said she was cheated by him and hence she approached the police, he added. According to him, Kumar has been booked under IPC sections 376 (rape), 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation), T-Series is a music record label and film production company founded by Gulshan Kumar, also known as the 'Cassette king', who was shot dead in 1997 in Andheri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Heavy downpour pounds Mumbai as city records 253.3 mm rainfall||Around 250 residents of a slum-dominated area in Mumbai's Kurla were evacuated on Friday morning as the Mithi river swelled up following heavy rains in the city and its suburbs, which also affected the local train services, officials said. However, as the water level of the river later subsided, these people returned to their places, they said. People residing in Kranti Nagar, a slum-dominated area in Kurla West, located along the bank of Mithi river, were shifted to nearby municipal schools after its water level touched 3.7 metres in the morning with its danger mark being 4 metres, an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Mithi river originates from Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Borivali and meets the Arabian sea at Mahim creek. During the 2005 Mumbai flooding, areas around the Mithi river were the most affected and Army had to be called in to rescue and shift locals. Hundreds of people had died in the floods that year. The official said that after the rains took a break following the evacuation of people, the Mithi river's water level went down to two metres from 3.7 metres. After that, most of the evacuated people returned to their places. Heavy rain pounded Mumbai, especially its suburbs, since early morning, the BMC officials said, adding that Mumbai island city recorded 55.3 mm rain, while 135 mm and 140.5 mm rain in Eastern and Western suburbs, respectively between 4 am to 9 am. A civic official said that the H-East administrative ward of the BMC, which includes areas like Bandra east and Khar east, recorded the highest rainfall of 186.9 mm, followed by 175.5 mm rain in the M-west ward that includes Shivaji Nagar, Govandi and Mankhurd areas during those five hours. Due to the downpour, several low-lying areas in the eastern and western suburbs witnessed water-logging, which led to traffic snarls on the arterial roads. As a result of water-logging, mainly between Sion and Vidya Vihar section on the Central Railway's mainline, and Chunabhatti-Tikal Nagar section on the Harbour line, the suburban train services were badly affected. A Central Railway spokesperson said the suburban services on both these lines were hit due to water-logging and it led to the bunching of trains. Due to this, suburban services ran behind schedule and the operations of some long-distance trains were also hit, he said. Mumbai has received 253.3 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8 am on Friday, making it the city's third-highest single-day rainfall in July in the last 12 years, the IMD data has revealed. This 24-hour period rainfall was recorded by India Meteorological Department's Santacruz observatory in the state capital. On July 15, 2009, Mumbai had received 274.1 mm rainfall, while on July 2, 2019, it had recorded 376.2 mm rainfall, the IMD records showed. Another observatory in Mumbai - Colaba - however, recorded only 12.8 mm rainfall during the 24-hour period till Friday morning. Both the observatories also pointed out that Mumbai has received more rains than its average rainfall. The Santacruz observatory has reported a departure of 609.1 mm rainfall as it has recorded 1,544.9 mm rainfall since June 1. Similarly, the Colaba weather station has reported a departure of 132.68 mm rainfall as it has received 1,068.4 mm rainfall since June 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi takes jibe at Modi over praise of UP govt's Covid handling||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for praising the Uttar Pradesh government for its handling of the Covid crisis, saying his "certificate" cannot hide the truth of the Yogi Adityanath dispensation's "cruelty, negligence and mismanagement" during the second wave of the coronavirus. Modi, during his visit to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on Thursday, praised the Uttar Pradesh government for its handling of the Covid crisis and said the way it had controlled the second wave was "unprecedented". "Modi ji's certificate cannot hide the truth of Yogi government's aggressive cruelty, negligence and mismanagement during the second wave of coronavirus spread in Uttar Pradesh," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "People faced enormous hardships, helplessness alone. This truth can be forgotten by Modi ji, Yogi ji, but not by those who suffered the pain of coronavirus," the Congress general secretary in-charge UP said.  Describing the efforts of the Uttar Pradesh government in combating COVID-19 as "commendable", the prime minister had said the state's population is more than a dozen big countries but the way "it has controlled the second wave of coronavirus and stopped its spread is unprecedented".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui killed in Afghanistan||Danish Siddiqui, a Pulitzer Prize winning Indian photojournalist who worked for Reuters news agency, was killed on Friday in Afghanistan while covering the fierce fighting between Afghan troops and the Taliban militants near a border crossing with Pakistan in Kandahar province. Siddiqui, 38, was on an assignment covering the clashes in the volatile Kandahar region, as the US withdraws its forces from Afghanistan ahead of the August 31 deadline set by President Joe Biden. He is is survived by his wife Rike and two young children. Afghan special forces had been fighting to retake the main market area of Spin Boldak in Kandahar province when Siddiqui and a senior Afghan officer were killed in what they described as Taliban crossfire, an Afghan commander told Reuters. "We are deeply saddened to learn that our photographer, Danish Siddiqui, has been killed in Afghanistan," Reuters President Michael Friedenberg and Editor-in-Chief Alessandra Galloni said in a statement. He was embedded with Afghanitan special forces in Kandahar province when they came under attack on Friday morning. "Danish was an outstanding, Pulitzer prize-winning journalist, a devoted husband and father, and a much-loved colleague. Our thoughts are with his family at this terrible time, they said. "We are urgently seeking more information, working with authorities in the region," the statement said. In New Delhi, the Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, while responding to media queries, said that "Our Ambassador in Kabul is in touch with Afghan authorities. We are keeping his family informed of the developments." Afghanistan's ambassador to India, Farid Mamundzay, said he was deeply disturbed by the news of "the killing of a friend". "I met him 2 weeks ago before his departure to Kabul. Condolences to his family & Reuters," Mamundzay tweeted. With foreign troops withdrawing from Afghanistan after 20 years, the Taliban are rapidly capturing territory from government forces across the country, sparking fears of a potential civil war. The killing of Siddiqui comes as the Taliban captured Spin Boldak district in Kandahar, near a key border post with Pakistan, this week. Fierce fighting has been underway in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the last few days. Pakistan this week closed down the Friendship Gate crossing at the Chaman border in Balochistan province following reports of Taliban fighters taking control of the key border crossing point Spin Boldak in Afghanistan. Clashes between the government forces and the Taliban have intensified since US troops began to withdraw from the country. The Taliban recently claimed their fighters had retaken 85 per cent of territory in Afghanistan - a figure disputed by the government. According to the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), a total of 53 journalists have been killed in Afghanistan between 1992 and 2021. Siddiqui was based in Mumbai. He had received the Pulitzer Prize as part of the Photography staff of Reuters news agency. In 2018, Siddiqui won the prestigious Pulitzer Prize in feature photography. He won it alongside a colleague and five others for their work documenting the violence faced by Myanmar's minority Rohingya community. Siddiqui graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK Mass Communication Research Centre at Jamia in 2007. He started his career as a television news correspondent, switched to photojournalism, and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010. The photojournalist was the head of Reuters' multimedia team in India. His heartbreaking drone images of funeral pyres during Covid's brutal second wave in India had spotlighted global attention on the country. He had also reported on anti-CAA protests in India and won his Pulitzer for his reports on the Rohingya camps in 2018. Friends and colleagues described a man who cared deeply about the stories he covered, carrying out meticulous research before embarking on assignments and always focusing on the people caught up in the news. "Even in breaking news cycles he would think about humanising a story, and you see that so often in his pictures, including those that won the Pulitzer and stories we have done in the last few years," said Devjyot Ghoshal, a Reuters correspondent based in New Delhi and a neighbour of Siddiqui. "Covering the Delhi riots together and the Covid-19 pandemic more recently – his most compelling images were about people, isolating the human element." Siddiqui graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK Mass Communication Research Centre at Jamia in 2007. He started his career as a television news correspondent, switched to photojournalism, and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010. This comes as the Taliban captured Spin Boldak district in Kandahar this week. Fierce fighting has been underway in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the last few days. (With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||PM asks states with rising Covid cases to take proactive steps to prevent third wave||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged states where Covid-19 cases are rising to take proactive measures to prevent a third wave and stressed on moving forward with the strategy of test, track, treat and 'tika (vaccine)'. Modi said apprehensions about a third wave of the coronavirus are being expressed with number of cases in some states a matter of concern. During an interaction with chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala, he said that 80 per cent of the new Covid cases last week were from these states. Rise in Covid cases in Maharashtra and Kerala is a matter of grave concern for the country, Modi said. It is very important that the states, where cases are increasing, should take proactive measures to prevent any possibility of a third wave, the prime minister said. "We have to move forward with our strategy of test, track, treat and tika," Modi said, adding that special attention needs to be paid to micro-containment zones. Emphasising on the need to prevent crowds from gathering at public places, Modi said there is a need to be aware, alert and strict in this regard. He said funds are being made available to all states for making available new intensive care unit (ICU) beds, increasing testing capacity and for all other needs. Recently, the central government released an emergency COVID-19 response package of more than Rs 23,000 crore, Modi pointed out. The prime minister on Tuesday had interacted with chief ministers of eight North-Eastern states, another region of concern, through video conferencing, and had said the vaccination drive needs to be continuously ramped up to deal with the pandemic. He had also said that it is a matter of concern that big crowds are thronging hill stations and market areas without masks and social distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||SC asks Uttar Pradesh to reconsider holding even symbolic Kanwar Yatra||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to apprise it by July 19 on whether it would reconsider its decision to hold a symbolic Kanwar Yatra in the state, saying the right to life is paramount. "We are of prima facie view that it concerns all of us and is at the heart of the fundamental right to life. The health of citizens of India and right to life is paramount, all other sentiments whether being religious is subservient to this basic fundamental right," said the court, placing the matter for hearing on Monday. A bench of Justices RF Nariman and B R Gavai said that it is of the prima facie view that all kinds of sentiments are subservient to Article 21 of the Constitution. "We can give you one more opportunity to consider holding yatra physically at all. This or else we pass an order. We are all Indians and this suo motu has been taken up as Article 21 applies to all of us. Either you reconsider to have it at all or we deliver," the bench said. It said the Uttar Pradesh government cannot be allowed to hold Kanwar Yatra in view of Covid. The top court's direction came after the Uttar Pradesh government told the bench that it has decided after relevant discussions to hold a symbolic Kanwar Yatra with appropriate Covid restrictions. "The UP disaster Management Authority discussed this issue and said those who undertake yatra must be fully vaccinated. Gangajal is being kept at tankers at locations," CS Vaidyanathan, appearing for the state, told the SC. To this, Justice Nariman replied, "We all are citizens of India Article 21- right to life applies to all. UP cannot go ahead with physical yatra." Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the Centre told the top court that states shall not be allowed to hold Kanwar Yatra in view of Covid and arrangements for Ganga water should be made by tankers at specified places. The counsel for Uttarakhand told the top court that it has by its notification has decided to ban Kanwar Yatra for this year due to Covid-19. On July 14, the top court had taken suo motu cognisance of media reports on the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to allow 'Kanwar Yatra' amidst the Covid-19 pandemic and sought responses from the state as well as the Centre "given the disparate political voices" on the matter. It had referred to the statement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that not even a bit of compromise can be made on Covid-19 containment and said the citizens were perplexed about the happenings in view of the fact that the UP government has allowed the religious 'yatra' commencing from July 25. It had issued notices to the Centre and the state governments of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The fortnight-long yatra which begins with the onset of the month of Shravan by the Hindu calendar goes on till the first week of August and sees a large gathering of Kanwariyas in Haridwar in Uttarakhand from neighbouring states including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to collect the holy waters of the Ganga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||SC to implement system for safe digital transmission of bail orders to jails across country||The Supreme Court on Friday said it would implement a system for safe digital transmission of its bail orders to jails across the country as despite the grant of such relief, authorities wait for authentic orders to release prisoners. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana directed the secretary general of the apex court to submit a proposal on the scheme which can be followed and said this may be implemented in a month. It asked the states to respond on availability of internet connection in jails across nation as without this facility transmission of such orders to prisons will not be possible. It also appointed senior advocate Dushyant Dave as an amicus curiae for assisting it implementing the scheme. The top court on July 13 had taken suo motu cognizance of delay on the part of Uttar Pradesh authorities in releasing 13 prisoners who were granted bail by it on July 8. The convicts, who were juveniles at the time of offence, have been lodged in Agra Central jail for periods ranging from around 14 to 22 years in a murder case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu meets Sonia Gandhi amid infighting in Punjab Congress||Amid continued infighting in the Punjab Congress, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday met party chief Sonia Gandhi at her residence in New Delhi. The meeting comes ahead of the party's Punjab unit revamp and amid reports that Sidhu may get a key role in the organisation. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party in-charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat also attended the meeting with Sidhu, sources said. According to sources, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has expressed his resentment over Sidhu being given a key role. AICC general secretary Rawat had, however, denied such reports. Rawat had maintained that the central leadership was working out a peace formula where both Singh and Sidhu could work together to help the party win in the Punjab Assembly polls next year. Both the leaders are at loggerheads with each other and have made public statements against each other. Notably, both Singh and Sidhu have held parallel meetings in Chandigarh with their loyalists. While the chief minister has met some party MPs, MLAs and ministers, Sidhu is learnt to have met Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Bajwa, and some MLAs close to him at Randhawa's residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Over 41.10 crore Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs, informs Centre||Over 41.10 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have so far been provided to states and union territories, and more than 2.51 crore jabs are available with them and private hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Friday. In a statement, the ministry said 52,90,640 more doses are in the process of being supplied. "More than 41.10 crore (41,10,38,530) vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs (union territories) so far, through all sources, and a further 52,90,640 doses are in the pipeline," it said. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 38,58,75,958 doses, according to data available at 8 am, the ministry said. It said that 2,51,62,572 Covid vaccine doses -- balance and unutilised -- are still available with states and UTs, and private hospitals. The new phase of the universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination programme started on June 21 and under it, the central government made inoculation free of cost for all adults. Vaccines were earlier free for people above 45 years of age. Under the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them the vaccines, the ministry said. In the new phase of the drive, the Union government will procure and supply free of cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs. it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||India logs almost 40,000 fresh Covid cases, 542 casualties in a day||India recorded 38,949 new Covid-19 cases, which took the infection tally to 3,10,26,829, while the death toll reached 4,12,531 with 542 more fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Friday. The active cases have declined to 4,30,422 and comprise 1.39 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that a decrease of 1,619 has been recorded in the number of active cases in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 19,55,910 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 44,00,23,239, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.99 per cent. The positivity rate has been less than three per cent for 25 consecutive days, it said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.14 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has increased to 3,01,83,876, while the case fatality rate has risen to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. The vaccine doses administered so far has reached 39.53 crore under the nationwide inoculation drive against COVID-19. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 542 new fatalities included 170 deaths from Maharashtra and 87 from Kerala, the ministry said. In total, 4,12,531 deaths have been reported in the country, including 1,26,560 from Maharashtra, 36,037 from Karnataka, 33,606 from Tamil Nadu, 25,022 from Delhi, 22,705 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,970 from West Bengal and 16,212 from Punjab. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Three dead as villagers fall into a well in Madhya Pradesh||In a tragic incident, more than 30 people fell into a well while trying to rescue a boy in Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha district on Thursday, the police said. At least three people have died and nineteen people have been rescued and rushed to a hospital. The villagers reportedly fell into the well when the villagers were trying to rescue a boy who had fallen in the well earlier. As per officials, the parapet wall around the well collapsed due to the weight of people who were trying to rescue the boy. The well is around 50 feet deep with a water level of about 20 feet, news agency PTI reported quoting locals. The incident took place at Ganj Basoda, about 50 kilometres from the district headquarters. Speaking on the incident, Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan said that the rescue operation is on and he is in regular touch with the concerned officials. "I am constantly in touch with the administration at the site of the incident and am continuously monitoring the rescue operations. As the representative of the state government, Vidisha's in-charge minister Vishwas Sarang was present at the spot throughout the night. Under his supervision the rescue teams are engaged in rescuing the trapped people," he said. "The National Disaster Management Force and State Disaster Management Force have been pressed into action. Inspector General, Zone, and other senior officials have also reached the spot. "I am in touch with the concerned officials," Chouhan told the media. The villagers were trying to rescue a boy who fell into the well around 9 pm on Thursday. While some people climbed down to rescue her, others were standing on the parapet wall around it to help them, a police official said. The wall suddenly crashed, throwing those standing on it into the water, he said. Around 11 pm, a tractor engaged in the rescue operation, along with four policemen, skidded into the well when the area around it caved in, news agency PTI said quoting eyewitnesses. The Chief Minister has also ordered a high-level inquiry and instructed the officials to ensure the best possible medical treatment for the victims. Chouhan also announced a compensation of ₹ 5 lakh each to the family of the victims. Those injured will be given ₹ 50,000 and provided free treatment facility, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in a residential area of the city on Friday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Danmar area, falling along Safakadal-Soura road, here in the early hours of Friday following information about the presence of militants, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened firing towards security forces positions which was retaliated. Two militants were killed in the ensuing gunfight, the official said, adding the identity and group affiliation of the slain militants was being ascertained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Arun Shourie moves Supreme Court against sedition law||Veteran journalist and former Union minister Arun Shourie on Thursday petitioned the Supreme Court challenging the sedition law’s constitutionality and relevance in modern-day India, joining a growing clamour against the colonial-era legislation. In a joint petition with NGO Common Cause, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, Shourie complained that Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code was increasingly being abused against citizens who disagree with those in power. The petition argued that despite the Supreme Court’s 1962 Kedar Nath Singh judgment having upheld the provision’s constitutional validity, several subsequent apex court verdicts by larger benches had upheld the freedom of speech and expression. “Further, the judgment of this hon’ble court in Kedar Nath failed to take note of judgment of constitutional bench in Superintendent Central Prison v Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (1960) wherein it was held that (a) only aggravated disturbance of ‘public order’ as opposed to mere ‘law and order’ could be used to restrict freedom of speech and expression and (b) there should be direct and proximate connection between the instigation and the aggravated disruption of public order,” the petition says. This principle was affirmed by the apex court in Rangarajan v P. Jagjivan Ram (1989) and Shreya Singhal v Union of India (2015), the petition says. According to the Kedar Nath judgment, the offence of sedition is complete if the activities tend to create public disorder or disturbance of law and order or public peace. “By casting ‘the net’ too wide the interpretation given in Kedar Nath falls foul of the judgment of this hon’ble court in Superintendent Central Prison v Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (1960).… Sedition has come to be heavily abused with cases being filed against citizens for exercising their freedom of speech and expression on the basis of the literal definition that is available to law-enforcement authorities on the statute books,” the petition says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Bihar: Covid-19 deaths could be higher than state govt figures ||A survey conducted by the CPI-ML in Bihar on Covid-19 deaths has indicated the toll could be 18 to 20 times higher than the figures made public by the state government. The party is planning to submit its report to Patna High Court and also table it in the Assembly along with video and documented evidence. A CPI-ML team, including its politburo member Kavita Krishnan and several others, toured 10 out of 38 districts to ascertain the number of fatalities during the second wave of the pandemic in April and May this year. “We focused on the districts where we have a strong presence and where our members have been elected as MLAs. Our team went to around 1,000 villages to conduct a survey of how many people died with Covid-19 symptoms like fever, cough and breathing trouble. We are shocked to find that the toll could be 18 to 20 times more than the figures released by the state government,” CPI-ML Bihar secretary Kunal told The Telegraph. According to data released by the Bihar government, the state has registered over 723,570 Covid-19 cases and 9,621 deaths so far. The authenticity of the virus death toll had been questioned by various individuals and organisations who moved the high court. The high court also noticed inconsistencies in the death figures reported by different government agencies and directed the Nitish Kumar dispensation to conduct an audit. It led to an overnight revision of the Covid-19 casualties from 5,478 to 9,429 in June — a 73 per cent jump in the numbers. “The survey report is unnerving. We are going to submit it to the high court and also table it in the Assembly in the upcoming monsoon session. It will include statements and video recordings of the family members of those who lost their lives to the coronavirus. We will press for action on the issue, improvement in medical facilities and compensation to the next of kin of the deceased,” Kunal, who goes by one name, said. Though he asserted that he would make the entire report public after submitting it to the high court and the Assembly, he gave a glimpse of how bad the Covid-19 situation could be in the state, especially in rural areas. “Our team conducted the survey in 344 villages of Bhojpur district. We found that 2,113 people died there during April-May this year. Of them, 1,840 victims had symptoms of Covid-19 while the rest 273 died due to other causes. On the other hand, the state government data show that only 94 people died of Covid in these villages. There is a vast difference between the government data and the ground reality,” Kunal said. The CPI-ML has started a campaign to help the family members of Covid-19 victims submit applications at the block level to claim Rs 4 lakh compensation announced by Nitish for each pandemic death. The report also says very few patients managed to reach hospitals. The lack of facilities, scarcity of oxygen, doctors and medicines, the fear of isolation, as well as, not getting the bodies of the victims, and poverty were some of the reasons that kept people away from the hospitals. “At many hospitals, the patients were not tested for Covid-19 despite having symptoms. They were treated for typhoid. In many cases the hospitals have not mentioned anything about diagnosis or the cause in death certificates. There are also cases in which the family members of the deceased either threw away or burnt the documents provided by the hospitals,” a part of the survey report stated. Some portions of the report also throw light on the plight of the families that have lost their sole breadwinner to Covid-19. The party is now planning to expand the survey to other districts of Bihar in a bid to help the pandemic victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Jaishankar meets Afghan president Ashraf Ghani in Tashkent||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar met Afghan President Ashraf Ghani in Tashkent on Thursday on the sidelines of the Central Asia-South Asia Connectivity Summit, continuing with his series of engagements on that country. Nothing much was officially revealed about what transpired at the meeting except what the minister himself posted on Twitter. “Pleased to call on President @ashrafghani. Discussed the current situation in and around Afghanistan. Reiterated our support for peace, stability and development of Afghanistan,” Jaishankar tweeted. This meeting comes close on the heels of Jaishankar’s interaction with Afghanistan’s foreign minister Mohammed Haneef Atmar in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, on Wednesday on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation foreign ministers’ meet. There, too, Jaishankar had underlined the need for ensuring that Afghanistan’s future is not a return to its past; adding that the world will not legitimise seizure of power by violence and force. The meetings with the Afghan leadership comes at a time when India has evacuated its staff from the Kandahar consulate with the Taliban making advances in Afghanistan’s second largest city in the south near the Pakistan border. Jaishankar also met homeland security adviser to US President Joe Biden, Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, and the US’s special representative for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, who are in Tashkent for the connectivity conference which will also focus on Afghanistan given its centrality to land routes from Central to South Asia. Reports from Kabul indicate that the Taliban has fired a large number of mortars at the Salma Dam, funded and constructed by India in Herat in western Afghanistan. There was no report of any extensive damage to the project, also known as the Afghan-India Friendship Dam, but given Pakistan’s relations with the Taliban, India is conscious of its vulnerabilities. Unlike China and Russia, India has not yet got any public assurance from the Taliban that its vast investments in Afghanistan will be protected as fighting intensifies across the country in the wake of the pullout by US troops after two decades. Concerned about the fate of its investments in Afghanistan, India has apparently opened channels of communications with the Taliban; reversing its decades-old policy of not dealing with the outfit. With India investing heavily in the reconstruction of Afghanistan over the past decade-and-a-half, the Narendra Modi government appears to have adopted a pragmatic approach to secure Indian investments. India has 550 community development projects across all 34 provinces of the strife-torn country, and these cannot be sustained without the support of the Afghan government which right now appears to be fighting a losing battle with the Taliban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Unicef: India has highest number of under-vaccinated children||Disruptions in routine childhood vaccinations during the Covid-19 pandemic have undone years of gains in South Asia, a UN agency said on Thursday amid estimates that show India had three million “zero-dose” children in 2020 — the highest in the world. India, which also had the largest count of partially protected children — 3.5 million, or a 66 per cent increase over the previous year — is among 10 countries that accounted for 62 per cent of under-vaccinated children worldwide, Unicef said. About 25 million children are born in India every year. Most countries in South Asia experienced drop in childhood vaccination rates with the rates for the three full doses against diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP3) falling by 9 percentage points in Nepal, 7 percentage points in Pakistan and 6 percentage points in India. “It is heartbreaking to see this reversal in child vaccinations due to Covid-19 in a region where tremendous progress was being made. This is a huge setback for children in South Asia,” George Laryae-Adjei, Unicef’s regional director in South Asia, said in a statement. Unicef’s expression of concern coincides with the release on Thursday of the first global and regional estimates of childhood vaccination disruptions suggesting that 30 million children worldwide missed DTP doses while 27 million missed a dose of measles-containing vaccine (MCV) during 2020. While routine childhood vaccinations seek to protect children from a range of infections, including tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, measles, polio, hepatitis-B, Haemophilus influenzae-B and rotavirus, both the assessments examined disruptions in DTP and MCV. At nearly 4.4 million in 2020, South Asia recorded the highest number of children having failed to receive any routine vaccination over the past 10 years, Unicef said. More than 3 million of these “zero-dose” children were in India. Coverage of the first dose of the measles vaccines in South Asia fell from 92 per cent in 2019 to 88 per cent in 2020, well below the 95 per cent recommended by the World Health Organisation as needed to protect children from measles. “Today, the biggest health threat to children in South Asia is not from Covid-19, but from childhood diseases, which continue to kill children in the region,” Laryae-Adjei said, adding that governments need to invest in maternal and child health services. Public health experts have attributed the Covid-triggered disruptions to multiple reasons — shutdown or shortened timings of health facilities, lack of transport during lockdowns, while some families may have delayed seeking healthcare because of safety concerns. India’s childhood vaccination programme had in May 2020 introduced special strategies to ensure that children receive the due doses even during the Covid-19 pandemic through campaigns aimed at parents to encourage vaccinations, outreach sessions in cities and villages, and a special drive in February-March 2021 that administered vaccines to over 900,000 children who had missed doses. “Gradual but steady recovery appears to be underway,” Jonathan Mosser, a public health specialist and assistant professor of health metrics sciences at the University of Washington and his colleagues said in their study estimating global disruptions published in The Lancet on Thursday. But the researchers have cautioned that several factors such as the ongoing Covid-19 transmission, the emergence of new coronavirus variants and a focus on the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines could “easily stall or reverse these trends”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Narendra Modi gushes with praise for Yogi Adityanath's governance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded Yogi Adityanath’s “unprecedented” success in tackling the Covid second wave and provided a ringing endorsement of the chief minister’s handling of law and order, particularly crimes against women. At the peak of the second wave in May, Allahabad High Court had described the death of Covid patients in the state because of lack of oxygen supply as a “criminal act” and “not less than a genocide” by those in charge. The word “unprecedented” was at the time used mostly to describe the hundreds of bodies floating down the Ganga or buried in the sand on its banks. Adityanath’s reign has also been marked by brutal rapes and murders in Unnao and Hathras, and violence at last week’s block pramukh elections that too was described as “unprecedented” by the Opposition. “The mutant coronavirus attacked dangerously with full force but Kashi and Uttar Pradesh efficiently faced such a huge crisis. The way Uttar Pradesh controlled the second Covid wave and stopped its spread was unprecedented,” Modi said on the Banaras Hindu University grounds during a trip to his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi. “Yogiji is moving fast in the direction of forging a modern Uttar Pradesh. There is rule of law in Uttar Pradesh. Mafia raj and terrorism, which were out of control in the past, are now in the grip of the law. Those who targeted sisters and daughters cannot escape the law.” The latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau lists 59,853 crimes against women and 7,444 cases of child sexual abuse in Uttar Pradesh in 2019, the highest in the country on both counts. Modi’s praise for Adityanath comes at a time hoardings have been put up in Delhi showing the two of them and declaring Uttar Pradesh the “No. 1” state — a rare instance of large-scale promotion of a chief minister outside his turf. Yet Adityanath’s chair had appeared shaky recently after only 30 per cent of the BJP-supported candidates won the zilla panchayat and block development council seats — the top two tiers of the panchayat system — while Samajwadi-supported nominees won 45 per cent. The chief minister was summoned to Delhi in late June, with sources claiming he was asked to explain the defeat as well as his highhanded functioning that was triggering dissidence and his Covid mismanagement that was giving Modi a bad press globally. However, the BJP later managed to win 66 zilla panchayat chairpersons’ seats out of 75 and 635 block pramukh seats out of 825 amid allegations of violence, intimidation and abductions of voters — all elected representatives. This appears to have turned the tide for Adityanath, with the BJP leadership throwing its weight behind him in the run-up to the Assembly elections, due next March, which is expected to be a barometer for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. On Thursday, Modi devoted the bulk of his half-hour speech to hailing Adityanath, who sat on the dais and was seen clapping whenever the Prime Minister praised him. “Many medical colleges are in various stages of construction in Uttar Pradesh. Work is in progress to build 550 oxygen plants. Today I inaugurated 14 oxygen plants in Varanasi alone,” the Prime Minister said. Modi inaugurated or laid the foundation stones for projects worth Rs 1,500 crore for Varanasi, which included roads, sewers and beautification drives. He inaugurated a renovated convention centre that has been renamed from Lokmanya Tilak Hall to Rudraksh. Modi claimed he was developing Varanasi while maintaining the pilgrimage city’s traditional sanctity. “While keeping its uniqueness intact, Varanasi is moving fast on the path of development. Unprecedented development is going on, whether it’s the construction of the national highway or flyovers, removal of the knots of tangled electrical wires, solving the problems of drinking water or sewers, or the development of tourism. It’s our wish and priority to clean and beautify Mother Ganga,” Modi said. Saurabh Tiwari, a Varanasi-based advocate who accuses the Modi and Adityanath governments of destroying Varanasi’s original character and has filed a case with the National Green Tribunal, said: “Varanasi’s alleyways have been destroyed and the sewers blocked in the name of beautifying the roads. Actually, they are more into commercialising the city.” He added: “The Ganga was never so polluted in Varanasi. Untreated sewage is flowing into the river these days.” Tiwari said the faecal coliform bacteria count per 100ml of river water was 71 million at the Varun-Ganga confluence, 52 million at the Assi-Ganga confluence, and 140,000 at Assi Ghat. “The permissible limit is 500 per 100ml of water,” Tiwari has said in his petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Supreme Court prods Centre to scrap colonial era sedition law||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed astonishment that the colonial-era sedition law had not been repealed yet and prodded the Centre to scrap it, indicating it would otherwise go on to decide the provision’s constitutional validity. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana appeared to endorse the allegation by the government’s critics that the provision was being increasingly misused to silence dissent. “If some party doesn’t want to hear the voice of other party, they may use this type of law and implicate other people.” Justice Ramana underlined that the Narendra Modi government had repealed several archaic laws (about 200) and wondered why the sedition law had survived. “Mr Attorney-General, is the sedition law of colonial times, which was used to suppress the freedom movement, still needed 75 years after Independence?” he said. Justice Ramana cited how the British had used the sedition law — Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code — against Mahatma Gandhi and Bal Gangadhar Tilak. “The government has been taking out stale laws from the statute books — then why has this law not been considered?” Justice Ramana underlined that conviction rate under this section is very low. “The alarming numbers of misuse can be compared to a carpenter who has been asked to use a saw to cut a tree but he goes on to cut down the entire forest,” he said. “It’s a serious question for individuals. There may be cases where some factionist may use the law against his opponent,” he added. Accountability worry Justice Ramana also broached the subject of the executive continuing to invoke laws struck down by the apex court as unconstitutional, citing the instance of Section 66A of the IT Act that criminalised “objectionable” content. “Take the 66A IT Act. Thousands of cases are registered even after (the provision) being struck down. If any policeman wants to fix somebody he can invoke 124A. Also, today everybody is a little scared when this section is invoked. These are all issues which need to be looked into,” he said. “Our concern is misuse of the law, and there seems to be no accountability of the executive.” The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, that it would like to have the government’s views on the matter. Venugopal urged the court not to strike the law down and, instead, individually segregate the cases of misuse and lay down guidelines to prevent such misuse. But the top court issued a formal notice to the Centre on the separate petitions moved by Major General (retired) S.G. Vombatkere and the Editors Guild of India challenging the constitutionality of the sedition law. On July 12, another bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit had sought the Centre’s response to a similar petition filed by two journalists from Manipur and Chhattisgarh, both booked for sedition. Clubbing plea Venugopal referred to the July 12 order passed by the other bench that had sought the government’s response and was slated to hear the matter on July 27. He suggested the present petitions be clubbed together with the other petition. Justice Ramana said the bench would examine whether the petitions should be clubbed. Advocate P.B. Suresh, appearing for Vombatkere, argued against clubbing, saying his client’s case stood on a different footing. Vombatkere’s plea is that despite the five-judge Kedar Nath Singh verdict of 1962 upholding the constitutional validity of Section 124A, the challenge survives because the 11-judge decision in R.C. Cooper (1970), the nine-judge ruling in Justice Puttaswamy (2017) and various other constitution bench judgments had upheld free speech and privacy as fundamental rights. Senior advocate Shyam Divan referred to the Editors Guild’s petition, saying it had not just challenged the sedition law but detailed its increasing misuse. Justice Ramana said the bench would examine all the sedition cases pending with the apex court and, if necessary, place them all before a particular bench. He also remarked that Vombatkere’s petition could not be taken lightly. “The petitioner is somebody who has sacrificed his whole life for the country for his service. We cannot say it is a motivated petition,” he told Venugopal. Vombatkere’s petition, filed through advocate Prasanna S, has argued that the sedition law runs counter to Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution (freedom of speech) read with Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life and liberty). Against the 1962 judgment upholding Section 124A, he has cited not just the 1970 (R.C. Cooper) and 2017 (Puttaswamy) judgments but also Indira Gandhi v Raj Narain 1975 (five judges), Maneka Gandhi v Union of India 1978 (seven judges), and I.R. Coelho v State of Tamil Nadu (2007). Mehta said the government would submit a detailed response. “Once you receive our reply, your Lordships’ workload would be reduced.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||Sedition crusader Vombatkere also fought Aadhaar card compulsion||Major General (retd) S.G. Vombatkere, whom the Chief Justice of India on Thursday lauded as “somebody who has sacrificed his whole life for the country” as a soldier, has been a veteran also of many battles to uphold the nation’s constitutional values. The 79-year-old has not just challenged the constitutionality of the sedition law —which provided the context for the CJI’s remark — but also contested the earlier government decisions to make the Aadhaar card mandatory for a range of transactions and to create a National Population Register (NPR) for the ostensible purpose of identifying illegal immigrants. While the Supreme Court had in 2017 read down the Aadhaar provision saying it could not be made mandatory except for the PDS scheme, it is yet to decide on the batch of petitions challenging the new citizenship matrix that includes the NPR, National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019. Vombatkere had also been among the 150-odd military veterans who had in 2019 written to President Ram Nath Kovind expressing concern at the “politicisation” of the armed forces. The context was BJP campaigners’ use of expressions like “Modi ji ki sena” to describe the military in their bid to milk the Balakot airstrike and the 2016 “surgical strikes” to win votes for the party in the 2019 general election. Contacted by The Telegraph at his home in Mysore, Karnataka, Vombatkere declined to comment on the Supreme Court’s decision to admit his petition or Chief Justice N.V. Ramana’s compliment. “The petitioner is somebody who has sacrificed his whole life for the country for his service. We cannot say it is a motivated petition,” Justice Ramana had observed. “Sorry, I would not like to comment on the issue as it is sub judice,” Vombatkere told this newspaper. “As the matter is before the court I would not like to comment. Kindly excuse me.” Vombatkere had served the army for 35 years, rising to the rank of major general. He had retired as additional director-general in charge of discipline and vigilance at army headquarters, New Delhi. His petition in the apex court argues that the Constitution guarantees freedom of speech and expression, subject only to “reasonable restrictions” on the limited grounds of the interests of India’s sovereignty, integrity and security, friendly relations with foreign countries, public order, decency and morality, or in relation to contempt of court, defamation and the like. However, the sedition law “makes every speech or expression that ‘brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India’ a criminal offence punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment”, the petition says. It contends that “a statute criminalising expression based on unconstitutionally vague definitions of ‘disaffection towards government’ etc is an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right to free expression... and causes (a) constitutionally impermissible ‘chilling effect’ on speech”. The petition recalls that the apex court had in the 1962 Kedar Nath judgment upheld the validity of the sedition law, but only after reading down the provision to mean that only comments that intended or tended to cause violence were punishable. “It is submitted that the march of the times and the development of the law has to be taken into account in dealing with such a question now, unconstrained by the Kedar Nath holding. It is submitted that Kedar Nath reasoning has to be understood as the ratio in an era where the reading of fundamental rights was rather restrictive,” the petition says. “There has been a sea change in understanding the scope, extent and the interrelationship of fundamental rights....” Citing a host of constitution bench judgments since 1962, the petition says: “Each of these decisions now establish(es) that fundamental rights in the Constitution are not to be read as isolated silos or as watertight compartments; but are to be read as if the content of each fundamental right animates the other. “The reasonableness of the restriction of free speech... will need to (be) considered afresh considering procedural as well as substantive due process embodied in Articles 14 (equality) and 21 (life and liberty).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||Congress plans to appoint Sidhu as Punjab unit president ||The Congress central leadership appears to have made up its mind to appoint the rebellious Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab unit president amid a fierce fratricidal strife that may have significantly weakened the party in the state. The formal announcement may come within the next couple of days, granting Sidhu his wish for a leadership role in the upcoming Assembly elections. Though chief minister Amarinder Singh, who is bitterly opposed to the cricketer turned politician, will remain at the helm, the central leadership is clearly investing more in Sidhu whose popularity among the people has soared because of the sacrilege issue that he has so forcefully raised. There will still be a balancing act with two working presidents, probably Hindus including a Dalit, to prevent the BJP’s traditional voters from shifting towards the main challenger, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws has badly dented the BJP’s support base — primarily Hindus — and the Congress wants to slice away a major chunk of that vote. Both the chief minister and the PCC president being Sikh doesn’t appear to give out an inclusive message. The Congress, which had been seeing the Punjab elections next year as a cakewalk because of the farmers’ protest, has suddenly got sucked into the vortex of an internal feud. Sidhu had been publicly accusing the chief minister of complicity with the Badal family (of the Akali Dal) and deliberate inaction in the 2015 case of alleged desecration of a religious text and subsequent police firing at Faridkot, bringing the government and the party into disrepute. The controversies damaged Amarinder’s image also which, many senior leaders believe, was on a gradual decline because of non-fulfilment of promises and an autocratic style of functioning. A Punjab Congress leader told The Telegraph: “The national media has failed to gauge the extent of damage to the Captain’s (Amarinder) reputation over the past few years. But for the farmers’ agitation, his game would have been over long ago. Captain has an entirely different image here. There was no question of him being projected as the party’s face in this election. It is all his own doing; he invited trouble for himself. Had he performed well as chief minister, Sidhu couldn’t have attacked him publicly and survived.” Sidhu is popular among the masses but not among the Congress leaders and MLAs. “He is also a loner,” said a party MP, pointing to Sidhu’s apparent arrogance and immaturity while conceding that he was in a position to draw crowds and fetch votes for the party. The central leadership might have received that input through surveys before bulldozing the chief minister’s strong objection to his appointment as the state chief. Rahul Gandhi was still cautious but Priyanka Gandhi is said to have forced the decision. A majority of the leaders, however, are apprehensive about conflicts and mishaps as expecting a perfect coordination between Sidhu and Amarinder during the election campaign would be like asking for the moon. Sidhu would like to have a say in appointments in party and candidate selection, which may become a major cause for confrontation with the chief minister. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s job doesn’t end by appointing Sidhu as the state chief and they will have to steer the ship through turbulent waters till the elections, many believe. The task of managing contradictions will be easier if the Congress manages to resolve the core issue of the party’s national president within the next few weeks. The vacuum has created fertile ground for wild speculation and rumours; the news of Kamal Nath being made the party’s working president created a huge buzz throughout the day on Thursday. What triggered the speculation was a meeting between Nath and Sonia Gandhi. It is no secret that Nath has emerged as Sonia’s main trouble-shooter after Ahmed Patel’s demise and he would indeed get an important role in the party if Rahul finally refuses to return as president. The formula of four vice-presidents or one working president to assist Sonia is very much on the table for several months now. A Congress general secretary said: “I have answered over a hundred calls today on Kamal Nath becoming party president despite being completely in the dark about it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt extends partial lockdown till July-end||The Odisha government has decided to continue the partial lockdown in the state till the month-end as a precautionary measure. Announcing this here on Thursday, chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra said the decision was prompted by the statistics on the Covid-19 cases which still remain high in some areas including Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. However, the government will relax the lockdown conditions with the 20 category A districts, where the number of cases are comparatively low, gaining the most. Under the new guidelines that come into effect from 6am on Friday shops in the Category A districts will remain open from 7am to 8pm while they will be allowed to do business from 7am to 5pm in  Category B districts, most of them in the coastal belt with high case load. However, the weekend shutdowns, which will come into effect from 5pm on Fridays and will continue till 6am on Monday in Category B districts. Bus services will resume across the state but no buses will be allowed to Puri till July 25 in view of Ratha Yatra. In the other districts, buses will ply with their full seating capacity but no standing passengers will be allowed. The government has also decided to open saloons, spas and beauty parlours but restrictions on outdoor gatherings will continue. No public meetings or religious gatherings are allowed in the state which reported 66 new deaths due to Covid infection on Thursday taking the total death toll in the pandemic to 4,861. The highest number of 21 fatalities have been reported from Khordha district while 10 each were from Bargarh and Sundargarh, eight from Balasore, seven from Sambalpur, two each from Bhadrak and Mayurbhanj and one each from Bolangir, Cuttack, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur, Kalahandi and Puri. The Covid positive tally in Odisha also rose to 9,47,859 with as many as 2,110 more people testing positive for the virus on Thursday. The number of active cases in the state has reached 22,299. Khordha district reported the highest 458 cases in the past 24 hours, followed by Cuttack (323), Balasore (168), Kendrapara (132), Puri (113), Mayurbhanj (99) and Jajpur (92).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||Covid: Govt asks states for 'quick gap analysis’ of health-infra||The Union health ministry on Thursday asked states to “conduct a quick gap analysis” of their healthcare infrastructure that could be addressed through the Rs 23,123-crore Emergency Covid-19 Response Package-2 approved by the Union cabinet last week. Health ministry officials, during a videoconference to discuss preparations to bolster healthcare infrastructure, told state officials to identify their specific needs and send their expenditure proposals to enable approvals and sanctions from the Centre. The package, intended for implementation between July 2021 and March 2022 with Rs 15,000 crore provided by the Centre and Rs 8,123 crore being the share of states, will seek to expand India’s capacity to manage Covid-19 and enhance paediatric care services. The package is designed to help states augment Covid-19 care services at the district and sub-district level by adding paediatric care units, intensive care unit beds, oxygen storage tanks, testing facilities and ambulances wherever gaps exist. The Union cabinet had approved the package on July 8, two months after the peak of India’s second Covid-19 wave that had overwhelmed the country’s healthcare infrastructure. Many patients had died after hospitals ran short of beds or oxygen. Health officials during the meeting advised states to conduct a gap analysis for various such infrastructure components, including their information technology infrastructure readiness, and establish hub-and-spoke models for teleconsultations to improve Covid-19 care services. Critical care medicine specialists have cautioned that shortages in staff experienced in critical care services in many rural districts across the country are likely to make teleconsultations unavoidable to render effective treatment. Under the ECRP-2, the Centre plans to establish dedicated paediatric units in all 736 districts, add 20,000 ICU beds in the public healthcare system, of which 20 per cent would be paediatric beds, install 1,050 medical oxygen storage tanks, and introduce 8,800 new ambulances. Health officials have also asked states to procure and augment stocks of medicines required to treat Covid-19, using the health ministry’s guidelines on procurement and buffer stocks that states need to establish. “States must come up with their own assessments based on stocks and costs involved,” the health ministry said. A clinician and public health specialist familiar with rural healthcare services said any move to augment healthcare infrastructure is welcome. While adding physical infrastructure such as beds or ambulances would help, plans to shore up healthcare also need to focus on medical staff, the specialist said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||China not responding to Indian requests to schedule fresh talks||The Chinese army is neither responding to Indian requests to schedule fresh talks nor showing any commitment to restoring status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, sources in India’s security establishment said. A newspaper article claimed a fresh clash had occurred in May in the Galwan Valley with no clarity on casualties, but the Indian army denied the claim. On Wednesday, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar too articulated India’s disappointment at China’s failure to work towards further disengagement. His comments came at a meeting with his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation foreign ministers’ meeting in Dushanbe, Tajikistan. Indian sources reiterated the growing apprehension that the Chinese were working to establish a “revised status quo” and therefore seemed uninterested in honouring their word to disengage from friction points. “The Chinese have shown no signs of reversing their positions along the LAC. It’s evident they want to establish a revised status quo that will enable them to hold on to their newly acquired positions within India-claimed lines,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry told The Telegraph. The Chinese, he said, had so far not responded to requests for a fresh date for another round of military talks. Eleven rounds of talks since June last year have provided no breakthroughs. “They don’t seem interested in corps-commander-level talks,” the official said. In an article published in Business Standard on Wednesday, former Colonel Ajai Shukla reported an alleged clash between Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan Valley in May, close to where India lost 20 soldiers on June 15 last year while inflicting an unspecified number of casualties on the Chinese. The report said it was not clear whether any casualties occurred this time. The alleged clash took place “when PLA soldiers set up a tent at the bend of the Galwan River near PP14. India demanded it be removed as it was in the buffer area that both sides had agreed to,” the article said. The Indian army denied any clash, saying the report was “riddled with inaccuracies and misinformation”. The Chinese have so far refused to disengage from the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra. They have retreated partially in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake while staying well within India-claimed lines and getting the Indian troops to step back an equal distance within their own territory. After Wednesday’s meeting in Dushanbe, Jaishanker tweeted that the discussions had focused on the outstanding issues along the LAC in the western sector. “Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our ties. Agreed on convening an early meeting of the senior military commanders,” the tweet said. A defence ministry official said: “The situation along the LAC continues to be fraught amid a massive deployment by the Chinese and mirror deployment by India to avert any further incursion.” India and China have been locked in a border standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The Chinese army is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
