17-07-2021||India||Kanwar yatra cancelled by Kanwar Sanghs on appeal of  UP government||The annual Kanwar Yatra in Uttar Pradesh has been cancelled this year, a senior government official said here on Saturday night.  The development came a day after the Supreme Court said it cannot allow the Uttar Pradesh government "to hold 100 per cent physical Kanwar Yatra in view of Covid", stressing that sentiments, including religious, are subservient to the Right to Life.  "The Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled by the Kanwar Sanghs on the appeal of the Uttar Pradesh government," Additional Chief Secretary Information Navneet Sehgal said on Sunday.  The yatra was scheduled to start on July 25.  The Uttarakhand government has already called off the Kanwar Yatra citing fears expressed by experts of a possible third wave of the pandemic and the risk posed by such gatherings.  The yatra goes on till the first week of August and sees thousands of Shiva devotees called kanwariyas' travelling mostly on foot from neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to collect water from the Ganges in Haridwar.  The Centre had told the top court that the state governments must not permit any kind of Kanwar yatra because of the pandemic and arrangements should be made for water from the Ganges to be available through tankers at designated places.  On Friday, the Supreme Court which had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to inform by July 19 whether it would reconsider its decision to hold a "symbolic" Kanwar Yatra.  Hours after a nudge from the Supreme Court on Friday, the Uttar Pradesh government had said it is talking with "kanwar sanghs" to take the right decision on the annual yatra and reminded that the organisations themselves decided to cancel it last year.  In a statement, the UP government had said that it was preparing itself for every situation for the Kanwar Yatra, scheduled to start from July 25.  "Officers have been asked to talk to 'kanwar sanghs' so that a right decision could be taken. The officers are also apprising them of the Covid situation.  "The government feels that religious sentiments should not be hurt and also there should be the safety of people. Last year, 'kanwar sanghs' after talks with the government themselves decided to cancel the yatra," it had said.  A Supreme Court bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai had said the Right to Life under Article 21 of the Constitution is paramount and asked the Uttar Pradesh government whether it was willing to reconsider its decision to hold a yatra at all.  "We are of the view that this is a matter which concerns every one of us as citizens of India and goes to the very heart of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which has a pride of place in the fundamental rights chapter of our Constitution.  "The health of the citizenry of India and their right to life are paramount. All other sentiments, albeit religious, are subservient to this most basic fundamental right," the bench had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
17-07-2021||India||Maharashtra's daily infection tally goes up with 8,172 new Covid-19 cases in a day||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 8,172 new COVID-19 cases and 124 deaths which took the state's infection tally to 62,05,190 and death toll to 1,26,851, the health department said in a release.  As many as 8,950 patients were discharged from hospitals, pushing the total of recovered persons to 59,74,594. The state has a recovery rate of 96.28 per cent.  The case fatality rate stood at 2.04 per cent, while there are 1,00,429 active cases in the state, the release said.  There are 5,77,615 people in home quarantine while 4,156 people are in institutional quarantine.  With 2,20,851 samples tested since Friday evening, the tally of coronavirus tests conducted in the state rose to 4,52,60,468.  Mumbai city reported 469 COVID-19 cases and 12 deaths, taking its caseload to 7,30,703 and death toll to 15,690.  The larger Mumbai division that covers neighbouring satellite towns reported 1,512 cases and 29 deaths. The division's case tally rose to 16,24,459 and death toll to 33,231.  Nashik division reported 979 cases and seven deaths, while the Pune division added 2,493 cases and 29 deaths. Out of 29 deaths, 16 were reported from Satara district alone.  Kolhapur division added 2,635 new cases and 48 deaths. Aurangabad division reported 170 cases and one death, while Latur division recorded 291 cases and seven deaths.  Akola division reported 51 cases and zero deaths, while Nagpur division recorded 41 new cases and three fatalities.  Coronavirus figures of Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 62,05,190; New cases 8,172; Total deaths 1,26,851; Recoveries 59,74,594; Active cases 1,00,429; Total tests 4,52,60,468.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
17-07-2021||India||Odisha government decides to reopen schools for classes 10, 12 from July 26||With slight improvement of the corona situation, the Odisha government on Saturday decided to reopen schools for classes 10 and 12 from July 26, a senior official said.  School and Mass Education Department Principal Secretary Satyabrata Sahu said that offline Matric Exams (class 10) will be held from July 30 to August 5 in the state adhering to Covid protocols.  The decision to resume classroom teaching for the two classes was made keeping in mind the problems faced by students in online mode due to poor internet connectivity, Sahu said.  He said the decision will be applicable for both the government and non-government schools across the state.  However, it is not mandatory for students to attend physical classes in schools.  Along with classes 10 and 12, the present online mode of teaching will continue for all classes, he said.  "We have been able to reach out to 40 per cent of students via online teaching while the remaining 60 per cent are yet to be connected. These students have lost 150 days of regular teaching days," Sahu said.  He told reporters that schools will function from 10 am to 1:30 pm and there will be no lunch break.  Replying to a question, Sahu said, "If the Covid-19 situation improves, schools will also reopen for class 9 by August 16. The schools will be sanitised one week prior to the reopening."  However, an official note issued by the department said that district collectors will take a final call on reopening of schools after reviewing local Covid situation.  The state government is also planning to reopen schools for class 11 students from September 15 after completion of admission into Plus II courses, it said.  All teachers will be vaccinated on a priority basis before schools are reopened and District Education Officers have been instructed to ensure that all COVID-19 protocols are strictly followed.  Sahu said that the department will issue a comprehensive Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the reopening of institutions.  The state government will introduce the Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) methodology for evaluation of students' performance in classes 9 and 10 from the academic year 2021-22.  Odisha's new assessment criteria will be on the line of CBSE and other education boards in the country.  According to the provision of the CCE, in the 2021-22 academic year, the department has decided to conduct four formative (short) and two summative assessments. The four formative assessments will be held in the second weeks of September, November, January and March.  The final examinations will be held as usual in the month of March.  Sahu also said that the Council of Higher Secondary Education is also planning to start the CCE system at the Plus II level. The performance of students in practical and projects will also be evaluated continuously throughout the academic year, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
17-07-2021||India||Hoax RDX threat onboard Dubai-Mumbai flight, security beefed up at Mumbal international airport||A call about the presence of RDX onboard a Dubai-Mumbai flight was received on Saturday afternoon, following which security was beefed at the international airport in the city. It was later turned out to be a hoax, a Mumbai Police official said. The call that RDX was placed onboard the flight was received by officials at the ATC tower around 3.40 pm, the official said. He said Mumbai Police was immediately informed and security at the airport was beefed up. The flight was checked thoroughly after landing by the police and security agencies but nothing suspicious was found onboard, he said. After investigation, it was found to be a hoax call, he said. Another flight that landed at the Mumbai international airport from Dubai in the evening was also checked but no RDX was found onboard, another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
17-07-2021||India||Candle light vigils to pay homage to photojournalist Danish Siddiqui||Candle light vigils were held at the Press Club of India and Jamia Millia Islamia here on Saturday to pay homage to Pulitzer Prize winner photojournalist Danish Siddiqui. Siddiqui, in his early 40s, was killed during clashes between Afghanistan troops and the Taliban in Spin Boldak district in Kandahar on Friday. He was covering the situation in Kandahar. While holding a candle light meeting at the Press Club of India, Working News Cameraman Association (WNCA) president S N Sinha said that Siddiqui scaled the heights of his profession while documenting wars, riots and human suffering. "He worked with passion and dedication about the stories he covered and always focused on the people caught up in difficult circumstances," Sinha said in a statement. The WNCA expressed concern over the "growing trend of attack on media persons while doing their professional duties". "...Media fraternity is always working as frontline warriors and working under increasing threat and it's a matter of deep concern to the working journalists and democratic world," it said in a statement. Jamia Millia alumnus Md Meharban along with mass communication student Srijan Chawla organised a candle light vigil, attended by over 500 people, outside the university's gate number 17. Meharban remembered Siddiqui who was his college senior and mentor in the profession. Siddiqui's work as a photojournalist with Reuters news agency since 2011 involved reporting on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya refugee crisis, the protest in Hong Kong and earthquakes in Nepal. Based in Mumbai, he had received the Pulitzer Prize as part of the photography staff of the news agency. He graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK MCRC in Jamia in 2007. Starting his career as a television news correspondent, he switched to photojournalism and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Covid-19 can make a person more susceptible to tuberculosis, says health ministry||Covid-19 can make a person more susceptible to developing active tuberculosis as it is an "opportunistic" infection like black fungus but currently there is not enough evidence to suggest TB cases have risen due to the viral disease, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. The ministry said notification of tuberculosis cases had decreased by about 25 per cent in 2020 due to Covid-related restrictions and special efforts are being made to mitigate this impact through intensified case findings. In a statement, the Health Ministry said there have been some news reports alleging that a sudden rise in TB cases have been noticed among patients infected with Covid-19 recently, leaving doctors, who have been receiving around a dozen similar cases every day, worried. "It is clarified that tuberculosis screening for all Covid-19 patients and Covid-19 screening for all diagnosed TB patients has been recommended by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," it said. The ministry said SARS-CoV-2 infection can make an individual more susceptible to developing active TB disease, as it is an "opportunistic infection like black fungus". There is not enough evidence currently to suggest that there has been an increase in TB cases due to Covid-19 or due to increased case finding efforts, it said, adding states and Union Territories have been asked for convergence in efforts for better surveillance and finding of TB and Covid-19 cases as early as August 2020. Also, the health ministry has issued multiple advisories and guidance reiterating the need for bi-directional screening of TB-Covidand TB-ILI/SARI. "Due to the impact of Covid-related restrictions, case notifications for TB had decreased by about 25 per cent in 2020 but special efforts are being made to mitigate this impact through intensified case finding in OPD settings as well as through active case finding campaigns in the community by all states." The dual morbidity of tuberculosis and Covid-19 can be further highlighted through the fact that both diseases are known to be infectious and primarily attack the lungs, presenting similar symptoms of cough, fever and difficulty in breathing. But TB has a longer incubation period and a slower onset of disease, the health ministry said. "Furthermore, TB bacilli can be present in humans in a dormant state and has the potential to start multiplying when the individual's immunity is compromised for any reason. "The same is applicable in a post-Covid scenario when an individual may develop decreased immunity due to the virus itself or due to the treatment, especially immune-suppressants like steroids," the Health Ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Priyanka ducks queries on being Cong’s CM face for UP polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday refused to commit on contesting polls in future or be the party's CM face in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections next year. The Congress leader, who is on a two-day visit here, said her party will continue to raise people’s issues. When asked if she will contest elections in future, Priyanka told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri, “We will see”. When asked if she will be the party’s CM face for the UP polls, the Congress leader said, “Should I tell you everything now.” On what would be her party’s strategy, Priyanka said wherever there is problem or pain, they will go and stand with people. “In the past year and a half, our party has raised the strongest voice. We have hit the roads; our party workers have courted arrest. Rest of the parties have not spoken so much nor they came out (on streets) as compared to us, and we will continue with this,” she said. Priyanka was in Lakhimpur Kheri to meet two women workers of the Samajwadi Party with whom BJP activists had allegedly misbehaved during the recent block panchayat chief elections. She demanded repolling at places where violence took place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Bombay HC seeks details of vaccine distribution from Centre||The Bombay High Court on Saturday directed the Central government to file an affidavit detailing the manner and methods of allocating COVID-19 vaccines to states. A division bench of Chief justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni passed this direction while hearing a public interest litigation filed by Yogeeta Vanzara, a city resident, who raised concerns over issues faced by the public in obtaining COVID-19 vaccination appointments through the CoWin portal. Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Jamsheed Master informed the court that at present only 14 lakh people in Mumbai have been fully vaccinated, while 50 lakh have received the first dose of the vaccine. "Merely 6 per cent of the city's population is fully vaccinated," Master said, adding at this rate, it would take three to four years for each citizen to be fully vaccinated. The bench noted that it cannot direct the Union government on the issue of allocation of vaccines, as it was a pan-India policy. However, the court directed the Centre to explain the manner in which vaccine orders are placed with the manufacturers and the timeline of vaccine delivery. The Union government also has to explain the manner in which it makes the vaccine doses available to various states. The state, through an affidavit, informed the court that it collects vaccines three times a week after being intimated by the manufacturer, following which the doses are then distributed to vaccination centres across the state. However, the affidavit did not specify the quantity of vaccines the state collects. The bench directed the Maharashtra State Family Welfare Bureau which is responsible for allocating doses across the state to file an affidavit stating when it receives a communication from the Centre and why it cannot inform the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in advance about the exact number of doses allocated. The petitioner's advocate sought that the Serum Institute of India that manufactures Covishield vaccine and Bharat Biotech that manufactures Covaxin vaccine to be added as respondents since they are the vaccine makers in India. To this, the Chief Justice said, Let the Union government file an affidavit, then we will consider adding them as respondents. The court has posted the matter for further hearing on August 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Delhi Airport's Terminal T2 to open from July 22||The T2 terminal of the Delhi international airport will resume operations from July 22, two months after it was shut down due to significant drop in domestic air traffic owing to the COVID-19 pandemic's second wave, a statement said on Saturday. The resumption of operations at T2 from July 22 onwards will be with approximately 200 air traffic movements (100 departures and 100 arrivals) per day and increase progressively up to around 280 movements by August-end, the statement of Delhi airport's operator DIAL said. Currently, only the T3 terminal of the Delhi airport is handling flight operations. "The T2 terminal will resume operations with IndiGo's 2000-2999 series flights and entire operations of GoAir, and is expecting to witness around 25,000 passenger footfall in the initial phase," the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) stated. About 27 counters 11 for GoAir and 16 for IndiGo - will be available to cater to the passengers of respective flights, it said. The decision to resume T2 operations was taken after the Delhi airport started witnessing gradual growth in passenger footfall post relaxation in lockdown and travel norms by various states since June this year, it noted. The T2 terminal had started handling flight operations on October 1 last year. It was shut down on May 18 this year as the number of flights dropped dramatically due to the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Mayawati's potshot at Amarinder Singh's letter to Modi on farmers||BSP president Mayawati on Saturday targeted Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the ongoing farmers' agitation. "The letter written by the Congress CM of Punjab to the PM, expressing various apprehensions about the farmers' agitation is a conspiracy to defame the movement of the farmers, who are sacrificing their lives to get the new agricultural laws repealed, and pursue electoral politics under its guise. This is most unfair," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Taking the Centre's cooperation on challenges faced by the government of a border state is not unreasonable, but pursuing selfish electoral politics under its garb and defaming the farmers' movement are something the public understands well, Mayawati added. "The Congress is not going to reap any benefit by doing this," she said. Singh had on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately resume talks with agitating farmers, sending him a letter that cited "cross-border threat" by ISI-backed groups ahead of the state assembly polls. In the letter, the chief minister cited "heightened cross-border threat and increased drone and other terrorist activities by ISI-backed groups, including plans by Khalistani outfits to target certain farmer leaders". He warned that powers across the border "may try to play upon the charged emotions of our proud, sincere, and hardworking farmers" of Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui's death draws ire of international media, Amnesty||Prominent global media watchdogs and a rights group have condemned the death of Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui in Afghanistan, demanding a thorough probe into his killing and urging the authorities to do more to protect members of the press. Siddiqui, 38, was killed while covering clashes between Afghan troops and the Taliban in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar city. He was injured on Thursday night while accompanying Afghan soldiers who were attacked and succumbed to his injuries on Friday. Siddiqui won the Pulitzer Prize in 2018 as part of the Reuters team for their coverage of the Rohingya crisis. He had extensively covered the Afghanistan conflict, the Hong Kong protests and other major events in Asia, Middle East, and Europe. Reacting to the Indian journalist's death, the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), the New York-based independent, non-profit organisation, urged the Afghan authorities to conduct a swift and thorough investigation into the killing of Siddiqui and do everything in their power to protect members of the press. The death today of Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui is a tragic notice that even as the US and its partners withdraw forces, journalists will continue to work in Afghanistan, documenting whatever comes next at great risk to their lives, said Steven Butler, CPJ's Asia programme coordinator, in Washington, D.C. Combatants need to take responsibility for safeguarding journalists, as dozens of journalists have been killed in this conflict, with little or no accountability, Butler said. The International Press Institute, a global network of media professionals, on Friday mourned the death of Siddiqui and termed it an immense loss for journalism. IPI is incredibly saddened to learn of the death of Danish Siddiqui, one of the most accomplished photojournalists of our age. Journalism has suffered an immense loss. We send our solidarity to his family and colleagues, the Vienna-based IPI said in a tweet. "As a member of the Reuters team, he brilliantly chronicled some of the biggest international news events in recent years, with his images reaching millions around the globe and bringing him well-deserved recognition, IPI Deputy Director Scott Griffen said in a statement. Danish's death is a reminder of the enormous risks that journalists face in conflict zones as they work to bring the news to the world. Afghanistan, in particular, remains an especially dangerous environment for the press, a situation we fear will escalate with the ongoing withdrawal of foreign forces from the country, Griffen said. Siddiqui is the fifth journalist to be killed in Afghanistan this year. Three women media workers, who worked for the Enkass radio network, were killed on March 2 in Nangahar province, and on January 1, a journalist was shot dead in Ghor province, the IPI said in a report. Journalists in Afghanistan are extremely concerned over their safety following the rapid withdrawal of US and NATO troops. The safety of female journalists in Afghanistan is especially tenuous. According to the Afghan Journalists Safety Committee, 20 per cent of Afghan women journalists have quit or lost their jobs in the past few months because of the attacks and killings, it said. Amnesty International said the news of Siddiqui's killing was deeply shocking as it shared its condolences with his family, friends and colleagues. The news of the killing of Danish Siddiqui is deeply shocking. We share our condolences with his family, friends and colleagues. Danish Siddiqui was a brave photojournalist, known for his searing images that carefully chronicled some of the worst humanitarian crises around the world, said Samira Hamidi, Amnesty International's South Asia regional campaigner. To preserve the fundamental right to freedom of expression and ensure public access to reliable information, reporters engaged in professional missions in areas of armed conflict must be provided with better protection measures by the authorities, Hamidi said in a statement. According to a report by Reporters without Borders (RSF), a total of 937 journalists have been killed over the past decade, with 50 journalists losing their lives in 2020, most of them deliberately targeted. The report compiled by the Paris-based media watchdog said it had tallied 50 cases of journalists killed in connection with their work in 2020 (from January 1 to December 15), adding that this figure is very similar to 2019 (when 53 journalists were killed), although fewer journalists worked in the field last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), 65 journalists and human rights defenders have lost their lives since 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||DU to start registration process for UG programmes on August 2||The Delhi University will start the registration process of the 65,000 seats for undergraduate courses at its colleges on August 2 and is likely to announce the first cut-off list between September 7 and 10, acting vice chancellor P C Joshi announced on Saturday. The registration process for 20,000 postgraduate (PG) seats and for the Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) courses will begin on July 26, he said. The last date for registration of PG programmes is August 21 and for UG programmes is August 31. "To make the admission process hassle-free, a dedicated portal for admissions will be launched soon. This will facilitate students to fill the forms, pay fee and check all details without any problem from the comfort of their home," the VC said. University officials present at the press conference said admission for the sports quota will be done on the basis of certificates like last year. "We have had an intensive meeting of our education committee and have now come up with the dates for admission for this academic session," the VC said. The admission process will be completely online like last year, he added. Joshi said the registration process for MPhil and PhD will also begin on July 26 and the last date will be August 21. "The admission to undergraduate courses will be merit-based, like previous year. There will be no change in the eligibility criteria for the candidates," he said. Like last year, the admission process will be completely online this year too and efforts will be made to make it smooth, he said. The varsity has also decided that there will be no change in the registration fees for merit-based and entrance-based admissions. The varsity said the first cut off will be released in the first week of September and academic session will begin latest by the second week of October. "We are hoping to release first cut-off list between September 7 and 10. Admission process is likely to be completed in September. We are anticipating the start of the new academic session from October 1 but if the process takes more time, then we are planning to start it latest by October 18 this year," Rajiv Gupta, chairperson Admissions, who was also present in the press conference, said. Last year Delhi University's academic session started on October 18. University's cut-off had been soaring for past few years for UG courses. Last year cut-offs has gone as high as 100 per cent for some colleges. Last year Lady Sri Ram College for Commerce had released its cut off-list at 100 per cent for some honours UG courses. The board exams were cancelled this year due to Covid and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had said it will be adopting 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of marks for class 12 students based on results of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively. "We have faith in the marking system of the CBSE and we will honour it. We are constantly in touch with our colleges regarding modalities of cut-offs. A calendar regarding release of cut-off dates will also be issued soon," Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||UP Police lodge FIR against state Cong chief for silent protest against BJP||A case has been registered against three persons, including UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, who sat on a silent protest in front of a Mahatma Gandhi statue in Lucknow along with party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, police said on Saturday. The case has been registered for damaging public property, sitting on protest without permission and without giving prior information, Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur said. Gandhi, on a two-day visit to Lucknow, had protested along with other party members in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue at GPO Park on Friday. Police said the Congress workers damaged an iron net structure located in the GPO Park, and violated the Epidemic Act, during the protest. "The FIR has been registered against UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress leaders Ved Prakash Tripathi and Diljit Singh, and 500-600 unidentified party workers. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is not named in the FIR, Thakur told PTI. UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said Gandhi sat on the silent protest to highlight the atrocities on women, anarchy of the administration and police. "Women are not safe in the state. Priyankaji sat on a maun vrat' (silent protest) at the feet of Mahatma Gandhi for ending this jungle raj and to uproot this dictatorial government, Lallu said on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui's father remembers 'calm and quiet son'||"He was an extremely emotional person," said Mohammad Akhtar Siddiqui in a voice full of grief and pride as he remembered his "brilliant and dashing" photojournalist son, Danish Siddiqui. Danish Siddiqui, in his early 40s, was killed during clashes in Spin Boldak district in Afghanistan's Kandahar on Friday, Tolo News quoted sources as saying. It said fierce fighting has been going on in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the last few days. The Indian journalist was covering the situation in Kandahar. "He was a very calm and quiet, a very loving son. He loved children a lot. A very emotional person," the retired Jamia professor said a day after the grim news of Danish Siddiqui's death, something no father would want to hear in his life, reached Delhi. Talking about his work that required him to be in life-threatening situations, Akhtar Siddiqui said the family got used to his work life over the years. "We used to tell him in the beginning what was the need for such a job, but we almost got used to it. He'd tell us they have security, they travel with full protection. We only told him to maintain all precautions," he told PTI. In the last one year, Danish Siddiqui extensively covered the COVID-19 pandemic across the country. "He was a brilliant and dashing chap. He had a lot of commitment towards his work, passion to face challenges. Even during the pandemic, Delhi riots, he reported the facts despite the challenges," he said. "Passionate and energetic" as a child, Akhtar Siddiqui remembered, Danish would finish with perfection whatever he set his mind to. "He was extraordinarily courageous," the father said before his voice trailed off. Danish Siddiqui's work as a photojournalist with Reuters news agency since 2011 involved reporting on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya refugee crisis, the protest in Hong Kong and earthquakes in Nepal. Based in Mumbai, he had received the Pulitzer Prize as part of the photography staff of the news agency. He graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK MCRC in Jamia in 2007. Starting his career as a television news correspondent, he switched to photojournalism and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Any decision by Congress president acceptable to all: Amarinder after meeting Rawat||Any decision taken by the Congress president will be acceptable to all, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday after meeting AICC general secretary and Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat. Rawat flew down to Chandigarh as tensions escalate in the Congress' Punjab unit over differences between Amarinder and Navjot Singh Sidhu. There is intense speculation that the cricketer-turned politician may be appointed state Congress chief. Rawat reached Chandigarh in a chopper around 12 noon and went straight to the chief minister's farm house in Mohali. The visit is being seen as an effort to placate Amarinder, who wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. He is learnt to have said that giving the post of state party chief to Sidhu, a Jat Sikh, would upset the party's senior leaders representing the Hindu community and harm the party's prospects in the 2022 assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Kejriwal writes to Modi, pitches for Bharat Rantna for Sunderlal Bahuguna||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to bestow Bharat Ratna on noted environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna as the country celebrates its 75th anniversary year of independence. The letter written by Kejriwal on Saturday said, "We believe presenting Bharat Ratna to Sunderlal Bahuguna will yield honour for the award itself." Bahuguna, known for his lifelong work to conserve nature in the hill state of Uttarakhand, started "Chipko Andolan" to save trees from being cut that spread to other states as well. He passed away at the age of 94 on May 21 this year. Kejriwal had raised the demand for Bharat Ratna on Friday at a programme organised at Delhi Vidhan Sabha to pay homage to the world-renowned environmentalist. "In this 75th year of independence of the country as we are honouring freedom fighters and those eminent personalities who gave a right direction to the nation, I request you on the behalf of Delhi government to felicitate Sunderlal Bahuguna with Bharat Ratna," it read. Bahuguna dedicated himself to the cause of environment conservation by sensing the imminent threat to the world, at a time when it was exploiting the nature with closed eyes and environment conservation was absent in global discourse, Kejriwal said. He had cautioned that humans have committed error to treat nature as private property and unchecked exploitation was going to cause various anomalies and problems, said the Chief Minister. "I hope that you will consider this request by Delhi government and take a proper decision in this regard as soon as possible," Kejriwal wrote to Modi. It is the good fortune of the people of India that a personality like Sunderlal Bahuguna was born here as his entire life is inspiring for all of us, the CM said. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi has demanded Bharat Ratna for Bahuguna, who hailed from Uttarakhand which is going to Assembly polls next year. The party has been actively engaged in preparations for the elections. Kejriwal said a portrait of Bahuguna has been installed in Delhi Assembly so that his life and work of environment protection inspires and guides policymakers of Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu meets PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar amid unrest in the state||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu met Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar on Saturday, amid mounting speculation over whether the party will appoint the cricketer-turned-politician as the next head of its state unit. After the meeting, which lasted more than half-an-hour, Sidhu said Jakhar is his elder brother and a guiding force. Jakhar, in turn, described Sidhu as a capable man. Sidhu left his residence in Patiala and reached Jakhar's residence in Panchkula about 65 km away at around 10:45 am, an aide said. The meeting comes in the backdrop of simmering tensions in the Punjab Congress following differences between Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu. On Friday, Sidhu met party chief Sonia Gandhi at her residence in New Delhi in an apparent bid to arrive at a truce formula over the state unit revamp. Also present at the meeting were AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat and Rahul Gandhi. Sources said reports of Sidhu's elevation had irked Amarinder Singh and he had written to Sonia Gandhi expressing strong resentment over the developments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||New academic session for varsities to begin from October 1: UGC||The new academic session in universities and colleges across the county will begin from October 1 while the admission process has to be completed by September 30, according to new guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Universities and higher education institutions (HEIs) have been asked to ensure that the admission process for undergraduate courses begins only after the declaration of results by the CBSE, ICSE and all state boards. "It is expected that all school boards will declare their results for class 12 exams by July 31. If there is any delay in declaration of the result of qualifying exams, the new academic session may begin by October 18," the UGC said in the new guidelines. The commission has clarified that the teaching-learning process must continue in offline, online or blended mode. "The institutions may plan for classes, breaks, conduct of examinations, semester break etc. during October 1 to July 31, following necessary protocols and advisories issued by central and state governments from time to time in view of COVID-19 pandemic," the guidelines said. In view of the financial hardships faced by parents during the pandemic, the commission has asked varsities and HEIs to ensure fee is fully refunded in cases of cancellation of admission or migration of students. It has also been made mandatory for universities and colleges to conduct final year or end term exams by August 31. The exams can be conducted in either offline, online or in blended mode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Sharad Pawar meets Narendra Modi for nearly an hour||NCP president Sharad Pawar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Saturday. The Prime Minister's Office tweeted a picture of their meeting but shared no details about their talks. "Rajya Sabha MP Shri Sharad Pawar met PM Narendra Modi," it tweeted along with a photo of the meeting between the two leaders. According to a report by ndtv.com that quoted sources, the meeting lasted for nearly 50 minutes. The meeting comes two days before Parliament's Monsoon session that starts on Monday. Later in the day, the NCP said that the meeting was a scheduled one to discuss amendments to the Banking Regulation Act, among other things, and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies were aware of it. Addressing a press conference, NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said that AICC general secretary H K Patil was told about this scheduled meeting when he and other Congress leaders met Pawar in Mumbai recently. Even Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was apprised of this meeting," he added. The NCP shares power with the Shiv Sena and the Congress in Maharashtra as part of the MVA government that was formed after the 2019 Assembly elections. Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted a picture of the meeting between Pawar and Modi that lasted nearly an hour, during which they held talks on a number of issues. Malik said, "Amendments to Banking Regulation Act would hurt the co-operative sector banks since more powers were given to the RBI and while cooperative banks faced restrictions in power. Cooperation is a state subject...Pawar has been discussing the issue with all the stakeholders." "He (Pawar) had spoken to the PM over phone and it was decided to meet whenever he is in Delhi," he said. The NCP leader said that Pawar also raised the issue of Covid-19 handling and the process of vaccination during the meeting. "Yesterday, CM Uddhav Thackeray had told the PM that a national policy to stop crowding at public places should be framed," he said. Malik, however, rejected reports that Pawar had met BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis in Delhi. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, who is in Delhi, told reporters that he wasn't aware of any meeting between Pawar and Fadnavis. "There is no politics in Pawar-Modi meeting. There can be discussions on various issues other than politics," Raut said. Meanwhile, the NCP also released a letter written by Pawar to Modi, in which he has said that although the objectives behind the amendments to the Banking Regulation Act are laudable, they do little to promote the well-being and growth of the cooperative sector. Pawar submitted the letter to Modi during their meeting on Saturday. "You recently advised the rural youth to engage in micro, small and medium size businesses along with their farming activities so as to make them atmanirbhar' under the adverse climatic conditions. The cooperative banks can contribute to this cause since they have expertise of lending to these first time borrowers and contribute more than 23 percent of their advances of rs 3.04 lakh crore to small and micro industries, he said. The growth of this sector is crucial to the holistic development of the country and all efforts should be made to encourage this sector, the former Union minister added. "The aims and objectives of the amended Act are well-intentioned and many provisions are necessary. The erring board and management must definitely be acted upon strictly and depositors' interest should be protected, but at the same time it should be ensured that while doing so, the cooperative principles laid down in the Constitution are not sacrificed at the altar of over-zealous regulation," Pawar said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Govt to procure 66 crore more doses of Covishield, Covaxin at revised rates||The Centre has placed an order to procure 66 crore more doses of Covishield and Covaxin to be supplied between August and December this year, at a revised price of Rs 205 and Rs 215 per dose, respectively, excluding taxes, official sources said. They said 37.5 crore of Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India and 28.5 crore Covaxin doses from Bharat Biotech will be procured by December. "An order to procure 66 crore more doses of COVID-19 vaccines--Covishield and Covaxin--to be supplied between August and December, at a revised price of Rs 205 and Rs 215 per dose, respectively, excluding taxes, has been placed," the source said. The price of each dose of Covishield amounts to Rs 215.25 and Covaxin Rs 225.75, including taxes, it said. The Union health ministry which was procuring both the vaccines at Rs 150 per dose, had indicated that the prices would be revised after the new COVID-19 vaccine procurement policy came into effect from June 21. Under the new policy, the ministry will procure 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the drug manufacturers in the country. While the Centre has asked both the vaccine manufacturing firms to scale up their production, the manufacturers had indicated that getting Rs 150 for each dose while making investments to ramp up the production was not viable for them, sources said. The Union government had earlier allowed states and private hospitals to procure 50 per cent of the vaccines following demands for decentralisation of the process. However, after several states complained of problems including of funding, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the revision of the vaccine guidelines on June 8. Domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to provide 25 per cent of their monthly production of vaccines to private hospitals. According to the revised guidelines which came into effect from June 21, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states/UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination, and all above the age of 18 will be eligible for the free jabs. Any wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively. The states and UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance. "Based on this aggregated demand, the Government of India will facilitate the supply of these vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority's electronic platform. This would enable the smaller and remoter private hospitals to obtain a timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance," the ministry had said. The price of vaccine doses for private hospitals would be declared by each vaccine manufacturer, and any subsequent changes would be notified in advance, it said. More than 41.69 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through all sources, the health ministry said on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Modi's defence policy for India ensures no one can challenge its borders: Shah||India's security policy was either "influenced or was overlapping" with the foreign policy and it was only after Narendra Modi became prime minister that the country got an independent security strategy, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday. Shah was delivering the 'Rustamji memorial lecture' and it was being attended by personnel and officers of the Border Security Force (BSF). He also gave way gallantry medals to serving personnel and for those killed in the line of duty from the country's largest frontier force. "I used to think if there is a security policy of this country or not? Till Narendra Modi became the prime minister we did not have any independent security policy," Shah said. "It was either influenced by foreign policy or it was overlapping with the foreign policy," he said. After Narendra Modi became prime minister, the country got an independent security policy, he added. "Our idea is to have peaceful relations with all but if someone disturbs our borders, if someone challenges our sovereignty, the priority of our security policy is that such an attempt will be replied in the same language," Shah said. He said this security policy was a "big achievement" as the country wanted such a good plan. "I believe without this (security policy) neither the country can progress nor democracy can prosper," the home minister said "Modiji (PM) has done this big job. I do not want to give examples as it is well known," he said adding the policy was made operational on the ground by his government. Shah also declared that his government is working to ensure that there "will be no gap in the fencing" along India's borders by 2022. He said about three per cent of the country's border was unfenced at present and this has left a "big space" for infiltration of terrorists and other border crimes like smuggling of arms, ammunition and narcotics among others. The home minister said India will soon develop indigenous counter-drone technology which is being carried out by technical organisations like the DRDO and some other agencies. His comments come in the backdrop of the first time drone attack on the IAF station in Jammu last month where two unmanned aerial vehicles dropped bombs injuring two airmen and damaging a portion of a building inside. The minister added that the security and technology development establishment was also working on artificial intelligence and robotic technologies as part of a long drawn project. The about 2.65 lakh personnel strong, the BSF guards over 6,300 kms of Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh. The memorial lecture and investiture ceremony is an annual affair to remember the contribution of its first chief or director general (DG) K F Rustamji. A officer of the 1938 batch of the British time Imperial Police, Rustamji headed the BSF for nine years. He died in 2003.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa meets BJP president JP Nadda||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday met BJP president J P Nadda in New Delhi and said he has been told to strengthen the party and bring it back to power in the state. The chief minister has said that he will also meet Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh. "We discussed about the development of the party in the state. He asked me to give special emphasis on bringing the BJP back to power in Karnataka. The same was told by the prime minister also. A detailed discussion happened," Yediyurappa said after meeting Nadda. He said that these are the responsibilities the BJP chief has given to him. On Friday, Yediyurappa had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and discussed pending state works, including Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river. The meetings come at a time political circles are abuzz with speculations of Yediyurappa being replaced as the chief minister. Yediyurappa on Saturday dismissed rumours about his resignation, saying it is not at all true. On the meeting with Nadda, he said, "I've discussed in detail about the development of the party in the state and the country. He has given so many instructions to me. He has a good about opinion about me. I'll work for the party and come back to power again in Karnataka."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||MP well collapse: PM announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia to kin of each deceased||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of those killed in the well collapse incident in Madhya Pradesh. President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed grief over the incident. Eleven persons died, while 19 others were brought out alive from the well, in which several people had fallen while trying to rescue a boy in Vidisha district of the state. "Anguished by the tragedy in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. My condolences to the bereaved families. An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF (Prime Minister's National Relief Fund) would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives," Modi was quoted as saying in a tweet issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) late on Friday night. Rashtrapati Bhavan's tweet quoting Kovind on Saturday morning said, "Deeply saddened by the heartbreaking news of the death of many people in the accident in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. I wish success to all the rescue efforts and extend my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families." On Friday, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced that families of the deceased would be given financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each, while the injured would be provided Rs 50,000 each and free medical treatment. In a 24-hour long operation that ended late on Friday night, 11 bodies were recovered and 19 persons were brought out alive from the well in Lal Patar village in Ganj Basoda area of Vidisha. The incident took place on Thursday night when the parapet wall of the well collapsed. To make things worse, a tractor deployed for the rescue operation skidded into the well with four policemen. According to local people, the well is around 50 feet deep and had about 20 feet of water. Ravi, a teenage boy, fell into the well, after which some people climbed down to rescue him, while others were standing on the surrounding parapet wall to help them. However, they fell into water when that wall caved in, eyewitnesses said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa dismisses rumours about his resignation, says not at all true||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's visit to Delhi has sparked rumours of his replacement as he is about to complete two years in office this month, even as the 79-year-old BJP veteran dismissed the speculation on Saturday as "not at all true" and said he has been asked to strengthen the party in the southern state.  Describing his two-day visit to Delhi as successful, Yediyurappa said the central leaders of the BJP have asked him to continue as the chief minister and that there was no discussion on a leadership change.  He also said the BJP leadership has asked him to strengthen the party in Karnataka so that it wins the upcoming elections.  While the Assembly polls in Karnataka are slated in 2023, the Lok Sabha election will be held in 2024.  Yediyurappa met Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh and BJP chief J P Nadda on Saturday, a day after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  The meetings come at a time when political circles are abuzz with speculation of Yediyurappa being replaced as the chief minister after he completes two years in office on July 26.  Yediyurappa said the discussions at these meetings revolved around strengthening the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka and ensuring that it returns to power in the state.  "We discussed about the development of the party in the state. He asked me to give special emphasis on bringing the BJP back to power in Karnataka. The same was told by the prime minister also. A detailed discussion took place," Yediyurappa said after his meeting with Nadda.  He said his meeting with Singh was on similar lines and added that Shah told him: "We will win cent per cent in Uttar Pradesh and in Karnataka, there is a bright future and we are with you."  "He (Shah) has asked us to work hard in Karnataka and ensure more seats in the Lok Sabha polls. He has asked me to take the responsibility of strengthening the party in Karnataka. (Shah said) our blessings are with you," the chief minister said after meeting the Union home minister.  Earlier, talking to reporters at the Karnataka Bhavan here, Yediyurappa dismissed the speculation about his resignation, saying there is no truth in these rumours.  "Not at all. Not at all," he said when asked if he had resigned.  On his meeting with Nadda, Yediyurappa said, "I have discussed in detail about the development of the party in the state and the country."  "He has given so many instructions to me. He has a good opinion about me. I will work for the party and come back to power again in Karnataka," he said.  On the issue of his resignation, the chief minister said there is no question of hiding it. "That situation has not yet come," he added.  "So far, no one has been asked to resign. If there is any news, there is no value to it," Yediyurappa said.  "It is the duty of a chief minister to come to Delhi to discuss state issues and get clearances. I will come again in the first week of August," he said.  After his meetings with Nadda and Singh, Yediyurappa enjoyed a plate of idli and vada along with coffee at the Sagar Ratna restaurant in Hotel Ashoka, near the Karnataka Bhavan.  He went to the restaurant with his son B Y Vijayendra, grandson Shashidhar Mardi, MLC Lehar Singh and personal secretary Girish Hosur.  After the meal, the chief minister had left for the airport to return to Bengaluru as his appointment with Shah was not confirmed. But on his way, he got a call from Shah's office and went to meet the Union home minister.  After meeting Shah, Yediyurappa left for the airport.  After landing in Bengaluru, he told reporters that the central leaders of the BJP have asked him to continue as the chief minister and there was no discussion on a leadership change.  "The central leaders have asked me to continue as the chief minister and strengthen the party. It is our duty to follow their instructions from time to time. There is no question of a leadership change," Yediyurappa said.  Denying that any discussion took place on alternative leadership, he asserted that there is no dearth of substitute leaders in the saffron party.  However, the chief minister maintained that the party has given him a responsibility and he will work to strengthen the BJP in the southern state by taking everyone along.  Yediyurappa met the prime minister on Friday and discussed the pending projects in the state, including the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river.  The speculation of Yediyurappa being replaced as the chief minister is doing the rounds following repeated open remarks by some disgruntled leaders within the Karnataka BJP targeting him and his family with accusations of corruption and interference in the administration, which have embarrassed the party and the government, despite warnings of disciplinary action by the leadership.  Another section of the party is demanding the replacement of Yediyurappa citing his age and the need of projecting a new chief ministerial face ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls, sources had said.  On a possible cabinet rejig, Yediyurappa, before meeting Modi, told reporters, "I will tell you if there is any such discussion with (party) seniors over the restructuring or expansion of the cabinet."  An official statement issued after the Friday meeting between Modi and Yediyurappa had said the chief minister discussed various state issues with the prime minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Clear morning in Delhi, temperature a notch above normal||Delhiites woke up to a clear morning on Saturday with the minimum temperature settling at 28.2 degrees Celsius, a notch above season's normal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has, however, predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in the city on Sunday. The minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official reading of the city, was 28.2 degrees Celsius, and the relative humidity at 8.30 am was recorded at 75 per cent, it said. The weather man has predicted partly cloudy sky with light rain or thundershowers later in the day, while the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 37 degrees Celsius. The city had received the first rain of the monsoon season on Tuesday, 16 days after the usual date of June 27. On Friday, the minimum temperature in the national capital was recorded at 27 degrees Celsius, while the maximum settled at 37.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||India records over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 560 casualties in a day||India recorded 38,079 new coronavirus cases, which took the infection tally to 3,10,64,908, while the death toll reached 4,13,091 with 560 more fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have declined to 4,24,025 and comprise 1.36 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.31 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that active COVID-19 cases have decreased by 6,397 in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 19,98,715 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 44,20,21,954. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.91 per cent and it has been less than three per cent for 26 consecutive days, it said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.10 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has risen to 3,02,27,792, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. The total vaccine doses administered has reached 39.96 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 560 new fatalities included 167 deaths from Maharashtra and 130 from Kerala, the ministry said. In total, 4,13,091 deaths have been reported in the country, including 1,26,727 from Maharashtra, 36,079 from Karnataka, 33,652 from Tamil Nadu, 25,023 from Delhi, 22,711 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,980 from West Bengal and 16,215 from Punjab. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Will ban this year’s Kanwar Yatra if UP govt doesn't: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said it would ban this year’s Kanwar Yatra pilgrimage if the Uttar Pradesh government didn’t do so, asserting that religious sentiments were “subservient” to people’s fundamental right to health and life. The court’s firm stand in the face of the Yogi Adityanath government’s reluctance to ban the annual Yatra came amid fears that the pilgrimage could fuel a third wave of Covid much as the April Kumbh Mela had helped spread the devastating second wave. Some 3.5 crore Shiva devotees had participated in the Kanwar Yatra in 2019 but state governments had prevented the pilgrimage last year owing to the Covid outbreak. “The health of the citizenry of India and their right to ‘life’ are paramount. All other sentiments, albeit religious, are subservient to this most basic fundamental right,” the bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai said. At the hearing, the Centre and the Uttarakhand government had opposed the conduct of the Yatra, thus isolating the Adityanath government which had said it wanted to allow the pilgrimage amid “stringent” restrictions. When solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said the Uttar Pradesh government must not allow the pilgrims to travel to Hardwar and bring back Ganga water to bathe Shiva idols, Justice Nariman remarked: “State of UP cannot go ahead with it — 100 per cent.” Senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, pleaded that only a limited number of devotees who had been vaccinated or could produce negative RT-PCR reports would be allowed to participate in the Yatra. “Mr Vaidyanathan, either we pass the orders directly (banning the Yatra) or give you one more opportunity to reconsider holding the Yatra physically,” the bench orally observed. “The pandemic affects all of us. We are all citizens of India. This suo motu case is taken because Article 21 (right to life) applies to all of us and we have to safeguard it.” Vaidyanathan then sought permission to seek further instructions from the Uttar Pradesh government. The bench then posted the next hearing to Monday. Its written order said: “We are of the view that this is a matter which concerns every one of us as citizens of India, and goes to the very heart of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which has a pride of place in the fundamental rights chapter of our Constitution.” The bench had on Wednesday issued suo motu notices to the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments on the subject of banning the Kanwar Yatra. It had said it was “disturbed” at the “disparate” views expressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other political leaders on large gatherings during the pandemic. The apex court had referred to news reports quoting Modi as saying it was up to the people to stop a third wave and that the country could not compromise “even a bit”. But, as the court noted, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to allow the Yatra while the Uttarakhand government had banned it. The Uttar Pradesh government’s affidavit had said that officials would try to persuade the local Kanwar Sanghs to withhold the pilgrimage. If anyone still insisted on going ahead “due to compelling religious reasons”, they “should apply for permission”. Apart from having to furnish vaccination certificates or negative test reports from the previous three days, the pilgrims would have to follow a strict Covid protocol, the affidavit said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Civil society organisations urge US to designate India as a 'country of particular concern'||Over 30 civil society organisations from around the world on Thursday issued a joint resolution urging the US state department to designate India as a “country of particular concern” (CPC) and sanction officials and others promoting religious discrimination and open persecution of non-Hindus. The resolution was adopted at the inaugural International Religious Freedom Summit in the US where interfaith leaders expressed disappointment at the Joe Biden administration avoiding criticism of the Indian government for allowing discrimination on its watch. The CPC tag is accorded by the US secretary of state, under authority delegated by the President, to a country guilty of particularly severe violations of religious freedom under the International Religious Freedom Act. When the secretary of state designates a CPC, the US Congress is notified. Where non-economic policy options designed to bring about cessation of the particularly severe violations of religious freedom have reasonably been exhausted, an economic measure is expected to be imposed. The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) had in its report last year recommended to the state department that India be designated as a CPC, which would have put the country in league with Saudi Arabia, China, Pakistan, Iran and other such nations. The state department did not oblige. At the International Religious Freedom Summit, a US senator and two members of the House of Representatives too voiced concern about the situation in India while speaking at a panel discussion on “Religious Freedom in India: Challenges and Opportunities”. “I remain seriously concerned about the Indian government’s commitment to protecting the rights of minorities, including the 200 million Muslims in India,” Senator Ed Markley said. “The government’s targeting of social and political activities and crackdown on free speech and their religiously motivated discrimination against minorities cannot be viewed in isolation as escalating nationalism threatens to undermine India’s longstanding oath to democratic values.” Referring to reports of the targeting of minorities, Congresswoman Marie Newman said: “India’s equity and standing in the eyes of the world are severely damaged already. Freedom House has downgraded its rating for India’s democracy from being free to partly free. That is heartbreaking. Persecution of entire sections of society, especially when backed by governments, is a recipe for a future filled with disaster. We must do better. We must pressure both our adversaries and our allies to support human rights around the world.” Another member of the House of Representatives, Andy Levin, who is also a member of the foreign affairs committee, said: “Why would I be so critical and so publicly critical of a country that I love? The answer is it is because I love India that I am committed to ending these attacks on its people. It is because I am so passionate in my support for the vibrant democracy I came to know as a young man that I want to see that democracy flourish for generations to come.” The resolution by the 30 organisations takes note of how it’s possible to target minorities with impunity in India. It notes the harassment of marginalised communities, the love jihad narrative, the anti-conversion laws, and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that has been widely found to be discriminatory. It also records the history of the RSS. The organisations have urged the US state department to designate India as a CPC under the guidelines of the USCIRF — an independent, bipartisan federal body created under the 1998 International Religious Freedom Act to monitor the universal right to freedom of religion or belief abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Rahul: Leave Congress if you fear RSS, join if you don’t||Rahul Gandhi on Friday said fearless people who were opposed to the RSS-BJP needed to be inducted into the Congress while those in the party who were scared must be shown the door. Addressing around 3,000 social media volunteers of the Congress through videoconference, Rahul said: “There are lots of people outside the Congress who are not frightened by the RSS-BJP. They need to be brought into the Congress. And those among us who are scared need to be shown the door. Let them go, we don’t need such people. Go to the RSS, have fun. We need fearless people. That’s our ideology.” He was explaining the strength of the Congress ideology that had inspired many tall leaders across the world and wondered whether anybody had ever heard of any great personality proclaiming he or she had been inspired by the RSS’s principles. Rahul recalled what Nelson Mandela had said when he visited the anti-apartheid revolutionary with Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra: “We developed the confidence that we can fight because the Congress fought the British with truth and non-violence.” Rahul asked if the world had ever discussed RSS leaders M.S. Golwalkar and V.D. Savarkar. The Congress MP conceded it might be a long battle but asserted that the party was prepared to do whatever was required to save the country. He also named former confidante Jyotiraditya Scindia while responding to a question about the people who were quitting the Congress. Insisting that fear was the primary factor, he said: “Scindiaji dar gaye (Scindia got scared). What will happen to my palace, my money… he went. He joined the RSS. We need people who are willing to fight the RSS, not surrender to the RSS.” Although the interaction was not open to the media, those who attended the session said Rahul stressed how crucial social media was at a time when the mainstream media was “frightened” and not doing its duty. He said that while the Narendra Modi government had managed to suppress the voice of the mainstream media, it was not easy to control social media, which was bringing out the truth. Rahul and his close associates suspect that many Congress leaders are scared of possible vindictive actions by the Modi government and so refuse to go beyond a point in attacking them. One of the causes for the perceived distrust between entrenched senior leaders and the younger lot was the suspicion that the veterans were “compromised”. This perception received a jolt when young leaders supposed to be close to Rahul — Scindia and Jitin Prasada — crossed over to the BJP. Scindia didn’t only defect, he pulled down the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh and installed the BJP, which had been rejected by the people in the elections. Rahul had in his letter announcing his resignation from the Congress president’s post in 2019 hinted at lack of support from senior leaders, arguing that he often felt he was fighting alone. Many senior leaders were not on the same page with him on his single-minded attack on Modi over the Rafale deal. Many veterans don’t appreciate his blunt attacks on industrialists Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani, arguing that a centrist party like the Congress needed to have an understanding with the corporate. Some of these leaders also believe that the exodus from the Congress is because of a drift in the party, not the “fear” Rahul has been talking about. But it is true that many Congress leaders in Gujarat and Maharashtra defected to the BJP after they were allegedly hounded by central agencies. Notable defections in Bengal and Assam were also triggered by purported abnormal pressure exerted on them by investigative agencies. Even the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party of Uttar Pradesh were accused of being subdued because of pressure from the central government. Major defections from the Telugu Desam Party in Andhra Pradesh that bolstered the BJP’s strength in the Rajya Sabha also came amidst speculation on similar coercion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Amarinder's opposition to Sidhu elevation forces fire-fighting||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s firm opposition to the planned elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state Congress president has forced the central leadership to undertake yet another agonising round of fire-fighting. The formula, worked out after weeks of reconciliation efforts, has almost come to a naught as neither side is willing to give up. While Sidhu becoming state chief was anyway unacceptable to the chief minister, his apparent hostile gesture of holding a separate meeting with supporters, which included some ministers and MLAs, left Amarinder seething with rage. Amarinder also met with his supporters at a farm house and conveyed his feelings to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The situation was so explosive that Sidhu was summoned to Delhi on Friday morning for a meeting with Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. What transpired at the meeting was not known but general secretary in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, told reporters no final decision on Sidhu’s appointment had been taken and efforts to address any misgivings were on. He said Sonia was yet to give her stamp of approval to the final decision. Party leaders were in the dark about the negotiations as Sonia is now directly dealing with both Amarinder and Sidhu but there were enough indications of enduring conflict between the two groups. Party MP Manish Tewari, who is the chief minister’s choice for heading the state unit, sent out an unambiguous message through a tweet: “Demographics of Punjab: Sikhs: 57.75 per cent, Hindus: 38.49 per cent, Dalits: 31.94 per cent (Sikh & Hindus). Punjab is both progressive & secular. BUT balancing social interest groups is key. Equality is the basis of social justice.” The emphasis was on the substantial presence of Hindus, which meant giving both the key posts — chief minister and party chief – to Sikhs from the same district, may not be wise. The balancing act with two working presidents from Hindu communities may not have the desired effect as both Amarinder and Sidhu will be seen as the party’s face. The chief minister wants a Hindu or a Dalit as state chief, a proposal that kills two birds with one stone. While Sidhu will be denied the key post, the party’s social engineering messaging is also taken care of. But the problem is that Sidhu is not ready for anything less. Offers like working president or campaign committee chairman have been given to him but he is hell-bent on a position that brings him on a par with the chief minister. The leadership skills of Sonia and Rahul will be tested in this tussle and will have an impact on factional feuds in other states as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||SC sets up electronic system for transmission of court orders||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Friday announced the setting up of an “innovative” and “revolutionising” electronic system of transmission of court orders in a fast and secure manner, following complaints of delay in implementation of bail orders. The top court said the country can no longer live in an era where pigeons were used for transmitting information as it involved the fundamental rights of prisoners’ immediate release after being ordered by a competent court. CJI Ramana, heading a bench also comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao and A.S. Bopanna, while announcing the new system, remarked: “In this age of information and technology we are still looking at the skies for pigeons to communicate orders.” The court also directed that those prisoners who had been given interim bail or parole in terms of its May 7 order need not surrender until further orders. “Prisoners are waiting for the Supreme Court orders to be sent by post. We have ordered release in some matters and they were not released since they did not receive authentic copy order. This is too much,” Justice Ramana said. Presently, the court orders are transmitted through courier, postal service and hand delivery, leading to considerable delay. A number of advocates have also complained that their clients despite being directed to be released continue to be incarcerated in jails as the orders are not reaching the prison authorities in time. Recently, the apex court had directed the release of 13 prisoners from Agra jail, but they were actually released only four days after the court’s order. The delay occurred apparently because the prison authorities took time to verify the authenticity of the order. During Friday’s proceedings, Justice Ramana said the top court was contemplating a system under which bail orders are sent electronically to jail authorities, so as to facilitate their immediate release. The Supreme Court registry was directed by the bench to prepare a detailed report of a scheme for delivery of its orders for execution to all concerned through a secure, credible and authentic channel. Christened as Faster (Fast and Secure Transmission of Electronic Records), the innovative scheme has been conceived for the instantaneous delivery of orders passed by the apex court to prisons concerned, district courts, high courts, as the case may be, through a secure communication channel. This will save time and effort and will ensure that there are no delays in implementation of the orders passed by the Supreme Court. The secretary-general of the Supreme Court was asked to submit a comprehensive report on formulating a scheme within two weeks. The apex court had last year taken suo moto cognisance of congested prisons and had directed the release of prisoners on parole or interim bail on a case to case basis. The bench, while stating that prisoners released on interim bail and parole orders need not surrender until further orders, asked states and Union Territories to place on record the criteria adopted for the release of prisoners on interim bail or parole. The order came after senior advocate Dushyant Dave, assisting the court as amicus curiae, told the bench that there was no consolidated information on the criteria followed for the release of  prisoners by the states and Union Territories. The bench also asked the states and Union Territories to explain the availability Internet infrastructure in their respective jails so as to ensure seamless transmission of the court orders to the prison authorities concerned. At present there are an estimated 1,339 prisons in the country housing a total of 4.60 lakh-odd prisoners. In March last year, the apex court had directed the states and its instrumentalities to set up high-powered committees to decide on the temporary release of prisoners either on parole or bail. However, it was ordered that only those prisoners who were serving a sentence or are likely to sentenced for offences for less than seven years were to be considered for release. The committees were entrusted with the task of deciding the releases on a case to case basis. On May 7, the top court had said there was a need to de-congest prisons across the country to prevent further spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, by grant of temporary bail or parole to a certain class of prisoners. However, CJI Ramana heading the bench had said that the task of deciding the release of prisoners on a case to case basis should be better left to the district legal services authorities and the local district judges. The matter would be taken up for further hearing in the first week of August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Jaishankar flags connectivity issues with Central Asia and Eurasia ||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Friday flagged the connectivity issues India has with Central Asia and Eurasia because of Islamabad’s stance on transit trade agreements and Beijing’s disrespect for India’s sovereignty. He did not name Pakistan or China. Addressing the plenary session of the Central and South Asia Connectivity Conference in Tashkent, Jaishankar said: “The challenge we face is that politics, vested interests and instability can be formidable impediments to its realisation.” He added: “There are lessons too from our experiences that need to be understood. The real issues are of mindsets, not of disputes. Blocking connectivity in practice while professing support in principle benefits no one. A one-sided view of trade rights and obligations can never work. No serious connectivity can ever be a one-way street.” It was clear that Jaishankar’s target was Islamabad, which has not allowed the Afghanistan-Pakistan Transit Trade Agreement to be a two-way street. While Afghanistan is allowed to send its goods by land through Pakistan to India, Islamabad does not allow India to export to Afghanistan via the land route, which would have given India access beyond Afghanistan to Central Asia. Further, according to Jaishankar, building connectivity is an act of trust and must, at the minimum, conform to international law. “Respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity are the most basic principles of international relations,” he said. This was an allusion to China. India objects to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor running through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. The corridor is a flagship project of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), China’s ambitious connectivity project linking East Asia to Europe. Although China had invited India to join the BRI, a throwback to the ancient Silk Route, New Delhi decided to stay away, citing sovereignty and territorial integrity issues as the corridor runs through PoK. Given how the four-decade-old strife in Afghanistan has affected transit projects including gas pipelines, Jaishankar also emphasised that development and prosperity go hand in hand with peace and security. “For reliable connectivity within and through Afghanistan, the world must have confidence in its governance. Our connectivity deliberations expect predictability, efficiency and observance of norms of our time as its foundation,” he said. He was articulating the growing worldwide concern at the situation in land-locked Afghanistan with the Taliban gaining control over large swathes of territory after the US withdrawal. The meeting also saw a heated exchange between Pakistan and Afghanistan, with President Ashraf Ghani accusing Islamabad of continuing its links with the Taliban. Ghani said over 10,000 jihadi fighters had entered Afghanistan over the last month and that Islamabad had failed to convince the Taliban to participate seriously in peace talks. He was alluding to pro-Taliban elements celebrating the destruction of assets in Afghanistan. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, who is attending the conference, expressed disappointment at Ghani blaming Islamabad for the situation in Afghanistan. He said Pakistan had faced the blowback of the conflict in Afghanistan and knew that it would also face the effects of the recent turbulence in its neighbourhood. Imran added that the Taliban were no longer willing to compromise after the US set a date for troops withdrawal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Even single Covid-19 vaccine doses protected against death: ICMR||Even single doses of Covid-19 vaccines provided recipients significant protection against death during the country’s second wave of the pandemic, a top health official said on Friday, citing a Tamil Nadu study that underlines the need to rapidly expand coverage amid limited supplies. The study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has found that a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine provided recipients 82 per cent protection from death, while two doses increased vaccine effectiveness to 95 per cent. “Here is real-life data, not research data. Real-life data from the second wave that was driven by the Delta variant. The effectiveness (of vaccines) to prevent death is huge,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group guiding the Centre’s vaccination policy. Public health experts have listed the Delta variant of coronavirus — first detected in India — among key factors that contributed to the speed and size of the second wave of the pandemic in which daily new infections rose 46-fold from 9,000 in mid-February to over 414,000 in early May. The study that counted coronavirus deaths among Tamil Nadu police staff is the third large assessment of vaccine effectiveness in India after similar comparisons of Covid-19 outcomes among healthcare workers at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and among police personnel in Punjab. The ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, recorded 20 deaths (1.17 per 1,000) among 17,059 unvaccinated staff, seven deaths (0.21 per 1,000) among 32,792 who had received one dose, and four deaths (0.06 per 1,000) among 67,673 who had received both doses. Those numbers translate into 82 per cent vaccine effectiveness after one dose and 95 per cent after two doses. The findings point to potential gains — or lives saved — if more people were vaccinated, but the country’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign, constrained by slow supplies, is progressing at a pace much slower than what it could be. The campaign has administered nearly 400 million doses, but only 79 million people — eight per cent of the 944 million eligible — have been fully vaccinated with two doses. India is currently administering four million doses daily instead of more than eight million needed to complete vaccinations by the year-end. Health officials have expressed hope that rigorous adherence to Covid-linked precautions — such as wearing masks and avoiding crowds — by people across the country as well as a gradual increase in vaccination coverage might avert a possible third wave. India’s daily new Covid-19 cases have declined steadily over the past eight weeks to around 40,000. However, pockets of widespread infections, where 10 per cent or larger suspected cases tested are found positive, persist, which include nine districts in Manipur, eight in Kerala, six in Rajasthan, five each in Meghalaya and Mizoram, three each in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Sikkim, two in Tripura, and one each in Assam, Maharashtra, and Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Hooch death whiff in dry Bihar||At least eight persons have lost their lives in West Champaran district of dry Bihar over the past three days after allegedly consuming spurious liquor. Residents of the affected areas — Deorwa, Jogia, Bagahi and several other villages under Lauria and Ramnagar police stations — said the toll was between 16 and 20. Several people are undergoing treatment at hospitals in the state and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, they said. “We got information around 7.30pm on Thursday that eight persons have died in suspicious circumstances in Deorwa, Jogia and Bagahi villages over the past two to three days. We also came to know that some people are being treated at private nursing homes. We rushed there to investigate the matter,” West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar told The Telegraph. He said the villagers insisted that the deceased were ill and denied the cause of death was liquor consumption. When they were asked for prescriptions, the family members of only two of the victims could produce documents, he said. One victim was on dialysis while another had an ailing heart. The rest of the deaths appeared suspicious, he said. However, the district administration got information that one person, identified as Muhammad Mumtaz, was being treated at a private hospital. A few officials were sent to meet him where his cousin said Muhammad fell ill after consuming liquor. “An FIR has been lodged on the basis of the information. We have been conducting raids since last (Thursday) night. A few people have been detained so far. A medical team has also been dispatched to the area to deal with any emergency,” Kumar said. The district magistrate said that deaths caused by drinking spurious liquor could be proved either by investigation or medical examination. He, however, said the last rites of all the deceased have been performed, which was proving to be an obstacle in determining the cause of deaths. Asked if there were any plans to exhume bodies to conduct tests, Kumar denied. Sources said the family members of the deceased hurriedly cremated or buried the bodies according to their customs without informing the police or the local administration allegedly out of fear of retribution for violating the liquor ban. The family members were also afraid that the police would exhume the bodies for investigation, they said. A few others said that the local police and administration officials allegedly threatened them of dire consequences if they lodged a case or complained to the senior officers. A few residents alleged that the area was a hotbed of illicit liquor brewing and gambling. Champaran range deputy inspector-general Lalan Mohan Prasad claimed the deaths occurred due to liquor consumption. “We have got the names of eight persons who died. There could be others who lost their lives after drinking hooch. We have registered an FIR with Lauria police station. Further investigation is on,” Prasad told this newspaper. Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad attacked the Nitish Kumar government on Friday over the deaths. “Thousands of people are dying in Bihar after consuming spurious liquor due to good governance’s prohibition. Those in power are running a parallel economy worth Rs 20,000 crore due to prohibition. Lakhs of Dalits and poor people are in jail in the name of liquor ban. The police have become corrupt and cruel,” Lalu said. There have been a series of hooch-related deaths in Bihar since chief minister Nitish brought a law to ban liquor manufacturing, trade and consumption in the state in 2016. Sources said that lacklustre policing and a nexus between law enforcement agencies and liquor mafia were the main reasons behind the illegal sale and consumption of liquor. At least 22 people have lost their lives in separate hooch tragedies in Kaimur, Muzaffarpur and Nawada districts this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Covid: Naveen seeks 95% jab allocation from the Centre||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has sought 95 per cent vaccine allocation for the state from the Centre. Naveen raised the demand on Friday during a virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi which was also attended by chief ministers from other states. The chief minister argued that Odisha had been performing very well on the vaccination front with its waste percentage being the lowest in the country. Naveen, however, said that due to low presence of private hospitals in the state, lifting of the vaccines by these hospitals from the 25 per cent quota has been comparatively less. Recalling his earlier communication with the central government on the issue, he said that Odisha had written to the Government of India to increase the allocation of vaccines to the state government to 95 per cent and reduce the allocation to private hospitals to 5 per cent. He said this would help the state increase the pace of vaccination. Voicing his concern over the anticipated third wave of Covid likely to impact children, the chief minister urged the Prime Minister to accord priority to vaccines for this age group. “I would like to request that the vaccines for the age group — 12-18 years may be prioritised and rolled out at the earliest,” he proposed. As it is Odisha has been making preparations to face the possible third wave of the pandemic with focus on upgrading the health infrastructure for children. While special paediatric wards in hospitals are being set up doctors are being specially trained to deal with the possible complications that might be seen among children affected by the new mutant of the coronavirus. At the same time an all out effort is being made to ramp up the vaccination drive which was hit recently by shortage of vaccines. The drive had to be halted in several districts. Officials, however, hope that the drive would be back on the track soon with fresh supply of vaccines reaching the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
