18-07-2021||India||Giving rise to fresh worries about the pandemic, has Covid-19 third wave in India arrived?||The World Health Organization this week has set the alarm bells ringing as it said that the world is at the very advanced stages of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The third wave is mostly being driven by the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 which was first reported in India. According to a hindustantimes.com report, this warning is a red flag for India as well, said the Union health ministry this week as the fall in the Covid-19 cases in India has slowed down. In India, the Covid-19 situation remains worrisome in some pockets, including some districts in Maharashtra, Kerala and the northeast. But the question is – Has the third wave in India already set in? Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul on Friday said the recent slow decline in number of daily cases is a warning and though the situation is currently under control, it can deteriorate if Covid appropriate behaviour is not followed, and noted that the next 100-125 days are critical, both for the system and people. According to the hindustantimes.com report, the University of Hyderabad pro-vice-chancellor physicist Dr Vipin Srivastava has recently said that the third wave in India has already arrived on July 4. He said July 4 recorded a similar trend like what the first week of February (the beginning of the 2nd wave) saw. On the other hand, Dr Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Infectious Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research said that the third wave of Covid-19 is likely to hit India at the end of August and chances are that it will not be as intense as the second wave. The hindustantimes.com report also states that UBS Securities India has said the risks of a third wave look real because of the increased presence of the Delta variant and the pace of vaccination. SBI Research in its report prepared early this month said India may witness the third wave of the pandemic by the second fortnight of August. Dr Devi Shetty, chairman of the Karnataka Covid expert committee, said it is difficult to predict the timing and the severity of a third wave, reports hindustantimes.com. "People have to respect COVID appropriate behaviour like social distancing, wearing a mask. These are the things that will protect us. If people behave in an irresponsible manner no government, no anti-biotic no vaccine can protect them. So people have to take the responsibility," he said. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria has said that there are many possibilities in which the third wave if it comes, may shape up. If an immuno-escape variant of the virus emerges and all restrictions are eased, then the third wave can be more severe than the second wave. Waning immunity, the emergence of a more transmissible variant, and lockdown relaxations will decide the third wave, Dr Guleria said. At the beginning of this month, a group of IIT scientists project three scenarios in which the situation could go back to normal by August, could continue as it is or could worsen. Last month, Reuters conducted a poll and predicted that the third wave in India will come by October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Leaked list of 40 Indian journalists who were spied upon||Contact numbers of over 40 Indian journalists featured on a leaked list of potential targets for surveillance. Forensic tests have confirmed that some of them were successfully spied upon by an unidentified agency using Pegasus spyware, The Wire reports. The data includes telephone numbers of journalists across large media houses like the Hindustan Times, including executive editor Shishir Gupta, India Today, Network18, The Hindu and Indian Express. France-based media non-profit, Forbidden Stories, and Amnesty International first accessed this leaked list which was shared with The Wire and 15 other news organisations worldwide as part of a collaborative investigation called the Pegasus Project. The mere appearance of a phone number does not indicate whether a device was infected with Pegasus or subject to an attempted hack. However, the Pegasus Project analysed this list believes the data is indicative of potential targets identified in advance of possible surveillance attempts. Independent digital forensic analysis conducted on 10 Indian phones whose numbers were present in the data showed signs of either an attempted or successful Pegasus hack. The Wire’s founding editors, diplomatic editor and two regular contributors, including Rohini Singh appear on the list. Singh’s number features following the publication of her back-to-back reports on Amit Shah’s son, Jay Shah, and Nikhil Merchant, a businessman who is close to Narendra Modi. She was also investigating dealings of minister Piyush Goyal, with businessman Ajay Piramal. Former Indian Express journalist Sushant Singh was included in mid-2018, at a time when he was investigating  the controversial Rafale aircraft deal. Digital forensics conducted on his current phone showed signs of Pegasus infection earlier this year  The NSO Group who created the spyware has denied that the leaked list was linked in any way to the functioning of its software. In response to the Pegasus Project, NSO has said that people in the list were not targeted by the governments using Pegasus but were maybe a part of a larger list of numbers that other customers of theirs used for different purposes. A sizable number of people who appear in the records are based out of New Delhi. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology alleged on Sunday that reports of Israel-made software, Pegasus, was used to target at least 40 Indian journalists was not only " bereft of facts but also founded in pre-conceived conclusions" "The allegations regarding government surveillance on specific people has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever," the government said in its response to the media houses investigating the matter. A senior journalist alerted Twitteratti to this coming “expose” late on Saturday night and then followed it up with a series of tweets. On Sunday morning, an MP joined in too. Veteran journalist Sheela Bhatt tweeted on Saturday night that the report "is a really big story" and involved collaboration of media organisations, including from India. She claimed the report would be published at "11.59pm" on Sunday.  Later, she clarified that the report would be published in the news poral Wire and 9.00pm India time. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy tweeted that Pegasus could have also been used to tap the phones of ministers in the Narendra Modi government, RSS leaders and SC justices. Swamy claimed there was a rumour that western media outlets would publish a report exposing this. Swamy tweeted, "Strong rumour that this evening IST, Washington Post & London Guardian are publishing a report exposing the hiring of an Israeli firm Pegasus, for tapping phones of Modi’s Cabinet Ministers, RSS leaders, SC judges, & journalists. If I get this confirmed I will publish the list.” Derek O'Brien, Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP, responded to Swamy's tweet. He claimed that the phone tapping also targeted "many members of the opposition". Congress Lok Sabha MP Karti Chidambaram issued a cryptic tweet  to refer to the controversy. "A little birdie tells me that Pegasus is going to be explosive," he tweeted. Pegasus, an Israeli-made spyware, was in the news in the later months of 2019. In October 2019, WhatsApp said it was suing NSO Group, an Israeli surveillance firm that was behind the technology for Pegasus, which was used by spies to hack into phones of roughly 1,400 users around the world. These users were spread across four continents and included diplomats, political dissidents, journalists and senior government officials. Indian users were among those who were targeted. Then, The Indian Express reported that "two dozen academics, lawyers, Dalit activists and journalists in India" had been snooped on using Pegasus. Now, more than 18 months after the initial expose, Pegasus seems set to be back in the news. When the Pegasus allegations surfaced in 2019, then Union minister for information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad had told Parliament that no "unauthorised" use of Pegasus had been made in India by government agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu appointed as Punjab Congress president||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the new president of the party's Punjab unit, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.  Gandhi also appointed four working presidents to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the next assembly elections.  The appointments came after days of internal squabbling and public bickering that virtually divided the state unit between two factions owing allegiance to Singh and Sidhu.  The new working presidents are Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra, who represent different regions and castes.  "Congress president has appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect," according to a party statement.  "The party appreciates the contributions of outgoing PCC president Sunil Jakhar,"the statement said.  Nagra, who was in-charge of party affairs in Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura, has been relieved of his present responsibilities.  Sidhu, who joined the Congress from the BJP ahead of the last assembly elections in 2017, has increased his efforts to gather support in the past few days and met several MLAs and leaders.  With the decision, the party leadership has clearly signalled to put its weight behind Sidhu while ignoring Amarinder Singh's opposition.  The leadership feels Sidhu can lead the party's campaign with fresh energy and enthusiasm and help ensure its victory in the upcoming assembly polls slated for early next year.  Sidhu's ability to pull crowds and launch a vigorous campaign has worked in his favour as the party feels that infusing fresh energy in the party ranks is required at a time slackness has set in after four-and-half years in power.  The support of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has also helped in Sidhu clinching the post despite strong resistance.  The cricketer-turned-politician now faces the challenge of uniting the party and bringing cohesion in its ranks, besides winning the trust of the old guard and veterans.  Chief Minister Singh is learnt to have told Sonia Gandhi that he will not meet Sidhu till he publicly apologises for his attacks on him in the recent past.  Calls are being made by party veterans to unite the party ahead of the assembly polls, else the AAP and the Akali Dal-BSP combine could upstage it.  AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs of the party Harish Rawat congratulated Sidhu and the four working presidents.  He expressed his gratitude to Congress president Sonia Gandhi for granting approval to the new team in Punjab. "Thank you madam for your great gesture," Rawat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Government holds all-party meeting ahead of Monsoon session of Parliament, Oppn parties mock PM||A day before the Monsoon session of Parliament begins, the government on Sunday held an all-party meeting that was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and floor leaders of various political parties. The Trinamool, however, took a swipe at the PM saying his regular presence in the House was important, reports NDTV. In an all-party meeting on Sunday, a day before the Monsoon Session of Parliament begins, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address MPs of both the Houses -- Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha -- on July 20 and speak on the pandemic. Opposition parties objected to the government's offer for a joint address to all MPs by the prime minister on Covid at the Parliament annexe, saying this will be "highly irregular" at a time when Parliament will be in session and it aims to "bypass" norms. Leaders, including from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the CPI(M), also said that when the Covid pandemic and issues related to it can be discussed on the floor of the House, what was the need to go "outside". The annexe is a separate building within the premises of the Parliament complex. "What is the need to go outside Parliament? Any address should be on the floor of the House. This is another idea to bypass Parliament. Stop making a mockery of the Parliament. How far will Modi and (Union Home Minister Amit) Shah go? Just when we thought that they cannot go lower, they want to make a presentation in the annexe and not on the floor of the House," TMC Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien, who was at the meeting, said.  The meeting was attended by 33 parties ahead of the Monsoon session which will conclude on August 13.  "MPs do not want fancy power point presentations on COVID-19 from the PM or this government in some conference room. Parliament will be in session. Come to the floor of the House," O'Brien said. Sources in other opposition parties confirmed that Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi's offer has been refused and that some have even suggested a joint sitting of the Houses at the Central Hall.  CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the party's position has always been that when Parliament is in session, whatever the government has to say, it can do so on the floor of the House.  "It is highly irregular for the government to do this. When the Parliament is in session, any address or presentation the government wants to make, it has to be done from inside Parliament. Our stand on this has been very clear," he said.  O'Brien claimed that all opposition leaders present in the meeting, including Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party's Satish Mishra refused to be addressed "outside" Parliament.  Some opposition party MPs, on the condition of anonymity, said some parties have already planned to give notices on the Covid situation issue in Parliament and no one wanted to listen to the government anywhere other than the floor of the Parliament.  The sources also said that NCP leader Sharad Pawar was the lone opposition leader who did not outright reject the proposal of the prime minister's address at the Parliament annexe.  During the meeting, almost all parties raised issues related to fuel prices, farm laws, Covid and the state of the economy, they said.  Kharge hit out at the prime minister over his short presence at meeting and said that it was an "insult" to all political parties present. He also raised the issue of appointment of a deputy speaker, and said this should be done.  O'Brien also tweeted about the short presence of the prime minister. While the DMK raised the issue of GST devolution, the TRS urged the government to make public sector units profitable and not go for disinvestment. The Samajwadi Party accused the government of passing Bills in a hurry and its leader Ramgopal Yadav alleged that the Maharashtra and West Bengal governors had belittled chief ministers of the states.  The BJD demanded that the Centre to procure surplus rice from Odisha, release pending food subsidy and provide a share of the additional cess from fuel and cooking gas to states to help them fight Covid.  Several parties said that their concerns were not being heard by the government and being "bulldozed".  The TMC, during the all-party meet, alleged ruining of the federal structure, "motivated" functioning of the central agencies and lack of Covid vaccines. The return of MPLAD funds and Women's Reservation Bill issues were also raised by the party.  Four political parties, including TMC, TRS, YSRCP and BSP, demanded that there should be a discussion on Schedule 10 of the Constitution which deals with disqualification of lawmakers.  Multiple petitions by the TMC and the YSRCP are with the Lok Sabha speaker and they seek disqualification of MPs. They had earlier demanded a time-bound process for this.  The government is slated to bring in 29 bills and two financial bills during the Monsoon session.  Opposition parties have made it clear that the government must allow proper discussion and review of the bills before they are passed.  On day one of the session, the prime minister will introduce the newly inducted ministers to both the Houses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India|| Delhi cancels annual Kanwar Yatra||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday prohibited the annual Kanwar Yatra in the city to prevent the spread of COVID-19. "No celebrations, processions, gatherings, etc. shall be allowed during forthcoming Kanwar Yatra-2021 starting from July 25 in NCT of Delhi," stated an order issued by the DDMA. The DDMA order came a day after the yatra was cancelled in Uttar Pradesh. The yatra usually goes on till the first week of August and sees thousands of Shiva devotees, called 'kanwariyas', travelling mostly on foot from neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi, to collect water from the Ganges in Haridwar in Uttarakhand. Earlier this week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that governments should take every step to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Opp parties to PM: What was the need to go ‘outside’ to discuss about pandemic||Opposition parties on Sunday objected to the government's offer for a joint address to all MPs by the prime minister on Covid at the Parliament annexe, saying this will be "highly irregular" at a time when Parliament will be in session and it aims to "bypass" norms. Leaders, including from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the CPI(M), also said that when the Covid pandemic and issues related to it can be discussed on the floor of the House, what was the need to go "outside". The annexe is a separate building within the premises of the Parliament complex. In an all-party meeting on Sunday, a day before the Monsoon Session of Parliament begins, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address MPs of both the Houses -- Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha -- on July 20 and speak on the pandemic. "What is the need to go outside Parliament? Any address should be on the floor of the House. This is another idea to bypass Parliament. Stop making a mockery of the Parliament. How far will Modi and (Union Home Minister Amit) Shah go? Just when we thought that they cannot go lower, they want to make a presentation in the annexe and not on the floor of the House," TMC Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien, who was at the meeting, said. The meeting was attended by 33 parties ahead of the Monsoon session which will conclude on August 13. "MPs do not want fancy power point presentations on COVID-19 from the PM or this government in some conference room. Parliament will be in session. Come to the floor of the House," O'Brien said. Sources in other opposition parties confirmed that Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi's offer has been refused and that some have even suggested a joint sitting of the Houses at the Central Hall. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the party's position has always been that when Parliament is in session, whatever the government has to say, it can do so on the floor of the House. "It is highly irregular for the government to do this. When the Parliament is in session, any address or presentation the government wants to make, it has to be done from inside Parliament. Our stand on this has been very clear," he said. O'Brien claimed that all opposition leaders present in the meeting, including Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party's Satish Mishra refused to be addressed "outside" Parliament. Some opposition party MPs, on the condition of anonymity, said some parties have already planned to give notices on the Covid situation issue in Parliament and no one wanted to listen to the government anywhere other than the floor of the Parliament. The sources also said that NCP leader Sharad Pawar was the lone opposition leader who did not outright reject the proposal of the prime minister's address at the Parliament annexe. During the meeting, almost all parties raised issues related to fuel prices, farm laws, Covid and the state of the economy, they said. Kharge hit out at the prime minister over his absence from the meeting and said that it was an "insult" to all political parties present. He also raised the issue of appointment of a deputy speaker, and said this should be done. While the DMK raised the issue of GST devolution, the TRS urged the government to make public sector units profitable and not go for disinvestment. The Samajwadi Party accused the government of passing Bills in a hurry and its leader Ramgopal Yadav alleged that the Maharashtra and West Bengal governors had belittled chief ministers of the states. The BJD demanded that the Centre to procure surplus rice from Odisha, release pending food subsidy and provide a share of the additional cess from fuel and cooking gas to states to help them fight Covid. Several parties said that their concerns were not being heard by the government and being "bulldozed". The TMC, during the all-party meet, alleged ruining of the federal structure, "motivated" functioning of the central agencies and lack of Covid vaccines. The return of MPLAD funds and Women's Reservation Bill issues were also raised by the party. Four political parties, including TMC, TRS, YSRCP and BSP, demanded that there should be a discussion on Schedule 10 of the Constitution which deals with disqualification of lawmakers. Multiple petitions by the TMC and the YSRCP are with the Lok Sabha speaker and they seek disqualification of MPs. They had earlier demanded a time-bound process for this. The government is slated to bring in 29 bills and two financial bills during the Monsoon session. Opposition parties have made it clear that the government must allow proper discussion and review of the bills before they are passed. On day one of the session, the prime minister will introduce the newly inducted ministers to both the Houses. It is the convention that after the formation of a new government or an expansion or reshuffle in the Union Council of Ministers. There was a major rejig in the Union Council of Ministers recently. While several new faces were inducted, some ministers were elevated to the Cabinet rank and portfolios of some others were changed. Some new members who recently entered Lok Sabha following bypolls would also take oath as members of the lower house on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Mortal remains of Danish Siddiqui arrive in Delhi||The mortal remains of photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, who was killed in Afghanistan, were brought to Delhi on Sunday evening and will be buried at the Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard, university officials said. “The Air India flight carrying the mortal remains of Danish Siddiqui landed at Delhi airport,” a university official said. Siddiqui is an alumnus of Jamia Millia Islamia. Siddiqui, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018, worked for Reuters news agency and was killed on Friday in the town of Spin Boldak, near the border with Pakistan. He was embedded with Afghanistan special forces at the time of his death. Earlier in the day, the university said in a statement, “Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) Vice Chancellor accepted the request of the family of late photojournalist Danish Siddiqui to bury his body at the JMI graveyard meant exclusively for university employees, their spouses and minor child.” Siddiqui's father Akhtar Siddiqui was the Dean of Faculty of Education there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||IMA asks Kerala to withdraw decision on easing Covid restrictions for Bakrid||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday asked the Kerala government to withdraw its decision to ease Covid-19 restrictions ahead of Bakrid, terming it "unwarranted and inappropriate" at a time of a medical emergency. The apex doctors' organisation said it would knock the doors of the Supreme Court if the Kerala government does not enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour to curtail the rising menace of the viral disease by withdrawing this decision. The IMA issued a statement here, saying while many northern states have stopped traditional and popular pilgrimage yatras in view of the pandemic, it is unfortunate that Kerala took a decision which will pave the way for mass gatherings. "The IMA is pained to see amidst the rise of cases and seropositivity, the Kerala government has issued an order to ease out lockdown followed in the state on the pretext of religious gatherings of Bakrid. It is unwarranted and inappropriate at this time of medical emergency," the statement read. In the larger interest of the country and the well-being of humanity, the IMA strongly demands that the order be withdrawn and zero-tolerance towards violation of Covid norms enforced, the medical body said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said that in view of Bakrid (Eid-ul-Azha) being celebrated on July 21 in the state, textiles, footwear shops, jewellery, fancy stores, shops selling home appliances and electronic items, all types of repairing shops and shops selling essential items shall be allowed to open on July 18, 19 and 20 from 7 am to 8 pm in category A, B and C areas. In D category areas, these shops can function only on July 19, he said. Areas with a Test Positivity Rate of less than five per cent are included in category A, those with five to 10 per cent are included in category B, areas with 10 to 15 per cent in category C and those above 15 per cent will be in category D. Places of worship can be allowed with a maximum of 40 people on special occasions of celebration, the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||MLAs supporting Amarinder seek Sonia Gandhi’s appointment ||The Punjab crisis is refusing to die. After 11 MPs writing a letter in support of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, have now sought an appointment with Congress Party chief Sonia Gandhi. According to an NDTV report, the MPs who met at Rajya Sabha colleague Pratap Singh Bajwa's residence, are all set to tell Sonia that they are opposed to Navjot Sidhu’s appointment as the state Congress chief. Amid the possibility of Navjot Singh Sidhu being made the Punjab Congress chief, 11 MLAs on Sunday came out in support of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh whom they called the “tallest leader of masses” and appealed to the party high command not to let him down. Cricketer-turned-politician Sidhu, in the meantime, stepped up his efforts and reached out to more party leaders and legislators for their support. In another development, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, who is likely to lose his job in the revamp of the state unit, has called a meeting of party legislators and district unit presidents on Monday to pass a resolution expressing support to any decision taken by party president Sonia Gandhi. Jakhar's statement came amid suspense over the much-awaited announcement from the party high command on the resolution of festering internal feud in the Punjab Congress. There are reports that Sidhu is likely to be appointed as the state Congress chief. There is also talk of appointing working presidents to balance the caste equations. The possible changes have triggered a flurry of meetings in Delhi and Punjab. Nine out of 11 Congress MPs from the state met at the residence of Partap Singh Bajwa in Delhi on Sunday and are learnt to have discussed the current political situation. Ten legislators issued a joint statement in support of Amarinder Singh, saying he is the tallest leader of masses. Seven Congress legislators and three rebel AAP MLAs who recently switched over to the ruling party also said Sidhu was a celebrity and no doubt an asset to the party, but added that his open criticism of the party and the government has only created a rift among cadre and weakened the organisation. The joint statement was issued by Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira. The seven party legislators in the group are Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Fatehjang Bajwa, Gurpreet Singh GP, Santokh Singh, Balwinder Singh Ladi, Joginderpal and Harminder Singh Gill. Besides Khaira, two rebel AAP legislators in the group are Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Khalsa. Three of them had switched over to the Congress in June. In the statement, the legislators urged the party high command not to let down Amarinder Singh, saying because of his unrelenting efforts the party stands well entrenched in Punjab. They said that while the appointment of a state unit chief was the prerogative of the party high command, washing dirty linen in public has only decreased the party's graph during the last couple of months. They said that Amarinder Singh commanded immense respect across different sections of the society, particularly the farmers. The MLAs said since merely six months were left for the elections, pulling the party into the different directions will only harm its prospects in the 2022 polls. Another Congress legislator, Navtej Singh Cheema, said it was not possible to form the next government without Amarinder Singh. "I do not think there is any leader of such a stature, said Cheema while appealing to the high command to resolve the issue at the earliest. Sidhu, who has been at loggerheads with Singh, on Sunday met party MLAs in Patiala, Khanna and Jalandhar where he received a warm welcome. He first met Ghanaur legislator Madan Lal Jalalpur at his residence. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, MLAs Barindermeet Singh Pahra and Darshan Brar were also present at Jalalpur's residence. Sidhu also met MLA Nirmal Singh from Shutrana constituency. Later, he met Khanna legislator Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha. Talking to reporters, Kotli said, Whatever decision the party high command takes, we as soldier of the party will accept it. To a question on Sidhu, Kotli called the cricketer-turned-politician a charismatic leader and said there is a great enthusiasm among people towards him. Sidhu then went to Jalandhar to meet senior party leader Avtar Henry, MLAs Pargat Singh, Sangat Singh Gilzian, and Avtar Singh Junior. In a statement, incumbent president Jakhar said that at Monday's meeting, all the MLAs and district presidents would pass a resolution that whatever decision the party high command takes regarding Punjab would be acceptable to the entire state unit. This resolution will then be sent to Sonia Gandhi, said Jakhar. The decision to call a meeting by Jakhar was opposed by Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira who said the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) had already been dissolved. "I urge @sunilkjakhar not to indulge in show of strength and wait for the announcement of Congress President. Even otherwise the PPCC stands dissolved so the meeting would have no locus standi and would be invalid. It's time to unite and not divide! said Khaira in a tweet. In 2020, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had dissolved the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and all district committees in the state. However, state unit president Sunil Jakhar remained in the post. After the meeting of party MPs in Delhi, Bajwa said there was no factionalism in the Punjab Congress and the leadership has said that the elections would be fought under the leadership of the chief minister. "Any decision taken by the party president Sonia Gandhi will be acceptable to all," Bajwa told reporters when asked about the appointment of a new Pradesh Congress Committee chief. Bajwa has also thrown his hat in the ring and held a series of meetings. These include one with the chief minister last evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Ahead of UP Polls, Mayawati eyes Brahmin votes||Ahead of the 2022 UP Assembly elections, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday said the Brahmins will not vote for the BJP and her party will begin a campaign from Ayodhya next week to ‘awaken’ the community. Speaking to the media here, Mayawati said, “I am fully assured that the people of the Brahmin community will not get misled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and vote for the party in the upcoming elections.” “A campaign, led by BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, will be started from Ayodhya on July 23 to awaken the Brahmin community once again. The Brahmins will be assured that their interests will remain safe under the BSP regime,” she added. On the farmers’ issue, Mayawati said all political parties should come together and hold the Centre accountable. “The indifferent attitude of the Centre towards farmers protesting against the three farm laws is extremely sad. It is necessary that pressure of all kinds is put on the Centre in Parliament. Due to the wrong economic policies of the central government, there is rising unemployment and inflation, which is posing hardships to the people,” she said. Mayawati said the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MPs, during the Monsoon session of Parliament, will raise issues such as rise in fuel and cooking gas prices and matters related to Covid-19 vaccination. "There are a number of issues on which the public wants accountability of the government," she said. The Monsoon session of Parliament begins on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Karnataka government eases Covid restrictions, allows cinema theatres to operate||The Karnataka government on Sunday further relaxed the COVID-19 related lockdown norms, allowing cinema theatres to open and reduced the duration of night curfew by one hour from July 19. Higher educational institutions like colleges and universities were also given the nod to start from July 26. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa with senior ministers and officials at his residence here. An official statement said cinema theatres would be allowed to operate with 50 per cent occupancy after adhering to Covid-19 protocols. On reopening colleges and universities, the government said only those who have taken at least one dose of vaccine will be allowed to attend their duties and classes. The government had imposed restrictions since April 27 and it was made stringent from May 10 as the COVID-19 daily tally exceeded 50,000 cases on May 5, while active cases were over six lakh on May 15. The norms were relaxed from June 14, eased further on June 21 and again on July 5. Night curfew, which was from 7 PM to 5 PM was further relaxed by two hours from July 5 and was in force from 9 PM to 5 AM. From Monday, it will be in force from 10 PM to 5 AM. The government relaxed the norms after the Covid cases came down substantially. The state reported 1,869 fresh infections, 42 deaths and 30,082 active cases on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||SC to Centre: Section 124 (A) of IPC being enormously misused, why it’s not being repealed||A total of 326 cases were registered in the country under the controversial colonial-era penal law on sedition between 2014 and 2019 in which just six persons were convicted. The Supreme Court last week observed that Section 124 (A) of the IPC -- offence of sedition -- has been enormously misused and asked the Centre why it was not repealing the provision used by the British to “silence” people like Mahatma Gandhi to suppress the freedom movement. According to the Union Home Ministry data, a total of 326 cases were registered under the sedition law between 2014 and 2019, with the highest 54 cases in Assam. Out of these cases, charge sheets were filed in 141 cases while just six people were convicted for the offence during the six-year period. The data of 2020 has not been compiled by the home ministry yet, officials said. In Assam, out of the 54 sedition cases registered, charge sheets were filed in 26 cases and trials were completed in 25 cases. However, there has not been a single conviction in the state in any of the cases between 2014 and 2019, the data says. Jharkhand has registered 40 cases under Section 124 (A) of IPC during the six years in which charge sheets were filed in 29 cases and trials were completed in 16 cases in which just one person has been convicted. In Haryana, 31 cases were registered under the sedition law in which charge sheets were filed in 19 cases and trials were completed in six cases in which just one person has been convicted. Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala have registered 25 cases each. While Bihar and Kerala could not file a charge sheet in any of the cases, Jammu and Kashmir filed a charge sheet in three cases. However, no one was convicted in any of the three states between 2014 and 2019. As many as 22 sedition cases were filed in Karnataka in which charge sheets were filed in 17 cases, but the trial could be completed in just one case. However, no one was convicted in any case in the period. A total of 17 sedition cases were filed in Uttar Pradesh and eight in West Bengal between 2014 and 2019. While charge sheets were filed in eight cases in UP and five cases in West Bengal, no one was convicted in the two states. In Delhi, four sedition cases were registered between 2014 and 2019 but no charge sheet has been filed in any case. No sedition case was filed in states and UTs of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Puducherry, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli in the six years One each sedition case was filed in three states -- Maharashtra (in 2015), Punjab (2015) and Uttarakhand (2017). According to the home ministry data, 2019 saw the highest number of 93 sedition cases registered in the country, followed by 70 in 2018, 51 in 2017, 47 in 2014, 35 in 2016 and 30 in 2015. While 40 charge sheets were filed in the country in 2019 under the sedition law, 38 were filed in 2018, 27 in 2017, 16 in 2016, 14 in 2014 and six in 2015. Among the six convicted, two were sentenced in 2018 and one each in 2019, 2017, 2016 and 2014. No one was convicted in 2015. On July 15, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana agreed to examine the pleas filed by the Editors Guild of India and a former major general challenging the Constitutionality of Section 124A (sedition) in the IPC. The court said its main concern was the "misuse of law" leading to the rise in the number of cases. The non-bailable provision makes any speech or expression that brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India a criminal offence punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. "Mr Attorney (General), we want to ask some questions. This is the colonial-era law and the same law was used by the British to suppress the freedom movement. It was used by the British to silence Mahatma Gandhi, Gokhale and others. "Is it still necessary to keep this in statute even after 75 years of independence?" asked the bench which also comprised justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Ahead of Parliament session, BJP, TMC spar over Minister’s nationality||Just ahead of the Parliament’s monsoon session, debate over the citizenship of Nisith Pramanik Bengal’s Minister of State for Home has been creating ripples. According to an NDTV report Ripun Bora, Congress MP from Assam and state Congress chief, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an inquiry into the Bengal MP’s citizenship details. The 35-year-old leader has been included in the Central cabinet. Bora tweeted, “It’s a matter of grave concern that a foreign national is an incumbent Union Minister.” Taking a cue, Trinamul Congress leaders have also raised the issue. Bengal’s Education Minister Bratya Basu also took on to the micro-blogging site and tweeted, “Rajya Sabha MP board are asking all the right questions.” Another minister from the state, Indranil Sen, according to the NDTV report stated, "shocked and stunned to learn that Union Minister Nishit Pramanik might be a citizen of Bangladesh”. However, BJP has, brushed aside the allegations. NDTV quoted the saffron party’s Bengal spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. He said, “Let them show proof. Just pointing fingers is not enough.” Questions concerning Pramanik’s citizenship was first raised after a Facebook post, which apparently had originated in Bangladesh. The report while quoting the FB post mentioned “the successful son of Harinathpur in the Palashbari police station area of the Gaibandha district of Bangladesh.” “He studied computer science in West Bengal,” added the post. The post by Poojar Mela, a religious organisation in Bangladesh, has deleted it. However, Pramanik’s Lok Sabha details mentions Bengal’s Dinhata as his place of birth, which many leaders are alleging, has been forged. Basu, while commenting on the allegation termed it as baseless and added, “If they want to squeeze the issue further, the Trinamool Congress is free to move the court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar to meet MLAs amid crisis||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar will hold a meeting of party legislators and district unit presidents on Monday here, ahead of the likely revamp of the state unit. In a statement here on Sunday, Jakhar said in the meeting, all the MLAs and district presidents would pass a resolution stating that whatever decision the party high command takes regarding Punjab, would be acceptable to the entire state unit. This resolution will then be sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, he added. The Congress leader said it would also be appealed that whatever decision the high command wanted to take regarding Punjab should be taken expeditiously so that the party could resolve the important issues related to the people of the state. He said the meeting will take place at Punjab Congress Bhawan here at 3 pm on Monday. Jakhar's statement comes amid suspense over the much-awaited announcement by the party high command to resolve the festering internal feud in the Punjab Congress. There are reports that Navjot Singh Sidhu is likely to be appointed as the state Congress chief. There is also talk of appointing working presidents to balance the caste equations. Sidhu had on Saturday met Jakhar at his residence and called the incumbent PPCC chief an elder brother and a guiding force . He also held meetings with several other party legislators and ministers. On Sunday, the cricketer-turned-politician met Ghanaur legislator Madan Lal Jalalpur at his residence in Patiala. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, MLAs Barindermeet Singh Pahra and Darshan Brar were also present at Jalalpur's residence. Sidhu also met MLA Nirmal Singh from Shutrana constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||BJP cites news portal’s alleged ‘dubious’ funding to attack foreign forces for demeaning India||Seizing on the alleged dubious foreign funding of a news portal, the BJP claimed on Sunday that "anti-India" elements in league with foreign forces are part of a conspiracy to demean the country and target the Modi government. Addressing a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited media reports about the Enforcement Directorate probe into the portal, Newsclick, and said that it received FDI of Rs 9.59 crore and foreign funding of another Rs 28.46 crore to dubious purposes. Money was diverted to various people, including activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, he alleged, saying this was a “price tag” to foment anti-india sentiments, “abuse” Prime Minister Narendra Modi and do propaganda for foreign forces. “Anti-India forces are doing this conspiracy in league with foreign forces,” he said, alleging that the portal wore the mask of a media house to demean India. Some mainstream politicians of India and foreign forces are also with such portals, and they have been working as a gang in a planned way, he alleged. Patra claimed that whenever any "good" thing happens in the country, be it the Covid vaccination policy or the Central Vista project, some people targeted it. He alleged that the incident highlights the role of foreign funding and foreign conspiracy behind such campaigns to demean India. The Central Vista project received nod from courts but some people still went ahead with their agenda in a "stubborn" manner to demean India, he said. Since Modi became prime minister, he has been a thorn in the flesh of some leaders not only here but also of foreign forces, Patra claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi: Open-minded about forming alliance in Uttar Pradesh polls||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said her party is "open-minded" about forging an alliance with other political parties for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Asked whether the Congress will go it alone on all the 403 assembly seats in the state or align with some political party, the party general secretary told reporters in an informal meeting here, "It is too early to say." On whether she is ruling out an alliance or not, she said, "I do not rule out (alliance). We are absolutely not closed-minded. We are having an open mind." "Our aim is to defeat the BJP,," she said, adding that other political parties should also be "open-minded". She added that the organisation is also her area of focus, and a lot of work have been done on it, and in a silent manner. "I have an open mind, but my priority is my party," she said. To a question on the party becoming active in her presence and tending to become inactive as soon as she leaves the state, the Congress leader said, "When I come (here), there is the media focus and you pay attention. But when I am not here, you do not give any attention. But our work is going on." "We have done the maximum work during the COVID-19 pandemic. You can see that we are the ones who have raised issues. Congress is no longer confined to garlanding photographs. Our party has been out of power for 30-32 years, and it has become weak. However, full efforts have been made, and a lot of energy has come (into the party)," she added. Priyanka Gandhi also said that plans are afoot to revamp the Congress Seva Dal in the state. She also slammed the BJP over its statement that she was a "political tourist". Stating that she is not a "political tourist", the Congress general secretary said that the BJP's propaganda is to show her and her brother Rahul Gandhi as non-serious politicians. Later, Priyanka Gandhi interacted with senior party leaders of the state, including UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, co-incharge of Uttar Pradesh Dheeraj Gurjar, UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh and Naseemuddin Siddiqui, a Congress leader said. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are due in early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Enforcement department scans 2 homes of former Maha home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate conducted searches at two residences of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur district on Sunday as part of a probe into a money laundering case, a police official said. “Two separate teams of the ED searched Deshmukh's house in Katol town, located about 60 km from here, and his ancestral home at Wadvihira village near Katol,” he said. The searches started at around 6 am, he added. According to the official the search is still on at the Katol premises of Deshmukh, while the search at Wadvihira concluded around 12 noon. The ED is conducting a probe into the money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to Deshmukh's resignation from the post of home minister in April this year. The central agency recently arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45) after it carried out raids against them and the NCP leader in Mumbai and Nagpur. Deshmukh had earlier skipped ED's summons for questioning in the case. The ED's case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) first carried out a preliminary enquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the CBI to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who resigned as the state home minister in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Ready for healthy discussions at Parliament, says Modi at all-party meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday told an all-party meeting ahead of the Monsoon session that the government was ready for a healthy and meaningful discussion in Parliament on various issues. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi quoted the prime minister at the meeting to say that the various floor leaders were told that the government was ready for a healthy and meaningful discussion on various issues raised as per rules and procedures. At the meeting attended by 33 parties, the prime minister said suggestions from public representatives, especially from the Opposition, are valuable as they make the discussion rich. The meeting was held a day ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament and was attended by Prime Minister Modi and floor leaders of various political parties. Besides Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister and Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi were present at the meeting. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also attended the meeting. Floor leaders of all prominent opposition parties, including Derek O' Brien from the TMC, Tiruchi Siva from the DMK, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav and BSP's Satish Mishra were also present. Apna Dal leader and NDA ally Anupriya Patel and LJP leader Pashupati Paras also attended the meeting. The Monsoon session of Parliament will start from Monday and is scheduled to conclude on August 13. On day one of the session, the prime minister will introduce the newly inducted ministers to both the Houses. It is the convention that after the formation of a new government or an expansion or reshuffle in the Union Council of Ministers, the prime minister introduces new ministers in both the Houses. There was a major rejig in the Union Council of Ministers recently. While several new faces were inducted, some ministers were elevated to the Cabinet rank and portfolios of some others were changed. Some new members who recently entered Lok Sabha following bypolls would also take oath as members of the lower house on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi reshuffles Parliamentary Groups, G-23 members feature in list||The Group of 23 dissenting leaders of Congress, commonly known as the G-23, has featured on a list of key positions after party interim president Sonia Gandhi reshuffled Parliamentary Groups. According to a report by ndtv.com, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tiwari, among those "G-23" dissenters, will be part of the seven-member group in the Lok Sabha. Veteran Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will continue with his post as party's leader in the Lok Sabha, while Gaurav Gogoi, son of late Tarun Gogoi, also retains his post as Chowdhury's deputy. This comes after a section of insiders said Chowdhury would be replaced. K Suresh will continue as the as chief whip in the Lok Sabha, while Ravneet Singh Bittu and Manickam Tagore were retained as party whips in the reconstituted seven-member Lok Sabha group. In the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge is the leader of the house, while Anand Sharma, another dissenter, retained his position of the deputy leader. Jairam Ramesh has been named chief whip in the upper house. Ambika Soni, P Chidambaram, Digvijaya Singh and KC Venugopal make up the other members of this group. "These groups will meet daily during the session and can meet during the inter-session period as well where Parliament issues are concerned," read a statement signed by Sonia Gandhi, as per the report by ndtv.com. The Monsoon Session of the Parliament is set to begin on Monday. The Congress will seek to corner the government on the issues of Covid mismanagement, border disputes with China, farmers' agitation, the Rafale deal and fuel prices in the upcoming session of Parliament. Sources said the issues to be raised during the monsoon session of Parliament starting July 19 were discussed at a meeting of the Congress parliamentary strategy group on Wednesday, which was chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi and attended by former prime minister Manmohan Singh and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. The leaders also decided to raise the issues of unemployment, price rise and the condition of the economy during the monsoon session and demand a discussion on those. The Opposition party will also raise the issue of an alleged attack on cooperative federalism and constitutional rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||IMD predicts intense rainfall activity over north India from July 18 to 21||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted intense rainfall activity over north India from July 18-21 and over the west coast till July 23. The IMD said moderate to severe thunderstorms with lightning are very likely at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and east Rajasthan during the next 24 hours. "They may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoor," the MeT department cautioned. The IMD said rainfall activity is very likely to increase with widespread rainfall to isolated heavy to very heavy rains very likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and adjoining northwest India -- Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, UP and north Madhya Pradesh -- from July 18 to 21. There will be decrease in rainfall activity over the same regions thereafter. Isolated, extreme heavy rainfall is also very likely over Uttarakhand on July 18 and 19 and over northwestern parts of UP on July 19. Moderate to heavy rainfall at isolated places are also very likely over Delhi and Chandigarh on July 18 and 19. Western and southern India is also expected to receive heavy rains. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rains are very likely to continue over the western coast and adjoining inland areas during the next 5-6 days. Heavy rains have been battering parts of Maharashtra. The IMD said isolated, extremely heavy falls are also very likely over Konkan region and Goa adjoining the ghat areas of central Maharashtra, coastal and south interior Karnataka during July 18 to 19 and over Gujarat region on July 18. Isolated heavy falls are likely over east and adjoining central India from July 22 onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Opposition to corner Centre over Covid management, fuel price at Monsoon Session of Parliament||The government has readied a big legislative agenda for the Monsoon session of Parliament beginning Monday even as the Opposition seeks to corner the ruling dispensation over its handling of the second wave of COVID-19 and the rise in fuel prices. The government has listed 17 new bills for introduction in the session. Three of the bills seek to replace ordinances issued recently. Once a session starts an ordinance has to be passed as a bill within 42 days or six weeks, else it lapses. One of the ordinances issued on June 30, prohibits any agitation and strike by anyone engaged in the essential defence services. The Essential Defence Services Ordinance 2021 came in the backdrop of the announcement by major federations of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) to go on an indefinite strike from the later part of July to protest the government's decision to corporatise the OFB. The Essential Defence Service Bill, 2021 has been listed to replace the ordinance, according to a Lok Sabha bulletin issued on July 12. The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021 is another measure that seeks to replace an ordinance. According to the government, the ordinance was brought to provide a permanent solution and establish a self-regulated, democratically monitored mechanism for tackling air pollution in the NCR and adjoining areas, rather than limited ad-hoc measures. The Opposition on its part wants to corner the government by raising issues like alleged shortcomings in the healthcare system during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and the distribution of Covid vaccines to states. It would also seek replies on the rising prices of petrol diesel and cooking gas during the session which would end on August 13. According to the financial business listed in the bulletin, there would be a presentation, discussion and voting on Supplementary Demands for Grants for the year 2021-22. There would also be a presentation, discussion and voting on Excess Demands for Grants for the year 2017-18. On Saturday, Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu urged members of Parliament to stand by people amid the pandemic and discuss all issues related to it in the House to address the concerns of the citizens. Chairing a meeting of leaders of various parties and groups in Rajya Sabha ahead of the session, he also asked the leaders to ensure a smooth and productive session. "A dysfunctional Parliament adds to the prevailing gloom and hence all sections of the House should ensure a smooth and productive session as it offers an opportunity to address the concerns of the people affected by COVID-19," he told the leaders. Noting that the second wave of COVID-19 infection sprang several surprises and severely tested India's health infrastructure, Naidu said Parliament is the right forum to get updated about various aspects of fighting the disease and benefit from ground-level experiences of members of the House from different states. This is important in the context of a possible third wave of infection which is being talked about a lot, he said. During the session, all Covid-related protocols, which include maintaining social distancing, would be followed. Both the Houses will sit simultaneously. Amid the pandemic, Rajya Sabha used to earlier sit in the first half of the day, and Lok Sabha in the second half. But from part two of the Budget session in March this year, the two Houses had started sitting simultaneously from their usual timing of 11 am onwards. According to latest data, 444 members from Lok Sabha and 218 from Rajya Sabha have been vaccinated with at least one dose. The figures may have gone up, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Delhi records minimum temperature of 28 degrees Celsius||The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 28 degrees Celsius, one notch above the season's average, on Sunday, weather officials said. The maximum temperature in the city is likely to settle at 35 degrees Celsius, they said. The weatherman has predicted generally cloudy sky with moderate rain during the day. The humidity was recorded at 81 per cent, they said. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 9.05 am in Delhi stood at 95. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||India records over 41,000 Covid-19 cases, 518 deaths||India logged 41,157 new coronavirus cases, which took the infection tally to 3,11,06,065, while the death toll climbed to 4,13,609 with 518 more fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 4,22,660 and comprise 1.36 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.31 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that active Covid-19 cases have decreased by 1,365 in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 19,36,709 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 44,39,58,663. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has risen to 30269796, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. The total vaccine doses administered has reached 40.49 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.13 per cent and the weekly positivity rate stands at 2.08 per cent, according to the health ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19 last year.India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 518 new fatalities included 124 deaths from Maharashtra and 114 from Kerala, the ministry said. In total, 413609 deaths have been reported in the country, including 126851 from Maharashtra, 36121 from Karnataka, 33695 from Tamil Nadu, 25027 from Delhi, 22715 from Uttar Pradesh, 17988 from Bengal and 16224 from Punjab. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Mumbai: At least 30 die after heavy rain hits city, IMD issues red alert||Walls and shanties collapsed killing 30 people in the early hours of Sunday as Mumbai witnessed landslides triggered by heavy rain, disgorged by a cloud said to be twice as tall as Everest. Officials said over 250mm rain between midnight and 3am, touching 305mm by 7am, had crippled India’s financial capital and brought back memories of the cloudburst that caused 944mm rain in 24 hours on July 26, 2005. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said an “orange alert” had been issued for Mumbai and the Konkan coast for the next five days, with heavy rain expected on July 23 too. Winds might blow at 50-60km per hour. Eleven incidents of houses or walls collapsing in Mumbai had been reported in the past 24 hours, Reuters reported. Nineteen people died as a landslide brought a boundary wall down on a cluster of huts on a hillock at Bharatnagar in the Mahul area at 1am, a fire official said. Five others were injured. “All members of one family are suspected to have died of electrocution in the incident,” said Rafique, a resident who helped rescuers pull out bodies using their hands to dig up the ground. Authorities said more people could be trapped under the rubble. A civic activist said 257 hutments had come up on Mumbai’s hillocks, with 290 people from such localities getting killed in landslides and wall collapses during the past 29 monsoon seasons. Another 10 hutment dwellers died as six shanties collapsed after a landslide in the Vikhroli suburb at 2.30am, a civic official said. One more person was injured. A 16-year-old boy died after a forest department boundary wall caved in at suburban Bhandup, an official said. “We’ll take the decision to shift the people who are living in a dangerous situation to permanent settlements immediately,” said Nawab Malik, a state cabinet minister, according to a tweet by news agency ANI, Reuters reported. Two women stood on a wooden ladder in their shanty for over two hours for fear of getting electrocuted after the Mahul wall collapse. Laxmi Jongankar, 40, was inside her shanty when people outside began shouting about the wall collapse. She opened the window and saw several shanties had been destroyed. “As people panicked and start shouting that electric current was spreading in the locality, I along with another woman relative stood on a wooden ladder in my shanty,” Laxmi said. “After more than two hours, a man came to enquire about us and asked us to come out.” Images from a Doppler radar showed that the thunderstorm cloud had a top height of nearly 18km, the IMD said. “To put in other words, the height/ vertical extent of this monster thunderstorm is approximately twice that of Mount Everest!” tweeted Akshay Deoras, a PhD student of meteorology at the University of Reading in Britain. “Such thunderstorms are definitely uncommon for Mumbai or the west coast during an active phase of the monsoon and in a month like July. The cloud top height of this monster thunderstorm is definitely comparable to the one that produced rains on 26 July 2005,” he said. “Thunderstorms have already been observed on the following five days in this month: On July 9, 11, 12, 16 and 17.” Western Railway and Central Railway briefly suspended suburban services, now operated only for emergency services staff and government employees. Many long-distance trains were terminated or regulated at various stations. The civic authorities have asked citizens to boil water before drinking it as heavy rain over the past two days has flooded the water purification complex in Bhandup. The flooding has affected the electrical equipment that control the pumping and filtration processes and affected supply to most parts of the city, an official said. The civic body said 43 pumps in six storm-water pumping stations were operating continuously and had already pumped 442 crore litres of rainwater out into the sea. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office announced Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of the dead and Rs 50,000 for the injured. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh for the family of each of the dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||University Grants Commission advises colleges and varsities to admit students by September 30||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has advised colleges and varsities to admit undergraduate students by September 30 and fill the vacant seats thereafter by October 31. Classes for first-year students should start by October 1, the UGC has said. In pre-pandemic times, the session used to begin in July. For second and third-year students, classes should begin as early as possible, the higher education regulator’s guidelines for the upcoming academic calendar say. The terminal exams for third-year students must be held before August 31. These exams can be conducted in any of three modes — offline, online or blended — while adhering to Covid guidelines. “For intermediate semester/ year students, assessment shall be based on internal evaluation and previous semester (if they have been held by now) as suggested in the 2020 guidelines,” the UGC statement said. Post-admission vacancies, which will have to be filled by October 31, arise if there are no takers for some seats or if some students leave mid-session. The universities have already planned their academic calendars on a similar pattern. For example, Delhi University has decided to start classes for second-year students from September 1 and those for third-year students from July 20. DU assistant professor Abha Dev Habib expressed concern over separate academic calendars for students of different years and said it was forcing teachers to work continuously through the year. “Teachers are working all the time — be it teaching or evaluation or admission. Online education has changed the working conditions of teachers. Teachers have to work as per the staggered timetables of first-year, second-year and third-year students,” she said. Habib said teachers would have to complete 180 days of teaching in an academic year and because of the loss of days owing to the delayed admissions in the pandemic-hit year, they would have to make up for lost time. “Many college teachers correct exam papers and participate in admission work during vacations. This year, the teachers will have to take classes and also do evaluation simultaneously (because of the paucity of time). This will add to the pressure on teachers,” she said. Habib said online classes had compelled teachers to remain available 24/7 for email queries and text message from students. DU assistant professor Rajesh Jha said the UGC guidelines would not help guide universities on academic matters. He said the guidelines lacked vision when it came to minimising the fallout of the pandemic on the academic session, admissions and exams. “The academic session is going to start from October (for the first-year batch) instead of the usual July. There is no mention of how the academic session can be brought back on track,” Jha said. According to him, the management of such issues should be left to universities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Ex-civil servants seek amendment to Central Pension Rules ||Over 100 retired civil servants, including some of the most respected figures in the foreign policy and security firmaments, on Saturday wrote an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking withdrawal of a rule that is widely perceived as an undeclared gag on them. An amendment to the Central Pension Rules makes it necessary for bureaucrats who have retired from intelligence or security-related departments to take clearance from the department concerned before commenting on matters falling in that domain. “We are unable to understand why there is a need for such an amendment to the Central Pension Rules, when there already exists an Official Secrets Act 1923 and the State can, under it, prosecute officials and former officials who reveal information prejudicial to the State,” the retired bureaucrats said in the letter, written under the banner of their collective, Constitutional Conduct. The signatories to the letter include former national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, former adviser to the Prime Minister T.K.A. Nair, former home secretary G.K. Pillai, former foreign secretary Shyam Saran, former defence secretary Ajai Vikram Singh, and the former officer on special duty in the PMO for Kashmir, A.S. Dulat. They have said the recent amendment to the Central Pension Rules attempts to impose silence that will seriously affect scholarship and become a permanent impediment to an understanding of the imperatives of India’s security concerns. “Officers who have spent a lifetime in security-related matters are unlikely to be irresponsible and reveal sensitive secrets. The laudable objective of ensuring that retirees do not divulge any sensitive material to the detriment of the nation’s security is best achieved by reiteration of the Official Secrets Act and stern action thereunder in case of infraction,” the letter says. It underlines that the practice of retired bureaucrats writing their memoirs or articles on different aspects of their work or commenting on current affairs using their “domain” knowledge is universal and is appreciated the world over. “Only those who have been involved in security-related matters, internal or external, can speak with authority and credibility. Other domain experts, scholars and even interested members of the public look forward to such words of wisdom based on personal experience. It helps current practitioners to perform better.” The new amendment, the letter says, goes beyond the aborted bid by the UPA government to introduce similar restrictions in 2008 on officers who had served in the Intelligence Bureau and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW). Consequent to the amendment brought in by the Modi government, retired bureaucrats who do not fall in line run the risk of having their pension withheld or withdrawn. “Pension is a right that accrues to every government servant for the service put in while in the government. It is subject only to future good conduct and cannot be taken away except for conviction for serious crime or grave misconduct. If writing about certain matters amounts to grave misconduct, the government can certainly take action, as per law, to deprive the former official of his or her pension,” the letter states, iterating that laws of the land predating the amendment notified on May 31, 2021, empower the government to take action. If the government is anxious to protect national security in keeping with the times and the Constitution of India, it should carry out wide-ranging consultations with political and civil society as well as the legal fraternity to find a replacement for the Official Secrets Act, which itself conflicts with Article 19 of the Constitution, the letter adds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||CJI Ramana: Make mediation mandatory before litigation||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday sought a special “omnibus” enactment that would make mediation mandatory before litigation, citing the backlog of 3 crore cases in the country’s courts and the rising costs of litigation. During mediation, a neutral mediator tries to persuade the two warring parties to resolve their dispute through give and take instead of rushing to court and waiting endlessly for a verdict. The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, provides for mediation, as do the amended Companies Act of 2013 and the amended Consumer Protection Act of 2019. More recently, the Commercial Courts Act, 2015, and the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, incorporated provisions relating to compulsory pre-litigation mediation. Besides, Parliament in 1999 revived a provision (Section 89) in the Civil Procedure Code that empowers courts to refer parties to mediation. However, barring these special laws, there is no provision for mandatory mediation or other alternative dispute resolution (ADR) processes such as conciliation and arbitration. What Justice Ramana has suggested is a parliamentary enactment to have a mandatory pre-litigation process to prevent people from approaching the courts at the outset. “Given the growing scope of mediation, it’s time for India to enter mission mode. To popularise mediation as a cheaper and faster dispute resolution mechanism, a movement needs to be launched,” he said. Justice Ramana added: “Prescribing mediation as a mandatory first step for resolution of every allowable dispute will go a long way in promoting mediation. Perhaps, an omnibus law in this regard is needed to fill the vacuum.” “The vast majority of litigants in India belong to the middle and poorer sections of society. They will find great solace if mediation gets established as a reliable means of redress.... It will lead to a remarkable reduction in the number of cases reaching the regular courts... (and) enhance the efficiency of the judicial system,” Justice Ramana said. His comments came at an “India-Singapore mediation summit” organised jointly by the Singapore International Mediation Centre and the CAMP Arbitration and Mediation Practice and Mediation Mantras. Party-friendly “Mediation, being the cheapest and simplest option available to the public at large, can be described as a tool of social justice in the Indian context,” Justice Ramana said, emphasising the country’s diversity. “Such a party-friendly mechanism ultimately upholds the rule of law by providing an incentive for the parties to utilise their autonomy to the fullest to arrive at a just and equitable outcome.” He said several Indian states were building a robust ADR-friendly environment. He welcomed Telangana’s establishment of an ADR facility and hoped that other states would follow the example. “Cooperation between India and Singapore is going to be a significant factor in promoting alternate dispute redress mechanisms in both our countries as well as the entire subcontinent,” Justice Ramana said. Indian ethos The Chief Justice of India said the Mahabharata provides an example of an attempt at mediation as a conflict resolution tool, with Krishna trying to mediate between the Pandavas and Kauravas. He said mediation was, as a concept, deeply embedded in the Indian ethos, with various forms of it practised before the arrival of the British adversarial system of law. Disputes were often resolved by the chieftains or elders of the community. Merchants resolved their business disputes through negotiation or through the mediation of merchant bodies. “However, the establishment of the British courts system in 1775 marked the erosion of community-based, indigenous dispute resolution mechanisms in India,” Justice Ramana said. Lok Adalats He said the Lok Adalats had settled more than 78.4 lakh cases in 2019 and 2020, lowering the burden on the regular courts. Another 39.4 lakh cases were settled at the pre-litigation stage through mediation during the same period. This happened despite the pandemic and was made possible through an efficient online dispute resolution system in the country, Justice Ramana said. He added that India now had nearly 43,000 mediation centres. (Lok Adalats are an ADR forum where cases pending in the courts or disputes at a pre-litigation stage are settled. These forums are usually made up of a serving or retired judicial officer, a lawyer and a social worker.) Justice Ramana said that ADR mechanisms, particularly mediation and conciliation, do not only save the parties expenses and time, they give them a degree of control over the process and outcome. Designed around a participatory model, mediation and conciliation enable parties to become insiders to a process that traditionally treated them as outsiders. ‘Luxurious’ litigation Justice Ramana referred to “luxurious litigation”, in which parties with sufficient resources “attempt to frustrate the judicial process and delay it by filing numerous proceedings across the judicial system”. He said that ADR mechanisms like mediation, arbitration and conciliation can go a long way in addressing the problem of vested interests frustrating the judicial process. He added that special training programmes should be conducted periodically for the mediators on the lines done for commercial pilots. The conference was attended by Sundaresh Menon, Chief Justice of Singapore; Edwin Tong, minister for culture, community and youth and second minister for law, Singapore; Justice A.K. Sikri, former Supreme Court judge; Amitabh Kant, chief executive officer of the Niti Aayog; and George Lim, chairperson of the Singapore International Mediation Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Editors decry 'highly regrettable' racist campaign against Danish ||Amid the rich tributes to Danish Siddiqui from across the world and candlelight vigils in Indian cities on Saturday, one sentence in the condolence message from the Editors Guild of India stood out. “…The Guild is deeply disturbed by the vicious and highly regrettable racist campaign being run against him by some sections of social media,” the statement said, referring to a hate campaign that broke out hours after the Pulitzer-winning photojournalist was killed in Afghanistan on Friday. Some of the trolls that targeted Siddiqui suggested that his photographs on the Covid second wave in India had defamed the country. Others referred to the insensitive remarks with which some people had responded to the death of a pro-Hindutva journalist a few months ago although Siddiqui had nothing to do with such intemperate comments. So vicious were some of the Right-wing trolls that former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “That @dansiddiqui was killed by the Taliban while doing his job in Afghanistan is tragic but the fact that there are b******* out there celebrating his death because Danish was good at his job & made them uncomfortable is beyond reprehensible….” The Editors Guild described Siddiqui’s death — he was killed while covering a clash between Afghan security forces and the Taliban — as an irreplaceable loss to journalism. “Over the past decade, he had covered some of the most heart-wrenching stories of conflict and humanitarian crisis from South Asia and the surrounding regions… and most recently, the coverage of the devastating human tragedy caused by the pandemic,” the Guild said. “His work was… a living testament to the axiom of photojournalism, ‘if your pictures aren’t good enough, you aren’t close enough’,” the Guild added, referring to Siddiqui’s last assignment in Afghanistan. “His death is an occasion to remember him and all the journalists who have died in conflict reporting.” Among the organisations and agencies that paid glowing tributes to Siddiqui were the Committee to Protect Journalists, a New York-based non-profit, the International Press Institute, a global network of media professionals, Amnesty International and the US state department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Billy goat beaten to death to save the 'honour' of nanny||He had ambled up to her on a bright July morning when a group attacked him ferociously with sticks. Within moments, he lay bloodied and dead on the ground. Not a case of honour killing or love jihad but an instance of similar medieval emotions taking over while dealing with a meek and docile barn animal. A male goat was beaten to death in Kaimur district of Bihar on Thursday allegedly by the owners of a female goat it had approached on Thursday morning. The owner of the deceased goat, identified as Ramu, has lodged an FIR against the owners of the nanny at Mohania police station. Radha Devi, Ramu’s owner, told The Telegraph: “The goats were together when my neighbour Sipu Ram (the owner of the nanny) saw them. My buck used to go near his nanny sometimes. Enraged, Sipu thrashed Ramu with a stick. His father Saryu Ram, wife and another person joined him. They hit my goat so badly that it died on the spot.” “I kept screaming and asking them to stop, but my appeals fell on deaf ears. I raised Ramu with much pain and was hoping to earn a good amount by selling it on Id,” she added. Bucks are sold for sacrifice on Id at amounts ranging between Rs 10,000 and Rs 1 lakh in Bihar. Sipu and his family, who could have assaulted the male goat as they did not want the female to get pregnant, could not be contacted. Radha’s ordeal did not end with the cruelty on the billy. When she approached police, her complaint was not allegedly accepted immediately. She kept crying and requesting the police to register an FIR. The personnel finally relented. “We have registered an FIR in connection with the killing of a male goat. The complainant has named four persons. We have sent the carcass for a post-mortem, but the report is yet to come,” Mohania station house officer R.K. Yadav told this newspaper. Yadav refused to divulge under what sections the FIR had been registered. He said action would be taken on the basis of the post-mortem report. Asked if this could be in any way dubbed an instance of honour killing, which is prevalent in rural areas of Bihar, Yadav said: “We have registered an FIR on the charges of killing the animal — plain and simple. An investigation is on and more things will come to light.” Veterinary doctor Ravi Shankar, who conducted the post-mortem, told reporters that preliminary evidence suggested that the goat died of injuries. “The goat had suffered injuries and died. We have conducted the post-mortem. Let us see what additional findings emerge,” Ravi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||France allows visitors with Covishield vaccine from Sunday||France will allow international travellers who have taken the Covishield vaccine into the country from Sunday. The development comes at a time France is tightening border checks to control the spread of the Delta variant (of coronavirus) and protect hospitals, according to a statement from the Prime Minister on Saturday. The move to accept visitors vaccinated with Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, came after a global outcry over the fact that the European Union’s Covid-19 certificate only recognises the AstraZeneca vaccines manufactured in Europe. Several other EU countries already accept the Indian version, which is also being used in the UK and Africa. The varied rules from each country have further complicated this summer’s travel season. France still doesn’t recognise Chinese or Russian vaccines but only those authorised by the EU drug regulator and made by Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca. Starting Sunday, France will also start requiring anyone who isn’t vaccinated and arriving from Britain, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Greece or Cyprus to present a negative test report less than 24 hours old to cross French borders. Tunisia, Indonesia, Cuba and Mozambique have been added to France’s “red list” of countries with high virus risk, according to Saturday’s statement. However, France will now accept travellers from any red list country if they are fully vaccinated. France also shortened the time frame for considering a person fully vaccinated after the second dose to one week instead of two. As infections climb again, French President Emmanuel Macron this week ordered all health workers to get vaccinated by September 15 and announced that special Covid-19 passes would be required in all restaurants, bars, hospitals, shopping malls, trains, and planes. To get a pass, people must be fully vaccinated, have recently recovered from the virus, or have a fresh negative virus test. The measures have prompted a record number of people to sign up for vaccinations but have also fuelled anger among some groups and protests are planned in various French cities on Saturday against them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra seeks fresh elections in UP clash zones||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday met two block development council members who were assaulted during the recent panchayat pramukh elections in Uttar Pradesh and one of whose sari was pulled allegedly by two BJP leaders, and demanded fresh polls in areas that reported violence. Priyanka, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, extended her support to the two BDC members — a Samajwadi Party-backed Independent candidate who was prevented from contesting the panchayat pramukh election and her proposer who was seen in a viral video while her sari was being pulled. Visiting Pasgawan in Lakhimpur Kheri district, Priyanka told reporters: “The block pramukh candidate and her proposer were assaulted. The candidate was prevented from filing her nomination. They shouldn’t fear anything. It may be that she was stopped from filing her nomination but a time will come when she will contest and win. I am with her. The women of India are with her.” The Congress leader later said in a tweet in Hindi: “The goons of the BJP involved in the cheerharan (removal of clothes) of democracy should hear that women will become pradhans, block pramukhs, MLAs, MPs and Prime Minister, and defeat the government that gives patronage to those committing atrocities against women. “To ensure justice to all victims of the panchayat poll violence — all my sisters and citizens — I will write a letter to the state election commission.” The BJP has been accused of indulging in widespread violence during the panchayat pramukh elections, which chief minister Yogi Adityanath declared his party had won handsomely even before the state poll panel had announced the results. BDC members backed by the Samajwadi Party had earlier won more seats than BJP-supported members. The BDC members elect the panchayat pramukhs. Priyanka spoke to the two women BDC members under the shade of a peepal tree and alleged that BJP leaders had insulted them at the behest of the state government. “I demand that the state election commission hold fresh elections here and all other places where violence has taken place,” she said. The proposer, whose sari was pulled in the presence of police on July 9, later said: “Priyanka has said she will help us in future elections.” Two BJP leaders —Yash Verma, district president of the party, and his aide Brij Singh — have been arrested over the incident. Rekha Verma, the BJP MP of Dhaurahra who was present at the spot when the proposer was insulted, had told the media on July 10 that those seen in the video were with her. However, she had claimed that the police had lathicharged her supporters. The panchayat pramukh candidate had alleged that she too had been assaulted inside the returning officer’s room. She had accused Verma, the police and the local administration of supporting the assaulters. The candidate had to run away without filing her nomination. Urmila Katiyar, the BJP-backed candidate and Verma’s mother, won the election. The Opposition has alleged that the BJP had resorted to similar violence to win over 330 seats unopposed. The BJP emerged victorious in 635 of the 825 panchayat pramukh seats in Uttar Pradesh. On Friday, Priyanka had staged a silent protest for three hours near a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the Hazratganj area of Lucknow. She had later told reporters at the Congress office in the state capital that she had come to protest against “the Uttar Pradesh government, which is killing democracy and the Constitution while the Prime Minister endorses such activities”. “The administration and the police spread anarchy; the state government was directly involved in intimidating and kidnapping panchayat election candidates. They attacked women candidates during the elections,” the Congress leader had said. “And the Prime Minister congratulated them for their victory and said there was vikaswad (politics of development) in the state…. Whatever happened here was patronised by the Prime Minister.” “The government thinks we will watch such things silently but it is not going to happen. I am here to say that I will keep speaking against a government that spreads violence,” Priyanka had added. She is in Uttar Pradesh on a three-day tour and meeting prospective candidates for the 2022 Assembly elections and party workers from across the state. The BJP reacted sharply to Priyanka’s trip. Swatantra Dev Singh, the Uttar Pradesh BJP president, said: “Priyanka is on a picnic in UP. The last time she had come was one-and-a-half years ago. I don’t need to say anything about her as the people of the state know her.” Priyanka had, however, addressed a farmers’ rally in Saharanpur and met Nishad community members in February this year, promising them that the Congress would fight for their rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu to become Punjab Congress chief||Navjot Singh Sidhu has cleared the hurdles to his becoming Punjab Congress chief, reaching out to senior leaders including key members of chief minister Amarinder Singh’s camp after being chastened by Sonia Gandhi who stressed the need to take everybody along. While the party general secretary in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, flew to Chandigarh to assuage the chief minister’s sense of hurt, assuring him of his supremacy in the state hierarchy, Sidhu abandoned his combative posturing to demonstrate camaraderie with party seniors. By evening, after a few more gestures of reconciliation towards Amarinder, it was clear that Sidhu would indeed become the state unit chief. Sidhu walked into the homes of ministers, embraced former party presidents and put out this soothing tweet: “Seeking guidance of presidents of the illustrious Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee…. Conversations with wise men, worth months of education.” This, coming from a motormouth who can burn bridges with his acerbic assertions, calmed veterans who had been unwilling to accept as state president a man who had crossed over from the BJP barely four years ago. Amarinder has set a few preconditions for a truce. He has demanded a free hand in running the government and effecting a cabinet shuffle, as well as a say in the appointment of working presidents and other office-bearers. Above all, he expects Sidhu to publicly apologise for putting out insulting tweets and statements against him and his government. Party insiders expect Sidhu to send out a clear message that he did not want any confrontation with the chief minister and that he respected Amarinder as a senior leader. Sources said Amarinder would not meet Sidhu without a public apology even if the former cricketer is appointed state president. Rawat tweeted after meeting Amarinder: “I have just returned to Delhi after meeting Captain Amarinder Singh. I am happy that the speculation outside (about his displeasure) was proved meaningless. “The Captain has reiterated his statement that he will accept whatever is decided by the Congress president on the question of Punjab unit chief. I will honour her decision. Thank you Captain for your great statement.” Sources said Sonia and Rahul had reprimanded Sidhu for his confrontational posturing and tutored him on how to run an organisation by taking everybody — critics, rivals and friends — along. “He was told he had to act as a team leader irrespective of his personal style,” a source said, adding that both Sidhu and Amarinder had been advised about the importance of staying united if elections were to be won. The resolution of the standoff is being seen as a significant achievement by Sonia, who still commands respect from every section of the party. It wasn’t easy to convince Amarinder to accept Sidhu as state unit chief, and senior leaders said in private that Sonia had pulled off a miracle. “Soniaji is herself anguished by the state of affairs and has told the senior leaders they must accept her decisions after having forced her to come back from retirement,” a party insider told The Telegraph. “She is upset by the politics of blackmail and has decided to crack the whip. Tough decisions can now be expected in other states too.” Rahul’s public declaration on Friday that those feeling uncomfortable in the Congress can walk out is also being viewed as a toughening of stance by the family. Although Rahul used the specific context of some party members’ possible fear of the ruling establishment, his comment was seen as reflecting a refusal to compromise and a readiness to face the worst, if necessary. States like Gujarat and faction-ridden Rajasthan too are expected to witness tough decisions. Sonia, sources say, is also determined to end the uncertainty at the national level and will unveil a revamped party structure soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Mohammad Akhtar Siddiqui remembers his 'brilliant and dashing' photojournalist son ||Mohammad Akhtar Siddiqui brimmed with grief and pride as he remembered his “brilliant and dashing” photojournalist son Danish Siddiqui. “He was an extremely emotional person,” Akhtar Siddiqui said. Danish, 38, was killed while covering a clash between Afghan forces and the Taliban in Kandahar’s Spin Boldak district on Friday. Tolo News quoted sources as saying that fierce fighting had been going on in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the past few days. “He was very calm and quiet, a very loving son. He loved children a lot. A very emotional person,” Akhtar Siddiqui, a retired Jamia Millia Islamia professor, said a day after the news of Danish’s death reached Delhi. Talking about Danish’s work that required him to be in life-threatening situations, Akhtar Siddiqui said the family had got used to his work life over the years. “We used to tell him in the beginning what was the need for such a job, but we almost got used to it. He’d tell us they had security, that they travelled with full protection. We only told him to maintain all precautions,” he said. In the last one year, Danish had extensively covered the Covid-19 pandemic across India. “He was a brilliant and dashing chap. He had a lot of commitment towards his work, passion to face challenges. Even during the pandemic, Delhi riots, he reported the facts despite the challenges,” he said. “Passionate and energetic” as a child, Akhtar Siddiqui remembered, Danish would finish with perfection whatever he set his mind to. “He was extraordinarily courageous,” the father said, his voice trailing off. Danish’s work as a photojournalist with Reuters since 2011 involved reporting on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya refugee crisis, the protest in Hong Kong and earthquakes in Nepal. He was part of a team of photographers chronicling the Rohingya crisis that received the Pulitzer Prize. Danish graduated with a degree in economics from Jamia Millia Islamia university, Delhi. He received a degree in mass communication from the A.J.K. Mass Communication Research Centre in Jamia in 2007. Starting his career as a television news correspondent, Danish switched to photojournalism and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Gujarat HC becames first court to start live streaming of proceedings||Gujarat High Court on Saturday became the first court in the country to formally start live streaming of proceedings. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana announced that steps would soon be taken to replicate this to some extent inthe Supreme Court as well. “As I have stated earlier while launching access of online proceedings of the Supreme Court to the media, we are keen to start live proceedings at least for some of the courts in the Supreme Court. We are working out the logistics and working on consensus of the full court. With the aid of modern technologies, I am given to understand that we can introduce this live streaming feature in a cost-effective manner without imposing much of a burden on the exchequer,” CJI Ramana said. Launching the live streaming of Gujarat High Court proceedings on Saturday evening, on the eve of the 101st birth anniversary of former CJI Y.V. Chandrachud, Justice Ramana said it would “allow the people access to… the functioning of these institutions. The purpose is to keep the public informed.” It is only on the basis of an informed citizenry that a “representative democracy can survive and evolve”, he said. Justice Ramana said lack of direct access led to misconceptions. “The formalisation of the live streaming of court proceedings is the best cure for the aforesaid malady. Live-streaming of proceedings is crucial for dissemination of information, which is a sacrosanct aspect of Article 19 (right to freedom of speech and expression). “Through such direct access, the people can get first-hand information about the entire proceedings and the opinions of the judges, leaving little room for any mischief,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI, however, cautioned that one must tread the path with caution as at times, live streaming of proceedings may become a double-edged sword. “However, judges might feel the pressure of public scrutiny, which may ultimately result in a stressful environment that may not be conducive to justice dispensation.“A judge must remember, even if justice commands standing up against the popular perception, he must do so out of his commitment to the oath he took under the Constitution. A judge cannot be swayed by popular opinion. Yes, with increased public gaze, he might become a subject of multiple debates, that should never deter him from his duty to protect the right of one against the might of many,” Justice Ramana said.“Always remember, as a repository of people’s faith, a judge cannot afford lose objectivity,” he added. The CJI said “the constitutional courts of our country like the Supreme Court and high courts, being the guardians of our constitutional mandate; for public confidence and faith to reach new heights, it is imperative for us to widen the gates of justice”. “...multiple incorrect notions still prevail in the minds of the public regarding the justice delivery system. These prevailing notions and misapprehensions ultimately hinder access to justice, as they may disincline people to seek redressal of their rights. “It is high time for demystifying the justice delivery system in the country and furthering access through open courts. Access to justice will become a true reality, when litigants and interested parties get to witness, understand and comprehend justice dispensation first hand,” Justice Ramana said.Privacy safeguards The CJI, however, cautioned that of paramount consideration is the privacy of the parties involved and it must ensure the safety and security of the victims and witnesses. “Therefore, it is imperative to carefully calibrate the rules governing such live-streaming by keeping in view the competing interests,” he said.Expressing his happiness at Gujarat High Court’s decision to start live streaming of court proceedings, the CJI complimented Justice Chandrachud, the present chairperson of the Supreme Court E-committee for taking the initiative in successfully executing the programme. “The committee under the leadership of brother Chandrachud is playing a wonderful role in bringing all the courts on board to unleash the transparency revolution with the aid of modern technology,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI also congratulated Justice Nath, Justice Pardiwala, chairman, live streaming rules committee, and other judges of Gujarat High Court who have come forward to open up their courts for public viewing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Centre: No common entrance exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses this year||The Centre has decided it will not go ahead with the common entrance exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses this year, amid protests by students who don’t want such an exam amid the pandemic, according to two education department officials. The education ministry had been considering a proposal to switch to the Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for selection of students instead of admission based on board exam performance. “The proposal was examined. We don’t have adequate time for the conduct of the test. It will be held next year,” one of the two senior officials said. The new academic session in universities and colleges across the country will begin from October 1, while the admission process has to be completed by September 30, according to new guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Students are opposed to CUCET this year because schools could not cover the entire syllabus in a pandemic-hit year and questions could be set on the whole curriculum because there was no uniformity in the selection of portions that were omitted. Moreover, the students had said they would not get enough time to prepare for CUCET. Students have been holding an online campaign and have written to the education minister, the UGC and several universities against CUCET. Twelve central universities that have been holding a common entrance exam for postgraduate courses are yet to decide their mode this year and will meet shortly to take a decision. DU admissions Delhi University will start the registration process of the 65,000-odd undergraduate seats at its colleges on August 2 and is likely to announce the first cut-off list between September 7 and 10, acting vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi announced on Saturday. The university said it would continue with its merit-based selection process by considering board exam marks. The varsity will, however, hold the DU Entrance Test (DUET) for candidates seeking admission to MPhil, PhD and postgraduate courses and some undergraduate courses such as those in physiotherapy, occupational therapy and prosthetics and orthotics. The registration for these will start on July 26 and will continue till August 21. Students happy Namrata Kalita from Jorhat in Assam, who is seeking admission to an undergraduate course in DU, said they were against CUCET due to lack of time and information about the exam pattern. “I am happy that DU has decided to go for merit-based selection. We were concerned about CUCET this year. We needed time for preparation. There is no time. More than half of the year is gone and we are in a state of anxiety about the admission process,” Kalita said. She said the CBSE’s decision to award Class XII board marks on the basis of performance in Classes X and XI exams and Class XII pre-board tests was a fair process. “This rationalisation will ensure fair evaluation. Students will get admission in colleges of their choice,” Kalita said. She said a common test would have given undue advantage to students who are already preparing for other entrance exams. “Next year when CUCET is held, students should be given enough time so that there is an even playing field. We are not against CUCET, but it should be held in a proper manner with adequate information given to students well in advance,” Kalita said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Congress sniffs scam in ministry of electronics and information technology||The Congress on Saturday said the latest report by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India points to a scam in the ministry of electronics and information technology, suspecting that the removal of Ravi Shankar Prasad in the recent cabinet reshuffle could be linked to fear of a controversy erupting in the upcoming Parliament session. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the modus operandi of loot was awarding contract to private parties without any tendering process and even formal agreements. He expressed shock as the private entity was not only operating from government premises but also using the Ashoka emblem to create an impression that it was a government company. He released file notings, acquired through an RTI query, to expose the brazenness of illegal functioning in the government. The Congress also asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether the removal of the minister was enough of a punishment for loot of public exchequer and sought the complete list of private companies, which were operating from ministries and using the official Ashoka emblem. It also demanded an impartial inquiry to find the full scope of the scandal going on in the telecom ministry. Explaining the process, Khera said: “The department of telecommunications (DoT) was awarding projects to private parties indirectly through CSC-SPV and its wholly owned subsidiary CSC Wi-Fi Choupal Services India Private Limited. The USOF (Universal Service Obligation Fund) has massive funds collected through contributions from the operators. The government uses this for the last mile network connectivity (LMNC) in rural areas. Projects are given to CSC-SPV, which in turn, would pass these projects to CSC Choupal. The CSC Choupal would then assign these projects to private parties branded as common services centres through a maze of private entities. As per the DoT website, as of January 2021 the USOF had collected Rs 1,12,650 crore, out of which Rs 57,433 crore had been disbursed.” While the CAG report explained a case in Bihar where advance was released for work without a formal agreement and tendering process, Khera said the answer to an RTI query revealed that the CSC e-Gov and CSC WiFi Choupal were private companies. Khera asked: “Following the CAG report, is the removal of a minister from the Union cabinet enough? What is the action you will take to punish those guilty of alleged siphoning off of funds to the tune of thousands of crores? What is the connection between the BJP and CSC-SPV and its wholly owned subsidiary CSC Wi-Fi Choupal Services India Private Limited? How much has the company or any of its maze of companies, which have been benefited by the ministry of electronics and information technology, donated to the kitty of the BJP? How many such companies are using the Ashoka emblem and government premises by feigning as government entities?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
