19-07-2021||India||Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra arrested in case related to creation of pornographic films||Businessman and husband of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra, was arrested on Monday by the Mumbai police in a case related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps, a senior official said. Kundra (45), arrested by the Crime Branch after being booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the Information Technology Act, appears to be the key conspirator of the case, he said. "There was a case registered with the Crime Branch Mumbai in Feb 2021 about creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some Apps. We've arrested Mr Raj Kundra in this case on 19/7/21 as he appears to be the key conspirator of this. We have sufficient evidences regarding this," the Mumbai Police Commissioner said in a statement. The case was registered on February 4 at the Malwani police station in suburban Mumbai. An FIR was registered against Kundra after a woman approached the police and made certain allegations in her complaint, another official said. "On that basis, the FIR was registered and the case transferred to the Crime Branch. Earlier also, we had registered cases related to pornography in which an actress and some other persons were made accused," he said. "We will probe the Raj Kundra case and find out is there is any link between this and pornography cases which we had registered earlier," the official said. Kundra was booked under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays) besides relevant sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, he added. Further investigation was underway, the official added. According to ndtv.com, Kundra denied any wrongdoing and had sought anticipatory bail in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||IT Minister should answer if govt acquired Pegasus spyware: Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday took a swipe at IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw over his statement in Lok Sabha on the alleged illegal surveillance using Pegasus software and said it is unfortunate that the minister has started his innings on the "wrong foot".  In a series of tweets, Chidambaram said the minister should answer if the government acquired the Pegasus software/spyware.  "NSO Group, the owner of Pegasus, has said that 'NSO sells its technologies solely to law enforcement and intelligence agencies of vetted governments.' It is unfortunate that Minister Vaishnaw has started his innings on the wrong foot," he tweeted.  "The Minister should answer a simple question: Did the government acquire the Pegasus software/spyware?" he added.  Vaishnaw, in a suo motu statement in Lok Sabha, categorically rejected the allegations of snooping on politicians, journalists and others using Pegasus software, and asserted that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws.  He said the media reports on alleged snooping published a day before the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament "cannot be a coincidence" and stressed that there is "no substance" behind the sensationalism.  "The press reports of 18th July 2021 also appear to be an attempt to malign the Indian democracy and its well-established institutions," Vaishnaw said in his first statement in Parliament as a minister.  The minister, however, did not specify whether the Indian government was using Pegasus spyware developed by Israeli company NSO.  Chidambaram said, "In his statement the Minister has omitted to quote the crucial part of Pegasus' statement. The services that are 'openly available to anyone, anywhere, and anytime' refer to HLR Lookup services, not to Pegasus."  The former Union minister was referring to the statement given by the Israeli company to a group of media organisations that broke the story across the globe.  The Congress has demanded a thorough, independent probe into the matter and immediate sacking of Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha: Opposition uproar over Nisith Pramanik's nationality||Opposition members in Rajya Sabha on Monday sought to raise the issue of the nationality of a newly inducted Minister of State for Home, alleging he was a Bangladeshi national, but the government dismissed the charge as "baseless" and slammed them for casting such aspersions on a leader from a tribal community.  Opposition members led by TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar and Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge asked the government to clear its stand over the nationality of the minister.  Without naming the minister, Sekhar said: The prime minister has been allowed to lay a list of the ministers after the reshuffle. Go through Wikipedia, then you will find that the name of the gentleman A Minister of State for Home Affairs is a reportedly a Bangladeshi.  Sekhar was also supported by Kharge and other opposition members.  He has raised a relevant point. It's a point of order, said Kharge adding, I have every right to know whether he is a Bangladeshi or not."  Last week, Rajya Sabha member and Assam Pradesh Congress Committee President Ripun Bora had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to conduct an inquiry into allegations that newly appointed minister Nisith Pramanik is a Bangladeshi national.  Objecting to the remarks of opposition members, Union Minister and Leader of the House Piyush Goyal termed the allegation as baseless , asserting there is no truth in it.  This should be expunged. It's an insult of a big leader and a large society to which he belongs, he said, adding such remarks against a leader from the tribal community were condemnable.  As the issue sparked an uproar, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh tried to pacify the members but failed.  Amid the commotion, Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal introduced The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021.  Lok Sabha has already passed the bills that will replace an over nine-decade-old law governing lighthouses and seeks to provide for a fresh framework to establish and manage vessel traffic services, besides changing the use of the term marine aids to navigation.  The Deputy Chairman asked the agitating member to discuss only the bills listed in the business of the house. However, the members did not relent, after which the Singh adjourned the house till 3 PM.  Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was prevented from introducing his newly-inducted union ministers to Rajya Sabha as several slogan-shouting opposition members trooped into the Well of the House to protest over various issues, including farm laws and fuel price hike.  The House proceedings were adjourned till 2 PM as the protesting opposition members did not relent to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu''s repeated appeal for order in the House.  When the House assembled on day one of the Monsoon Session, the proceedings were adjourned for an hour as a mark of respect to departed sitting MPs Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav.  No sooner did the House meet again at around 12.25 PM, opposition members started raising slogans as the Chairman was making his opening remarks about the expectations from the current session amid the COVID-19 pandemic.  When the prime minister rose to introduce the newly inducted members in his Council of Ministers, opposition members created an uproar by raising slogans.  Questioning the opposition's conduct, Modi wondered "what kind of mindset is this" that prevents them from giving respect to the new ministers who are women, Dalits and come from Scheduled Tribes and OBC communities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Pegasus:  Opposition strategy meeting in Parliament tomorrow||The opposition parties will meet at the Parliament House tomorrow morning to decide on a strategy to corner the government over the illegal surveillance allegations through the Israeli spyware Pegasus. The meeting will begin at 10 am. According to an NDTV report, the opposition parties have demanded an explanation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. The Congress has sought the resignation pf Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the issue and an investigation against PM Modi. The Rajya Sabha is likely to discuss 'Covid management' tomorrow afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra logs lowest daily count since Feb 22 with 6,017 new cases; active cases below 1 lakh||Maharashtra's coronavirus caseload climbed to 62,20,207 on Monday after 6,017 people tested positive for the infection, the lowest since February 22, while the death toll jumped to 1,27,097 as 66 patients succumbed to COVID-19, a health department official said.  The fresh COVID-19 deaths were the lowest in the last one week.  The official said as many as 13,051 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recovered cases to 59,93,401.  The state now has 96,375 active COVID-19 cases.  Maharashtra's COVID-19 recovery rate is 96.35 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.04 per cent, the official said.  Significantly Hingoli, Wardha and Bhandara districts of Maharashtra did not report any new coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours.  According to the official, Mumbai reported 403 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 7,31,561, while the death toll increased to 15,716 with 14 fresh fatalities.  A total of 1,092 new COVID-19 cases and 24 fatalities were reported in the Mumbai circle - that includes the city and its satellite towns - taking the tally to 16,27,032 and the death toll to 33,284.  The official said 202 people tested positive in Pune municipal limits, pushing the tally to 5,00,690, while the death toll rose to 8,600 after one more patient succumbed to the infection in the city.  The wider Pune region reported 1,658 new COVID-19 cases and 17 fatalities, taking the tally to 14,66,915 and the death toll to 27,413.  The Kolhapur region reported 2,443 new COVID-19 cases and 16 fresh fatalities, according to the health department.  The Nashik region witnessed 543 new cases, while the daily infection count was 208 in the Latur region.  The official said Nagpur, Akola and Aurangabad regions reported 26, 24 and 23 new COVID-19 cases, respectively.  According to the official, out of 4,56,48,898 COVID-19 tests done so far in the state, 1,67,646 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.  Currently, 5,61,796 people are in home quarantine and 4,052 in institutional quarantine across the state, he said.  The highest number of active cases at 15,768 are in Pune district, followed by Thane and Mumbai at 13,632 and 10,422, respectively.  According to the health department, of the total 59,93,401 recovered patients, the highest at 10,42,911 are from Pune district, followed by Mumbai and Thane at 7,03,066 and 5,64,399, respectively.  Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 62,20,207; new cases 6,017; total deaths 1,27,097; total recoveries 59,93,401; active cases 96,375; total tests 4,56,48,898.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Home minister Amit Shah hits out at Congress, global organisations over Pegasus scandal||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday lashed out at the opposition Congress and international organisations for suggesting that the government was involved in surveillance of phones of politicians, journalists and others, saying it was a "report by disrupters for obstructers" who want to derail India's development trajectory with their conspiracies. Alleging that the report was timed to cause disruptions in parliament, he even used a phrase his critics have often used to target him: "Aap chronology samjhiye (understand the chronology)". "People have often associated this phrase with me in lighter vein but today I want to seriously say - the timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions...Aap Chronology Samjhiye!" the Home Minister said in a statement, reports NDTV. In a hard-hitting statement, he questioned the timing of the "selective leaks" on the eve of the Monsoon session and said they have been amplified by a few whose only aim is to do whatever is possible to humiliate India on the world stage. "The timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions Aap Chronology Samajhiye!," he said, referring to opposition parties stalling proceedings in Parliament on Monday. "This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers. Disrupters are global organisations that do not like India to progress. "Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress. People of India are very good at understanding this chronology and connection," he said. The home minister said he wanted to assure the people of India that the Modi government's priority is clear 'National Welfare' - and it will keep working to achieve that no matter what happens. Opposition parties on Monday criticised the government over the alleged phone-tapping of prominent personalities in the country using Israeli Pegasus spyware and demanded an independent judicial or parliamentary committee probe. An international media consortium reported Sunday that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies. The government, however, had dismissed the allegation of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people, saying it "has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever". Shah said those who intend to derail India's progress are peddling the same old narratives about the country. "To see the rudderless Congress, jump on to this bandwagon is not unexpected. "They have a good past experience in trampling over democracy and with their own house not in order, they are now trying to derail anything progressive that comes up in Parliament," he said. The home minister said the facts and sequence of events are for the entire nation to see and the disrupters and obstructers will not be able to derail India's development trajectory through their conspiracies. "People have often associated this phrase with me in a lighter vein but today I want to seriously say - the timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions Aap Chronology Samajhiye!," he said. Shah said the Monsoon Session of Parliament started on Monday and in what seemed like a perfect cue, late last evening a report appeared and it has been amplified by a few sections with only one aim - to do whatever is possible to humiliate India at the world stage, peddle the same old narratives about the nation and derail India's development trajectory. The home minister said the people of India have high hopes from the current monsoon session as key bills for the welfare of farmers, youngsters, women and the backward sections of society are lined up for debate and discussion. No less than Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the government is ready to discuss all topics, he said. Shah said just a few days ago the Council of Ministers was expanded with great emphasis given to women, SC, ST and OBC members. "But there are forces unable to digest this. They also want to derail national progress. This merits the question - to whose tune are these people dancing, who want to keep showing India in poor light? What pleasure do they get to time and again show India in a bad light?" he asked. The home minister said when the prime minister rose in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to introduce his Council of Ministers, which is a well-established norm, the Congress-led opposition was in the Well of both Houses. "Is this their respect for Parliamentary norms? The same behaviour continued when the IT Minister was speaking about the issue," he said. The opposition parties created a ruckus over the alleged phone tapping issue in both Houses of Parliament on the first day of the Monsoon session, forcing repeated adjournment of proceedings. Accusing the government of "treason" and compromising on national security over the Pegasus spyware issue, the Congress Monday demanded the sacking of Home Minister Amit Shah and a probe into the "role of Prime Minister" Narendra Modi in the matter. Addressing a press conference here, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala held Shah responsible for the Pegasus spying issue and said his party's first demand is his dismissal from the post he occupies. He said the Congress will take all Opposition parties on-board over the issue and decided whether to ask for a judicial or parliamentary probes in the matter. "Our first demand is the immediate sacking of Minister of Home and Internal security Amit Shah and a probe into the role of the prime minister in the matter," he told reporters. Amit Shah's use of the phrase "Aap chronology samjhiye" became hugely controversial when he declared in 2019 that the government would bring the Citizenship Amendment Act and after that the National Citizen's Register. The phrase became viral and was repeatedly used by the opposition in its attacks on the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Indian Women's Press Corps demands independent probe in Pegasus row||The Indian Women's Press Corps (IWPC) Monday demanded an independent probe into the use of Pegasus spyware for alleged snooping on journalists. In a series of posts on the microblogging site Twitter, the journalist body said it is "unfortunate" that in a democracy like India, journalists have to go through "something like this" in the course of their work. "IWPC strongly condemns the spying on the phones of 40 Indian journalists," it tweeted. Citing media reports, the IWPC noted the Israeli software allegedly used for snooping is sold only to the governments. "And, as the government has come out with a denial, we demand an independent inquiry in the whole matter," it said. The IWPC said independent journalism is one of the "most important tools" to uphold the rights that the Constitution has vested into the citizens of this country. "It is unfortunate that in a democracy like India, journalists have to go through something like this in the course of their work," the journalist body said, adding "under no circumstances should the independence of media be compromised".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Prashant Kishor, 2 new ministers among Pegasus targets||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, election strategist Prashant Kishor, TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee and former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa were amongst those who came under surveillance using Pegasus spyware, according to The Wire. In a jibe against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "We know what he's been reading- everything on your phone!" Nine phones linked to Gandhi including five non-political friends were also believed to have been targeted. The spyware also appears to have been used to target 11 phones linked to the woman who accused former chief justice of India Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment. Also targeted are the just-appointed IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and another newly appointed government minister Prahlad Singh Patel. The names were among a string of targets of the Pegasus spyware named by The Wire in a follow-up to their Sunday story that was published simultaneously by the Indian website, The Guardian, the Washington Post and 14 other media outlets. The Wire said that at least of two of Gandhi’s mobile phone accounts were on a list of 300 verified Indian numbers that were potential targets of software licensed by Israeli private surveillance tech firm NSO. The Israeli company says it only sells its snooping software known as Pegasus to “vetted governments” to fight terrorism and other serious crimes. The Union government has denied carrying out any unauthorised surveillance. Vaishnaw, who appears to have been targeted for surveillance in 2017 when he wasn’t in politics, told Parliament on the opening day of the monsoon session on Monday that the allegations were an attempt to “malign” India’s democracy and that they contained “no substance’ too. Rumours swirling for days Before the report surfaced, rumours had been swirling for days that the Modi government was about to be rocked by a fresh instalment of what has become known as the “Pegasus spyware scandal.” Kishor, who has a finger in many political pies, played a key role in the Bengal state elections and also advises the DMK in Tamil Nadu and the Congress in Punjab. He was dismissive about attempts to monitor his phones and told The Wire that the results of the West Bengal elections showed that such tactics did not work. However, he added: “There is no denying that those who would did so were looking to take undue advantage of their position of power with the help of illegal snooping.” His latest successes include helping engineer Mamata Banerjee’s resounding victory in Bengal and M.K. Stalin’s resounding win in Tamil Nadu. Ashok Lavasa, the former election commissioner, who was also reported to have been targeted by the software, had dissented in the election body’s decision to reject alleged poll code violations by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah during the 2019 election campaign. The list also included at least one number used by Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan. Kishor changed phones 5 times It could not be confirmed whether the phones of many of the names listed were actually hacked as their mobiles were not available for forensic analysis. All that is known is that their names were on the list of potential surveillance targets. Kishor told NDTV news channel that he had changed his mobile handset five times but his phone was still being hacked. Trace of infection on Kishor’s phone were found, according to Amnesty International, on April 28, just before the last phase of polling in West Bengal and also in June and July 2021, around the time when he met Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. The Wire said a further hack on his phone appeared on the day when its representatives had met him. Gandhi appeared relatively unsurprised by news that his phone had come under attacked and said he often changed both numbers and instruments to make it “a little harder for them” to target him. Gandhi added that he had received several suspicious Whatsapp messages which made him believe he was being targeted. Global scale investigation On Sunday, The Wire disclosed the names of prominent journalists, such as The Wire Editor Siddharth Varadarajan, that had been targeted. The names were revealed after the joint global-scale investigation conducted also by The Guardian, Le Monde, Die Zeit and 12 other Arab, Mexican and European news organisations. The powerful surveillance tool was detected as being active on some of the Indian targets’ devices as recently as this month, according to The Washington Post. The hacking software is employed to infect iPhones and Android phones to extract messages, photographs, location data, emails, record calls and activate microphones. The malware can be put on a smartphone by clicking on a “trap link. It can even activate itself without any input in what is called a “zero-click: hack. M.K. Venu, a founding editor of The Wire that was also on the potential spyware target list, has said more names will be revealed “soon.” Forbidden Stories The news organisations were given a leaked database of numbers by Paris-based media non-profit Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International. The global investigation carried out forensic examinations of 37 phones of which 10 were Indian to confirm that they had been targeted by spyware. Soon after the story broke simultaneously around the world, Indian journalist Swati Chaturvedi, whose phone is believed to have been tapped, tweeted: “Dear @PMOIndia why did your government put me on an intrusive surveillance list? For committing a crime of doing investigative journalism. Why was Pegasus software introduced on my phone? Pegasus is sold only to governments.” The government has denied any link with the spyware and said the news article proves nothing. “In fact, previous attempts to link Pegasus with the government have failed," the government said. The Wire reported most of the names were targeted between 2018 and 2019 in the period leading up to the 2019 general elections. The Wire said that the leaked database had numbers of over 40 journalists, three Opposition leaders, serving government ministers, current and formers officials of security organisations and “scores of businesspersons”. ‘Incredible intrusion’ The Wire itself was heavily targeted. The Wire Editor Siddharth Varadarajan whose phone was hacked according to the report told The Guardian: “This is an incredible intrusion and journalists should not have to deal with this.” Forensic analysis is essential to prove that the phones have been infected with Pegasus Spyware. For technical reasons, it is easier to analyse if Pegasus software has been used against iPhones than against Android ones. The phone of another journalist, Sushant Singh, who had worked on an investigation into the Rafale deal, was also subjected to forensic analysis and appeared to have had spyware installed on it. Singh said, “It compromises a journalist’s ability to report on matters of grave national importance.” Pegasus was active on Singh’s iPhone as recently as this month, the Washington Post reported, citing a forensic analysis. Other Indian journalists whose names appear on the list that dates back to 2016 include Shishir Gupta, executive editor of the Hindustan Times; former editorial page editor Prashant Jha, defence correspondent Rahul Singh and Aurangazeb Naqshbandi, who covered the Congress. An SC judge too? One phone number on the Pegasus Projects database was earlier registered in the name of a sitting Supreme Court judge, The Wire said. However, it said the judge had given up the number at some point in the last few years. Most of the numbers on the Pegasus database came from 10 countries including India, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Hungary, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Bahrain, Morocco, Mexico and Rwanda.  The Guardian described the countries alleged to be involved in the eavesdropping as being run by “authoritarian governments.” Pegasus initially hit the headlines around the world in 2019 after it was reported that 1,400 phones had been targeted using the software. WhatsApp filed a suit against the NSO Group which created the software. Among those whose phones were tapped abroad was the former fiancée of murdered Saudi columnist and dissident Jamal Khashoggi. The Pegasus database contains more than 50,000 potential global surveillance targets. NSO to look at ‘credible claims’ The NSO Group refuses to divulge the list of its customers. It denied in a statement “false claims” about the actions of its customers but promised to “investigation all credible claims of misuse and take appropriate action.” The telephone numbers on the list were printed without names but the investigation managed to identify over 1,000 people in more than 50 nations. They included 189 journalists globally, including those working at the Financial Times, The New York Times and CNN. There were also more than 600 politicians and government officials, including cabinet ministers, diplomats and military figures, and 85 human rights activists. The Indian government said in its written statement there has been “no unauthorised interception” by government agencies. However, the occupations of the people to whom the Indian numbers belonged suggested that an official Indian agency would have been behind any attempt to place them on the hacking list, The Wire said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Kalyan Singh’s condition unstable, put on non-invasive ventilation||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is unstable, and doctors are closely monitoring him, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) here said on Monday. Singh's clinical parameters are being closely monitored by expert consultants at the hospital, it added. "The condition of Singh is unstable. After breathing problem, he has been kept on non-invasive ventilation," the hospital said in a bulletin issued this evening. Earlier in the day, the hospital issued a statement saying, "After he (Kalyan Singh) complained of respiratory discomfort on Saturday evening, oxygen therapy was started. He was put on non-invasive ventilation on Sunday evening due to respiratory worsening." The senior faculty of Critical Care Medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology are keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to his health, it said. SGPGIMS director professor R K Dhiman is supervising Singh's treatment on a daily basis, the statement read. The 89-year-old, who is also a former governor of Rajasthan, was admitted to the ICU of the hospital on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Opposition takes on govt over alleged phone-tapping, seeks probe||Opposition parties Monday hit out at the government over the alleged phone-tapping of prominent personalities in the country using Israeli Pegasus spyware and demanded an independent judicial or parliamentary committee probe. An international media consortium reported Sunday that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three Opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through an Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the matter using the hashtag "Pegasus". "We know what he's been reading- everything on your phone," Gandhi wrote Monday as a tweet-reply to his own post two days ago in which he had asked people, "I'm wondering what you guys are reading these days." The government has, however, dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part, saying the accusation has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever.  IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told Lok Sabha that with several checks and balances being in place, "any sort of illegal surveillance" by unauthorised persons is not possible in India. Terming it a very serious issue concerning national security, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor demanded an independent judicial or parliamentary committee probe. " Since the government has said that it has not done any snooping, this should be probed," he said. "I feel that there should be a thorough independent judicial inquiry or a joint parliamentary committee. We cannot just brush it under the carpet," he told reporters. He raised the issue through social media too. "GoI has denied resorting to unauthorised surveillance. The question this raises is, if #Pegasus is only sold to governments, which other govts (China/Pak?) are using it to snoop on prominent Indian citizens? Shouldn't the authorities call for an independent investigation," he tweeted referring to the Government of India. The CPIM said that two years ago, the party had raised in Parliament that this "dangerous spyware" was being used in India as revealed by WhatsApp. "The Modi government's response had not categorically denied that it engaged the services of NSO (the Israeli tech firm that created the spyware) but claimed that there is no "unauthorised surveillance". With these revelations, it is clear that this government has engaged NSO for such surveillance against its own citizens," the party said in a statement Monday. "The Central government must come clean on what is its engagement with NSO, what are the terms and how much our public funds have been paid for this, the party demanded. Under Indian laws, the use of cyber spy software to hack smartphones even by the government is prohibited, the party said, asking under what law the government has undertaken such "surveillance activities" over citizens. "The right to privacy is a fundamental right as laid down by the Supreme Court, but this BJP government is prevaricating on legislating the privacy law," the party said. The CPIM also said there have been earlier instances of hacking smartphones and computers of human rights activists and they have been exposed. It alleged that the spying toll is digitally planted on their devices. "It is then used for their arrests under draconian laws. The `snoop, plant, arrest' formula employed by this BJP government is a violation of the fundamental rights of Indian citizens, the CPIM said. The TMC said it will raise the issue in Parliament.  "It is a serious issue and the minister in his statement in the House does not deny that the government was using the software. We will raise this issue in Parliament," said TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O' Brien.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Maha: 4 undertrials escape after staging convulsion drama||Four undertrials escaped from a sub jail in Madha in Maharashtra's Solapur district on Monday morning, one of whom was nabbed some time later, police said. One of the escapees, identified as Akbar Pawar, pretended that he was having convulsions, due to which prison staff opened the door of his cell to treat him, a Madha police station official said. "The other three inmates in the cell, Siddheshwar Kaiche, Akash Bhalekar and Tanaji Lokre, fled when Pawar was being treated. When the prison staff ran after them, Pawar too escaped," he said. The official, however, said Pawar had convulsions earlier, which required hospitalization on two occasions, and, therefore, he managed to get the prison staff to lower their guard while responding to his medical situation. "Bhalekar was arrested later and efforts are on to nab the other three. All four have serious offences like murder, fake currency and illegal possession of weapons against their names," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||LeT module busted in Jammu & Kashmir’s Budgam district||Security agencies have busted a Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) terror module in Budgam district by arresting a local terrorist and his four associates, all of whom were in touch with their Pakistan-based handlers through social media platforms, officials said Monday. Acting on a specific information, police, Army and CRPF personnel arrested Mohammad Younis Mir, a local terrorist linked with the LeT, and recovered incriminating materials, and arms and ammunition from him, a police spokesman said. Mir is a resident of Choon area in Budgam. One Chinese pistol, one magazine and eight live pistol rounds were recovered from him, the police spokesman said. Mir's questioning led the police to his four terror associates and the LeT terror module, the spokesman said. "Incriminating materials and ammunition including two hand grenades were also recovered from their possession. They have been identified as Imran Zahoor Ganie, Umer Farooq Wani, Faizan Qayoom Ganie and Shahnawaz Ahmad Mir," he said. The spokesman said preliminary investigation revealed that the arrested terrorist associates were involved in providing shelter, logistics and other material support including the transportation of arms and ammunition to terrorists active in various areas of Budgam. "The arrested local terrorist and terror associates have been in touch with the PaK terror commanders through various social media platforms and were also in constant touch with local terror commanders of proscribed terror outfit LeT in Kashmir," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Excise policy: HC sends plea challenging e-tender of Delhi govt before Chief Justice's bench||A Delhi High Court bench Monday directed to place before the Chief Justice a petition challenging e-tender notice of the Delhi government, prescribing the procedure to be followed for inviting zone wise electronic bids for grant of 32 licences of retail vends of liquor here. The court sent the matter to the bench headed by Chief Justice after a controversy arose as to which bench should hear the plea since several similar petitions relating to the new Excise Policy are pending before the Chief Justice's bench. While the counsel for the petitioner submitted that this petition is only challenging the tender issued by the Delhi government and as a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh is having the roster to hear tender matters, it should hear it, Delhi government's counsel vehemently objected it saying this is also relating to the excise policy and shall be heard by the Chief Justice's bench. The bench said since this controversy is arising and the Chief Justice being the master of roster' he shall decide which bench to hear the petition. The bench also said it was not having any particular interest in hearing this matter. To resolve this controversy, we direct to place this matter before Division Bench-I headed by the Chief Justice, since DB-I is seized of other matters We leave it to the bench headed by the Chief Justice to decide which bench should hear the present petition, the bench of Justices Sanghi and Singh said while sending the plea before the bench headed by the Chief Justice for Tuesday. The bench added, in the last hearing also we had said this is purely a tender matter and we have this tender roster. If we find it is overlapping with the policy challenge, we will send it to Division Bench-I. The bench was hearing a plea by petitioner Robin Chaudhary on behalf of retailers selling liquor in Delhi, challenging the terms and conditions of the e-tender. Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar and Sandeep Sethi, representing the petitioner, submitted that the terms of the tender are unreasonable and added that they were not challenging the new excise policy. They said since they are not challenging the policy and they are interested in participating in the tender by submitting the bid, this bench is dealing with tender matters as per roster so it should continue with the hearing. However, senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, vehemently objected saying some of the grounds taken here in this tender petition are overlapping with the grounds taken in other pleas challenging the excise policy and pending before the Chief Justice's bench, which shall hear this matter. Mehra contended it was a case of forum shopping and when other similar matters were pending before the Chief Justice's bench, there was no occasion of placing this petition before another bench. The Delhi government was also represented through standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi. Meanwhile, the bench also transferred to the Chief Justice's bench another petition, filed by Delhi Consumer Cooperative Wholesale Store Karamchari union, relating to challenge to the new excise policy for Tuesday. Several petitions have been filed challenging the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22 alleging that it was illegal, unfair, arbitrary and violative of the Delhi Excise Act, 2009. They have also sought to quash the June 28 e-tender notice of Delhi government, prescribing the procedure to be followed for inviting zone wise electronic bids for grant of 32 zonal licences of retail vends of liquor for supply of Indian and foreign liquor brands in the national capital. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh had refused to stay the new Excise Policy which, according to retail shop owners, will lead to cartelisation and had said it will consider this plea on the next date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||UP govt issues fresh directives ahead of Bakrid||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday issued fresh directives ahead of Bakrid, prohibiting gatherings of more than 50 people at any place to celebrate the festival, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government also issued orders against animal sacrifice at public places in the state. Charing a meeting with senior officials to review the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed them to make all necessary arrangements in view of the festival, an official spokesperson said here. In view of Covid, not more than 50 people should gather at any place at a given time for any event related to Bakrid, the official said. It should also be ensured that no cow, camel or any other banned animal is sacrificed anywhere. Only designated places or private premises should be used for animal sacrifices, he said. Special care should be taken for cleanliness, the official added. The festival is scheduled to be celebrated later this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Teen raped, forced to convert in UP's Baghpat||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man, his brothers and friends in Uttar Pradesh. According to the police, she was even forced to change her religion. “The accused, Shahzad, and his parents have been arrested,” informed the police “The girl belonged to the scheduled caste community has alleged that that Shahzad (26) had promised to marry her,” police said, adding that on this pretext, he along with others had forcibly changed her religion a year back. Kotwali police station in-charge N S Sirohi said, “A case has been registered against seven persons and main accused Shahzad, his mother Gulfshan and father Haroon were arrested on Sunday morning. A search is on for the others.” According to the police Shahzad was already married and it has been alleged that he raped the girl several times. They added that she was pregnant, and had been forced to undergo an abortion by his family members. The minor has stated that she had protested, but had been threatened with dire consequences, according to police His friends had also raped her, they said, quoting the complaint lodged by the girl’s family. According to the complaint, she was called by Shahzad to his house on July 6 and was taken captive, police said. On July 8, she was raped by his brothers Bilal and Farman, they said quoting the complaint. “The girl's family claimed that she reached home on July 10 in a very scared state. When her health deteriorated and they insisted on taking her to a doctor on July 17, she informed them about the incident,” police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Prime Minister Modi slams Opposition over Parliament ruckus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday lashed out at the Opposition for creating a ruckus and preventing him from introducing newly- inducted Union ministers in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, saying such a ‘negative mindset’ has never been seen in Parliament. As the Prime Minister rose in Lok Sabha to introduce the new ministers, Opposition members created an uproar by raising slogans. Dismayed over the disruption, Modi said, “It should make everyone proud that several women, many people belonging to the SC and ST community have taken oath as ministers.” “It seems some people cannot digest that more women, SC, ST and OBC community members are becoming ministers,” he added. And noted that several new ministers are children of farmers and also belong to OBC communities. In Rajya Sabha also, the Prime Minister could not introduce the newly-inducted ministers as several slogan-shouting opposition members trooped into the well of the House to protest over various issues. The Prime Minister slammed the Opposition over it, echoing the views expressed by him in Lok Sabha. “It is a matter of pride that people from rural India, who come from ordinary families have taken oath as ministers. But some people don't want ministers to be introduced. They also have an anti-women mindset since they do not want women ministers to be introduced to the House,” he said. “Such a negative mindset has never been seen in Parliament,” Modi said in Rajya Sabha. Earlier, addressing reporters ahead of the start of the Monsoon session, the Prime Minster said the Opposition should ask the sharpest and toughest of questions in Parliament but asserted that the government should also be allowed to respond to them in a cordial environment. The Prime minister's appeal comes at a time when the Opposition is raring to corner the ruling dispensation over a host of issues, including handling of the second wave of COVID-19, rise in fuel prices, farmers' stir and an international media consortium report which has claimed that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including that of two serving ministers, could have been targeted for hacking through an Israeli spyware. Modi said he wants meaningful discussions in Parliament over the Covid pandemic which has gripped the entire world. The Prime Minister said he has requested all the floor leaders to take some time out on Tuesday evening when he would like to give detailed information regarding the pandemic. "We want a discussion in the House as well as outside the House with all the floor leaders. I am constantly meeting the chief ministers and all kinds of discussions are happening in different forums. So I also want to meet the floor leaders as House is going on and it will be convenient and we can talk about it (the pandemic) face-to-face," he said. Hoping that the session is productive and dedicated to meaningful discussions, Modi said the government is fully prepared to give the answers that the people of the country want. "I urge all MPs and political parties to ask the toughest and sharpest of questions but they should also allow the government to respond in a cordial environment as democracy is strengthened by conveying the truth to the people," Modi said adding that this enhances the trust of the people and improves the pace of development. Talking about the vaccination programme going on in the country, Modi said it was moving forward at a fast pace and also urged MPs to cooperate in following all Covid protocols. "Vaccine is given in 'baahu' (arms), and those who take it become 'Baahubali'. The only way to become Baahubali to fight against coronavirus is to get vaccinated," Modi said. Over 40 crore people have become 'Baahubali' in the fight against coronavirus, the prime minister said the inoculation programme is being taken forward rapidly. Noting that the pandemic has engulfed the whole world, Modi said he wants that there should be a meaningful discussion regarding the pandemic on high priority. All practical suggestions given by MPs can usher in newness in the fight against the pandemic, if there are some shortcomings, they can be rectified, and everyone can move forward together in this fight, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi to be deputy leader of House of Rajya Sabha||Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has been named as the Deputy Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha, sources said on Monday. Naqvi succeeds Piyush Goyal, who has been appointed as the Leader of House in Rajya Sabha. The minority affairs minister is known for his wide knowledge of parliamentary affairs and had also served as the minister of state for parliamentary affairs during the first term of the Modi government. The appointment of Naqvi, who is known for having cordial relations with leaders of parties across the political spectrum, assumes significance as it comes at a time when the Opposition is raring to corner the ruling dispensation over a host of issues, including handling of the second wave of COVID-19, rise in fuel prices and farmers' stir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha proceedings halted till 3.30 pm amid Opposition uproar||The proceedings of the Lok Sabha were adjourned for the second time on Monday amid sloganeering by Opposition members over various issues, including those related to rising prices and the new farm laws. Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the Chair, adjourned the House till 3:30 pm barely 10 minutes after proceedings began at 2 pm. Agrawal urged members to go back to their seats and allow the House to function normally, but as protests continued, he adjourned the proceedings. The Monsoon session of the Lok Sabha began on a stormy note on Monday with the Opposition creating a ruckus and preventing Prime Minister Narendra Modi from introducing the newly inducted Union ministers. As the disruptions continued despite Speaker Om Birla's repeated pleas to maintain decorum, the House was adjourned after nearly 40 minutes till 2 pm. Four newly elected members --- Maddila Gurumoorthy (YSR Congress), Mangal Suresh Angadi (BJP), M P Abdussamad Samadani (IUML), Vijayakumar (Congress) --- took oath as the House convened after a gap of nearly four months. Following this, the Prime Minister stood up to introduce the newly inducted ministers who took oath on July 7 following a major rejig in the council of ministers. As soon as Modi stood up, opposition members started shouting slogans and disrupted the proceedings. On the other hand, Rajya Sabha proceedings on the opening day of the Monsoon session of Parliament were adjourned for an hour as a mark of respect for departed two sitting MPs Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Will strengthen invincible fort of Congress in Punjab: Navjot Singh Sidhu ||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday thanked the party leadership for appointing him the president of the Punjab unit and said he will work further to strengthen the organisation in the state. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday night appointed the cricketer-turned-politician as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief. Sidhu, who replaced Sunil Jakhar, was elevated to the position despite opposition from Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. "Today, to work further for the same dream and strengthen the invincible fort of the Congress in Punjab. I am grateful to Hon'ble Congress president Sonia Gandhi, RahulGandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for bestowing their faith in me and giving me this pivotal responsibility," Sidhu tweeted. "Will work along every member of Congress family in Punjab to fulfil the mission of 'JittegaPunjab' as a humble Congress worker to give power of the people back to the people through the Punjab model and the high command's 18-point agenda ... My journey has just begun, he said in another tweet. The Congress also appointed four working presidents to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the assembly elections. The new working presidents are Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra. In another tweet, Sidhu also shared a picture of his father with former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. "To share prosperity, privilege and freedom not just among a few but among all, My father a Congress worker left a royal household and joined the freedom struggle, was sentenced to death for his patriotic work, reprieved by the King's Amnesty became DCC President, MLA, MLC and advocate general," Sidhu tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India|| Release Manipur political activist by 5 pm today, directs SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the release of Leichombam Erendro, a Manipur-based political activist arrested for sedition in May over some Facebook posts, saying the detention was amounting to violation of right to life and personal liberty. The 37-year-old was arrested under the National Security Act, guilty of saying "cow dung and cow urine don't work." While Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time and wanted the case to be adjourned till tomorrow, the judges ordered his immediate release, according to NDTV.com. "We are of the view that the continued detention of the petitioner would amount to violation of right to life and personal liberty under Article 21. We direct him to be released today by 5 pm with a personal bond of  Rs.  1,000," a two-judge bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said. The order came on a plea by Mr Erendro's father. The activist, along with journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem, were arrested for posting the comment over the death of Saikhom Tikendra Singh, the then state BJP President. Manipur BJP Vice-President Usham Deban and General Secretary P Premananda Meetei had filed a complaint against them saying their posts were offensive. Earlier, in June 2020, Erendro was charged with sedition by the state police over another Facebook post that had the photo of Rajya Sabha MP Sanajaoba Leishemba with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The photo, captioned Minai macha, showed Manipur's titular king bowing with folded hands before the senior BJP leader. Roughly translated from Meitei, Manipur's native language, Minai macha means "son of a servant". Erendro was released later on bail in this case. The Supreme Court had last week questioned if the sedition law was "still necessary after 75 years of Independence". The law is a serious threat to the functioning of institutions and holds "enormous power" for misuse with no accountability for the executive, the court had said, comparing it to a saw in the hands of an overzealous carpenter. During the argument, the court said there was "minimal conviction or very low rate of conviction" in the history of the sedition law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid Opposition ruckus, Rajya Sabha for an hour to pay respect to departed MPs||The Monsoon session of the Lok Sabha began on a stormy note on Monday with the Opposition creating a ruckus and preventing Prime Minister Narendra Modi from introducing the newly inducted Union ministers. As the disruptions continued despite Speaker Om Birla's repeated pleas to maintain decorum, the House was adjourned after nearly 40 minutes till 2 pm. Four newly elected members --- Maddila Gurumoorthy (YSR Congress), Mangal Suresh Angadi (BJP), M P Abdussamad Samadani (IUML), Vijayakumar (Congress) --- took oath as the House convened after a gap of nearly four months. Following this, the Prime Minister stood up to introduce the newly inducted ministers who took oath on July 7 following a major rejig in the council of ministers. As soon as Modi stood up, opposition members started shouting slogans and disrupted the proceedings. On the other hand, Rajya Sabha proceedings on the opening day of the Monsoon session of Parliament were adjourned for an hour as a mark of respect for departed two sitting MPs Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu mentioned the passing away of the two sitting MPs as well as 10 former members, including Bollywood veteran actor Dilip Kumar and legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh. He read out obituary references for each of the 13 before adjourning the proceedings for an hour "as a mark of respect to memory of Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav, sitting members of house, the house stands adjourned for one hour". While nominated member Mohapatra died on May 9 at the age of 78 years, Congress leader Satav passed away on May 16 at the age of 46 years. Earlier, the tone for the first day of the Monsoon session was set with Opposition parties meeting in the House to chalk out a joint strategy to take on the government, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged MPs and Opposition parties to ask ‘toughest’ questions in the Parliament asserting that the government should also be allowed to respond to them. Congress MP Manish Tewari moved an adjournment motion on the issue of farmers' protest. In his adjournment notice, Tewari said he seeks to discuss a definite matter of urgent importance, namely -- "in large numbers, farmers have come out against the three acts passed by the central government which threaten their livelihood". The Farmers 'Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 have been opposed on the grounds that they will make the farmers vulnerable to exploitation by the corporate sector, Tewari said in his notice. He alleged that the government has failed to assuage the concerns of the farmers or present any viable alternative to these acts. "There is a palpable fear among the farmers that the Minimum Support Price will be dismantled and the role of state governments in APMCS will be affected. "About 300 farmers have died while protesting against the unfair laws passed by the Centre. The matter is of urgent importance and I hereby request the permission to raise this issue," Tewari said in his notice. CPI (M) MPs Elamaram Kareem and V Sivadasan have given adjournment notices under rule 267 for discussing the farmers' protest in Rajya Sabha. CPI MP Binoy Viswam has also given an adjournment notice in Rajya Sabha on the Pegasus spying issue. The activities of the Opposition did not seem to trouble Narendra Modi who on Tuesday said he wants meaningful discussions in Parliament over the Covid pandemic which has gripped the entire world. Modi said he has urged all floor leaders to take some time out on Tuesday evening when he would like to give them detailed information on the pandemic. "We want discussion inside Parliament as well as outside it with floor leaders on Covid pandemic," he said. Modi said the government is ready to give the answers that the people of the country want. "I urge all MPs and political parties to ask the sharpest and the toughest of questions but they should also allow the government to respond in a cordial environment as democracy is strengthened by conveying the truth to the people," Modi said. “It increases the trust of the people and improves the pace of development,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Rains pick up again in Mumbai||A day after heavy showers battered Mumbai, the rain intensity reduced briefly on Monday morning and picked up momentum again, leading to water-logging at some places and disrupting local train services, officials said. On Sunday, 30 people were killed in the metropolis in rain-related incidents, including 19 in Mahul area of Chembur where a retaining wall collapsed on some houses after a landslide. On Monday, no fresh death was reported, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. However, after a brief spell of reduced intensity, the rains picked up pace again, causing inundation in some areas. Local train services of the Central Railway were affected due to water-logging on tracks between Vikhroli and Bhandup following heavy showers in parts of the suburbs, CR's chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said. The suburban train services were suspended in that section of the main line from 10.35 am to 10.50 am as a precautionary measure, he said. "Trains are being run at a cautious speed between Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli stations due to heavy rain," Sutar said. The station yard in neighbouring Thane was also water-logged and as a result, trains were running slow, railway sources said. In the Kasara Ghat section, located about 130 km from Mumbai, a mudslide occurred on one of the three rail lines early Monday morning, Sutar said. Traffic was affected only on the down line due to the mudslide, but trains were running on the middle and up lines, according to the Central Railway. The eastern suburbs of Mumbai recorded the highest 90.65 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period ending at 8 am on Monday, as compared to 48.88 mm rainfall in the island city and 51.89 mm rainfall in western suburbs, a BMC official said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier issued an "orange alert" for Mumbai on Monday, predicting "heavy to very heavy rain at few places". According to BMC officials, there is a forecast of moderate to heavy rain/thundershowers in the city and suburbs with the possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in isolated places. Alerts by the IMD are colour-coded from green to red. A 'green' alert stands for 'no warning': no action needs to be taken by the authorities, and the forecast is of light to moderate rain. A 'red' alert stands for "warning", and asks authorities to "take action". An orange' alert indicates that the authorities are expected to be prepared. According to civic officials, bus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) were running normally. On Sunday evening, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the preparedness by various government agencies to tackle any emergency. Thackeray had directed the agencies to remain more alert and asked authorities to keep a watch on landslide-prone areas and dilapidated buildings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Opposition set to corner Centre in Parliament||Opposition parties are set to corner the government in Parliament on various issues, including the farmers' protest and price rise, during the Monsoon session starting Monday. Leaders of various parties met at Parliament House to chalk out a joint strategy to take on the government. The Congress has also geared up to raise various matters, including the issue of snooping. Congress MP Manish Tewari has moved an adjournment motion on the issue of farmers' protest. In his adjournment notice, Tewari said he seeks to discuss a definite matter of urgent importance, namely -- "in large numbers, farmers have come out against the three acts passed by the central government which threaten their livelihood". The Farmers 'Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 have been opposed on the grounds that they will make the farmers vulnerable to exploitation by the corporate sector, Tewari said in his notice. He alleged that the government has failed to assuage the concerns of the farmers or present any viable alternative to these acts. "There is a palpable fear among the farmers that the Minimum Support Price will be dismantled and the role of state governments in APMCS will be affected. "About 300 farmers have died while protesting against the unfair laws passed by the Centre. The matter is of urgent importance and I hereby request the permission to raise this issue," Tewari said in his notice. CPI (M) MPs Elamaram Kareem and V Sivadasan have given adjournment notices under rule 267 for discussing the farmers' protest in Rajya Sabha. CPI MP Binoy Viswam has also given an adjournment notice in Rajya Sabha on the Pegasus spying issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Modi urges MPs to ask ‘sharpest’ questions in Parliament||Prime Minster Narendra Modi on Monday urged MPs and political parties to ask the sharpest and toughest of questions to the government in the Monsoon session of Parliament, asserting that the government should also be allowed to respond to them. Speaking with reporters ahead of the start of the session, Modi said he wants meaningful discussions in Parliament over the Covid pandemic which has gripped the entire world. Modi said he has urged all floor leaders to take some time out on Tuesday evening when he would like to give them detailed information on the pandemic. "We want discussion inside Parliament as well as outside it with floor leaders on Covid pandemic," he said. Modi said the government is ready to give the answers that the people of the country want. "I urge all MPs and political parties to ask the sharpest and the toughest of questions but they should also allow the government to respond in a cordial environment as democracy is strengthened by conveying the truth to the people," Modi said. “It increases the trust of the people and improves the pace of development,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||India adds over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 499 casualties in a day||India saw a single day rise of 38,164 new coronavirus infections, while the death toll climbed to 4,14,108 with 499 fresh fatalities, the lowest in over three months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The COVID-19 case tally has climbed to 3,11,44,229. The active cases have declined to 4,21,665 and comprise 1.35 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.32 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 995 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,63,593 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 44,54,22,256, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.61 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 28 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.08 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,03,08,456 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.33 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 40.64 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The 499 new fatalities include 180 from Maharashtra and 81 from Kerala. A total of 4,14,108 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,27,031 from Maharashtra, 36,157 from Karnataka, 33,724 from Tamil Nadu, 25,027 from Delhi, 22,719 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,999 from West Bengal and 16,233 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Overnight rains lead to waterlogging, traffic snarls in Delhi||The national capital woke up to incessant overnight rains on Monday morning that caused waterlogging in several parts of the city. The city registered 70 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast "light to moderate intensity rain" over Delhi and NCR during the day. According to the IMD, a below 15 mm rainfall is considered "light", between 15 and 64.5 mm is "moderate", between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is "heavy" and between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm is "very heavy", and above 204.4 mm is considered as "extremely heavy". The weather department issued advisory suggesting "slippery roads and traffic disruption" due to thunderstorm and rain. It also warned against "partial damage to plantation, horticulture, standing crops, vulnerable structures, kutcha houses and huts" due to rains and strong winds. It added that moderate to heavy spells of rain may cause "occasional reduction in visibility" and waterlogging may occur in the low lying areas. Rains in the city led to waterlogging and traffic snarls on several road stretches including ITO and Pul Prahladpur. Some of the stretches where waterlogging was reported were Ring Road, Pragati Maidan, Palam, Kirari and Rohtak road. Waterlogging was reported at Pulpehladpur under railway bridge. Traffic is diverted from MB (Mehrauli-Badarpur) road towards Mathura road, the Delhi traffic police said in a tweet. Traffic snarls were witnessed on Ring Road near Millennium Park, Sarai Kale Khan, Kilokri, near IP Flyover, Dhaula Kuan, Vikas Marg, Azadpur, among others. Officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) said waterlogging complaints were being dealt with on a priority basis. “Our field staff along with senior engineers is on the ground. Water is being removed from streets,” a PWD official said. The IMD also advised to "stay indoors, close windows and doors and avoid travel if possible" and not to take shelter under trees. "Do not lie on concrete floors and do not lean against concrete walls. Unplug electrical/electronic appliances. Immediately get out of water bodies. Keep away from all the objects that conduct electricity," the MeT Department advised. The city recorded minimum temperature of 24.2 degrees Celsius, three points below the normal for the season. The relative humidity was recorded at 100 per cent at 8.30 am. The maximum temperature is expected to hover around 32 degrees Celsius. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the air quality index (AQI) at 9 am in Delhi stood at 89. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Top LeT commander among 2 killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||A top commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), responsible for attacks and killings of security forces and civilians, was among two militants killed in an overnight encounter in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Monday. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Check Sadiq Khan area of south Kashmir district on Sunday after receiving specific inputs about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on security forces, who retaliated. In the exchange of firing, two militants were killed, the official said. One of the slain militants was identified as Ishfaq Dar alias Abu Akram, a top commander of LeT, Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said. Dar was active since 2017 and responsible for a very large number of terror crime cases, including attacks on and killings of police, security forces and civilians, Singh said. He said the other militant has been identified as Majid Iqbal. The night-long operation has concluded, the Jammu and Kashmir's top police official said. An Army official said two AK rifles with eight magazines were recovered from the site of the encounter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Bengal scientists develop world’s hardest self-healing material ||Bengal scientists have developed the world’s hardest known self-healing material in a laboratory feat that they say could lead to mobile phone screens that repair their own cracks in less than a second. The researchers from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research,Calcutta, and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, have synthesised an organic crystalline material with a unique internal molecular structure that spontaneously repairs itself when damaged. The scientists used a needle to trigger mild to severe cracks in a segment of the material and watched as the cracks automatically reversed themselves within a fraction of a second after the needle pressure was withdrawn. Self-healing materials have been under study worldwide for over three decades and have entered into engineering applications, mainly for wear-resistance in the construction, automotive and aerospace industries. They have also entered kitchens in the form of self-healing cutting boards. But almost all known self-healing materials are soft and amorphous — having an internal structure marked by irregularities and defects — and require some external stimulus such as heat, light or a chemical agent to heal themselves. “Our self-healing material is 10 times harder than others,” said Chilla Malla Reddy, a chemical sciences professor at the IISER who led the research. “And it has a crystalline structure, a well-ordered internal structure, the favoured structure in most electronics and optical applications.” Reddy and his colleagues synthesised tiny single crystals of an organic material — each needle-shaped crystal being 1mm to 2mm long and 0.1mm to 0.2mm wide. The crystals’ molecular arrangement is such that when a fracture occurs, a strong attractive force between the two surfaces causes the fragments to rejoin. The scientists have published their experimental results in the US research journal Science. The organic material they have synthesised belongs to a class of substances called piezoelectric crystals that can turn mechanical energy into electrical energy or electrical energy into mechanical energy. “Piezoelectric materials are ubiquitous in industry and scientific applications,” said Nirmalya Ghosh, a physical sciences professor at the IISER who was part of the research team. The self-healing property could be useful in any application where the piezoelectric materials are repeatedly loaded and unloaded and are at risk of fracture or damage. Piezoelectric materials are used in robots, on spacecraft, in modern microscopes, and elsewhere. Reddy said the substance the team has developed demonstrates that self-healing and hard crystalline structures can be coupled. It also has optical properties. “I can imagine applications for an everyday device,” said Bhanu Bhushan Khatua, one of the researchers, from IIT Kharagpur. “Such materials could be used for mobile phone screens that will repair themselves if they fall and develop cracks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Decision to let PM address MPs in the Parliament annexe stirs row||The Centre has proposed to have Prime Minister Narendra Modi address MPs on Covid in the Parliament annexe instead of the floor of the House, upsetting the Opposition even before the monsoon session begins on Monday. A separate building, the annexe is part of the extended Parliament complex and has been a venue for public events and other meetings. But legislative procedures are never conducted there. Opposition MPs called the proposal “highly irregular” and an attempt to bypass the legislature. The Prime Minister’s plan to address the MPs was announced by parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi during an all-party meeting on Sunday. “MPs do not want fancy PowerPoint presentations on #COVID19 from the PM or this Government in some conference room. #Parliament is in session. Come to the FLOOR OF THE HOUSE,” tweeted Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien. Most of the Opposition parties are understood to have opposed the government’s move at the meeting itself, insisting they do not want to be addressed outside Parliament when the session is on. Modi, who attended the all-party meeting, did not comment on the issue in his tweet about the interaction. “Took part in the All-Party meeting before the start of Parliament’s Monsoon Session. We look forward to a productive session where all issues can be debated as well as discussed in a constructive manner,” Modi tweeted. Again, O’Brien was quick to respond: “Prime Minister, Sir. True. You did TAKE PART. The #Parliament meeting lasted for 2 hours and 40 minutes. We had the pleasure of your company for 9 minutes. You listened for 3 minutes. Allowed the photographers/ video cams in for 2 minutes. And spoke to us for 4 minutes.” According to an Opposition leader, the meeting was, as always, an exercise by the government to project an appearance of consultation while being only interested in having its way. With the farmers protesting the three farm laws planning to pile pressure on the Opposition to take up their issue constructively in Parliament, the Opposition is expected to bring it up on Monday itself along with the price rise and the Covid mismanagement. Centre-state relations, too, are an issue that may generate considerable heat during the session with several Opposition states upset at the way the Union government has been riding roughshod over them. The DMK is expected to take the lead in the matter. Further weakened after the last round of Assembly elections, the Congress may find it more difficult than before to take the lead in Opposition coordination. More so because it will be pitted against several of the Opposition parties in the next round of state elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||J&K artistes struggle to find work post abrogation of article 370||Television actor Hassan Javed agrees there has been “development” in Jammu and Kashmir after its special status was scrapped in August 2019. Rather, “a development”. “They have succeeded in crushing us (the artistes’ community),” Javed, who has been lead actor in more than 100 television serials, told The Telegraph. He is among hundreds of television and theatre actors, singers and producers who once earned a living thanks to the programmes run by Doordarshan or All India Radio or the plays and events organised by the (then) state government’s Cultural Academy here. These were their sole source of livelihood given the absence of private entertainment channels in Jammu and Kashmir. But from 2012, there has been no work on Doordarshan, apparently because of a lack of funds. That prompted some artistes to shift to other professions. For the rest, the Cultural Academy and AIR provided some respite. But, Javed said, these avenues too have disappeared since the dilution of Article 370 — which the government says would bring development to Kashmir. “Since August 5 (2019), we have been literally dying. They promised us development but pushed us 100 years back,” Javed said. “In the absence of Doordarshan (programmes), we survived on theatre shows organised by the Cultural Academy. But now there is no work or money. Hundreds of artistes performed in a drama festival organised in March but we are yet to get our dues.” The problem of unpaid dues dates back to a decade. “I received my last payment (from Doordarshan) in 2011, although I worked in many in-house programmes after that. Doordarshan owes me not less than Rs 5 lakh and there are many like me,” Javed said. “We have been told that there was some corruption in the allotment of those programmes, but why hold us responsible and not the officers who hired us? Why has our payment been withheld?” Khurshid Mir, another actor, said the absence of work had pushed him to penury. “My children were studying in good private schools but I was forced to admit them to government schools. We are all going through hell,” he said. Javed recalled how, two decades ago, the launch of DD Kashir, the Valley’s second channel after DD Srinagar, had brought hope to artistes. “I remember the day the Kashir channel was started in 2000 and inaugurated by then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. They wanted to lure the youth to television. You had people setting up studios, others buying cameras and music systems,” Javed said. He said hundreds became TV producers and artistes in a matter of months after DD Kashir was set up. “I might have taken up a job or started some business, but I joined this profession after they promised us the moon, at the bidding of Vajpayeeji. But this BJP government has done absolutely nothing for us,” he said. DD Kashir and DD Srinagar nowadays show old programmes apart from beaming government propaganda. CPM veteran Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami has petitioned the government for help, saying the artistes have been pushed to starvation. “There are hundreds of artistes whose families were solely dependent on production work at the Kashir channel. All these years, they managed to run their families with some savings, which have now been exhausted. They have no other source of income,” Tarigami said. “In other parts of the country, states have devised policies and guidelines to help local talent. Unfortunately, in Kashmir, DD authorities have framed policies to keep local talent away from employment opportunities.” Dr Nasib Singh Manhas, head of programmes at Srinagar Doordarshan, acknowledged that artistes had no work and faced poverty. He said his department was working on the problem and that the artistes might get some reprieve in the coming months. “I have sent a proposal (to higher-ups). There are young, unemployed boys and if they get work, it’s good. You know there was Covid and a lockdown... but I’m pursuing (the matter),” he said. “So far as the money (artistes’ dues lying with Doordarshan) is concerned, some committees have been set up and they will take a call.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Pegasus: List of Indian journalists targetted by spyware leaked||Around 300 phones belonging to Indian journalists, government officials, rights activists and a wide cross-section of businessmen are believed to have been targeted by Pegasus spyware made by Israeli company NSO which says it sells only to “vetted governments”. The Indian numbers targeted were revealed after a joint global-scale investigation conducted by Indian website The Wire, The Washington Post, The Guardian, Le Monde, Die Zeit and 12 other Arab, Mexican and European news organisations. The news organisations were given a leaked database of numbers by Paris-based media non-profit Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International. The global investigation examined 37 phones of which 10 were Indian to confirm that they had been targeted by spyware. Soon after the story broke simultaneously around the world, Indian journalist Swati Chaturvedi, whose phone is believed to have been tapped, tweeted: “Dear @PMOIndia why did your government put me on an intrusive surveillance list? For committing a crime of doing investigative journalism. Why was Pegasus software introduced on my phone? Pegasus is sold only to governments.” The government has denied any link with the spyware and said, “We have nothing to fear and the government has nothing to hide. We will reply to any query. The news article proves nothing. In fact, previous attempts to link Pegasus with the government have failed," the government said. The Wire said that the leaked database had numbers of over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders, serving government ministers, current and formers officials of security organisations and “scores of businesspersons”.  The Wire itself was heavily targeted. Forensic analysis was carried out on 37 phones globally including 10 from India. Amongst the phones analysed were those belonging to The Wire Editor Siddharth Varadarajan and co-founder Paranjoy Guha Thakurta. “You feel violated. This is an incredible intrusion and journalists should not have to deal with this,” Varadarajan told The Guardian. The forensic analysis is essential to prove that the phones have been infected with Pegasus Spyware. For technical reasons it is easier to analyse if Pegasus software has been used in iPhones than in Android ones. The phone of another journalist, Sushant Singh, who had worked on an investigation into the Rafale deal, was also subjected to forensic analysis and appeared to have had spyware installed on it. Singh told The Wire: “It is a violation of privacy…..Secondly, it compromises a journalist’s ability to report on matters of grave national importance. Other Indian journalists whose names appear on the list that dates back to 2016 include Shishir Gupta, executive editor of the Hindustan Times; former editorial page editor Prashant Jha; defence correspondent Rahul Singh and Aurangazeb Naqshbandi who covered the Congress. In addition to these names, other leading journalists who appear to have been under surveillance include Muzamil Jaleel who writes on Kashmir, India Today defence writer Sandeep Unnithan and Vijaita Singh who writes on the Home Ministry for The Hindu. Singh’s phone contained traces of an attempted Pegasus infection, according to The Wire. One phone number on the Pegasus Projects database was earlier registered in the name of a sitting Supreme Court judge, The Wire said. However, it said the judge had given up the number at some point in the last few years. Most of the numbers on the Pegasus database came from 10 countries including India, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Hungary, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Bahrain, Morocco, Mexico and Rwanda. Pegasus initially hit the headlines around the world in 2019 after it was reported that 1,400 phones had been targeted using the software. Whatsapp filed a suit against the NSO Group which created the software. Rumours had been circulating all Sunday that a major story was about to break and Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy tweeted, “Strong rumour that this evening Washington Post & London Guardian are publishing a report exposing the hiring of an Israeli firm Pegasus, for tapping phones of Modi’s Cabinet Ministers, RSS leaders, SC judges & journalists.” At an international level, more chillingly, the former fiancée of murdered Saudi journalist and dissident Jamal Khashoggi was found to have been tapped. Two other Turkish officials inquiring into the Khashoggi murder were also tapped. The Pegasus database contains more than 50,000 potential global surveillance targets. NSO insists it only offers its spyware to governments for use in tracking terrorists and big-time criminals. The hacking software known as Pegasus is employed to infect iPhones and Android phones to extract messages, photographs, emails, record calls and activate microphones. The malware can be put on a smartphone by clicking on a malicious link or through an app vulnerability. The NSO Group refuses to divulge the list of its customers.  It denied in a statement “false claims” about the actions of its customers but promised to “investigation all credible claims of misuse and take appropriate action.” It called the report of 50,000 potential surveillance targets “exaggerated”. The telephone numbers on the list were printed without names but the investigation managed to identify over 1,000 people in more than 50 nations.  They included 189 journalists globally, including those working at the Financial Times, The New York Times and CNN. There were also more than 600 politicians and government officials, including cabinet ministers, diplomats and military figures, and 85 human rights activists. The Indian government said in its written statement there has been “no unauthorised interception” by government agencies.  It said the country is a “robust democracy” committed to ensuring “the right to privacy of all its citizens.” However, the occupations of the people to whom the Indian numbers belonged suggested that an official Indian agency would have been behind any attempt to place them on the list, The Wire said. The Indian Telegraph Act and Information Technology Act lays out strict procedures that must be followed for lawful interception.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Three top Maoists surrender to Odisha police on Covid fear ||The fear of being infected with Covid-19 virus has forced three top Maoists to surrender to the Odisha police. The three rebels identified as Sabita, Talse Huika and Raidhara, surrendered before DGP Abhay during his visit to the Malkangiri and Koraput districts on Sunday. Sources said out of the fear of being infected with the virus made them give up arms. While Sabita and Talse Huika were carrying a cash reward of Rs 4 lakh each on their heads, Raidhara had a reward of Rs 1 lakh on him. Sabita, who was an area committee member, said: “Many members of our party have been infected with Covid-19 while many others have died. I was scared. The Odisha government’s surrender and rehabilitation policy for the Maoists has motivated me to surrender.” In 2000, she joined the revolutionary Maoist organisation as a primary member and later received one month of weapons as well as political training under the guidance of Maoist trainer Loknath. In 2010, she was given an INSAS rifle. She had participated in many attacks on security forces and ambush in Sukma district in Chhattisgarh. In a press release, police said: “She has disclosed that remaining few local/active Maoist cadres are also willing to surrender and join the mainstream of the society because of the torturous behaviour of Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh cadres but they are not being allowed to surrender by the senior Maoist leaders who are threatening them of killing them and their family members. We appeal to them to leave the obsolete, out-dated ways of Maoist party, come to the mainstream and become a part of the on-going peaceful developmental process of his area.” The police further said, “Sabita saw that Covid-19 pandemic is hitting the Maoist organisation guard and many Maoists are suffering/dying from Covid-19 without getting proper medical treatment.” Talse Huika, who was working as the area committee member, was inducted in the CPI(Maoist) in 2012. She was lured by the Maoists to join the “Jana Natya Mandali”, the cultural wing of the Maoists, at the age of 13 in gross violation of child rights and thus deprived of formal education. She participated in five attacks on security forces along with several other incidents during her underground life. Raidhara joined the organisation in 2017 and he was entrusted with conducting meetings of cadres and militia with nearby villagers. “All of them will be given monetary aid as per the rehabilitation policy. They should shun violence and surrender. Police will not act in a vindictive manner against them,” the DGP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Odisha govt to provide Rs 5,000 cr business to women self-help groups ||The Odisha government will provide business worth Rs 5,000 crore in five years to women self-help groups in the state through Mission Shakti to enhance their economic power and strengthen their sources of livelihood, officials said. Sources said Mission Shakti has achieved impressive progress and provided business worth Rs 2,800 crore in two years to women’s groups in convergence with different departments. Odisha has over six lakh women self-help groups. In order to enlarge the scope of enhancing the income base of these groups, Mission Shakti in convergence with the State Urban Development Authority under the housing and urban development department is setting up three state-of-the-art pickle manufacturing units at Baripada, Berhampur and Dhenkanal to cater to the needs of Aahaar centres across Odisha. Earlier, the state government had handed over unused buildings at the panchayat level to be used by the groups and involved them in a number of income-generating activities. Under the Aahaar programme, standardised hot cooked meals (rice and dalma) are provided at Rs 5 to the urban poor. All the 166 Aahaar centres in the state are managed by the self-help groups. “Each meal includes 10g pickle. Hence, at least 1MT (metric tonnes) a day or 300MT per year of pickle is required to cater to all 166 Aahaar centres across the state. Till now the SHGs were purchasing pickle from the open market. Now the state government has decided to tap the potential of women entrepreneurship through SHGs under Mission Shakti by encouraging them to manage the semi-mechanised pickle manufacturing units,” an official said. The state government has selected Maa Durga SHG, Baripada, Bighneswar II SHG, Berhampur, and Mahasangam Mission Shakti ALF, Dhenkanal, to run the pickle manufacturing units and fulfil the annual demand of 300MT pickle for Aahaar centres. Each unit will supply pickle to the Aahaar centres of 10 districts each. “All the three Mission Shakti SHGs have signed an MoU (memorandum of understanding) with the Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI-CSIR), Mysore, for technology transfer of pickle-making process. The CFTRI and horticulture department officials are providing necessary training to these SHGs,” an official said. According to the norms of the Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), food safety supervisors have been engaged at the pickle-making units as quality assurance is one of the key aspects of the process. “The groups have already procured requisite raw materials such as mango, lemon, carrot, ginger, green chilli and other spices and cured the ingredients and stored them in the centre for future use. All three Mission Shakti groups have been provided with a loan of Rs 30 lakh each from HDFC Bank to meet the working capital and cost of equipment for operationalisation of the pickle uUnits. The units will start production from August 2021,” an official said. “The estimated cost of production comes to Rs 45 per kg and the selling price has been proposed as Rs 51. Each unit will supply 100MT pickle to Aahaar (centres). Thus, the estimated profit is approximately Rs 6 lakh per annum from each unit after meeting all expenditure. “With increase in efficiency and quantity of production, future provisioning of sale of pickles in the open market will provide more income for these groups,” said a government media release issued on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Centre asks BSF to deploy more UAVs along the Bangladesh border ||The Centre has asked the Border Security Force to deploy more unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) along the Bangladesh border to crack down on infiltration and smuggling, sources in the border force said. The UAVs provide real images of any possible infiltration and smuggling attempt. The paramilitary force is also working to seal segments of borders with Bangladesh and Pakistan with a smart-technology aided fence to check the increasing incidents of infiltration along the international boundaries with two of India’s neighbouring countries. “The Centre has asked the force to deploy more UAVs along the Bangladesh frontier. The focus on more aerial surveillance will help our personnel in keeping a close eye on vulnerable zones prone to infiltration,” said a BSF official. The border guarding force is deployed at the 4,096km-long international border with Bangladesh that runs through Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya and Mizoram. The BSF also guards the International Border with Pakistan. The UAVs are also useful in crackdown on smuggling of fake currency notes, cattle and narcotics, besides human trafficking. The smart-technology aided fence will work both as a surveillance tool and warning system. Once it is completed, BSF troops can keep surveillance through a monitor from control rooms. As soon as there is any infiltration attempt, the alarms will go off and would alert the troops immediately. The border guarding force has identified nearly 2,050km length as vulnerable points on the two borders that are presently without fence including riverine border. The Centre is also considering the BSF’s proposal for raising additional battalions to fortify Bangladesh and Pakistan frontiers. Raising of additional battalions will ensure better patrolling and guarding of border outposts, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Opposition parties demand restoration of MPLADS funds ||Political parties, including the Congress and the Trinamul Congress, on Sunday demanded at an all-party meeting that the MPLADS funds be restored, sources said. The Speaker, who chaired the meeting, assured them that he will raise the issue with the government, they said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and floor leaders of various parties were present in the meeting on the eve of the Monsoon session of Parliament. Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, TMC leader Sudeep Bandopadhyay, YSR Congress leader Midhun Reddy were among those who raised the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Centre deliberately derailed OBC reservation: Activists ||The Centre has deliberately derailed the implementation of OBC reservation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges from this academic year, Ambedkarites, Other Backward Classes activists and a former high court judge have alleged. They accuse the Centre of “cunning” in lobbing to the Supreme Court a Madras High Court directive in favour of the reservation — on the ground that a similar case was pending in the apex court — despite the top court having last year allowed the high court to take its own decision in the matter. “This is a cunning way to delay the implementation of the OBC reservation,” Dilip Mandal, an Ambedkarite writer, said. “The Madras High Court direction was conclusive; there were no legal hurdles to implementing it.” At issue is the Centre’s refusal to implement OBC reservation for the 15 per cent undergraduate seats and 50 per cent postgraduate seats at state medical colleges that come under the all-India pool. The Union health ministry’s logic is that it is mandated by law to provide 27 per cent OBC reservation only in centrally funded institutions. It therefore implements the quota only in its own medical colleges like AIIMS. The state governments implement their own OBC quota in their pool of seats. In Tamil Nadu, for instance, OBC reservation is 50 per cent while the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes get 18 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively. An aspiring medical student’s petition for enforcement of the OBC quota in the all-India pool seats has been pending in the apex court since 2015. Last year, the Tamil Nadu government requested the top court to direct Madras High Court to rule expeditiously on a similar petition before it. The apex court said on July 13, 2020, that Madras High Court could proceed with the case. On July 27, 2020, Madras High Court directed the OBC quota’s implementation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges, a ruling that legal experts said applied across the country. An expert committee formed under the high court’s orders suggested the terms of the implementation but mentioned the pending case in the Supreme Court. The Union health ministry told the committee that it supported implementation of the quota. But the central government recently placed the committee report before the Supreme Court, where the progress of the pending case has been slow. “The Centre could have appealed against the Madras High Court ruling before the Supreme Court. Otherwise, it had to implement the high court direction in letter and spirit, which it does not seem to be doing,” Shashank Ratnoo, Supreme Court lawyer and an expert on OBC issues, said. Pro-reservation activists said they feared the matter would now be stuck for several years. Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former acting chief justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court and former chairperson of the National Commission for Backward Classes, said the Centre was “wilfully” denying OBCs their right. “I’m of the firm opinion that the central government was free to implement OBC reservation in all-India pool seats in state medical colleges. But it wilfully and intentionally clubbed the issue with the pending case to deny the OBCs admission to seats meant for them,” Eswaraiah said. G. Karunanidhy, general secretary of the Chennai-based All India Federation for Backward Classes Employees Welfare Association, accused the Centre of delay tactics. “The government wants to delay the implementation of the OBC reservation. We have taken this up with Opposition MPs, who will raise it in Parliament in the coming session,” Karunanidhy said. The Centre does provide for the 15 per cent Scheduled Caste reservation and 7.5 per cent Scheduled Tribe quota in the all-India seats at state medical colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui buried at  Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard||Slain photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was laid to rest at the Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard on Sunday night, where a sea of mourners had gathered. Siddiqui’s mortal remains were brought to India on Sunday evening by an Air India flight from Afghanistan, where the photojournalist was killed while on assignment. A large crowd of family members and friends had gathered at his Jamia Nagar residence, from where the body was taken to the university campus for burial around 10.15pm. “Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) Vice Chancellor accepted the request of the family of late photojournalist Danish Siddiqui to bury his body at the JMI graveyard meant exclusively for university employees, their spouses and minor child,” the university had said in a statement earlier in the day. Siddiqui had done his master’s from Jamia Millia Islamia. His father Akhtar Siddiqui was the dean of the faculty of education there. Siddiqui had studied at A.J.K. Mass Communication Research Centre at Jamia from 2005 to 2007. The officiating director of A.J.K. Mass Communication Research Centre (MCRC) said: “Danish was one of the brightest stars in our hall of fame and a proactive alumnus who kept returning to his alma mater to share with students his work and experiences. We will miss him deeply but are determined to keep his memory alive.” Professor Sabeena Gadihoke said his photographs were hard-hitting but he never compromised on the dignity of those within his frames. “Danish had the unique ability to bestow a journalistic picture with empathy and to give dignity and grace to his subjects,” she added. In 2018, Siddiqui was awarded the Distinguished Alumni Award by MCRC. During the ceremony, he described being a photojournalist as both an honour and a responsibility to bear witness for those who could not speak for themselves, in the hope that he could make a change for the better, the JTA said. JTA president Professor Majid Jamil described his death as a big loss to journalism and the Jamia community. Siddiqui, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018, worked for Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Mayawati plans to hold 'Brahmin sammelans' across Uttar Pradesh||Mayawati plans to hold “Brahmin sammelans” across Uttar Pradesh from this week, trying to woo a community that has traditionally been with the BJP but increasingly feels victimised by the Yogi Adityanath government. The first of these conventions is scheduled on July 23 in Ayodhya, a venue of symbolic importance for the BJP and the Brahmins, who had supported the Bahujan Samaj Party in the 2007 elections but later drifted away feeling neglected. “The BJP misled the Brahmins in recent elections for their votes. But we all know what is happening with the Brahmins under the present government. They are disillusioned,” Mayawati said at a news conference in Lucknow on Sunday. “I believe they will follow the example of the Dalits and vote for the BSP in (next year’s) Assembly elections. We shall reassemble the Brahmins under the BSP the way we had done in 2007.” Mayawati said party general secretary and Rajya Sabha member Satish Chandra Mishra — the BSP’s Brahmin face who had mobilised the community’s support in 2007 — would pray at the temporary Ram temple on July 23 before addressing the Brahmins of the district. “I have authorised Satish Chandra Mishra to start Brahmin conventions across Uttar Pradesh. It will start from Ayodhya on July 23 and the first phase of the campaign will conclude on July 29,” she said. Each phase will cover six districts, with the entire state -— which has 75 districts — covered by the end of the year, Mayawati said. “The Brahmins had voted for the BSP in 2007 and helped it form the government. We reciprocated by giving them honour and respect, but they fell prey to the BJP and supported them in subsequent elections,” she said. Mayawati had formed the government in 2007 with the combined votes of the Brahmins, Dalits and Muslims. Many Brahmins believe that Adityanath is targeting the community and promoting only his Kshatriya caste members in the administration and police. Among incidents that have angered the community are a police constable’s shooting of Vivek Tiwari, an Apple executive, on a Lucknow road and the “encounter killings” of Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen. After Tiwari was shot dead in his car in September 2018, the police made vague allegations of crime against him. Many Brahmins believe the police were trying to protect constable Prashant Chaudhary, who allegedly shot Tiwari. It didn’t help that Chaudhary was a member of the anti-Romeo squad that Adityanath had formed for women’s safety but which has become non-functional amid allegations of violence and harassment. The Brahmins believe that Dubey and his men were killed in cold blood after they had surrendered. After Dubey’s killing, Mayawati had in July last year claimed the state’s Brahmins were terrorised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Sidhu named Punjab Congress chief after hold-up||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday announced the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab unit chief despite fresh protests by party MPs and some MLAs who had planned to meet her on Monday to oppose the plan. Apart from Sidhu, four working presidents were appointed — Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goyal and Kuljit Singh Nagra. The central leadership had put off the announcement in the evening, abruptly cancelling a scheduled press conference because of fresh objections, triggering concerns about the high command’s vulnerability under pressure. While the members of Parliament met at the residence of former state president Partap Singh Bajwa ostensibly to discuss a strategy to raise the farmers’ issue, the main concern was the appointment of Sidhu as party chief. Sources said the dominant sentiment was that Sidhu didn’t have any connect with the organisation and why couldn’t an experienced leader like Bajwa be preferred if a Jat Sikh could be appointed party chief by violating the pragmatic idea of giving space to a Hindu leader. The sudden emergence of the Bajwa factor is curious, demonstrating how political dynamics changes with situational logic. Bajwa has been the chief mnister’s main critic in the state ever since he had to relinquish his position of state chief before the last Assembly election. This was part of Captain’s condition and Bajwa, much before Sidhu turned a rebel, had been publicly taking a stand against the chief minister on many issues. He was known as the anti-Captain pole in Punjab politics. But Bajwa suddenly did a somersault and was seen at the chief minister’s residence on Saturday night. Party MP Manish Tewari, a diehard Captain loyalist, tweeted, “Good to see Partap Singh Bajwa and Captain together along with our honourable Speaker of assembly Rana KP Singh and Sports Minister Gurmeet Sodhi. Partap who I know since 1983 and Captain Sahib would make a good team for the times ahead. He is an old dyed in the wool Congressman.” The metamorphosis of Bajwa’s bitterness towards Captain into “team” spirit was swift, indicating new grouping in the state to oppose Sidhu’s rise. Bajwa knows his space in state politics will shrink if Sidhu’s leadership is established and hence he jumped on the Captain bandwagon. A leader close to Sidhu suspected Bajwa sided with Captain in the hope of becoming the deputy chief minister and together they were creating confusion and blackmailing the high command. These MPs planned to meet Sonia on Monday to oppose Sidhu’s elevation. Ten MLAs also issued a statement on Saturday asking the high command not to let down Captain at this critical juncture as he remained the biggest mass leader of the state. But the incumbent state chief Sunil Jakhar called a meeting of MLAs and district presidents of the state where a resolution was expected to be passed saying the entire Punjab unit was united behind the high command. Jakhar is the one who lost his position to Sidhu. His decision to call this meeting clearly manifested the divide in the Congress in Punjab. Asked about the purpose  of Monday’s meeting, Jakhar told The Telegraph over phone from Chandigarh (before the announcement of Sidhu’s appointment), “This is to clear the air. Discordant voices by vested interests have created an impression of split in the Punjab unit. We want to send out a clear message that the party is united behind the high command. There is no question of challenging Sonia Gandhi’s decision.” This meeting could have showcased the division in the party as the attendance of district presidents and MLAs would have made it clear who stood where in this battle. The high command, however, prevented another tamasha by making the announcement on Sunday night itself. An MLA who didn’t wish to be identified, said: “The politics of blackmail will not succeed as majority of party workers and MLAs are determined to go with the high command. Three-four persons have conspired to create this impression of confrontation.” Sidhu, who hardly ever lived in his ancestral home in Patiala for over a decade, has now shifted base there along with his wife, who is also a former MLA. Patiala is known as Captain’s fiefdom but the centre of gravity appeared to be shifting from his palace Motibagh even as office-bearers kept a distance from Sidhu. MLA Madanlal Jalalpur, known to be close to the Captain, however, hosted Sidhu and his team on Sunday, signalling crack in Captain’s citadel. Sidhu hasn’t responded to Captain’s demand for a public apology so far though he is said to be willing to send out conciliatory messages. Many leaders in Delhi and Punjab believe the political vacuum had given space to politics of discord and blackmail and the central leadership should have cracked the whip by announcing Sidhu’s elevation right away. Some leaders, however, said Punjab would slip out of Congress hand as Captain’s insult would not be appreciated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
