20-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Karnataka Congress-JDS leaders were potential targets in 2019||The leaders of the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular in Karnataka were possible targets of Israeli spyware ‘Pegasus’ in 2019, the Wire has said in the latest revelations on Tuesday. In its latest report, the Wire has revealed that phone numbers of the then Karnataka deputy chief minister G Parameshwara and the personal secretaries of Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy and former chief minister Siddaramaiah were allegedly selected as potential targets. The report of the news portal links the fall of the JDS-Congress government in July 2019 and the BJP’s takeover to alleged snooping — an allegation echoed by the opposition Congress — though there is no evidence to establish whether phones were hacked. According to the Wire, these numbers showed up in its review of the list of numbers “of interest” to an Indian client of Israel’s NSO group, which sells its Pegasus spyware only to governments. The Congress said it was clear that Pegasus was used to execute ‘Operation Lotus’ to topple the state government and the ruling BJP at the Centre facilitated it. “I was surprised to know that Pegasus has compromised my phone when I was deputy chief minister, and that of Siddaramaiah and chief minister’s secretary. Snooping activity by Pegasus is highly condemnable... Without the permission of the government of India, either the ministry of Home or the PM’s office, they cannot do it. I am sure the government is involved. I condemn this... They have misused their power to topple governments in this country,” Parameshwara told the NDTV. Kumaraswamy, who has himself faced allegations of phone-tapping, said “every party” in power misused information. “Regarding the phone tapping issue for last two days, latest addition today is the Karnataka development. Opposition leaders from Karnataka, that is Siddaramaiah, Parameshwara and myself when we were running the coalition government, at that time, BJP friends they are misusing their good office to get information by tapping our phones. I am not interested because this issue is over,” he told the NDTV. The phone numbers form part of a leaked database accessed by the French media non-profit Forbidden Stories and shared with an international media consortium as part of what is called the Pegasus Project. However, it is not established whether the phones were infected or hacked. The Wire says the period coincides with the selection of a new number Congress leader Rahul Gandhi began to use after discarding his earlier one. The JDS-Congress government fell after the abrupt resignation of 17 MLAs, who later joined the BJP and helped BS Yediyurappa return to power. In the nerve-wracking power tussle leading up to the transition, rebel MLAs were sequestered at a hotel in Mumbai for days and Congress leader DK Shivakumar tried and failed to meet them. The MLAs were finally disqualified after they turned in their resignation. After Yediyurappa took power, the MLAs joined the BJP and contested bypolls. Many of them became ministers in the BJP government. The Wire said two phone numbers belonged to Satish, the personal secretary of Kumaraswamy. The phone number of Siddaramaiah’s personal secretary Venkatesh was also added at the time. The JDS and Congress had accused the BJP of engineering defections and bringing about the fall of the government with active help from the Centre. Over the past few days, The Wire, Washington Post and other media partners in the “Pegasus project” have revealed that the numbers of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, poll strategist Prashant Kishor, two union ministers, Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee and some 40 journalists were selected as potential targets of snooping.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
20-07-2021||India||CBSE likely to announce the Class 10 results soon||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will likely announce the CBSE Class 10 results soon. As and when the CBSE Class 10 results are declared, students will be able to access the results of the cancelled board exams on its official portal – cbseresults.nic.in. Apart from the official website, CBSE 10th results will also be made available to the students through DigiLocker. Students can also download their CBSE pass certificates and marksheets from the DigiLocker platform. Once the results are out, students will have to login with their details and download the soft copies of their scorecards. The results will be also available on the UMANG app, through IVRS and via SMS. Details of these methods will be published along with the results. CBSE in a statement issued this evening announced that the board will work on Eid tomorrow, July 21 which is also a Gazetted Holiday so that the board can declare CBSE results on time. The last date for finalising the Class 12 results is July 22. To assist the schools in finalising the result, the Regional Offices and the Examination Department of the headquarter will function from 10 am to 5 pm. The board will also release some answers to frequently asked questions by 12 noon tomorrow for the schools. This year, the CBSE did not conduct board exams for both Class 10 and Class 12 students in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. It has decided to prepare Class 10 results on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme, which uses students’ performance in past exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
20-07-2021||India|| Punjab Congress crisis: Apology rider set by CM team to meet Sidhu||Punjab minister Brahm Mohindra on Tuesday ruled out any personal meeting with newly-appointed state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu till he resolves his issues with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.  He said this on a day when Sidhu went to Amritsar, where he got a rousing welcome from his supporters and Congress workers.  These are the first such remarks by any minister after Sidhu was elevated to the key post, indicating that the crisis in the Punjab Congress is still not over.  In a statement issued here, Mohindra said the party high-command's decision to appoint Sidhu as the state Congress chief is welcome.  "However, I will not meet him (Sidhu) till he meets the chief minister and resolves his issues with him," he said.  Mohindra said Singh is the leader of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) and he is duty-bound to follow him.  Besides being the CLP leader, the chief minister also heads the cabinet of which he is a part, the senior Congress leader said, making it clear that unless Sidhu sorts out all issues with Singh, he will not meet him personally.  "We have a collective responsibility and hence, I would refrain from meeting the newly-appointed (party) president till issues between him and the chief minister are resolved," Mohindra said.  Singh last week was learnt to have told All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Harish Rawat that he will not meet Sidhu until he tenders an apology for his "derogatory" tweets against him.  The suspense over a possible truce between Sidhu and Singh continues as there has been no reaction from the chief minister over the Amritsar East MLA's elevation to the post of Punjab Congress chief.  Before going to Amritsar, Sidhu had been calling on ministers and legislators in Chandigarh to mobilise support.  He had already met several ministers, including Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Charanjit Singh Channi, Razia Sultana, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.  Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has also congratulated Sidhu on becoming the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC).  Sidhu will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Wednesday and many Congress leaders are expected to be there. "Reports of @sherryontop seeking time to meet @capt_amarinder are totally false. No time has been sought whatsoever. No change in stance... CM won't meet #NavjotSinghSidhu till he publicly apologises for his personally derogatory social media attacks against him," Raveen Thukral wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
20-07-2021||India||No shortage of Covid vaccines, no delay in placing orders with domestic manufacturers: Govt ||There has been no shortage of Covid vaccines and the government has been providing free supply of vaccines to states and union territories for inoculating prioritised beneficiaries, Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Also, there has been no delay in placing orders with domestic vaccine manufacturers, rather advance orders of vaccines are placed with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for supply of Covid-19 vaccines, Minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply. Responding to a question on whether many states including the hardest-hit Maharashtra were complaining about shortage of vaccines during the last three months, she said, “There has been no shortage of Cvid-19 vaccines and the government of India has been providing free supply of vaccines to states and UTs for administration to prioritised beneficiaries as recommended by NEGVAC.” Advance visibility of these allocations i.e. the total doses of vaccine that would be available to a state and union territory, are provided to them 15 days in advance so as to enable them prepare plan for acceleration of vaccination coverage while being cognizant of the available vaccines, the minister said. She also refuted allegations of any delay in placing order of vaccines and said, “There have been no delay in placing orders with domestic vaccine manufacturers rather advance orders of vaccines are placed with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for supply of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
20-07-2021||India||Once India starts reopening schools, it will be wise to begin with primary section: ICMR chief||Once India starts reopening schools, it will be wise to begin with the primary section as children have a lower number of ace receptors to which virus attaches, making them much better at handling viral infections than adults, said ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava on Tuesday. He, however, stressed that for such a step to be considered, it must be ensured that school teachers and other support staff members are vaccinated. Addressing a press conference, he said the Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR's) latest national serosurvey has found that the seroprevalence among those aged six to nine was 57.2 per cent which is very similar to adults. Asked about opening schools since Covid-19 cases have declined in many districts, Bhargava said children can handle viral infection much better than adults and it has also been established that they have a lower number of ace receptors to which virus attaches. "In some countries, particularly the Scandinavian ones, they (authorities) did not shut down their primary schools during the first, second or third wave... whatever (Covid) waves they had, their primary schools were always open. "So, once India starts considering opening schools, it will be wise to begin with the primary schools. Also, we have to ensure that all support staff members, be it school bus drivers or teachers, are vaccinated," Bhargava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
20-07-2021||India||Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, prominent activists on Pegasus list||The phone numbers of former JNU students Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, Banjyotsana Lahiri and several prominent Indian activists are among those listed as the potential targets of Israeli spyware Pegasus, an international media consortium reported on Tuesday. The Wire news portal, in the third part of its revelations from the international collaborative journalistic investigation called the Pegasus Project, reported that those marked as potential targets for surveillance include Ambedkarite activist Ashok Bharti; academic and chronicler of life in Naxal-dominated regions Bela Bhatia; railway union leader Shiv Gopal Mishra and Delhi-based labour rights activist Anjani Kumar. Anti-coal mining activist Alok Shukla, Delhi University professor Saroj Giri, Bastar-based peace activist Shubhranshu Choudhary and Bihar-based activist Ipsa Shatakshi are also on the list, the report noted. "Without digital forensics, it is not possible to conclusively establish whether their phones were hacked or infected. But their appearance on the list suggests that they were persons of interest to an unidentified client of the NSO Group that was focused on India," the report said. The Pegasus spyware was created by Israeli technology firm NSO. The government has dismissed the reports on the use of Pegasus software to snoop on Indians, saying the allegations levelled just ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament are aimed at maligning Indian democracy . Ashok Bharti, the chairman of All India Ambedkar Mahasabha, an umbrella association of Dalit rights' groups, had led a nationwide Bharat Bandh on April, 2, 2018 against a Supreme Court ruling, which he claimed took away the teeth of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The ruling sparked massive demonstrations across the country, and the Bharat Bandh claimed 11 lives and left hundreds injured. In 2019, WhatsApp stated that four of the activists mentioned above -- Saroj Giri, Bela Bhatia, Alok Shukla and Shubranshu Choudhary -- were affected by a Pegasus attack that took place through a specific vulnerability in the company's security. Two of the former JNU students -- Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya -- were among those charged for sedition over an event on JNU campus where anti-national slogans were allegedly raised. Khalid is currently in jail for charges under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the northeast Delhi riots of February 2020. The report has been published by The Wire news portal from India in collaboration with 16 other international publications including the Washington Post, The Guardian and Le Monde, as media partners to an investigation conducted by Paris-based media non-profit organisation Forbidden Stories and rights group Amnesty International. The investigation focuses on a leaked list of more than 50,000 phone numbers from across the world that are believed to have been the target of surveillance through Pegasus software of Israeli surveillance company NSO Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||4.8 crore jabs administered in tribal districts till July 15, says Centre||A total of 4.81 crore doses of Covid vaccine have been administered in 176 identified tribal districts across 25 states till July 15, the government has informed Lok Sabha. The Centre, however, said it does not maintain "centralised data on COVID-19 mortality with urban, rural, tribal breakup". Replying to a question, Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Renuka Singh Saruta said, "The Covid-19 vaccination drive does not make any discrimination on the basis of gender, socio-economic class or residence, etc." However, all efforts have been made to ensure vaccination of people in tribal areas, including options of registration at common service centres, 'walk-in registration' at Covid vaccination centre and 'near-to-home vaccination centres' for elderly people and people with disabilities, she said on Monday. "The CoWIN portal does not maintain records of religion or caste of the beneficiaries. However, in the 176 identified tribal districts, as on July 15, a total of 4.81 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine have been administered," the minister told Lok Sabha. Tribal communities are geographically and socio-economically relatively segregated and have poor access to health care and accordingly, she said, adding that the government has issued a standard operating procedure on Covid containment and management in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas. According to data shared by the Tribal Affairs Ministry, 62.14 lakh doses have been administered in 19 tribal districts of Madhya Pradesh till July 15. In 19 tribal districts of Chhattisgarh, 57.8 lakh vaccine jabs have been provided from January 16, when the inoculation exercise started, to July 15. According to the 2011 census, India has a tribal population of 10.5 crore. To ramp up Covid vaccination among tribal people, the Centre had last week launched a campaign focusing on dispelling myths, misconceptions and fear about jabs. The government has involved traditional leaders and local influencers to be a part of the campaign. The Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation under the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, along with UNICEF and WHO, will be conducting the campaign. It has already been initiated in Bastar in Chhattisgarh and Mandla in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||India may become first country to have DNA-based Covid jab, says health minister||Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said several Indian companies are increasing their production of COVID-19 vaccines and that the country may become the first in the world to develop a DNA-based vaccine. Replying to a short duration discussion on COVID-19 management in Rajya Sabha, the minister said technology transfer to several companies has started and they will begin production in the coming days to reduce vaccine shortage in the country. "Cadila has completed third phase trial of its DNA vaccine and has applied for emergency use authorisation before DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India). Our expert team is looking into it. When this will come in the market, India will be the only country where scientists have developed a DNA vaccine," Mandaviya said in Rajya Sabha. He said that the country has started getting 11-12 crore doses of Serum Institute's Covishield vaccine per month and Bharat Biotech will supply 3.5 crore doses of its Covid vaccine in August. He said that the states are given vaccine availability projections 15 days in advance and that it's their responsibility to plan the inoculation drive accordingly. The minister said that Biological E is conducting third phase of trial of its vaccine and it is expected to come in the market by September-October with 7.5 crore doses. "Zydus Cadila and Bharat Biotech have started trials on children. I expect their trials to be successful. We need to trust our scientists. I trust my scientists and indigenous companies," Mandaviya said. On the allegation of suppressing Covid deaths, the minister said that the registration of Covid deaths is done by states and that the central government has never asked any state to record less deaths or cases. It is not appropriate to say that the Covid third wave will hit children more, the minister stressed citing experience of the previous waves. Mandaviya told the House that 316 oxygen plants out of the total 1,573 planned have been commissioned and the rest will start operations by August-end. Earlier, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjuna Kharge said that the government's COVID-19 death toll figure of 4-5 lakh is "false" and conservative and claimed the average number of deaths cannot be less than 52.4 lakh so far in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||No Covid deaths due to lack of oxygen during second wave, says Centre||No deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave, the government informed Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. But there was an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave and it peaked at nearly 9000 Metric Tonnes compared to 3095 MT in the first wave following which the Centre had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution among the states, it said. Responding to a question on whether a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave, Minister of State for Health Bharati Praveen Pawar noted that health is a state subject and states and UTs regularly report the number of cases and deaths to the Centre. "Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union Health Ministry to all states and UTs. "Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states and UTs," Pawar said in a written reply. The Government of India has supported the states and undertook a series of actions including provisioning medical oxygen, and other consumables to ensure clinical care of Covid-19 patients in view of the steep rise of Covid-19 trajectory in the country during April- May 2021. On the total demand of oxygen by the states and total oxygen supplied, the ministry said the supply of medical oxygen to hospitals is determined by contractual arrangements between the hospital and the medical oxygen supplier concerned. "However, due to unprecedented surge in demand of medical oxygen during the second wave the demand in the country peaked to nearly 9000 MT as compared to 3095 MT during the first wave the central government had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution to the states. "A dynamic and transparent framework for allocation of medical oxygen in consultation with states and UTs and all the stakeholders such as relevant ministries, manufacturers/suppliers of liquid oxygen, etc. was prepared," the written reply stated. The active caseload of the state and UT was the primary determinant of oxygen allocation. Other factors such as case doubling rate, available medical infrastructure, etc. were also given due consideration. Further, the allocation was kept dynamic as per the changing pandemic load. The first allocation order was issued on April 15 2021 and revised from time to time, based on the trends of active cases and supply position. A total allocation of 10,250 MT has been done to 26 high burden states as on May 28, 2021, the reply said. The Government of India, along with the state governments, took all possible steps to tackle the unprecedented surge in oxygen demand that arose in the second wave of Covid-19. This includes enhancement of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) production from 5700 MTs in August 2020 to 9690 MTs in May 2021, restrictions on industrial use of oxygen; and augmentation of availability of containers. A dynamic and transparent framework for allocation of medical oxygen in consultation with states and UTs and all the stakeholders such as relevant Ministries, manufacturers/suppliers of liquid oxygen, etc. was prepared. Also, online digital solutions viz. Oxygen Demand Aggregation system (ODAS) and Oxygen Digital Tracking System (ODTS) have been developed to ascertain the demand for medical oxygen from all medical facilities and to track their transportation. Further, to avoid wastage of medical oxygen, guidelines on rational use of oxygen were issued on 25th September 2020. These were further revised and disseminated to States on 25th April 2021. The states were also provided with oxygen equipment such as oxygen cylinders, concentrators and Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants. A total of 4,02,517 oxygen cylinders have been procured or are being procured and distributed to the states. As many as 1,222 PSA Oxygen generation plants have been sanctioned. Out of these, as on 15th July 2021, 237 plants have been commissioned. Apart from this, 295 PSA plants are being installed by different ministries, the minister said. States have also been asked to prepare state-level oxygen generation plants. To increase the storage capacity of liquid medical oxygen in the states, under the emergency Covid Package-Part-II, 1050 Liquid Medical Oxygen Tanks along with MGPS at a cost of Rs. 80 Lakh each have been approved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||Around 40 crore people are still vulnerable to Covid-19, says Centre||Around 40 crore people are still vulnerable to Covid-19 infection as a nationwide survey found two-thirds of the country's population aged above six to have SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, the government said on Tuesday as it stressed there is no room for complacency in the fight against the pandemic. Findings of the ICMR's 4th national Covid sero survey show there is a ray of hope, but there is no room for complacency and Covid-appropriate behaviour has to be followed, the government said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conducted the latest survey in June-July. Addressing a press conference, a senior official said two-thirds or 67.6 per cent of India's population aged above 6 years were found to have SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the latest national sero survey. A third of the population did not have SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, which means about 40 crore people are still vulnerable to Covid-19 infection, the official said. According to the government, 85 per cent of the surveyed healthcare workers had antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 and one-tenth of HCWs were still unvaccinated. The survey covered 28,975 general population and 7,252 healthcare workers. The fourth round of the survey was conducted in the 70 districts across 21 states where the previous three rounds had been carried out. Stressing observance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, the government said social, religious and political congregations should be avoided and non-essential travels should be discouraged. "Travel only if fully vaccinated," it said. The ICMR also suggested that it would be wise to consider reopening primary schools first as children can handle viral infection much better. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava stressed that for such a step to be considered, it must be ensured that school teachers and other support staff members are vaccinated. Addressing the press conference, he said the Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR's) latest national serosurvey has found that the seroprevalence among those aged six to nine was 57.2 per cent which is very similar to adults. Asked about opening schools since Covid-19 cases have declined in many districts, Bhargava said children can handle viral infection much better than adults and it has also been established that they have a lower number of ace receptors to which virus attaches. "In some countries, particularly the Scandinavian ones, they (authorities) did not shut down their primary schools during the first, second or third wave... whatever (Covid) waves they had, their primary schools were always open.  "So, once India starts considering opening schools, it will be wise to begin with the primary schools. Also, we have to ensure that all support staff members, be it school bus drivers or teachers, are vaccinated," Bhargava said. India recorded 30,093 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 125 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,11,74,322, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,14,482 with 374 daily fatalities, the lowest in 111 days, while the active cases have declined to 4,06,130, the lowest in 117 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||Govt still is and will alway remain open to talks with peasants: Tomar||The government on Tuesday said it will remain open to discussions with protesting farmers' unions to resolve issues over three new agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September last year. In written replies to Lok Sabha on several questions related to farmers' protest, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government had so far held 11 rounds of negotiations talks with agitating farmers' unions to resolve the issues. "The government has been engaged in serious, sensitive and active discussions with the farmers' unions to resolve the issues. During various rounds of discussions, government continuously requested the farmers' unions to discuss the provisions of the farm laws, so that if there is an objection to any provision, the advancement can be made towards resolution of those," the minister said. “But the farmers' unions insisted only on the repeal of the farm laws,” he added. "Government is always open to discussion with farmers' unions and will remain open to discussion with agitating farmers to resolve the issue," Tomar said. In all the rounds of discussions with the farmers' unions, the minister said the government had stressed that instead of insisting on the demand for the repeal of the laws, the unions should discuss about their concerns on the clauses of farm Acts so that their concerns can be resolved. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for more than seven months in protest against the three laws that they say will end state procurement of crops at MSP (Minimum Support Price). Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and set up a committee to find solutions. During the 10th round of talks held on January 20, the Centre had offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi's borders. The farmers' unions have been agitating against the three laws -- 'The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020', 'The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement On Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020' and 'The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The demands of agitating farmers' unions are repealing the three farm laws, keeping farmers outside the penalty provision on straw burning under Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020, withdrawing the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and issues-related to procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP). "Giving top priority to the interest of farmers, government vide letter dated 9th December, 2020 addressed to farmers' unions, explained point by point, how the concerns expressed by the farmers were being taken care of in the proposal of the Government of India. "Government also proposed to constitute a small group consisting of representative of farmers' unions, who can deliberate on farm laws clause-wise in a time-bound manner and can also consider other issues related to farmers, which representatives of farmers' unions have not agreed. However, farmers' unions never agreed to discuss the farm laws except for demanding their repeal," Tomar said. The minister said these laws are intended to provide an ecosystem where the farmers can enjoy the freedom of choice relating to sale of farmers' produce which facilitates remunerative prices to farmers through competitive alternative channels for selling their produce. "These farm Acts will facilitate direct buying from farmers in trade area by traders, processors, exporters, Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), agriculture co-operative societies etc., so as to facilitate farmers with better price realisation due to reduction in supply chain and marketing cost to enhance their income," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court acquits man accused of unlawful assembly, dacoity ||A court here on Tuesday acquitted a man of rioting, dacoity, and other charges in a case of ransacking and looting a shop during the north-east Delhi riots in February last year. Calling it a clear-cut case of acquittal, Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said there was no identification of the accused, and the testimonies of the witnesses were completely contradictory to each other. This is the first judgment in the case concerning the riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020 during the anti-CAA protests. Trial is underway in many cases related to the violence that killed 53 people. According to the police, Suresh, now acquitted, along with a huge crowd of rioters carrying iron rods and sticks, allegedly broke open the lock of a shop situated in Delhi's Babarpur Road and looted it on the evening of February 25. The shop belonged to one Bhagat Singh and was rented to Asif, who is the complainant in the case. During the investigation, Singh told the police that the rioters were aggressive and wanted to loot the said shop because it was of a Muslim and he tried to stop them but in vain . Both Singh and Head Constable Sunil, who was the beat constable in the area, later identified Suresh as part of the rioters. Suresh was arrested on April 7, 2020 and released on bail on February 25, 2021 after spending ten months in Mandoli Jail. On March 9, 2021, the court framed charges against him under sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 427 (mischief), 454 (lurking house-trespass) read with section 149 (unlawful assembly) and section 395 (dacoity) of the IPC. Suresh had pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. ASJ Rawat was earlier slated to pronounce the judgment in the case on April 24 but the verdict was deferred seven times pursuant to that. Advocate Rajiv Pratap Singh represented the accused, while Saleem Ahmed was the Public Prosecutor in the case. Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal to not attend PM's Covid meet||The main opposition Congress said it wouldn't attend the government's meeting with floor leaders of all parties on Covid-19 later on Tuesday. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said the Congress is not boycotting the meeting, but it will not attend as it wants the government to present the facts on the floor of both houses of Parliament. "If he (PM Modi) wants to give a presentation on Covid, he should give it in the Central Hall separately to MPs and Rajya Sabha members. MPs should be allowed to discuss Covid-related issues in their constituencies," Kharge was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. The ruling BJP's erstwhile ally SAD will also not attend the meeting, its president Sukhbir Singh Badal said. "Today Shiromani Akali Dal will boycott PM Modi's briefing on Covid-19. It will be attended only after he calls a meeting to discuss farm issues," he said. The government has called the meeting of floor leaders of all parties on the Covid-19 management. The Health Secretary is expected to make a presentation in the meeting, which is likely to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||Govt not to enumerate caste-wise population other than SC, ST in census||The government has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise population other than SCs and STs in the census, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said that according to the provisions of the Constitution, the seats are reserved for SCs and STs in Lok Sabha and in the assemblies in proportion, as nearly as may be, to their population. Rai said in census, the castes and tribes which are specifically notified as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as per the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order 1950 and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 (as amended from time to time) are enumerated. "The state governments of Maharashtra and Odisha have requested to collect caste details in the forthcoming census. The government of India has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise population other than SCs and STs in census," he said replying to a written question. Replying to another question, Rai said the intent of the government for conducting census 2021 has been notified in the Gazette of India on March 28, 2019 but due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the census activities have been postponed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||A total of 45,453 cases of black fungus reported in India, says health minister||A total of 45,432 cases of mucormycosis have been reported by states and UTs till July 15 of which 21,085 affected people are receiving treatment and 4,252 have died, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. A large majority of mucormycosis patients (84.4 per cent) had reported a history of Covid-19, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a written reply. Most common presentations of mucormycosis include Rhinocerebral (77.6 per cent), Cutaneous (4.3 per cent) and Pulmonary (3.0 per cent). In the wake of second wave of Covid-19, an increased number of mucormycosis cases were reported and the Ministry of Health after thorough gap analysis and consultations took a number of steps to address the problem. "Mucormycosis and other fungal infections are most commonly seen as opportunistic infection. They are found in those with low underlying immunity either due to a diabetes, cancers particularly hematological malignancies, etc. or as a side effect of prolonged/irrational use of certain drugs like steroids, immunosuppressive drugs for management of other disorders including Covid-19," the minister explained. Mandaviya said although it is not a new disease, its true incidence during the beginning of the second wave was unknown as it was not a notifiable disease. The Ministry of Health in May requested states to declare Mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Disease Act to get an objective assessment of the disease. Taking cognizance of association between elevated blood sugar levels (whether in patients with pre-existing diabetes mellitus, or hyperglycemia due to steroid therapy), an updated Clinical Guidance on Diagnosis and Management of Diabetes at Covid-19 Patient Management facility was issued by the ministry on June 1. After expert deliberations in the National Task Force on Covid-19, a detailed advisory on treatment and management of Covid-19 associated Mucormycosis (CAM) was formalized and disseminated on June 7. Amphotericin-B has been prescribed and it is available in two formulations, Liposomal Amphotericin B and Amphotericin B Deoxycholate, which are similar in efficacy. However, the latter needs to be used with greater caution with respect to its effects on kidney function test and electrolyte imbalance, the minister explained. The second drug of choice is Posaconazole which may be used in cases with compromised renal function, drug reaction to Amphotericin B, electrolyte imbalance or in non-availability of Amphotericin B. A checklist for managing mucormycosis and other fungal infections was also circulated to all states and UTs on June 11. The clinical management guidelines for managing Covid-19 cases by the ministry advocates rational use of steroids for managing moderate to severe cases of Covid-19 under medical supervision. For the reporting of cases and deaths due to mucormycosis, the ministry has requested the states and UTs to submit the details on the Covid-19 India portal. States were asked to update the data on the portal which has helped the ministry to analyse and keep a track of evolving nature of problem. In response to a question on whether the government has taken cognisance of shortage in supply of Amphotericin-B injections used for the treatment of mucormycosis, Mandaviya said since early May the details of production, stock, supplies made and purchase orders were obtained from manufacturers and their cooperation was sought to overcome the gap between supply and demand. Both first and second line drugs used for managing mucormycosis cases are currently amply available in Indian markets, he said. The Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP), Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) & National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) have been jointly monitoring the production and availability of critical Covid drugs including Amphotericin-B injections, he said in the reply. The Centre has taken various measures to improve the availability of Amphotericin B (liposomal) through a multipronged approach of augmenting production, and import and ensure equitable distribution to states and UTs. It is also engaging with manufacturers to resolve issues related to raw materials. The Department of Pharmaceuticals and the Indian Embassy in the US are working continuously with Mylan Labs for increasing import and ensuring early delivery from M/s Gilead Inc. USA. For equitable distribution, allotments are being made to the states and UTs in accordance with the proportion of their reported case load. Supply arrangements are being monitored by the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA) to ensure expeditious availability of the drug, the reply stated. The NPPA has put in place a strongly responsive system to ensure timely supplies of allocated volumes and maintains continuous contact with states and UTs and suppliers. The treatment of mucormycosis and other fungal infection is provided free of cost in all Central Government hospitals and autonomous institutions under the ministry, he said in a separate reply. Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY provides free health cover up to Rs. 5 lakh per year per family. The scheme was launched with 10.74 crore beneficiary families. However, 33 states/UTs have increased the beneficiary base to 13.44 families. Beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY can avail free treatment of post-Covid related complications including Mucormycosis, Black Fungus etc. under the scheme. States are also being supported in terms of allocation and supply of Amphotericin B. Amphotericin B is being provided at an affordable price under the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojna (PMBJP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
20-07-2021||India||India needs 188 crore doses to vaccinate all above 18 years, says Centre||The projected 18-plus population in the country is 94 crore and therefore, the total requirement of Covid-19 vaccine doses for the beneficiaries in this age group is 188 crore, but the number may reduce if in the future, single-dose vaccines are approved and used, the government told Parliament on Tuesday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha on whether the present Covid vaccine manufacturing firms have the capacity to produce the required quantity, Minister of State for Health Bharati Praveen Pawar said it is estimated that around 1.87 billion (187 crore) doses will be available between January and December 2021. In addition, a few vaccines under development may also receive approval and may be available for use to inoculate the eligible population, she added. In a separate written reply, Pawar said the price of the Covid vaccines declared by the two domestic manufacturers for procurement by private hospitals is Rs 600 for Covishield and Rs 1,200 for Covaxin. In addition, Rs 948 is the price declared for Sputnik V, which is presently imported in the country. The government has fixed a maximum service charge of Rs 150 per dose over and above the price of the vaccines for administration at private Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs). However, the vaccines continue to be provided for free to all eligible beneficiaries at the government CVCs. "The manufacturers are free to fix the price of the vaccines for procurement by private hospitals. However, the same has to be declared in a transparent manner, which has been done by the firms," the minister said. Replying to another question, Pawar informed that the Covid vaccines presently available in the country do not have VVMs (Vaccine Vial Monitors). The storage and transportation of the vaccines from the manufacturer to the site of administration is ensured in a temperature-controlled environment at 2-8 degrees Celsius. The VVM is manufactured by a single offshore manufacturer and requires end-point studies at various duration to finalise the type to be used on each vaccine. In view of the global urgency to use Covid vaccines upon development, the requirement of a very high quantity of VVMs and the limited production capacity, the vaccines are being used without VVMs across the world, the minister said. A robust cold chain network of around 29,000 cold-chain points, along with insulated or refrigerated vaccine vans, is used to ensure the storage and transport of the vaccines in a temperature-controlled environment. The storage temperature is also being monitored on a real-time basis to ensure that the vaccines are not exposed beyond the recommended storage temperature, the reply stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||Centre calls identification of problems faced by Lakshadweep residents a continuous process||The Centre on Tuesday said the identification of the problems faced by the people of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep is a continuous process and it takes appropriate action to resolve them from time to time. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said this in the Lok Sabha in response to a question on whether the central government has any plan to send a delegation to identify the difficulties being faced by the people of Lakshadweep. "The government keeps the welfare of the people at the centre of all its activities. The identification of problems faced by the people is a continuous process and the government takes appropriate action to resolve them from time to time," he said replying to a written question. Lakshadweep has recently seen protests by the locals after the UT administration mooted a number of proposals that include plans to develop the island as a major tourist destination, enactment of the Goonda Act and the plan to restrict the slaughtering of cattle. People also protested over the removal of non-vegetarian items from the menu of midday meals for schoolchildren and closure of dairy farms. However, operation of these two orders were stayed by the Kerala High Court, which has jurisdiction over the archipelago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned repeatedly over various issues||Rajya Sabha proceedings were on Tuesday adjourned for the third time amid uproar by YSR Congress members demanding special status for Andhra Pradesh. When the Upper House reconvened at 1 PM after two adjournments, YSR Congress members led by V Vijaysai Reddy trooped in the well shouting slogans, "We want justice. We want special status to Andhra Pradesh." Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh asked protesting members several times to go back to their seats and allow the debate on the Covid-19 pandemic. Leader of the House Piyush Goyal appealed to the protesting members to allow discussion on the important issue that has affected the entire humanity. "I would like to appeal to allow the House to discuss this very important subject that is affecting the whole world today. Entire country is watching us, watching this debate on Covid. Request you to discuss this important matter," he said. Goyal also asked YSR Congress members to share their experience in tackling the pandemic and "give us guidance so that others can also benefit from your experience." However, the protesting members did not yield to the Deputy Chairman's request to keep the House in order and continued shouting standing in the Well. Meanwhile, the Deputy Chairman asked Leader of Opposition Party Mallikarjun Kharge to initiate the debate. Amid the commotion, Kharge said, "House is not in order. How can I speak?" Later, the Deputy Chair called other members. Since Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe was not there, Swapan Das Gupta (nominated) spoke amid the commotion. As slogan-shouting continued, the Chair adjourned the House for 15 minutes. Earlier, the House proceedings were adjourned twice over various issues including the Pegasus snooping row.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||Congress, CPI demand probe into Pegasus snooping case by Joint Parliamentary Committee||The Congress on Tuesday stepped up its attack on the government over the Pegasus snooping controversy and demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee. The Opposition party along with other parties also stalled proceedings of both houses of Parliament while raising the issue. Opposition members raised uproar in both houses and demanded a thorough probe into the charges of snooping on journalists, politicians, ministers, judges and others using Israeli Pegasus spyware. Leaders of various political parties also met before the start of proceedings in both houses of Parliament to decide their strategy on the issue. Several of them had also given adjournment notices in both houses demanding a discussion on the issue. Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said the government should clearly tell whether it has purchased the Pegasus spyware or not and hold a joint parliamentary probe. "We had given adjournment notices in both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha to hold a discussion on the violation of national security and the fundamental rights under the Constitution over the phone tapping issue," Gohil told reporters. He said the party's demand is that the government should order a joint parliamentary committee probe into the snooping and phone tapping issue. "The minister, who was trying to create confusion on the matter should answer clearly whether the government has bought the Pegasus spyware or not. If yes, then the government should order a joint parliamentary committee probe to investigate the entire matter," he said. The government on Monday categorically rejected in Lok Sabha allegations of snooping on politicians, journalists and others using Pegasus software, asserting that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws, and alleged that attempts were being made to malign Indian democracy. An international media consortium reported on Sunday that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the spyware. CPI also demands for a JPC probe The CPI has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for "snooping into number of phones of opposition leaders, journalists, activists and numerous others". In a statement on Tuesday, the party said the people of the country has every right to know the truth in the matter. "The National Secretariat of the Communist Party of India is shocked to learn that Israeli spy software Pegasus has been snooping into number of phones of opposition leaders, journalists, activists and numerous others. "The Modi government is in good relations with the government of Israel. People are questioning how such surveillance can be conducted without the knowledge and consent of the Indian government. Truth therefore should come out," the statement said. The government has said "any sort of illegal surveillance" by unauthorised persons is not possible in India. The CPI also said that the Indian Constitution grants right to privacy to all citizens and the Supreme Court has also upheld this right. "The Modi government since it came to power has been continuously attacking the constitutionally guaranteed rights of citizens and states in order to push its anti-people and anti-federal policies. "The National Secretariat demands a thorough probe into the entire incident by a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) as the people of the country have every right to know the truth," it said. All Opposition parties the Congress, the CPI(M) and the TMC Monday demanded a probe into the issue. An international media consortium reported Sunday that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||Congress still believes it has the right to be in power, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the Covid crisis is not a political but a humanitarian issue and asserted that the government has ensured no one goes hungry during the pandemic. Such a pandemic has been witnessed by the world after a very very long time, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi quoted the prime minister as telling MPs at the BJP's parliamentary party meeting. The prime minister also said that it was ensured not a single poor person "sleeps" hungry, Joshi told reporters. Modi stressed that despite the pandemic, a huge population got ration, and told BJP MPs that providing relief to the people was their responsibility and not a favour, according to Joshi. He said the prime minister asserted that the pandemic is a humanitarian issue and not a political one. The prime minister expressed concern about the attitude of the Opposition, especially the Congress, and said it still believes, it has the right to be in power, Joshi quoted Modi has saying at the meeting. He also told BJP MPs that the government was willing to hold discussions in both Houses of Parliament, but the opposition was showing a most irresponsible behaviour, Joshi said. Sources said that in the meeting, Modi asked BJP MPs to be effectively counter the allegations of the Opposition about the government's Covid response and the availability of vaccines. He also told the MPs that considering the anticipation of a third wave of the Covid pandemic, they should prepare and be ready to put boots on the ground, the sources said. On the Covid vaccination drive, Modi emphasised that BJP MPs should ensure that the drive in their respective constituencies is carried out without glitches. Taking on the opposition, the prime minister pointed out that in Delhi nearly 20 per cent of frontline workers are not till now vaccinated against Covid, they said. The Opposition has been attacking the government, alleging "mismanagement" in handling of the second wave of the pandemic. It has also demanded a statement in Parliament on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||Relaxations granted by Kerala govt for Bakrid wholly uncalled for, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday termed wholly uncalled for the Kerala government's relaxations for Bakrid in areas with a high Covid positivity rate and said giving in to pressure from traders discloses a sorry state of affairs. Directing the state government to "heed the Right to Life", the apex court also warned Kerala it will take action if the easing of curbs leads to further spread of the virus and this is brought before it by any person. "To give in to pressure groups (of traders) so that the citizenry of India is laid bare to a nationwide pandemic discloses a sorry state of affairs. Even otherwise, assurances from traders and nothing more do not inspire any confidence in the people of India or this court," a bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai said. "We direct the Kerala government to give heed to Right to Life enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution," it said. The bench was hearing an application raising the issue of the Bakrid relaxations in Kerala. The apex court had last week taken cognisance on its own of media reports on the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to allow the Kanwar Yatra amid the Covid pandemic. The apex court referred to a paragraph in the affidavit filed by the Kerala government and said it disclosed that the state has given in to associations of traders, which made a representation that they have stocked up goods for the purpose of Bakrid. "What is extremely alarming is the fact that in Category D where infection rates are the highest, a full day of relaxation has been granted," it said. "We state that this affidavit discloses a sorry state of affairs as has been stated above and does not in real manner safeguard the Right to Life and Health guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution," it said. "We may also indicate that if as a result of this (relaxations), if any untoward spread of COVID-19 takes place, any member of the public may approach this court after which the court will take action accordingly. The IA is disposed of," the top court said. The bench had on Monday asked the Kerala government to file its response during the day on the application against the three-day relaxation in Covid restrictions in the state in view of Bakrid on Wednesday. In its affidavit filed in the top court, the state has said that curbs and resultant economic slowdown have put the population in a lot of misery. The traders were expecting that the Bakrid sales will alleviate their misery to a certain extent. They have stocked up the goods for this purpose much early. The organisation of traders started to agitate against the stringent curbs implemented in the LSGIs (local self government institutions) and declared that they will open shops all over the state flouting the regulations," the affidavit said. It said the Opposition political parties also raised the traders' issue in public domain and demanded more relaxations in the curbs to give some respite to the traders and to allow some economic activities in the state. "The chief minister held discussion with the organisations and heard their demands on July 16, 2021. The traders assured that the opening of shops will be strictly following COVID protocols and they are ready to follow the additional regulations ordered by the state, if any," it said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced the concessions at a press conference on July 17. In view of Bakrid (Eid-ul-Azha) being celebrated on July 21, textiles, footwear shops, jewellery, fancy stores, shops selling home appliances and electronic items, all types of repairing shops and shops selling essential items shall be allowed to open on July 18-20 from 7 AM to 8 PM in category A, B and C areas, he said. In D category areas, these shops can function only on July 19, he had said. The areas have been categorised based on test positivity rates. On Monday, the top court closed the matter related to the Kanwar Yatra in Uttar Pradesh and asked the authorities to ensure that any untoward incident directly affecting the lives of the public shall be looked upon sternly and prompt action would be taken immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha adjourned as Opposition raises Pegasus snooping controversy||The Lok Sabha was adjourned till 2 pm while the Rajya Sabha halted its proceedings till 12 noon and then 1 pm on Tuesday as Opposition MPs disrupted proceedings over the Pegasus snooping controversy as well as other issues. Opposition members sought to raise various issues and shouted slogans as soon as the Lower House met for the day at 11 am. The proceedings lasted for barely five minutes. Members of Opposition parties at Rajya Sabha, who had given as many as 15 notices under rule 267 requiring setting aside of the business of the day to take up the issue they want to raise, raised slogans and rushed into the Well of the House, prompting chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to adjourn the proceedings till 12 noon at first. Soon after the session convened at 12 noon, it was further stalled till 1 pm. The issues include alleged snooping of Opposition leaders, journalists and vocal critics of the government, fuel price rise and farmers agitation against new farm laws.No sooner had the House condoled the death of a former member, Ramadhar Kashyap, members of Congress, TMC, Left and DMK were up on their feet raising various issues. With the chairman disallowing all the 15 notices as he did for the 17 served on Monday, Anand Sharma of tghe Congress said either the rule 267 should be removed or the Chairman should consider notices given under them as long as it is there in the rule book. "These are issues of concern. We should not only read about it in newspapers or see on television," he said. Naidu said he agrees with Sharma. "There is a need for (rule) 267. I have been there in the House and I understand the problem of national security, something serious happens, you have to suspend the business and then take up that matter." But this provided the Chairman goes through the notice and then admits it, he said adding the notices given on Monday and Tuesday largely relate to "variety of issues... some of them ongoing for a long time, some of them discussed earlier." "What is the way for the Chairman to admit 15 267 notices and take the house forward," he remarked adding zero hour is the time when members can raise issues on which they have given notices. But Opposition members were not convinced and started to rush into the Well as Naidu called for listed official papers to be laid on the table. As they raised slogans, Naidu adjourned the proceedings. "The House is adjourned to meet at 12 noon because some people have decided not to allow the House (to function)," he remarked during the initial session. The leaders will meet at 2 pm to decide if they will attend the meeting on Covid called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 6 pm, reports ndtv.com. The list of the potential Indian targets of a snooping operation that deploys Israeli spyware accessible only to government agencies covers citizens in every sphere that is expected to act as a check and balance in a democracy, suggests information revealed on Monday by a media collective that includes The Wire news portal and The Washington Post and The Guardian newspapers. Rahul Gandhi, Prashant Kishor, IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw were some of the big names revealed as potential targets of the Israeli spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||India offered 7.5 million doses of Moderna vaccine, no consensus on indemnity clause||India has been offered 7.5 million doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine through the COVAX global vaccine sharing programme, but it is not clear when the jabs will arrive in the country as a consensus on the indemnity clause is yet to be reached, sources said. The government last week said that it is working actively with vaccine manufacturer Moderna to see how its vaccine can be made available in the country. Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine was granted emergency use authorisation by India's drug regulator last month. "India has been offered 7.5 million doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine through the COVAX global vaccine sharing programme," the sources said. However, there is no clarity so far when the shots would be available in India as "the talks are still on and a consensus on the indemnity issue is yet to be reached," they said. On the availability of Moderna vaccine in the country, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul had recently said the government is working actively with Moderna to see how its vaccine can be imported and made available in the country. "...to and fro (talks) are going on over the contractual specifics. Discussions have not yet concluded. We are making efforts as to it happens at the earliest. We are now expecting to hear from them anytime. Currently, they have to respond to some of the points we have made and we will take it forward," he had said on Friday. According to the sources, the Indian government has put forth certain conditions for finalising the indemnity clause contract and has sent it to the US drug manufacturer for their perusal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||Covid: India logs lowest number of one-day spike in 125 days||India recorded 30,093 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 125 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,11,74,322, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,14,482 with 374 daily fatalities, the lowest in 111 days, while the active cases have declined to 4,06,130, the lowest in 117 days. The active caseload comprises 1.30 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.37 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 15,535 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,92,336 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 44,73,41,133. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 29 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.06 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,03,53,710, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.33 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 41.18 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. it went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||BMS urges Modi to convene Indian Labour Conference at the earliest||The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) on Monday lamented that the Indian Labour Conference (ILC) has not met since 2015 while the country is confronted with burning issues like job loss and marginalisation of women workers. The ILC is the apex tripartite body comprising representatives of employees, employers and the government to discuss emerging labour issues in the country and advise the government on such issues. All the 12 central trade unions are members of the ILC which has been meeting every year since 1942 except breaks in some years. The last meeting was held in 2015. BMS general secretary Binoy Kumar Sinha has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging to take steps to hold the ILC at the earliest “to uphold the noble tradition of tripartism in the country”. The letter said India being a founding member of the International Labour Organisation, the labour arm of United Nations, has traditionally upheld the high ideals of tripartism. The Indian Parliament has ratified the ILO Convention related to strengthening tripartite mechanism. The ILC has been meeting since 1942. In 1957, the ILC laid down the scientific criteria for fixing minimum wages, it said. From 1997, the Prime Minister has been attending the inaugural event of the ILC. Modi had attended the event in 2015. “For various reasons, for the last 6 years, ILC was not held, while the country was confronted with many burning issues related to labour. Today several burning issues like that of migrant workers, labour law reforms, informal sector workers, contract workers in the formal sector, loss of jobs and wage reduction during the pandemic, social security, increasing  marginalisation of women workers, etc, are all matters of high concern for the workers in India,” Sinha wrote. “Hence, we would like to request you to take steps to convene the ILC at the earliest, honouring it with your presence...,” he wrote. Pawan Kumar, north zone secretary of the BMS, said that the Prime Minister listens to workers to get feedback from working class. “Where shall the workers go to raise their issues if the ILC is not held? The PM should honour the tripartite mechanism,” Kumar said. He said the BMS recently held protests in Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh over the burning issues like lack of social security for workers, delay in implementation of wage and social security law and delay in implementing a database for migrant workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
20-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Modi's 2017 trip to Israel under scanner||The Guardian newspaper reported that “the selection of Indian numbers largely commenced around the time of Modi’s 2017 trip to Israel, the first visit to the country by an Indian Prime Minister” and a marker of the burgeoning bilateral relationship, including deals between Delhi and Israeli defence industries. “Modi and the then Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, were pictured during the trip walking barefoot together on a beach. Days before, Indian targets had started being selected,” the UK newspaper said. The picture above was tweeted by Netanyahu in July 2017, showing him and Modi on the beach in Haifa. “There’s nothing like going to the beach with friends!” Netanyahu had tweeted. The spyware Pegasus, which allows customers to infiltrate mobile phones and monitor messages, camera feeds and microphones, is made and licensed by the Israeli company NSO, which has denied any wrongdoing. NSO said its product was intended only for use by vetted government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to fight terrorism and crime. The new allegations may escalate concerns that the Israeli government has abetted government abuses by granting NSO an export licence to sell software to countries that use it to suppress dissent. The Guardian has underlined that India does not officially admit to being an NSO customer, a significant hurdle to challenging the use of the spyware in court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Congress seeks probe on Modi, ouster of Shah||⚫ Rahul Gandhi, the Congress spearhead in the 2019 general election. ⚫ Ashok Lavasa, the election commissioner who wanted Narendra Modi held accountable for his intemperate speeches on the 2019 Lok Sabha election campaign trail. ⚫ A woman and her family after she complained of sexual harassment by Ranjan Gogoi, the then Chief Justice of India who presided over some of the most important cases in independent India, including that dealing with the Ayodhya land and the Rafale fighter plane deal. ⚫ Abhishek Banerjee, Trinamul leader, and Prashant Kishor, the party’s poll consultant. The latter in the middle of the Bengal Assembly elections and even as recently as this month when he met Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in the capital. ⚫ Two Union ministers, including new information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. ⚫ Virologist Gagandeep Kang (in 2018), who had recently questioned some aspects of the government’s Covid management. ⚫ Dozens of journalists, including one who was covering the Rafale controversy. ⚫ Several civil rights defenders and academics. The list of the potential Indian targets of a snooping operation that deploys Israeli spyware accessible only to government agencies covers citizens in every sphere that is expected to act as a check and balance in a democracy, suggests information revealed on Monday by a media collective that includes The Wire news portal and The Washington Post and The Guardian newspapers. The Congress described the government’s alleged surveillance of critics and opponents through the Israeli spyware as “treason” and an “inexcusable breach of national security”, and demanded the immediate sacking of home minister Amit Shah and an independent investigation into the role of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The party described as a “lie” the government’s claim that it had not snooped on anyone, after the media reports suggested surveillance of Opposition leaders like Rahul, a few BJP politicians who are now central ministers, journalists and activists. The Congress underlined that the Israeli company NSO states that its products “are used exclusively by government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to fight crime and terror”. “Are politicians, journalists, human rights activists, lawyers and Modi’s own ministers terrorists? Why were they spied on? No government ever stooped so low,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said at a news conference held jointly with the Congress leaders of both Houses of Parliament, Mallikarjun Kharge and Adhir Chowdhury. “Is spying on leaders of the Opposition, heads of security forces, election commissioner, members of the judiciary, ministers, journalists and activists through a foreign entity’s spyware not treason and an inexcusable breach of national security?” Surjewala said. “Who in the Government of India purchased and deployed the illegal spyware Pegasus? Who authorised the purchase? How many hundred or thousand crores were spent?” The Congress underlined that the government had admitted snooping via Pegasus in Parliament on November 28, 2019, contrary to Monday’s denial of spying by new information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. “Should home minister Amit Shah not be sacked forthwith? Does this not warrant a full investigation of the role of the Prime Minister?” Surjewala said. Both Kharge and Adhir said Shah should be sacked if the government had any pretensions to morality. Two numbers used by Rahul were allegedly among the potential targets. Rahul gave up those numbers after WhatsApp alerted him about possible hacking. Several members of Rahul’s social circles and office staff too were allegedly put under surveillance. The Wire reported that the phone number of IT minister Vaishnaw was among the potential targets between 2017 and 2019. Minister Prahlad Singh Patel’s name also figures in the list. Former finance minister and Congress veteran P. Chidambaram contested Vaishnaw’s claim, made in the Lok Sabha on Monday, that illegal snooping was impossible in India. “NSO Group, the owner of Pegasus, has said that NSO sells its technologies solely to law enforcement and intelligence agencies of vetted governments. It is unfortunate that minister Vaishnaw has started his innings on the wrong foot,” Chidambaram said. “In his statement, the minister has omitted to quote the crucial part of Pegasus’s statement. The services that are ‘openly available to anyone, anywhere, and anytime’ refer to HLR Lookup services, not to Pegasus. The minister should answer a simple question: Did the government acquire the Pegasus software/ spyware?” The Congress and other Opposition parties plan to jointly raise the matter during the ongoing session of Parliament. On Monday, the Congress released a report by Cert-In, a department under the IT ministry, that had on May 17, 2019, said: “A vulnerability has been reported in WhatsApp which could be exploited by a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code on the affected system.” The party also recalled that then IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said in the Rajya Sabha on November 28, 2019, that the hacking of 121 telephones had been reported and a notice issued to NSO. “The NSO Group had written to Citizen Lab (of the Munk School of Global Affairs, University of Toronto) stating clearly that ‘Our product is licensed to government and law enforcement agencies for the sole purpose of investing and preventing crime and terror’,” Surjewala said. “It is thus clear that the Government of India and its agencies bought the spyware. It could neither be bought nor deployed by any private operator. The Citizen Lab submitted a report on September 18, 2018, saying the Pegasus software was used to target politicians in India.” Surjewala added: “The Citizen Lab report said, ‘Our research continues to demonstrate some highly concerning real-world examples of the abuse of NSO Group technology in practice. These uses have included apparent government customers of NSO Group abusing Pegasus spyware to target civil society groups, human rights defenders, lawyers, politicians and journalists’.” He added: “The Pegasus spyware has infected a number of telephone/ Internet providers, including the National Internet Backbone (NIC) and MTNL. It gives a brief list of the infected Internet providers: Bharti Airtel Limited, MTNL, NIC, Hathway Cable Internet, Star Broadband Services, Atria Convergence Technologies Private Limited.” Surjewala said Indian citizens should realise that the government was spying on their daughters, sons and wives by murdering privacy and the rule of law. Rahul taunted the Prime Minister for “reading everything on your phone”. Virologist Kang was a potential target in 2018 while tackling the Nipah infection. “In 2018, Kang was helping with aspects of the response to an outbreak of the deadly Nipah virus in the southern Indian state of Kerala. She urged Indian health officials to share blood samples of those infected with a global initiative to develop vaccines against future pandemics, an effort that was ultimately fruitless,” The Washington Post said. On the woman who accused Justice Gogoi of sexual harassment, The Wire reported that she “recorded her allegations in a sworn affidavit on April 20, 2019, and was marked as a person of interest just days after this, an analysis of a leaked list of phone numbers accessed by French media non-profit Forbidden Stories reveals”. The leaked records show that eight other phone numbers belonging to her husband and two of his brothers were also marked as possible candidates for surveillance in the same week, when her allegations against the CJI were first reported, the portal said. “All told, a total of 11 numbers associated with the complainant and her family were selected, making them among the largest cluster of associated phone numbers in the India-leg of the Pegasus Project, a special investigation coordinated by Forbidden Stories and 16 international media partners with the assistance of Amnesty International’s technical team,” The Wire added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||Elgaar case: Pegasus exposé raises unjust detention cry||The families of the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links detainees and one of their lawyers have said the new revelations about targeted surveillance have vindicated their stand that the prolonged imprisonment of the 15 surviving accused is unjust. An international exposé of the use of the spyware Pegasus — developed by Israeli company NSO and sold only to governments — has found that the mobile numbers of several Elgaar Parishad accused were on a list of those selected for surveillance by an unidentified client of NSO. Such “tampering”, the relatives of the Elgaar accused say, strengthens the suspicion that the “evidence” against the detainees was planted on their electronic devices — as already suggested by American digital forensics firm Arsenal Consulting in the case of two accused. Among the surveillance targets named by the exposé are academics Hany Babu MT, Vernon Gonsalves, Anand Teltumbde and Shoma Sen; activists Gautam Navlakha and Rona Wilson; and lawyers Arun Ferreira and Sudha Bharadwaj. The numbers of several relatives and suspected associates of the Elgaar detainees too were on the list. They include: “Varavara Rao’s daughter Pavana; lawyer Surendra Gadling’s wife Minal Gadling, his associate lawyers Nihalsingh Rathod and Jagadish Meshram, one of his former clients Maruti Kurwatkar, who was charged in multiple cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), incarcerated for over four years and later released on bail; Bharadwaj’s lawyer Shalini Gera; Teltumbde’s friend Jaison Cooper, a Kerala-based rights activist; scholar of the Naxalite movement and Bastar-based lawyer Bela Bhatia; one of the oldest members of the Kabir Kala Manch cultural group Rupali Jadhav; and tribal rights activist Mahesh Raut’s close associate and lawyer Lalsu Nagoti,” a report in The Wire news website, which participated in the exposé, said. Gonsalves’s wife Susan Abraham — who is also a lawyer for Sen, Teltumbde and two fellow detainees: author Sudhir Dhawale and the Kabir Kala Manch’s Jyoti Jagtap — told The Telegraph: “It is absolutely shocking that this should have happened and must still be happening. Of course, this has led to Vernon’s arrest and continued incarceration for almost three years now without a trial. This is completely unlawful and unjust. This form of surveillance web that we all are trapped in must be snapped.” Earlier this year, Arsenal had found that “evidence” had been planted on the computers of Delhi-based activist Wilson and Nagpur-based lawyer Gadling, both of whom are in a Navi Mumbai jail awaiting trial in the case. However, both the National Investigating Agency (NIA) and the Maharashtra police have opposed Wilson’s plea to Bombay High Court to quash the case. The NIA told the court that “documents which are not part of the chargesheet cannot be relied upon”, while the state police argued in court earlier this month that the accused can challenge the evidence only when it comes to trial. Babu’s wife Jenny Rowena, who teaches at Delhi University, told this newspaper: “It shows how unsafe our devices are and how unethical the government is in tampering with them. Yet, the courts have taken the documents found in the laptops of the accused as prima facie evidence. The Arsenal report shows (the computers have been) tampered with and in the light of these disclosures we must take it for granted that the government can tamper with our devices. “The courts must refuse to take the documents in the computers of the accused in this case as prima facie evidence and give them bail as soon as possible without us having to prove (the purported evidence) is fake after years of incarceration, as it happens in UAPA cases.” Last year, rights group Amnesty International and the University of Toronto’s Internet watchdog Citizen Lab had revealed that in 2019, a coordinated spyware operation was used to target at least nine human rights defenders, eight of whom are campaigning for the release of the Elgaar case accused. Also in 2019, Pegasus was discovered to have been used to spy on human rights defenders by penetrating their mobile phones via WhatsApp. Teltumbde’s wife Rama Ambedkar-Teltumbde — who happens to be B.R. Ambedkar’s granddaughter — told this newspaper: “We already knew of his devices being compromised with Pegasus through Citizen Lab way back in 2019. The new stories certainly expose a great threat in today’s India against dissenters and the very fabric of our Constitution at large. It is strange that on one hand the Arsenal report is being dismissed for being foreign, but we (are using) foreign technology to snoop on our own countrymen.” Navlakha was also grilled in the money-laundering case against investigative portal Newsclick. His partner Sahba Husain said: “First he was arrested (in the Elgaar case), now this ED case is also being brought…. When so much material shows planting of proof and surveillance, why does the government not investigate if they are not afraid…. Not just the Centre, but even the Maharashtra government said ‘no’ to the Arsenal evidence in the high court. They should have ordered a special investigation team probe.” The NIA reports to the central government, which is under the BJP. Maharashtra has a coalition government of the Shiv Sena, NCP and the Congress. The home department is helmed by an NCP minister, with a minister of state each from the Congress and the Sena. Sahba Husain said: “The lives, liberty and families of those in jail are being made to suffer. Six of them got Covid; some went to hospital and one died…. This is complete lawlessness. It is only those behind bars who are abiding by the law. Our only hope now is the judiciary.” Varavara’s daughter P. Pavana said: “In 2019, WhatsApp told me that my phone had been hacked. As the daughter of an activist, I have known there is surveillance on us. But today, even ministers and an election commissioner — basically anyone who does not have exactly the same opinion as the people at the top — are being spied upon. This is clearly an attack on democracy.” She added: “The response of the ministers in Parliament almost accepts the charge (of spying). They could have merely ordered an inquiry but no, like in other cases they want to make the victims out as the accused. In (the Elgaar Parishad case), those who spoke in favour of the victims are now accused of the violence. Be it the Delhi riots or the attack on JNU — the victims are booked by the police.” Several academics, lawyers, rights activists and writers have been arrested or interrogated in an investigation into the alleged Maoist links to an Ambedkarite event — the Elgaar Parishad — on December 31, 2017, that was followed the next day by caste clashes that claimed one life. One of the accused, Parkinson’s-stricken Father Stan Swamy, died of multiple ailments that his friends and supporters have blamed on poor treatment of a Covid infection he had contracted in jail. The case expanded into a purge of “urban Naxals”, a term used by Right-wing commentators for people they accuse of clandestinely working for the banned CPI Maoist. The case was transferred from Maharashtra police to the NIA soon after the BJP lost power in the state. The France-based Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International’s Security Lab have accessed records of the NSO Group. These were analysed by The Wire news website in partnership with 15 other global media outlets. The investigation led to the exposé.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||Pegasus snoop: Can India do to culprits what US did to Nixon? ||The Pegasus “snoop” without any gates is making Watergate look like an amateur operation as far as the modus operandi — remote break-in now and burglary-style break-in then — is concerned. But a big “IF” comes into play on whether India will be able to hold accountable those responsible as America did by compelling Richard Nixon to give up the presidency half a century ago. For one, India does not have a provision for impeachment of the head of government, the threat of which had forced Nixon to step down. As head of government in India, the Prime Minister can be forced to resign only if he or she loses their majority on the floor of the Lok Sabha. That is a tall ask in contemporary India, given the brute majority the BJP has in the House. But Nixon had also used the full weight of his office — the most powerful in the free world — to fight the evidence against him. The collective effort to hold Nixon accountable succeeded because the media, judiciary and the legislature did their job. That is the question that will confront India now: will its media, judiciary and legislature do what they are supposed to do? Prime Minister Narendra Modi is no stranger to snooping scandals, having weathered the storm over a controversy in his home state of Gujarat as chief minister. And, the initial response of the government has been to brazen it out. Where the current controversy over the use of Pegasus spyware is similar to Watergate is in the expanse of the snooping. From all indications, a large number of journalists, politicians — including some from the ruling party — as well as members of the judiciary and activists have been a target of this spyware-enabled hacking. The Washington Post investigated both scandals. However, it was a singular enterprise for the newspaper on Watergate, unlike with Pegasus where it is part of a collective of media houses across the globe probing the use of the Israeli spyware by various governments. In the Watergate scandal, Nixon and his aides were found guilty of extensive wiretapping that involved breaking into the Democratic National Committee’s (DNC) headquarters in the Watergate Office Building, Washington DC, to bug the premises, and the President himself recording all the telephone conversations in his office. The Watergate scandal began with the police apprehending five burglars for a break-in at the DNC headquarters in Washington DC on June 17, 1972. Four of the five were former CIA operatives and the fifth was part of the organisation working for Nixon’s re-election. Later, it transpired that there were parallel efforts to spy on the headquarters of the Democratic nominee for the presidential elections that year. An elaborate cover-up ensued, and Nixon ordered the FBI to scale down the probe. Throughout the election campaign, Washington Post reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein were provided leaks by FBI deputy director W. Mark Felt though his name became public only three decades later. Through the scandal and for much later he went by the pseudonym Deep Throat. Barring The Washington Post, the scandal was largely ignored by the American media during the run-up to the 1972 presidential polls. The trial of the five accused and two accomplices began a fortnight before Nixon’s second inauguration. Again, the White House was able to contain the scandal but the presiding judge, John J. Sirica, was unrelenting in following the money. As the sentencing date approached, the Senate set up a special investigating committee on abuses in the 1972 presidential campaign. From here on, the judiciary and legislature leveraged the two proceedings to corner the Nixon administration, resulting in television networks broadcasting the committee hearings without ad breaks. What was revealed was extensive wire-tapping by the Nixon administration and the establishment of a money-laundering operation to fund its favoured Senate candidates. The proverbial nail in the coffin came when Alexander P. Butterfield, a former White House staffer, disclosed that all conversations in the President’s offices had been secretly recorded on tape. The judiciary ordered Nixon to hand over the tapes. He contested it tooth and nail, offering to provide transcripts instead, but fell in line in the face of public protest. With the entire can of worms spilling out, the House Judiciary Committee initiated the impeachment enquiry in May 1974, almost two years after the DNC burglary. Nixon resigned three months later as the full scale of the cover-up by him became evident. Ultimately, it was the provision of checks and balances in a democracy and the combined efforts of the three other pillars of democracy – the media, judiciary and the legislature – that brought the President of the United States down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||Parliament monsoon session : Modi criticises 'negative mindset' ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said Parliament had never seen such a “negative mindset” as protests by the Opposition members obstructed him from introducing his new  ministers, forgetting that the BJP was the first to do so in 2004 when as the principal Opposition party, it hadn’t allowed then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to fulfil the tradition. As the monsoon session commenced, the Opposition shouted slogans in protest against price rise, Covid mishandling and the farmers’ issue, and stalled proceedings of both Houses of Parliament. As the din obstructed Modi from introducing the ministers in both Houses, he accused the Opposition of being “anti-women, anti-Dalit, anti-tribal and anti-OBC”. Senior minister Rajnath Singh claimed such a thing had never happened in Parliament and accused the Congress of setting an “unhealthy tradition”. “In my 24 years of parliamentary life, I have never seen a single instance when the Prime Minister was not allowed to introduce his ministers,” Rajnath told the Lok Sabha. “What the Congress did is extremely sad, unfortunate and unhealthy,” he added, as protests by the Opposition members continued. A little after Modi and Rajnath spoke in the House, Sanjaya Baru, who was media adviser to then Prime Minister Singh, tweeted a picture of a page from his book, Accidental Prime Minister, exposing the lie. “UPA’s first Parliament session began on a rocky note. From the Prime Minister’s point of view, it was a sad note. For the first time in parliamentary history, a newly elected Prime Minister was neither allowed to introduce his council of ministers to Parliament nor given the privilege of replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President for his address to Parliament,” said the page from Baru’s book on Singh. The BJP, as principal Opposition in 2004, hadn’t allowed Singh to introduce the ministers of his new government, protesting against the induction of Lalu Prasad and Shibu Soren. It’s a tradition that the Prime Minister introduces his council of ministers whenever a new government is formed or an expansion takes place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||Supreme Court frees Manipur activist detained under NSA||The Supreme Court on Monday directed that a Manipur activist detained under the National Security Act for a Facebook post that said cow urine and cow dung do not cure Covid be released by 5pm on Monday on interim bail. Erendro Leichobam had been held in Manipur on May 13 for posting the comment following the death of state BJP chief S. Tikendra Singh. “We are of the view that the continued detention of the petitioner... would amount to a violation of the right to life and personal liberty,” the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said. “We accordingly direct that the petitioner shall be released forthwith as and by way of an interim direction of this court, unless he is required to be in custody in any other case, subject to further orders, subject to his filing a personal release bond in the amount of Rs 1,000.” The order added: “The respondents shall comply with the order of this court on or before 5pm today. The registrar (judicial) shall communicate a copy of this order forthwith to the Manipur central jail, Sajiwa.” Erendro’s lawyer Shadan Farasat told The Telegraph the activist had been released at 4.45pm. “Yes, he has been released already around 4.45pm,” Farasat said. Earlier on Monday, the court had rejected solicitor-general Tushar Mehta’s plea that the case be taken up on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the bench will take up the larger issue of the NSA — which allows preventive detention for up to 12 months on grounds of national security and public order — being invoked against Erendro, convener of the political outfit Peoples’ Resurgence and Justice Alliance. The bench is dealing with a petition moved by Erendro’s father Raghumani Singh challenging his son’s detention and seeking contempt action against the Manipur chief secretary, state police chief and the Imphal West district magistrate. The petition highlights that Erendro was arrested despite the apex court’s April 20 order saying citizens shall not be subjected to criminal cases or arrested for airing their views on social media relating to the Covid crisis. Raghumani has also filed a habeas corpus petition seeking his son’s production before the top court. He has underlined that despite Erendro being granted bail on May 17 in a case booked under penal code sections, he was rearrested straightaway on the orders of the district magistrate under the NSA. Erendro’s May 13 post had expressed condolences for Tikendra’s death and said: “The cure for Corona is not cow dung & cow urine. The cure is science & common sense. Professor ji RIP.” The context was several BJP politicians’ public claims about cow dung and cow urine curing or preventing Covid. “Bolstered by such advice from leading political members, there were reports of people smearing cow dung and drinking cow urine to cure corona. In fact, in some places proper units were established which took to treating people with coronavirus using cow dung and cow urine,” Raghumani’s petition says. The petition underlines the lack of scientific evidence for the claims made on behalf of cow urine and cow dung, and says the Facebook post was not meant to hurt religious sentiments. Several FIRs were lodged against Erendro’s post in various Manipur police stations by BJP workers, including state unit vice-president Usham Deben. The penal code sections invoked against Erendro are 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 505b(2) (public mischief), 295A (outraging religious sentiments), 503 (criminal intimidation) and 504 (breach of peace). If convicted, he can be jailed for up to three years. A journalist, Kishorechandra Wangkhem, too was arrested on May 13 for a similar post and rearrested on May 17 under the NSA following the grant of bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||Pegasus:  Amit Shah questions the timing of the leak||Union home minister Amit Shah, under attack from the Opposition on Monday over an explosive report on the alleged phone-tapping of prominent personalities in the country using Israeli spyware Pegasus, called it “a report by the disrupters for the obstructers”. He questioned the timing of the leak and said it was done to create disruptions on the first day of the monsoon session of Parliament. Shah also used his much controversial phrase “Aap chronology samjhiye” to counter criticism of the government over the Pegasus reports. “People have often associated this phrase with me in the lighter vein, but today I want to seriously say — the timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions… Aap chronology samjhiye! This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers,” he said in a statement. “Disrupters are global organisations which do not like India to progress. Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress. People of India are very good at understanding this chronology and connection,” he added. An international media consortium had on Sunday reported that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including that of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three Opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businessmen and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through an Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies. The Wire, a digital news platform, on Monday reported that senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, election strategist Prashant Kishor, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa, ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw and Prahlad Patel, TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee and the entire family of a Supreme Court staffer who had accused the then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment in 2019 were among those whose phones were either breached or were listed as potential targets by Israeli company NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware. Without naming Pegasus, the home minister said: “The facts and sequence of events are for the entire nation to see. Today the monsoon session of Parliament has started. In what seemed like a perfect cue, late last evening we saw a report, which has been amplified by a few sections with only one aim — to do whatever is possible and humiliate India at the world stage, peddle the same old narratives about our nation and derail India’s development trajectory.” Shah also slammed the Congress for the uproar in Parliament on Monday and accused the party of “trying to derail anything progressive that comes up in Parliament”. “Just a few days ago the council of ministers was expanded with great emphasis given to women, SC, ST and OBC members. But there are forces unable to digest this. They also want to derail national progress. This merits the question — to whose tune are these people dancing, who want to keep showing India in poor light? What pleasure do they get to show India in bad light time and again?” Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||Pegasus : IT minister says use of data did not amount to surveillance||New information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Monday told the Lok Sabha that use of data didn’t amount to surveillance, reacting to allegations that the Centre had snooped on opponents and critics using the Israeli spyware Pegasus. His predecessor Ravi Shankar Prasad wondered at a media briefing why India alone was being put in the dock when 45 nations were using Pegasus, thus appearing to acknowledge that the Narendra Modi government had used the spyware. Vaishnaw told the House: “It is also beyond doubt that the data has nothing to do with surveillance or NSO (the Israeli company that developed Pegasus), so there can be no factual basis to suggest that use of the data somehow equates to surveillance.” He added: “Any form of illegal surveillance is not possible with the checks and balances in our laws and our robust institutions.” The minister was making a statement on the controversy over a global investigative project that has claimed that Pegasus was used to snoop on more than 300 mobile phones in India. A fresh list released on Monday by the international exposé suggests that even Vaishnaw had been selected as a potential surveillance target in 2017. The Centre has so far evaded any direct reply to the specific question whether it had purchased the Pegasus spyware from NSO. Relying heavily on NSO’s statement, Vaishnaw termed the investigative report a conspiracy to malign India’s democracy while denying any unauthorised snooping by the government. Prasad seemed to indirectly admit government use of Pegasus but sought to deny it when asked directly. “Isiliye, yeh sawal phir relevant hota hai, ki jab 45 se adhik desh Pegasus ka upyog kar rahe hain, jaisa ki NSO ne bataya hai, toh sirf Bharat ko hi target kyon kiya jaa raha hai (Therefore, the question again becomes relevant that when more than 45 countries are using Pegasus, as NSO has said, why is India alone being targeted)?” Prasad said. Recently sacked as law, IT and communications minister, Prasad had been fielded to attack those using the Pegasus controversy to corner the government. Asked directly whether his party’s government at the Centre used the Pegasus spyware, Prasad first sought to avoid a direct reply. On being pressed, he said: “We have never said that we use (Pegasus).” He added that there was a foolproof legal framework for phone-tapping and that the government never breaks it. Put on the defensive by the international exposé, the government tried to play victim, alleging a design to defame it. “Is this some kind of revenge for the way India handled Covid, the way 75 per cent of the people are getting free vaccines and the way India’s global clout has increased under Prime Minister Modi?” Prasad asked. Vaishnaw said: “It can’t be a mere coincidence that this report has been leaked by a portal on the eve of the monsoon session.” Home minister Amit Shah said in a statement: “This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers. Disrupters are global organisations that do not like India to progress. Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress.” He said the people of India were very good at “understanding this chronology and connection”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||Denied football by global warming, on track to Tokyo ||Global warming has helped pave Alex Antony’s path to the Tokyo Olympics. Now the 26-year-old member of India’s mixed 4x400m relay team hopes his accomplishment would help highlight the misery his fishing community in Kerala has suffered from global warming, made worse by the human hand. Alex was just a boy when climate change inflicted its first wound on him. Born to an impoverished fishing family at Pulluvila on Thiruvananthapuram’s outskirts, Alex’s burning ambition was to become a footballer. He would play all day on the Irayimman Thura Purayidam beach that made up his front yard, and practise running every morning and evening. But by the time he was 10, “accretion” of the beach — the accumulation of a kind of sediment — had turned it into a vast, soggy area unfit for football. Alex’s dreams were wrecked. “I was crazy about football and it was extremely painful. But my teacher (at the PKS Higher Secondary School, Kadinamkulam) boosted my morale and convinced me about the possibilities of athletics,” Alex said. A. Bijukumar, ocean expert and head of the department of aquatic biology and fisheries at the University of Kerala, explained that these sediments were rocks, soil, clay and sand from other shores and beaches. The sea erodes its shores during some months, especially the turbulent monsoon months, and returns the same volume of sediment to the same shore after a few months. But global warming as well as breakwaters or any other huge constructions in the sea can alter the wind and wave patterns and cause the sediments to be deposited in other parts. In Thiruvananthapuram, sea erosion is happening north of Vizhinjam and accretion in Pulluvila to the south. The accretion increased after the construction of a 600m breakwater at the Vizhinjam fishing harbour, 7km north of Pulluvila. It worsened when about 800m of the proposed 3,000m breakwater of the Adani International Sea Port project came up in Vizhinjam. The accretion raised the edge of the Pulluvila beach by about 40 metres, preventing rainwater from flowing into the sea and turning the area swampy. It did not just stop Alex from playing football; the huge pools of accumulated water prevented the mooring of boats and the drying of fishing nets. The elevation of the beach made it difficult for the 600 fishing families to put their boats out to sea. Alex’s father Antony and younger brother Anil shifted their fishing operations to the Chettuva fishing harbour in Thrissur district, 287km away. The duo took turns to travel to Chettuva to keep the home fires burning. While poverty forced Anil to drop out of school and start helping his father, Alex continued his education at the Lio XIIIth Upper Primary School at Pulluvila and then at the Kadinamkulam school. There, physical education teacher Pradip handed Alex a pair of boots and a tracksuit and advised him to focus on athletics, using the school ground for practice. It changed the boy’s life. “We feel guilty for never being able to meet any of his training needs. His teachers helped him emotionally and financially,” Alex’s mother Sarjin, who dries small fish in the sun to buttress the family income, said. “He discontinued his degree course at the Sree Narayana College in Chempazhanthy in the second year because we could not meet the expenses. It was then that Sports Authority of India coach Nishad Kumar realised his potential and began training him.” Alex’s sports quota job with the Indian Air Force in Punjab came as a big respite for the family. His sister Anisha was married off recently. “Alex and his family have been bearing the brunt of climate change for a long time. Cyclone Tauktae, which devastated Kerala’s coasts in May, caused his small, old house to collapse,” said Joseph Vijayan, a scholar and a defender of coastal communities’ rights in the Thiruvananthapuram region. “Now the family lives in a relative’s house. Alex has taken a bank loan to renovate the badly damaged house.” Vijayan said about 65 per cent of Kerala’s coastline was eroded and 25 per cent faced accretion. Sandy beaches, which make up more than 90 per cent of Kerala’s 580km coastline, are more prone to erosion and accretion. Port areas in other states, including eastern Paradip in Odisha, too are facing accretion. But in Kerala, the unscientific construction of huge breakwaters and sea walls has aggravated the situation. Experts say erosion has increased to the north of the Rs 7,525-crore seaport being built by Adani and accretion to its south. K.V. Thomas, a scientist with the National Centre for Earth Science Studies, said the erosion-accretion in the Vizhinjam region would worsen, even posing challenges to the local airport and the Indian Space Research Organisation establishments in Veli and Thumba, because of the constructions related to the port. “Unfortunately, neither the environmental nor livelihood impacts of the project have been assessed sufficiently or accurately. The port is irresponsibly situated in the erosion-prone coast of Thiruvananthapuram,” Thomas said. “Several studies say the Vizhinjam coastline is not geared to withstand the potential impacts of the construction and operation of the mega port.” As for Alex, he could never hope to be an Olympian, surely, had the accretion not forced him off football and into athletics? “Yes, it was a blessing in disguise. I never thought I would represent my motherland in the Olympics,” Alex, speaking from Punjab, said. “It’s a matter of pride as I come from a family that experienced impoverishment at regular intervals. More than my future and career, I hope this opportunity helps me improve the conditions of my family.” But Alex has a bigger concern too. “My village faces an existential crisis. I hope my participation in the Olympics helps put a larger spotlight on the problems of fish workers south of Vizhinjam.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||Centre passes onus of dealing with rising private school fee to states ||The central government on Monday shifted the onus of dealing with the demand for a reduction in private school fees amid a drop in parents’ income during the pandemic to the states and Union Territories. In a written reply to an unstarred question in the Lok Sabha, education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the majority of schools, colleges and universities were under the domain of the state governments. “The subject matter of reduction of fee is within the purview of States/UTs,” said the written reply by Pradhan. “Education being in the concurrent list of the Constitution and majority of the schools, colleges and university are under the domain of respective State and UT Governments,” the reply added. Ashok Agrawal, president of All India Parents Association and a member of Delhi University court, said the association had written to the Centre to bring a legislation to provide relief to parents who had come under stress because of joblessness and a decline in income. Agrawal, a practising lawyer, said the central government was very much empowered to bring a legislation in Parliament. “The minister’s response that the subject of reduction of fee is under the purview of the state governments is wrong. Education being a concurrent subject, the central government has powers to bring a law. But this government does not want to bring any law on the fee issue because it wants to promote privatisation and profiteering by schools,” Agrawal said. He said the fees should be collected to pay teachers and staff and for basic maintenance during the pandemic. He said several states had enacted laws to regulate school fees, but they had inherent flaws, which failed to provide any relief to the public. “About 10 states have enacted laws on fee regulation, but none of these laws have any provision to reduce the fee during the pandemic,” Agrawal said. For instance, the law on fee regulation by Maharashtra, in force since 2011, says the demand for reduction would be considered only if 25 per cent of parents complain about high fee. “In many schools, parents do not have any union and fail to raise the issue. So the Maharashtra law is ineffective. Therefore, the central government must bring a law and rules to take care of these loopholes in state laws and ensure parents gets relief,” Agrawal said. Several states have asked private schools to not charge development and annual fees from students as the schools were closed to contain the spread of Covid-19. However, following court orders, schools in states such as Rajasthan and Delhi have started charging both the fees with 15 per cent reduction. They are also charging for arrears for some fees that had been waived last year. As a result, the fees have suddenly increased by 40 to 50 per cent in private schools in both the states, adding to the stress of parents. Anil Ahuja, a parent who manages his family by teaching in private coaching institutes here, questioned the rationale behind such charges. “The school has remained closed since last year. Hardly any developmental activities have taken place in the school. There is no other activity like annual function or seminar. Why is the school charging such kinds of fees?” Ahuja said. The development fees are charged towards undertaking developmental activities in the school while annual fees are charged for any educational trip or events. The Supreme Court had on May 3 delivered a judgment allowing private schools of Rajasthan to collect 85 per cent of fees for 2020-21. Last year, the Rajasthan government had directed CBSE-affiliated schools to charge 70 per cent of tuition fees only. It was upheld by Rajasthan High Court, but overruled by the apex court. The Delhi government had issued a similar order last year asking private schools to charge tuition fee, but not development or annual fees. The unaided schools challenged the order in Delhi High Court, which on May 31 allowed schools to charge the development or annual fees with a 15 per cent reduction. The court held that the arrears of last year had to be paid in six instalments. Pradhan, in his reply, said the University Grants Commission had issued a letter to the vice-chancellors of all universities and principals of colleges last year, requesting them to consider the fee issue sympathetically. However, the UGC acts as an advisory on fee-related matter. Its letter lacks enforceable power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
20-07-2021||India||BJP witnesses firefighting over Nalin Kumar Kateel's audio clip ||The BJP swung into intense fire-fighting after an audio clip purportedly that of state party president Nalin Kumar Kateel claimed that chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa and two senior ministers would be dropped soon. Already hassled over mon­ths of rebellion against Yediyurappa, the audio clip has come as the latest thorn in the side of the ruling party struggling to handle disgruntled elements. “Don’t tell anyone. Eshwarappa and Shettar will be dropped (and) a new team will be in place. I have three names in my hands (but) it will be decided only from Delhi,” the voice closely resembling that of Kateel is heard saying in Tulu, a language spoken mostly in coastal Karnataka and north of Kerala. K.S. Eshwarappa is the panchayat raj minister while Jagadish Shettar is the minister for large and medium-scale industries and a former chief minister. The “three names” were apparently alternatives to Yedi­yurappa, the Lingayat strongman who has held sway in the party for over two decades. While Kateel denied he had anything to do with the audio clip that was circulated widely on social media, the party threw its weight behind him with ministers and senior leaders coming out to douse the fire. “I have nothing to do with that audio clip. I am writing to the chief minister (clarifying this),” a visibly shaken Kateel told reporters on Monday. He even denied media reports that the BJP was working on replacing Yediyurappa who had on Saturday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, triggering speculation about him offering to quit in view of the rebellion. “There is no discussion on leadership change. So this issue is irrelevant,” Kateel said alluding to the rumours that Yediyurappa would be replaced in the coming days. In a clear attempt to placate the senior leaders, Kateel said: “Yediyurappa is the soul of the party while Eshwarappa and Shettar are the two eyes…there has been no discussion in our party about changing them.” On the origin of the audio clip, Kateel said he would respond only after a probe without specifying if he was lodging a police complaint. But a senior BJP functionary told The Telegraph that the voice sounded “very much” like Kateel. “It sounds very mu­ch like Kateel. Perhaps someone standing near him (Kateel) recorded it during some conversation,” said the leader who declined to be named. He, however, echoed the party’s view that there was no plan to remove Yediyurappa. “These are all speculation since we have repeatedly said Yediyurappa will continue till the 2023 election,” he added. There has been tremendous pressure from a younger bunch of leaders on 78-year-old Yediyurappa to step down. But the party has been careful not to antagonise his influential Lingayat community by forcing him out of office. While a slew of ministers defended Kateel and insisted there was no leadership change in the offing, a terse warning came from the seer of a powerful Lingayat mutt. “Dissidence is normal. But the BJP will have to face a severe blow if the chief minister is changed,” seer of Rambhapuri Mutt, Prasanna Veerasomeshwara Shivacharya Swami, told reporters on how the community would turn its back on the party if its favourite leader is replaced. While Yediyurappa and Shettar remained silent on the audio clip, Eshwarappa could not hide his angst. “I am 72 years old. I will go by what the party says. But don’t make Kateel a sacrificial lamb,” said the minister who had in April complained to Modi, the state governor and party bosses about Yediyurappa’s interference in his department. He said it didn’t matter being a minister. “I am not in politics for this (ministership). I will do whatever my leaders and organisation ask me to,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
