21-07-2021||India||Classes X and XII board exams for private candidates to be held from Aug 16 to Sept 15: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday announced that board exams for private candidates will be conducted from August 16 to September 15. The board ruled out declaring results of the private candidates on the basis of an alternative assessment policy like that for regular candidates, saying neither schools nor the CBSE has any previous assessment record for these students. "The exams will be conducted from August 16 to September 15 and their result will also be declared in minimum possible time to avoid any difficulty to them in admission in higher education," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. Earlier in the day, a group of private candidates staged a protest outside the CBSE headquarters alleging disparity between them and regular candidates. "The CBSE will declare the result of regular students as per the policy approved by Supreme Court. In case of regular students, schools are having records of the assessment done by the schools during the current year and thus their result could be declared based on the assessment policy," Bhardwaj said. "In case of the private candidates, neither the schools nor the CBSE have the desired records, hence, their result cannot be prepared based on the assessment policy. In case of regular students, schools have conducted a unit test, mid-term and pre-board examination and thus the performance of these students was available. "However, in case of private candidates (there are) no records based on which their assessment could be done without conduct of examination," he added. The board noted that issue of private candidates was also discussed in Supreme Court of India and thereafter policy was decided wherein written examination will be held for declaring result of private candidates. "This issue was discussed in detail and the court has agreed with all petitioners. The tabulation policy for assessment of results was framed by a committee looking into all aspects of regular and private candidates," he added. Bhardwaj said that the official notification for the exams will be issued soon. "The UGC and the CBSE are looking into the interest of all the students and the UGC will be synchronizing admission schedule based on the result of these students as it was done by UGC in 2020," Bhardwaj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Farmers to start demonstration at Jantar Mantar from Thursday||Farmers protesting the three contentious farm laws will start holding a stir at Jantar Mantar from Thursday under heavy security with Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal giving special permission for demonstrations by a maximum of 200 peasants till August 9.  A group of 200 farmers will travel to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses with a police escort and hold protests there from 11 am to 5 pm, sources in the Delhi Police said.  They said the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' union which has been spearheading the protest against the farm laws, has been asked to give an undertaking that all Covid norms would be followed and the stir would be peaceful.  Although the SKM said that their protest at the Jantar Mantar will continue till the end if the Monsoon Session of Parliament on August 13, the L-G has given permission for protest till August 9.  This is the first time since the violence in the national capital during a tractor rally on January 26 that the authorities have granted permission to protesting farmer unions to hold a protest in the city.  According to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Lt Governor Anil Baijal, who is also DDMA's chairperson, has given approval for a staggered protest at Jantar Mantar by a maximum of 200 farmers every day from Thursday to August 9 between 11 am to 5 pm.  "They would be conveyed by designated buses and six members of one separate group by a designated SUV on a given route under police escort subject to strict observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour (wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular hand washing and use of sanitiser etc.) and compliance of all other guidelines/ instructions/SOPs issued by Government of India and Government of NCT of Delhi from time to time in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic," the order said.  Adequate security arrangements will be made at the Jantar Mantar, sources said.  Gathering for protests is currently not allowed in the national capital, under a DDMA order.  Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.  Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws at major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.  The SKM had initially proposed that the protesting farmers will hold a 'Kisan Parliament' at Jantar Mantar every day, a few metres from Parliament.  After a meeting with Delhi Police officials on Tuesday, a farm union leader said they will hold peaceful demonstrations at Jantar Mantar demanding scrapping of the agri laws and no protester will go to Parliament.  "We will hold 'Kisan Parliament' from July 22 till the monsoon session ends and 200 protesters will go to Jantar Mantar every day. One speaker and one deputy speaker will be chosen every day.  "In the first two days, there will be a discussion over the APMC Act. Later, the other bills will also be discussed every two days," a leader had said.  Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh national president Shiv Kumar Kakka on Tuesday told PTI that farmers, wearing identification badges, will go to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border to hold the protest.  "We informed the police that every day 200 farmers will go to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses during the monsoon session. It will be a peaceful demonstration and protesters will have identification badges.  "When police asked us to reduce the number of protesters, we told them to focus on the law-and-order situation and also gave assurance that the protest will be peaceful," Kakka had said.  A tractor parade in Delhi on January 26, that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three agriculture laws, had dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Serum Institute writes to health minister proposing reforms in drug regulatory system||World's largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, Serum Institute of India (SII) has written to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya suggesting reforms in the existing drug regulatory system, including allowing manufacturing and stockpiling of non-Covid vaccines while undergoing clinical trial. According to official sources, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Pune-based SII, in a letter, referred to a gazette notification by the Union Health Ministry on May 18, 2020. He said it allowed manufacturing and stockpiling of Covid-19 vaccine under clinical trial for marketing authorization for sale or distribution. "Because of this rule, it became possible for us to manufacture and stockpile the Covid-19 vaccine during clinical trial and we could make the vaccine available in such a short span of time period to protect millions of lives. "It will be a big help for the vaccine industry if this rule is implemented for non-Covid-19 vaccines also," a source quoted Singh as having communicated in the letter to the minister. Singh also sought permission to use the remaining quantities of batches of Covid and non-Covid vaccines for commercial purposes which have been used in clinical trial. In this context, he said the Health Ministry had issued draft rules dated April 12, 2018, to allow remaining quantities of batches of vaccines which have been used in clinical trial for commercial use after granting of permission in form 46 (now it is form CT-23) and manufacturing licence in Form 28D. "However, the gazette notification in this regard has not been issued so far for the implementation of the same," Singh said. He also sought the implementation of recommendations of a high-powered inter-ministerial committee for reforming the Drug Regulatory Systems in India. The letter stated that on the directions of the prime minister, a high-powered Inter-Ministerial Committee for reforming the drug regulatory systems in India was formed under the chairmanship of then OSD, Rajesh Bhushan who is presently the health secretary. "Recommendations of this inter-ministerial committee should be implemented immediately in line with 'ease of doing business". The letter highlighted few other points also related to regulatory reforms and stated, "If few rules/regulatory provisions are amended, it will be a great help and encouragement for the vaccine industry to grow faster. We are putting forward the following points w.r.t. Reforms in the Drug Regulatory System for your kind consideration which will take the Vaccine Industry of our country to further new heights." "In view of the genuine difficulties being faced by the vaccine industry, I sincerely request for your kind intervention for the regulatory reforms. This will also be in line with our prime minister's vision of ease of doing business in India and will further encourage his dream project 'Making in India for the World'," Singh mentioned in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Aviation ministry forms advisory groups to resolve Covid challenges||The Civil Aviation Ministry has formed three advisory groups comprising airlines, airport operators, cargo carriers, ground handling companies, flying training organisations and maintenance, repair and overhaul companies to deliberate and resolve challenges faced by the sector, according to an official statement on Wednesday. India's aviation sector was badly hit by the coronavirus pandemic's second wave that swept the nation in April and May. Many aviation stakeholders are not in a good financial shape currently. The ministry said on Twitter: "Under the chairmanship of the Honourable Minister of Civil Aviation, Jyotiraditya Scindia, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has formed three advisory groups comprising airlines, airport operators and MRO, cargo carriers, FTOs and ground handling companies." "The groups shall meet regularly to deliberate upon issues and resolve challenges facing each sector. Orders have been issued for the same," it added. The first advisory group comprises chiefs of all major airlines in India -- Air India Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal, IndiGo Chairman Rahul Bhatia, SpiceJet Chairman Ajay Singh, Go First Director Ness Wadia, Vistara Chairman Bhaskar Bhat, AirAsia India CEO Sunil Bhaskaran, Alliance Air CEO Harpreet A De Singh. According to the Aviation Ministry's order on July 20, the first group would advise the government on issues such as safeguarding the viability of airlines, enhancing the domestic and international connectivity, promotion of passenger and cargo services, manpower skilling in the aviation sector and development of India as a hub for passenger travel, cargo and MRO services. The second group comprises top officials of major Indian airport operators -- Airports Authority of India Chairman Sanjeev Kumar, GMR Group Business Chairman G B S Raju, Adani Group Vice President Jeet Adani and Bangalore International Airport Limited Chief Executive Officer Hari K Marar. Another Aviation Ministry's order stated that the second group would advise the government on issues including enhancing the airport capacity, infrastructure augmentation and modernisation, increasing passenger facilities and amenities at airports and regulatory issues concerning airports. The third advisory group would comprise of four sub-groups: one each on MRO, ground handling, cargo and FTO. Each of the sub-group would have four industry executives as members who work in that particular industry. Scheduled domestic passenger traffic was suspended in India for about two months between March 25 and May 24 last year due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Since June 2020, the domestic traffic had been on a path of recovery when the second wave of the pandemic hit India during April and May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Don't protest: Yediyurappa amid exit speculations||With voices growing in his support, amid speculation that his replacement was on the cards, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa urged his supporters and well-wishers not to indulge in any kind of protests or indiscipline that is disrespectful and may embarrass the BJP.  The 78-year-old BJP veteran even said that the party is "like mother" for him.  "I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP.  It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics & behaviour.I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics & not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful & embarrassing for the party," Yediyurappa tweeted. Appealing to supporters not to give statements in his favour or indulge in protests, based on the current political developments, Yediyurappa in a tweet in Kannada said, "your goodwill should not exceed the boundaries of discipline.Party is like a mother to me and disrespecting it will cause pain to me. I believe that my true well wishers will understand and respond to my feelings."  Support has continued to pour in for Yediyurappa from Mutts, pontiffs, political leaders across the party line, amid speculations that his exit was on the cards.  Leaders and pontiffs, especially from the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, also All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha have declared support to Yediyurappa and have urged for his continuation as the Chief Minister, while also warning "bad consequences" for the BJP if he is replaced.  Some BJP leaders like MP G M Siddeshwara and former legislator B Suresh Gowda, among others, speaking in Yediyurappa's support, have also expressed confidence that he will continue as CM, as the high command has not asked him to step down.  Yediyurappa, who is completing two years in office on July 26, had visited Delhi last week, during which he had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP President J P Nadda.  The trip raised questions in some quarters if the party is now working out a succession plan.  On his return from the national capital, Yediyurappa had, however, dismissed reports that he is on the way out, and asserted that the central leadership has asked him to continue in the post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Editors Guild of India seeks Supreme Court-monitored probe into Pegasus case ||Expressing shock over media reports on widespread surveillance on journalists and politicians using Pegasus spyware, the Editors Guild of India on Wednesday demanded an independent Supreme Court-monitored inquiry into the alleged snooping. "The Editors Guild of India (EGI) is shocked by the media reports on the widespread surveillance, allegedly mounted by government agencies, on journalists, civil society activists, businessmen and politicians, using a hacking software known as Pegasus, created and developed by the Israeli company NSO," the Guild said in a statement shared on Twitter. It said the reports, which have been published worldwide over the last few days by a consortium of 17 publications, point towards surveillance by multiple governments across the world. Since NSO claims that it only sells this software to government clients vetted by the government of Israel, it deepens suspicion of involvement of Indian government agencies in snooping on its own citizens, read the EGI statement. An international media consortium had recently reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking using Pegasus software/spyware. The EGI condemned the surveillance on journalists saying it was an attack on the freedom of press. While some of the instances of surveillance might have been targeted against those who may be seen as credible national security threats, what is disturbing is that a large number of such targets were journalists and civil society activists. This is a brazen and unconstitutional attack on freedom of speech and press, the Guild said, adding that this act of snooping essentially conveys that journalism and political dissent are now equated with 'terror' . "How can a constitutional democracy survive if governments do not make an effort to protect freedom of speech and allow surveillance with such impunity," it said. Seeking an independent probe into the matter, the EGI demanded that the inquiry committee must include journalists and civil society activists to ensure independent investigation. "This is a moment that demands deep introspection and inquiry into the kind of society we are heading towards, and how far we may have veered away from the democratic values enshrined in our constitution. "The Guild demands an urgent and independent inquiry into these snooping charges, under the aegis of the Supreme Court of India. We also demand that this inquiry committee should include people of impeccable credibility from different walks of life--including journalists and civil society--so that it can independently investigate facts around the extent and intent of snooping using the services of Pegasus," the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||India successfully flight-tests New Generation Akash Missile, says DRDO||India on Wednesday successfully flight-tested the New Generation Akash Missile (Akash-NG) off the Odisha coast here, official sources said. The trial was conducted around 12.45 pm from a land-based platform with all weapon system elements such as multifunction radar, command, control $@$# communication system and launcher participating in deployment configuration, they said. The missile system has been developed by the Defence Research $@$# Development Laboratory (DRDL), Hyderabad in collaboration with other DRDO laboratories. The surface-to-air missile was launched from the Integrated Test Range (ITR). During the test, the missile demonstrated high manoeuvrability required for neutralising fast and agile aerial threats, the sources said. The flawless performance of the entire weapon system has been confirmed by complete flight data, they said. Once deployed, the Akash-NG weapon system will prove to be a force multiplier for the IAF. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO, Indian Air Force and production agencies for the successful test. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said in a tweet: "Congratulate @DRDO_India on the successful flight testing of the New Generation Akash Missile (Akash-NG) from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) off the coast of #Odisha".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Doctors in Uttar Pradesh 'leave' cloth inside woman's stomach during operation||Doctors at Government Medical College in Shahjahanpur have been accused of leaving a cloth in the stomach of a pregnant woman during a cesarean operation in January this year. The woman, who was admitted to the trauma centre of King George's Medical College in a serious condition, is said to be on a ventilator. Taking note of the matter, the principal of the medical college has formed a three-member inquiry team, which has been asked to give its report at the earliest. According to a complaint by Manoj, a resident of Ramapur North under the Tilhar police station, his wife Neelam (in her 30s) had given birth to a baby girl on January 6 during which a cloth was left in her stomach, said college Principal Rajesh Kumar on Wednesday. He said as soon as he received the complaint, he formed an inquiry committee, comprising Dr Archana, Dr Vibhor Kumar and Nursing Superintendent Sandesh Kumar. He said legal action will be taken against the culprits on the basis of the report. Meanwhile, the woman's husband told reporters that after the birth of their daughter, his wife used to complain of stomach pain. With no relief from treatment by private doctors, he said he got her admitted to a private medical college in Shahjahanpur where a CT scan revealed that a cloth had been left behind in her stomach and it was removed through an operation. She was later admitted to the Lucknow trauma centre after her condition did not improve, he said. The woman's father, Radheshyam, over the phone said her condition is critical. She has been kept on a ventilator, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||How Spinsvilla make big impact on online casinos||Casinos have been around for hundreds of years in one form or another, and once the internet was born, it was only a matter of time before gambling went digital. Sure enough, in 1996, people with Internet access (of whom there were surprisingly few) could enjoy a few games of blackjack, roulette, or even poker at the world's leading online casino. It's extremely basic and very slow, but even casino fans are hooked. Spinsvilla has listed the latest top online casino sites. This includes our casino reviews, brand ratings, the latest casino bonuses they offer new and old players, as well as reviews from players who have actually played. They regularly update this list and always search for the latest casino locations for you to play, and they try to compile detailed information on all bonuses straight from the no deposit bonus money, to accommodate the bonuses and all the other great player promotions offers, which you can read before opening an account and trying your luck! How did Spinsvilla change the game? Online Casino Review is the best guide to help you make an informed decision before betting online. Most players like to see reviews before deciding to use a casino site. This way you can see who is offering bonuses or withdrawals. If you are new to the game, you need some basic information to help you choose the best casino site. The best online casino sites should take care of your best interests and you should be sure of that. Again, you need to assess credit on trusted casino review sites like Spinsvilla to avoid being scammed. If you are in doubt about any of the great options, don't risk your money on these sites. Fake reviews team up with scam sites to steal from unsuspecting players. The evaluators do this based on the overall service and reliability of the site. In fact, online casino reviews are especially important for any serious player. If you want to bet your money confidently and win, use only trusted online casinos. But do you know the importance of these criticisms? If so, you are ready to go ahead and place your bets. If not, read on to understand why you need a casino review! Today we have a lot of illegal casinos in the gambling market, and this gives an advantage to honest casino sites in attracting more gambling customers. In this case, the customer and the company mutually benefit. Honest casino sites will also offer the best payouts to winning players. Casino sites can actually afford to pay you more because they are driven by profit and not greed like scammers. Genuine gambling sites pay players fast, have real reviews on-site and 24/7 customer service. There are several factors that casino reviews take into account when determining the best online casino. They evaluate the payout rates, the usability of the scoreboard, and the games offered. Review sites also look at payout speed to see if it works. After you combine all these factors, they will give you the best casino you can trust for your game. Trusted casino reviews will not favor any casino site. While there are millions of websites that claim to offer great bonuses and payouts to their customers, only legitimate ones can be used safely. A trustworthy casino website will not attract players but will provide website visitors with reliable information.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Farmers get Delhi police permission to stage protest at Jantar mantar||The Delhi Police on Wednesday gave permission to farmers to stage demonstrations at Jantar Mantar demanding scrapping of the agri laws during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament, official sources said. They said farmers will travel to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses with police escort. The monsoon session of Parliament started on Monday and is scheduled to conclude on August 13. A day earlier, farmers' unions said they will hold a 'Kisan Parliament' at Jantar Mantar during the monsoon session and 200 protesters from the Singhu border will attend it every day from July 22. After a meeting with Delhi Police officials on Tuesday, a farm union leader said they will hold peaceful demonstrations at Jantar Mantar demanding scrapping of the agri laws and no protester will go to Parliament. A tractor parade in Delhi on January 26, that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three agriculture laws, had dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at the Delhi borders against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws at major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Kangana moves HC against defamation case filed by Javed Akhtar||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has approached the Bombay High Court seeking the quashing of proceedings initiated by a city magistrate on a criminal defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. In an appeal filed through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, Ranaut claimed that the Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court initiated proceedings against her by relying only on the police's report and did not examine witnesses independently. Akhtar filed a criminal complaint against Ranaut in November 2020 before the magistrate for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in television interviews. In December, the court directed the suburban Juhu police to conduct an inquiry. After the police stated in its report that an offense was made out on the face of it and further probe was needed, the court initiated criminal proceedings against Ranaut and issued a summons to her in February 2021. "The metropolitan magistrate did not use his own powers to conduct an inquiry but instead blatantly used the police machinery to collect the signed witness statements...which is completely unheard of," the actor's plea said. It was likely that the witnesses were influenced by the police and the magistrate should have recorded evidence of witnesses under oath to "establish if an actual case was made out", it said. The high court is likely to hear Ranaut's plea next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra approached me to act in his videos, says YouTuber||Days after businessman Raj Kundra’s arrest in a porn films case, YouTuber Puneet Kaur has come forward to claim that she too was approached by him for an adult app called HotShots. Kundra (45), husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch on Monday night in a case, which it said, related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Kaur took to her Instagram stories to share that Kundra had offered her to act in one of the films. “Brooo do you OGS remember our verified DM video where he reached out to me for hotshots!?!? Im deaaad (sic).” “I can’t even WTF this mans was really luring people -we literally thought it was spam when he sent that DM to me!? Jesus Christ man rot in jail (sic),” she added. She also added excerpts from a previous video where she is seen talking to her friends about the incident. Kaur’s claims follow those of actresses Poonam Pandey and Sagarika Shona Suman, who allegedly faced similar issues. According to a report by India Today, Sagarika had addressed the media in February demanding Raj Kundra's arrest. She had claimed that Kundra asked her to give a nude audition. Kundra, remanded in police custody till July 23 by a Mumbai court on Tuesday in a porn films case, was involved in making and selling pornographic material and gaining financially from the illegal activity, the crime branch alleged while seeking his remand. The police claimed there were several WhatsApp chats that revealed Kundra was involved in the financial dealings of apps and their contents. The police also said three women have come forward with complaints in the case, saying they were "forced to act in pornographic movies". The accused persons took advantage of struggling models, actors and other workers, and made them work in these pornographic movies, the police said, adding these movies were shot in rented bungalows in Mumbai. The police also claimed that Kundra’s company was running operations for a London-based firm floated by a close relative which was into producing pornographic content for India Kundra was booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays), and relevant sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Class 12: CBSE extends deadline for schools to compile results||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday extended the deadline for schools to prepare Class 12 results to July 25, examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. Earlier, the deadline was July 22. Bhardwaj noted that the teachers involved in the result preparation process are under stress and getting panicky. "With the last date for finalising the results approaching fast, the teachers are panicky and committing mistakes and sending request to CBSE to rectify these. CBSE is well aware about the constraints and problems faced by the schools and teachers," Bhardwaj said in an official order. "Accordingly, CBSE has decided to extend the last date from July 22 to 25. Schools may continue to work towards compiling the result to avoid any last minute rush. In case, any school is left to complete the moderation of marks, the result of such schools will be declared separately," he added. With the board exams being cancelled in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19, schools have been tasked with tabulation of results using separate alternative assessment policy announced by the CBSE for the two classes. The CBSE, however, did not clarify whether extending the deadline for schools will cause a delay in declaration of results which are due to be declared latest by July 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Parliamentary panel likely to question officials on Pegasus scandal on July 28||A parliamentary panel on IT headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor is likely to question top government officials, including from Home Ministry, next week on allegations related to phone tapping of many using Pegasus spyware, sources said on Wednesday. An international media consortium has claimed that several Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers, Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee and some 40 journalists were among those whose phone numbers were listed as potential targets for hacking through the Israeli spyware which is usually supplied to government agencies. The Indian government and Israeli surveillance company NSO Group, which sells Pegasus spyware worldwide, have refuted the reports. The 32-member Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology headed by Tharoor is scheduled to meet on July 28. The agenda of the meeting is 'Citizens' data security and privacy', according to the notification issued by Lok Sabha Secretariat. The panel, which has maximum members from the ruling BJP, has summoned officials from the Ministry of Electronics, Information and Technology and the Ministry of Home Affairs. Sources in the panel said the Pegasus phone tapping issue will definitely be raised in the meeting and details will be sought from the government officials. The issue also rocked proceedings in Parliament as opposition parties launched a scathing attack on the government. Describing the entire snooping incident as a matter of "national security concern", Tharoor had demanded an explanation from the government. Speaking in Lok Sabha, Union IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw had dismissed the reports as "baseless" and said that the allegations levelled just ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament were aimed at maligning Indian democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||BJP protests against political violence in Bengal||Leaders of the Bengal BJP, including its president Dilip Ghosh and several MPs, sat on a dharna in New Delhi on Wednesday to protest against the alleged political violence targeting party workers in the state. The saffron party organised similar programmes in Bengal on a day Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee addressed her party's annual Martyrs' Day rally in Calcutta and hit out at the Narendra Modi government at the Centre over the Pegasus snooping row. Ghosh slammed the Bengal government for violence in the state. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged that a large number of its workers and their families and properties have been targeted by TMC supporters in the state after Mamata led her party to a huge win in the Assembly polls, the results of which were declared on May 2. The TMC has denied the charge and claimed that there has been little violence since Mamata took oath as chief minister for the third time. In a tweet, BJP national president J P Nadda said, "Entire country is watching poll violence against BJP workers in Bengal. In this violence, maximum atrocities have been inflicted on women, Dalits and children. We will fight democratically to demolish Mamata Banerjee's dictatorial mindset."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Instagram tests new 'Collab' feature in India, UK||Instagram on Wednesday said it is testing a new Collab' feature in India and the UK that will allow users to collaborate with others on Feed Posts and Reels. "Collaborating is a huge part of how people connect on Instagram. With 'Collab', you can invite a collaborator to your Feed Post and Reels and so they can share the content with their followers," a statement said. If the other user accepts, they will be shown as an author and the content will be shared to their profile grid and to their followers in the feed, it added. The content can be seen by followers of both the users and they can both see the shared feedback. India is among the two countries where this will first be tested, the statement said. The other market where this feature is being tested is the UK. "This is only testing with a small percentage of our global community now," the statement said. The Facebook-owned company is now increasingly launching many of its features in India first. Last year, it had launched its new format 'Reels' that allow users to create and share short videos, and India was among the first countries where it was launched. The company went on to launch a separate tab for 'Reels' and India was the first country to get this feature. India was also among the first two countries where Instagram launched Live Rooms - the feature where four people can go live together. Users can upload a feed post or create a 'Reel' as they normally would. At the end of the share screen, they will see the option to 'Tag People', clicking on which will allow them to now invite a collaborator by clicking 'Invite Collaborator'. Users can search for an account and add them as a collaborator, and the other account needs to accept the invite. "Only public accounts who are receiving the test experience can be invited to 'Collab'/co-author. Once the account has accepted the collaboration invite, they will be added to the tag screen and also noted in the header of your post," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||60 MLAs visit Navjot Sidhu in show of strength amid clashes with Amadrinder||In what is seen as a show of strength, nearly 60 Congress MLAs gathered at the residence of new state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu here on Wednesday, amid suspense over a possible truce between him and CM Amarinder Singh. Sidhu and Amarinder Singh has been at loggerheads for the past some time, with the Amritsar (East) MLA recently attacking the CM over the desecration cases. The chief minister was also averse to his appointment as the state Congress chief. After Sidhu's elevation, the CM had said that he won't meet him until the cricketer-turned-politician apologises for his "derogatory" tweets against him. On Wednesday, the MLAs joined by Sidhu boarded luxury buses and went to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, where a large number of Congress supporters gathered. Sidhu and the legislators are also scheduled to visit the Durgiana temple and the Ram Tirath Sthal here. On Tuesday, scores of Congress workers and Sidhu supporters had accorded a warm welcome to him when he arrived here after being appointed the state party chief. Sidhu, a former MP from Amritsar, had switched over from the BJP to the Congress ahead of the 2017 Punjab Assembly polls. On Wednesday, ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, former state party chief Sunil Jakhar also reached here. The party workers have put up posters of Sidhu at many places in the city. Some party MLAs and supporters here claimed that nearly 60 legislators reached here after they were asked by Sidhu to reach Amritsar for paying obeisance at the Golden temple and other shrines. MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur told reporters, "The 2022 elections will be won by the Congress in Sidhu's name and because of him. Today, entire Punjab wants him." "There is great enthusiasm among party workers after Sidhu's elevation. Our vote share will certainly go up," he said. On differences between Sidhu and Amarinder Singh, Jalalpur said, "The chief minister should welcome Sidhu with open arms. The chief minister also met Pratap Singh Bajwa who had been speaking against him. But Amarinder Singh's advisers are not guiding him properly." On Tuesday, the Punjab chief minister's media adviser had trashed media reports that Sidhu had sought time to meet Amarinder Singh. The media adviser also said there was no change in stance, asserting that Amarinder will not meet Sidhu till he publicly tenders an apology for his derogatory tweets against him. However, Jalalpur said there was no need for Sidhu to apologise, saying he is now the president of the state Congress. "Why should he apologise. It is right that he should respect and he respects the chief minister but for what should he apologise," asked Jalalpur. There has been no reaction from the CM over Sidhu's elevation as the state Congress chief. Earlier, senior Congress leader and cabinet minister Brahm Mahindra had ruled out any personal meeting with Sidhu till he resolves his issues with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Before going to Amritsar, Sidhu had been calling on ministers and legislators in Chandigarh to mobilise support in the past few days. Sidhu had already met several ministers and MLAs. After taking over as the state unit chief of the Congress, Sidhu had talked about the Punjab model, saying it will make the state prosperous again. An 18-point programme given by the Congress high command will make every Punjabi a shareholder and the power given by the people be returned in the shape of development, he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Landslides following heavy rains leave 150 people stranded in Champawat||Landslides triggered by heavy rains along the Tanakpur-Ghat national highway in Uttarakhand's Champawat district have left around 150 people stranded, an official said on Wednesday. As traffic remained blocked at Vishramghat on the highway till late Tuesday night, the district administration made arrangements for the stay of the stranded people in Champawat, District Disaster Management Officer Manoj Pandey said. Landslides occurred at eight points along the highway on Tuesday bringing mounds of debris onto the road. Though the debris was cleared at seven points by Tuesday evening, the rocks and boulders in Vishramghat could not be cleared till midnight despite efforts, Pandey said. Efforts to clear the rubble on the road in Vishramghat were resumed on Wednesday morning with the help of earth moving machines and a loader he said. Some of the stranded people, who were headed for Haldwani, are being sent there via Devidhura, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh put on life support||The health condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is critical and he has been put on life support, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) said on Wednesday. "Kalyan Singh ji's health status is critical. He was intubated and put on life-saving support system on Tuesday evening. His clinical parameters are being closely monitored by the expert consultants," the hospital said in a statement. The senior faculty of the critical care medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology departments are keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to Singh's health, it added. SGPGIMS Director R K Dhiman is closely monitoring the former chief minister's treatment on a daily basis, the statement said. Meanwhile, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited the hospital and inquired about Kalyan Singh's health from the doctors. "Visited SGPGI in Lucknow to inquire about health of Kalyan Singh ji. I pray to God for his speedy recovery," he said in a tweet. BJP veteran Kalyan Singh (89), who is also a former governor of Rajasthan, was admitted to the ICU of the hospital in the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||First transgender candidate in Kerala Assembly polls found dead||Noted trans activist Anannyah Kumari Alex, Kerala's first radio jockey from the third gender community, was found dead at her apartment in Ernnakulam district, following which the government ordered an immediate inquiry into the incident. The 28-year old trans-woman was found hanging from the fan in the bedroom of the apartment near Edappally on Tuesday night and a case of suicide was suspected, police said. Health Minister Veena George asked the medical director to carry out a probe into the incident as the organisation of the third gender community alleged that the deceased trans-woman was suffering from severe pain for some time following a sex reassignment surgery. Meanwhile, the health minister's office here also said an expert panel would be set up soon to study the issues related to the gender reassignment surgery. Also a celebrity makeup artist, a TV news reader and an established stage show anchor, Anannyah recently grabbed media attention as the first transgender candidate in the assembly elections in the state when she became the candidate of theDemocratic Social Justice Party in Vengara in the April 6 polls. Her fellow transgenders alleged that Anannyah was suffering from severe physical pain for some time after undergoing a sex reassignment surgery at a private hospital here last year and complained of medical negligence against the doctor who conducted the procedure. A trans-woman also said Anannyah was suffering from severe pain after the surgery and she had told the friends that she could not even stand for long or do any work due to the physical discomfort post the medical procedure. "She was actually a victim of medical negligence and surgical error. We have to depend private hospitals and subject to their exploitation as there is no facility for the sex reassignment surgery in the government sector," the transgender person added. Police said an investigation was on into the incident. Hailing from an ordinary family in Perumon in Kollam district, Ananyah, a plus-two drop out, had to leave home and family as they could not understand her worries over the gender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Opposition-ruled states claimed that there was no death due to oxygen shortage, says BJP||Noting that Opposition-ruled states claimed in courts that there was no death due to shortage of oxygen during the second Covid-19 wave and made similar assertions in their response to the Centre, the BJP on Wednesday hit back at its rivals amid a row over the Modi government's reply in Parliament on the matter. The government had told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave, drawing sharp criticism from opposition leaders. Deaths of patients in hospitals due to lack of the life-saving gas were reported from several states during the peak of the second wave in April-May as the demand for medical oxygen zoomed. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra noted that the central government's reply was based on the figures provided by states and UTs as health is a state subject. No state sent any data about patients dying due to oxygen shortage, he asserted. He accused Opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi of the Congress and Arvind Kejriwal of the Aam Aadmi Party, of doing politics on the matter, and said the states where these parties are in power have claimed that no one died there due to lack of oxygen. Hitting out at Gandhi, he said, "You have acted as a Twitter troll throughout the pandemic by writing two-line lies frequently. It is painful that a former president of one of the largest parties has behaved so irresponsibly." With the AAP also targeting the Modi government over its reply in Rajya Sabha, Patra noted that a Delhi government committee had told high court that there was no evidence to suggest that around 21 people had died due to shortage of oxygen in Jaipur Golden hospital on April 23-24 night after the hospital management reported the matter. The Maharashtra government also told Bombay High Court that no one died due to the oxygen shortage and Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo has also made similar claims, the BJP spokesperson said. Gandhi should speak to the chief ministers in the states where his party is in power instead of "lying" on Twitter and spreading confusion, he said. These opposition-ruled states had spoken about patients dying due to the oxygen crisis when the second wave was peaking as they wanted to target the Modi government but have taken a different stand in writing and their submission to courts, he said, adding that it shows they want to politicise the whole issue. It is not that the central government has tied their hands, and they should have spoken truth when they were asked to submit their response in writing, he asserted. To a question about the BJP-run states, Patra said people might have suffered there too but they neither levelled allegations like the opposition-ruled states nor the issue was taken to high courts there in this manner. Shortly after the statement in Rajya Sabha was made in a written reply by Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar on Tuesday, AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal accused the minister of having "misled" the house. Describing the statement as "condemnable", Venugopal, a Rajya Sabha MP to whose question the reply was given, said he will move a privilege motion against the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Id celebrated across India with masks on||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Opposition slams Centre on 'no oxygen death' claims||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday attacked the Centre over its statement that there were no deaths due to lack of oxygen during the Covid second wave, alleging that the fatalities happened because the government increased oxygen exports in the pandemic year and did not arrange tankers to transport it. The Centre on Tuesday told the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were "specifically reported" by states and union territories during the second Covid-19 wave that hit the country. Hitting out at the government, Priyanka Gandhi said, "'No death due to lack of oxygen': Central Government. The deaths happened because -- in the pandemic year, the government increased oxygen exports by about 700 per cent." The Congress general secretary alleged that the deaths happened because the government did not arrange tankers to transport oxygen and ignoring the advice of the empowered group and a parliamentary committee, no arrangement was made to provide oxygen. "No initiative was shown in setting up oxygen plants in hospitals," she said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain meanwhile said there have been many deaths due to oxygen shortage in Delhi and many other places across the country. "If there was no shortage of oxygen, why did hospitals move court? Hospitals and the media had been flagging oxygen shortage issues daily. Television channels showed that how hospitals were running out of the life-saving gas. It is completely false to say that no one died due to oxygen shortage. There have been many deaths due to oxygen shortage in Delhi and many other places across the country," he said. The central government on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave. But there was an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave and it peaked at nearly 9,000 MT compared to 3,095 MT in the first wave following which the Centre had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution among the states, it said. Responding to a question on whether a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar noted that health is a state subject and states and UTs regularly report the number of cases and deaths to the Centre. "Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union Health Ministry to all states and UTs. "Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states and UTs," Pawar said in a written reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Sporadic showers lash Mumbai, IMD issues red alert||The Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD issued a 'red alert' for Mumbai, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall in the country's financial capital on Wednesday. Earlier, the MeT office had sounded an 'orange alert', but it is now been changed to 'red alert' for Wednesday because of the "favourable synoptic conditions", Dr Jayant Sarkar, head of the Regional Meteorological Centre here said. Heavy rains had battered the metropolis on Sunday and Monday as well. "There are two favourable synoptic situations for heavy to very heavy rains in Mumbai today and in the next few days. The offshore trough, spread from south Gujarat coast to Karnataka is expected to increase the intensity of showers," Sarkar said. The second factor is the "shear zone" (referring to wind patterns) developed over Mumbai and the neighbouring region, he said. Sarkar there will be widespread rainfall over Konkan and central Maharashtra as well. The Marathwada region is also expected to receive widespread showers till Thursday and the rain intensity is likely to reduce subsequently, he said. There is an off-shore trough running between Maharashtra and Karnataka, which generally carries moisture-laden westerly winds from the Arabian Sea to land, another official from the MeT office said. In addition to it, there is an east-west "shear zone cutting across Maharashtra" and it has been adding to the prevailing favourable monsoon conditions, he said. These two synoptic systems are leading to very heavy rain over Konkan, Goa and central Maharashtra, especially the Ghat areas, the official said. Alerts by the IMD are colour-coded from green to red. A 'green' alert stands for 'no warning': no action needs to be taken by the authorities, and the forecast is of light to moderate rain. A 'red' alert stands for "warning", and asks authorities to "take action". An orange' alert indicates that the authorities are expected to be prepared .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||People celebrate Eid-ul-Adha, offer namaz at homes in Delhi amid pandemic||Devotees mostly stayed indoors to offer namaz and celebrate Eid-al-Adha in Delhi on Wednesday, as religious and festive gatherings remain prohibited in the city to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal greeted people on the occasion. "Hearty wishes to all the countrymen on Eid-ul-Adha. May this festival bring happiness and prosperity in your lives," Kejriwal tweeted. The day lacked usual hustle bustle and festivity as major mosques such as Jama Masjid and Fatehpuri Masjid in old Delhi were closed for the visitors. Police personnel were also deployed outside the mosques to prevent crowding. "As congregational prayers are not allowed due to COVID-19 restrictions, just a few staffers and their family members offered namaz on Eid-ul-Adha today. People themselves are careful and not thronging the mosques to keep safe from the virus," said Syed Ahmed Bukhari, Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid. A senior police officer said meetings were held with Imams earlier to urge them to encourage people to celebrate Eid at their homes for everyone's safety amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Police presence was enhanced and patrolling was intensified to ensure no overcrowding took place amid festivities, he said. "Posters were also pasted by the police wishing everyone Eid Mubarak and at the same time urging them to celebrate the festival at home with their families and stay safe," he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said the Imams and other members of mosques were briefed about the Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) guidelines regarding Covid and their cooperation was sought for safe celebrations on the festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||India witnesses spike in Covid deaths as Maharashtra reconciles data||India recorded a single day rise of 3,998 coronavirus fatalities with Maharashtra carrying out its 14th Covid data reconciliation exercise, pushing the country's death toll to 4,18,480 while 42,015 new infections were reported, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 3,12,16,337. The ministry said that Maharashtra has carried out its 14th reconciliation exercise of Covid data in the state. As a result, the state's positive case tally has increased by 2,479 while the death tally has increased by 3,509. The active cases have increased to 4,07,170 and comprise 1.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent,the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 1,040 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,52,140 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 44,91,93,273, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.27 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 30 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.09 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,03,90,687 and the case fatality rate has increased to 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 41.54 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Covid: Govt denies receiving report of deaths due to oxygen crisis||The government told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that it had not received any report of patients dying because of shortage of oxygen and lack of hospital facilities during the second wave of the pandemic from any state or Union Territory. What the government left unsaid was that it had not sought this information from the states and Union Territories. The matter-of-fact statement aimed at tamping down the widespread despair over lack of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 had the opposite effect as it brought back to mind the stark images of patients gasping for breath in ambulances, hospital corridors and cars. The Union government’s claim that there was no report of any death owing to oxygen shortage was the response provided by the health ministry in the Rajya Sabha to two separate questions on the issue — one from Congressman K.C. Venugopal and another from M.V. Shreyams Kumar of the Loktantrik Janata Dal. Responding to a question on the number of patients who died because of shortage of oxygen and lack of hospital facilities in the country, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said: “Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by Union health ministry to all states/UTs. Accordingly, all states/UTs report cases and deaths to Union health ministry on a regular basis. However, states have at times reported backlog deaths in case of late reporting from hospitals and districts but no such reports of patients dying due to shortage of oxygen and lack of hospital facilities in the country have been received by the ministry from any State/UT.’’ The minister was technically correct as the states were never asked by the Union health ministry to compile data on oxygen deaths. The state governments were only asked to tabulate Covid deaths and not register them as cardiac or nephrology case if the deceased person had tested positive. The written response by the ministry overshadowed the four-hour-long discussion on Covid in the Rajya Sabha. Given the gravity of the situation, the Opposition called a ceasefire on their protests over the snooping controversy and agreed to the discussion that was followed by the health ministry briefing to MPs on the pandemic in the Parliament annexe. The Congress, RJD and Left parties stayed away from the briefing as did the Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal; insisting that the government should be providing these details on the floor of the House when Parliament is in session and not outside. Through the debate in the Rajya Sabha, several Opposition MPs accused the government of making former health minister Harsh Vardhan the fall guy for the follies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in handling the pandemic and also vaccine management. The government’s perennial self-congratulatory mode also came in for sharp criticism. In a particularly sharp critique, RJD’s Manoj Jha said: “People who died in Covid have left a living document about the failed system. We have witnessed undignified deaths. Why are we not talking about right to health as part of right to life? Also there should be right to work.’’ Replying to the debate, Mandaviya urged all parties not to indulge in politics over the pandemic; adding that collective resolve and Prime Minister Modi’s guidance can help the nation ward off a third wave. He also contested leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge’s charge that the Modi government has not been furnishing correct data, asserting that the Centre has not tampered with data on either the number of Covid cases or deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Covid: Two- third of Indians have virus antibodies, says Study||Two-thirds of India’s population, or over 900 million people, have antibodies to Covid-19, implying prior infections or possible protection, a nationwide survey has indicated, prompting some experts to predict that a third wave could be unlikely without fresh mutations in the virus. The survey has found that 67.6 per cent of a sample of 28,975 individuals aged six years or older from 70 districts across 21 states had antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, implying possible protection, either from prior infections or vaccination. The findings suggest that the fraction of the country’s population possibly protected from Covid-19 infections has ballooned from 24.1 per cent in January 2021 to over 67.6 per cent by July 2021. But the results also imply that over 400 million of India’s 1.3 billion population are still vulnerable to the infection. “There is a ray of hope, but no room for any complacency,” Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the apex health research agency, said while releasing the findings of the survey on Tuesday. “We must maintain Covid-19 appropriate behaviour…. Societal, public, religious and political congregations should be avoided, non-essential travel should be discouraged, travel only if fully vaccinated.” The new survey was the fourth in the same 70 districts conducted by the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. Each survey has shown a sharp increase in the proportion of the population infected — 0.7 per cent in June 2020, 7.1 per cent in August 2020 and 24.1 per cent in January 2021. Unlike the previous surveys, this time a significant proportion of the population also had antibodies resulting from the vaccination campaign India launched in mid-January. The June-July 2021 survey has found antibodies in 62 per cent of 12,607 unvaccinated individuals, in 81 per cent of 5,038 individuals vaccinated with a single dose and in 89 per cent of 2,631 people who had received two doses. “We cannot let our guard down — we still have over 40 crore (400 million) vulnerable,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert group that guides the vaccination policy who is also a member of the Niti Aayog. “One in three is still vulnerable. We want them to gain protection through vaccination, not infection,” Paul said. “The pandemic is no way over. The second wave is still persisting.” But sections of health experts believe the large fraction of the population protected by either prior infections or vaccinations has meant the virus is running out of people to infect in India. “I would say a third wave is very unlikely — unless we have new mutations in the virus that change things,” said T. Jacob John, a senior clinical virologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, who was not associated with the survey. The emergence and spread of the highly transmissible Delta variant was a key factor that contributed to the speed and size of the country’s second wave that has increased the number of lab-confirmed infections in India from around 10 million to over 30 million. “Without new mutations, we could expect small ripples as the virus continues to spread among the susceptible population,” John said. But Paul and Bhargava have both cautioned that the national survey findings should not be used to extrapolate infection prevalence in districts. “This is an overall panoramic feature for the country — we want districts and states to conduct their own surveys,” Bhargava said. The new survey has shown that the infection has spread widely in rural India — as evident by the large numbers of infections and deaths reported during the second wave. The proportion with antibodies in rural India is 66.7 per cent while in urban India it is 69.6 per cent in the July survey — from 19 per cent in rural and 31 per cent in urban India in January 2021. “It was evident that the second wave would narrow the gap between urban and rural India,” John said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Demonstrations to be held at Jantar Mantar ||Farmers will hold peaceful demonstrations at Jantar Mantar here demanding scrapping of the new farm laws and no protester will go to Parliament where the monsoon session is underway, a farm union leader said on Tuesday. Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh national president Shiv Kumar Kakka told PTI after a meeting with Delhi police officers that from July 22, 200 farmers, wearing identification badges, will go to Jantar Mantar every day from the Singhu border to hold the protest. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the agriculture laws, had planned that around 200 peasants will protest outside Parliament every day from July 22 during the monsoon session. The monsoon session of Parliament started on Monday and is scheduled to conclude on August 13. “We informed the police that every day 200 farmers will go to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses during the monsoon session. It will be a peaceful demonstration and protesters will have identification badges. When police asked us to reduce the number of protesters, we told them to focus on the law-and-order situation and also gave assurance that the protest will be peaceful,” Kakka said. No written communication has been received from the police yet, he said. “Police were informed that the protest will be peaceful. We will sit at Jantar Mantar from 10am to 5pm. Nobody will go to Parliament and neither we will allow any political person to come to the protest,” he said. The SKM has already stated that there are no plans of laying siege to Parliament. The protest will be peaceful and disciplined, it had said in a statement. Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||SC takes up compensation plea of Manipur activist||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Manipur government on a plea for compensation for “illegal detention” of an activist the court freed on Monday after he had spent 67 days in custody over a social media post, disagreeing with the BJP-ruled state’s appeal that the matter be put to “rest”. Activist Leichombam Erendro, who had been booked under the National Security Act and arrested on May 13 for a Facebook post that said cow urine and cow dung do not cure Covid, was directed to be set free by Monday evening by the apex court that observed that his continued detention “would amount to a violation of the right to life and personal liberty”. Erendro, who had made the comment after the death of Manipur BJP chief S. Tikendra Singh, was released at 4.45pm on Monday from a prison in the state. When the matter came up for further consideration before the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah on Tuesday, Erendro’s lawyer, Shadan Farasat, pleaded that the prayer for compensation for “illegal arrest and detention” in the petition should also be considered. The petition was filed by Raghumani Singh, Erendro’s father. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Manipur government, argued that the matter should be put to rest as Erendro had been released. “…I request this may rest here,” Mehta said, stating that the government had readily complied with the direction for the activist’s release and also revoked the NSA charges against him. However, Justice Chandrachud, heading the bench, said while referring to Erendro’s detention: “It’s a serious matter. Someone has lost their liberty since May.” Mehta responded: “Yesterday I didn’t even attempt to defend it. And yesterday itself it was revoked.” The court said it would record the solicitor-general’s submission and sought the views of Farasat. Erendro’s counsel submitted that FIRs had been registered against the activist, besides his detention under the NSA, but no chargesheet had been filed yet. Farasat argued that orders of detention were passed in a cavalier manner, so responsibility had to be fixed on officials. Mehta insisted again that the matter be put to rest, pointing out that the government had revoked the NSA charges. The bench then passed the following written order: “Mr Tushar Mehta, learned solicitor-general, states that after the proceedings were heard by this court on 19 July 2021, an order has been passed on the same day releasing the detenue pursuant to the interim direction and the order by which he has been detained under the provisions of the National Security Act, 1980, has been revoked. “Mr Shadan Farasat, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner, submits that there is also a prayer for compensation which has been made in the proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution. Issue notice. Mr Tushar Mehta, learned solicitor-general appearing with Mr Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar, learned counsel, accepts notice. The counter affidavit be filed within two weeks. List the petition on 6 August 2021 for final disposal…” In the petition, Raghumani had sought contempt action against the Manipur chief secretary and two other officials. In a separate habeas corpus petition, he had pleaded for the production of his son and adequate compensation for the allegedly wrongful arrest and detention. The petition had pointed out that despite Erendro being granted bail for alleged offences under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 505(b)(2) (public mischief), 295A (outraging religious sentiments), 503 and 504 (breach of peace) by a trial court on May 17, he was rearrested on the orders of a district magistrate under the NSA. The aggrieved father had pleaded that Erendro was arrested and detained despite the Supreme Court on April 20 passing an order that citizens airing their views on the Covid crisis on social media shall not be subjected to criminal cases or arrested. Raghumani had said that the Manipur government’s actions amounted to contempt of court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Modi silent on snoop scandal in party meet ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the Congress had been reduced to being in power in just “two-three states” but had a misplaced sense of “entitlement”, keeping his focus on the Opposition party at a meeting of BJP MPs on Tuesday and not bothering to clear the air on the Pegasus snoop scandal. Picking up from where he had left off on Monday in his effort to attack the Congress, Modi was quoted as telling the BJP MPs during the closed-door meeting: “The Congress still has a sense of entitlement that they have ruled the country for 60 years. They are unable to digest that the people have chosen the BJP.” The Opposition had stalled Parliament proceedings for the second day, protesting against the government over the snoop scandal, Covid mismanagement, price rise and farm laws, among other issues. The Lok Sabha saw multiple adjournments before getting washed out for the day. Opposition members waved placards and shouted slogans against the government. At the weekly meeting of BJP MPs of both Houses, Modi did not mention the Pegasus scandal, MPs who were present said. His government has not denied that it is a client of Israeli firm NSO, which owns the Pegasus spyware and only sells it to governments. The list of those selected for surveillance by an unknown client of the Israeli firm includes Indians in key positions and should have been of concern to any government. Modi, however, focused on the Congress’s election defeats in Bengal, Assam and Kerala without mentioning the BJP’s loss in the Bengal polls, where he and all his senior ministers had campaigned hard. “The Congress has been reduced to just two-three states but instead of being concerned about its plight, they are concerned about us (the BJP),” Modi told the MPs. The Prime Minister did not mention that in two states where the BJP is in power now — Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka — the Congress had won the election and formed the government but these were later toppled. The BJP then formed the government in both states with the help of the defectors. The Wire news portal reported on Tuesday that in July 2019, when the BJP was trying to pull down the Karnataka government, the phone numbers of several key leaders of ruling allies JDS and Congress, and their aides, were listed for surveillance. At the BJP meeting on Tuesday, the Prime Minister described the Congress’s conduct inside and outside Parliament as “irresponsible and unfortunate” and said it was unable to digest the fact that the BJP was in power. Modi accused the Congress of spreading lies about the shortage of vaccines and claimed that the Opposition party wanted to spread a negative atmosphere in the country. Less than 7 per cent Indians are fully vaccinated and shortages and long queues have been reported across states. He asked the MPs to visit fair price shops on July 24 and 25, when food grains would be distributed among the poor, stressing the need to defeat the Opposition’s campaign over the Covid crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||HC raps Centre on OBC reservation in state medical colleges||Madras High Court has held as “contumacious” the Centre’s decision against implementing its judgment in favour of OBC reservation in the all-India pool in state medical colleges. “The Union’s attempt to not implement the OBC reservation quota in respect of the all-India quota seats… in the academic year 2021-22 appears to be contumacious, in derogation of the order dated July 27, 2020, passed by this Court,” the court said on Monday. The court directed the Centre to make its stand on the issue clear within a week. The order came in response to a contempt petition filed by the ruling DMK in Tamil Nadu. The recently published information brochure for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, held to select students for medical courses, says there will not be OBC reservation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges. Madras High Court had last year directed the Centre to set up an expert committee for implementation of OBC reservation in these all-India pool seats from 2021-22. The Centre, however, submitted the report of the committee before the Supreme Court in a case pending since 2015, triggering allegations of deliberate delay. The case had been filed by an aspiring medical student seeking reservation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges. The NEET brochure mentions that the OBC reservation in this category will depend on the outcome of the case in the Supreme Court. DMK leader P. Wilson, also a lawyer who argued the case in Madras High Court, said the Centre did not need to club the report with another pending case. “The central government wants to delay the matter. There was no need to club the report with the pending case in the Supreme Court,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Centre plans to tweak State's right to prepare their own lists of OBCs||The Centre on Tuesday indicated it was considering a constitutional amendment to overrule a two-month-old Supreme Court judgment that had shot down the states’ right to prepare their own lists of the Other Backward Classes. Seven Lok Sabha members had asked questions relating to the May 5 apex court judgment that says the Centre’s overall list of OBC communities will apply to the states too. To the question whether the Centre was considering a constitutional amendment to restore the states’ power to decide their own OBC lists, minister of state for social justice Pratima Bhoumik said: “The matter is under examination.” The Centre has an overall OBC list, which is the basis for the 27 per cent quota in central government jobs and higher education seats. But till now, the states too had their own OBC lists — which tended to include additional castes — and their own OBC quotas for state-level jobs and college and university seats. According to the apex court judgment, the Centre will revise its OBC list by including every additional caste that is on any state’s list. This list will then apply to every state. The states will continue to retain their respective OBC quota volumes — which is, for instance, 50 per cent in Tamil Nadu. But they can no longer amend the OBC list, which they used to do before by including new groups through executive orders. Under the apex court order, the Centre alone can amend the list, that too with Parliament’s clearance. The Supreme Court passed the order while striking down the Maharashtra government’s inclusion of Marathas under the OBC quota as “unconstitutional”. G. Karunanidhy, national general secretary of the All India OBC Federation, said the Centre’s slowness in bringing in a constitutional amendment suggested it was “not serious” about the matter. “The judgment came in May. All OBC groups asked the government for an immediate constitutional amendment to restore the states’ powers,” he said. “The Centre went for a review of the judgment. The Supreme Court has dismissed the review too. The government is still ‘examining’ the issue. It does not seem serious about a constitutional amendment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Congress alleges spyware was used to topple governments||The Congress on Tuesday alleged the Israeli spyware Pegasus was used not just to target individuals but also to topple governments and destroy democratic institutions, referring to the defection game in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh and the post-retirement benefits enjoyed by a former Chief Justice of India. The comments came after the news portal The Wire reported that the phones of senior Karnataka politicians and their personal assistants were selected as potential targets for surveillance in 2018-19 when the Congress-JDS government was pulled down and a BJP ministry installed. Only digital forensics can establish if the shortlisted phones were infected with the spyware. But the timing of the selection of the phone numbers, which coincided with the machinations to engineer defections, appears to have prompted the Congress to conclude that hacking indeed took place. “It’s not merely spying on individuals to defame or control them. It is a sinister conspiracy to destroy democracy and establish dictatorship,” the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said. “It’s possible that even the Madhya Pradesh government was toppled using information collected through Pegasus. They are trying the same trick in Maharashtra as well.” K.C. Venugopal, Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, said: “Former (Karnataka) chief minister (P.C.) Siddaramaiah (of the Congress) doesn’t keep a mobile phone and hence the phone of his PA, Venkatesh, was tapped. “The phones of aides of the then chief minister, (H.D.) Kumaraswamy (of the JDS), and deputy chief minister (G.) Parameshwara (of the Congress) were tapped. It is not about merely peeping into people’s bathrooms, bedrooms and kitchens; it’s about grabbing power.” Venugopal said the party would “march to all the Raj Bhavans on Thursday to demand a judicial probe under the supervision of the Supreme Court”. He went on to hint at a larger conspiracy: “When we went to the Supreme Court to seek disqualification of our MLAs who had defected, what was the judgment? The judgment has now become instrumental in facilitating horse trading. “The (then) Chief Justice of India who delivered the judgment is now a Rajya Sabha MP. Why is the (Narendra) Modi government running away from a thorough enquiry?” Chief Justice turned Rajya Sabha member Ranjan Gogoi had presided over politically sensitive cases such as the Ayodhya land dispute, Rafale deal and the NRC update in Assam. A woman who had complained of sexual harassment against Justice Gogoi was among the potential targets of the Pegasus-enabled surveillance along with her family, according to the media collective that investigated the operation. Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury too referred to Justice Gogoi, saying: “Events are now unfolding to expose the sinister game. Modi-Shah have introduced a new art to subvert democratic processes.... Gogoi was rewarded immediately after his retirement for the judgment he gave to help Modi.” He added: “His judgments need to be examined. This judgment says the MLAs cannot be compelled to take part in an Assembly vote. The people of India should introspect where we are going.” Siddaramaiah, who was present at the news conference, said: “Fourteen MLAs of the Congress and three from the JDS resigned and later joined the BJP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi played the dirty game. The phones of our assistants were tapped. This dirty game has to be stopped. It’s a crime.” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Never in the history of Independent India did this happen (before), that the Supreme Court said the whip of the party will not be operative on the rebel MLAs. Gogoi nullified the anti-defection law. “And this is happening when the woman who accused him of sexual exploitation and her family members are also put under surveillance by using the Pegasus spyware. Modi-Shah have murdered democracy and trampled on the rule of law using the spyware. This (Union) home minister (Amit Shah) has no moral right to continue even for a minute.” At another news conference, Congress Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil said: “I come from Gujarat, and we know these two (Modi and Shah) used to do the same thing there. At that time, the top officer of the intelligence department, Sreekumar, said in an affidavit before the Nanavati Commission that ‘Modi had asked me to tap one number’. The number belonged to a media house owner. Haren Pandya (the former BJP home minister of Gujarat who was murdered) also used that phone.” He added: “Then there is the infamous case of snooping on the 21-year-old girl — the entire story is in the public domain. They are habitual offenders: in legal parlance, it’s called history sheeter. If these people are not responsible for the Pegasus spying, why are they not ordering a judicial probe? Why are they not accepting our notice in Parliament for a debate?” In August 2009, an aide to then Gujarat chief minister Modi had ordered a snooping operation on a young woman “at the behest of his sahib”, a purported sting operation had claimed in 2013. A suspended IAS officer, Pradeep Sharma, had claimed the government had targeted him because he knew about the alleged spying. Gohil said the simple question that had to be answered was whether the spyware was bought or not. “Let there be a judicial inquiry after sacking Amit Shah.” Senior lawyer Kapil Sibal said: “This is a threat to national security as the data are stored with a foreign agency. And if a malware is injected into the phones of ministers, this is also a violation of the Official Secrets Act because ministers may have confidential information on their phones.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Diplomats based in Delhi on the list of potential targets||Several diplomats based in Delhi are on the list of potential targets for phone hacking using the Pegasus spyware, reported the French newspaper Le Monde that was part of the media collective that investigated the matter. Although over 24 hours have elapsed since Le Monde published the report, there has been no official word from any of the diplomats targeted or their missions. According to the report, the phone numbers of the New Delhi-based heads of the diplomatic missions of Pakistan, China, Afghanistan, Iran, Nepal and Saudi Arabia featured on the list of potential targets since 2017. In the case of Pakistan, it is almost a given that the government here would be monitoring the diplomats as is done by Islamabad with Indian diplomats based there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Covid: Death toll in India so far is likely to be close to four million ||The number of people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic in India so far is likely to exceed three million — nearly 10 times the official Covid-19 death toll — making it one of the worst human tragedies in the nation’s history, according to a new study. In a comprehensive examination of the true toll of the pandemic in the nation of 1.4 billion, the Center for Global Development, a Washington research institute, attempted to quantify the excess deaths from all causes during the pandemic based on state data, international estimates, serological studies and household surveys. “True deaths are likely to be in the several millions, not hundreds of thousands, making this arguably India’s worst human tragedy,” said its authors, one of whom is Arvind Subramanian, former chief economic adviser to the Narendra Modi government. The official government numbers have been called into question repeatedly. Even as funeral pyres lit up the night sky and bodies washed up on the Ganga, with death all around, the Modi government was widely underreporting the scale of the devastation. A chorus of experts has said the country’s official estimates are a gross understatement. The study released on Tuesday estimates that between 3.4 and 4.7 million more people than would normally be expected died between January 2020 and June 2021, and includes an estimate suggesting that deaths from Covid-19 alone may have reached four million. “Estimating Covid deaths with statistical confidence may prove elusive,” the authors wrote. “But all estimates suggest that the death toll from the pandemic is likely to be an order of magnitude greater than the official count of 400,000; they also suggest that the first wave was more lethal than is believed.” The authors said the undercount of death after the first wave of infections last year may have resulted, in part, from the fact that it was “spread out in time”, as opposed to the sharp curve of the second wave when hundreds of thousands died amid shortages of oxygen, beds and vaccines. The study has said the country’s inability to grasp the “scale of the tragedy in real time” during its first wave from March 2020 to February 2021 may have caused “the collective complacency that led to the horrors of the second wave”. At the height of the second wave, interviews by New York Times reporters at cremation grounds across three states in India revealed an extensive pattern of deaths far exceeding the official figures. Nervous politicians and hospital administrators may also have undercounted or overlooked large numbers of the dead, analysts said. And grieving families may be hiding Covid connections as well, out of shame, adding to the confusion. India is still reporting nearly 40,000 new cases and about 500 deaths a day, according to a New York Times database. Less than 7 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated. And Modi’s government has warned of an impending third wave of infections, which government scientists say could strike as early as August. “The spirit of this paper is not to privilege any one estimate but simply to lay them out with transparency,” the authors of the excess deaths study, Abhishek Anand, Justin Sandefur and Subramanian, said. “Given all the difficulties, getting at the true estimate will be difficult and only by piecing together data from different sources will we improve our understanding of the reality of the pandemic.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
21-07-2021||India||All-faith Justice Day next week in memory of Stan||The Jesuit Conference of India has called upon its followers and friends to mark July 28 as National Justice Day in memory of Father Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest who died in judicial custody while awaiting bail in the Elgaar Parishad case on July 5. In a statement, Jesuit Conference of India president Stanislaus D’Souza invited people irrespective of religious identity to pay homage to Fr Stan on July 28. D’Souza said: “We, along with civil society organisations and the people of goodwill, have now organised National Justice Day… to pay homage to Fr Stan and to recommit ourselves to the mission of truth and justice. “I cordially invite you to be a part of this collective event, a silent public gathering with placards, posters, banners and candlelight in front of churches, religious communities and institutions all over India on Wednesday, 28 July 2021, from 6pm to 6.45pm, of course following strictly the Covid-19 protocol.” Besides Catholics, the event will include staff and students from Jesuit institutions like Calcutta’s St Xavier’s, and civil society members, he added. D’Souza told The Telegraph: “The purpose is to keep the momentum, to awaken the conscience of people to human rights, tribal rights, (and) human rights defenders languishing in jail. In a way, to take forward the legacy of Fr Stan. It is locally organised. The provincials (of the Jesuits) will coordinate with the bishops and civil society.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
21-07-2021||India||Covid: Expert recommends opening primary schools first||Primary school classes should open to students ahead of higher classes, a top health official said on Tuesday, asserting that the decisions should be taken only after ensuring that all school employees have been fully vaccinated. “Once districts start considering (opening schools), it would be wise to open primary schools first. This should be done before the secondary schools open,” said Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). India’s shrinking epidemic has triggered speculation among sections of the public about when educational institutions, including schools, might open for indoor classes. Studies in India and other countries have established that severe Covid-19 is rare in children, although the virus infects kids. School closures have been part of restrictions adopted by most countries worldwide in efforts to curb the spread of the virus. But some countries, including Sweden, had kept preschools and primary classes open during the spring of 2020. The UN agency Unesco has said schools in 195 countries have been fully or partially closed and hundreds of millions of children around the world are unable to attend classes in schools because of enforced closures. The latest nationwide survey by the ICMR has shown that 57 per cent of children aged between six and nine years have antibodies against Covid-19, an infection prevalence level close to the national average of 67 per cent or 66 per cent in the age group of 18-44 years. “But before districts start considering to open schools, all support staff, whether bus drivers or teachers or other school staff, need to be vaccinated,” Bhargava said. A study by the Karolinska Institute in Sweden has observed the low risk of severe Covid-19 among children during March-June 2020 when its primary schools had remained open. The Swedish researchers found that between March 1 and June 30, 2020, 15 children with Covid-19 or a post-Covid inflammatory illness had been treated in intensive care units in that country. “That is the equivalent of 0.77 intensive care patients per 100,000 children in that age group,” Jonas Ludvigsson, a paediatrician and a co-author of the study in the New England Journal of Medicine, said in a media release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
21-07-2021||India||Afghan army chief to visit India||Afghan army chief General Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai is scheduled to visit India for three days from July 27 amid the ongoing conflict between the Taliban and Afghan forces following the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan. Government sources said he is scheduled to meet Indian Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane and national security adviser Ajit Doval, besides senior political leadership. “The Afghan army chief is scheduled to visit India on July 27 for three days amid the turmoil in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of foreign forces. Strengthening defence cooperation and bilateral military ties will be the main focus of the visit,” said a defence ministry official. Afghanistan has been reaching out to its key allies in seeking support to strengthen its security forces in the backdrop of the Taliban resorting to widespread violence to expand its influence across the country after the US began withdrawing troops from May 1. The supply of military equipment to Afghanistan, a defence ministry official said, as part of military assistance from India will come up during Gen. Ahmadzai’s the visit. India has invested $3 billion in infrastructure projects in Afghanistan over the years including building roads and the parliament building of the country. Over the past few years, India has also been training Afghan cadets at military academies. India has also gifted seven helicopters to Afghanistan, including four Mi24 attack helicopters and three Cheetal utility choppers. “Afghanistan had in the past requested for offensive military hardware, including artillery guns, tanks and armoured vehicles,” the official said. Last month President Ashraf Ghani appointed Gen. Ahmadzai as the new chief of army staff, replacing Gen. Yasin Zia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
21-07-2021||India||Gang-rape survivor slapped and kicked by cops in Saharanpur||A minor gang-rape complainant was allegedly slapped and kicked inside a police station in Saharanpur town on Monday, prompting her to cry out she would “never go to a police station again in this life”. The alleged incident, its aftermath purportedly captured in a video, came four days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lauded chief minister Yogi Adityanath for protecting “sisters and daughters” in Uttar Pradesh. The girl, who seemed hardly 16 and had come to the Kotwali police station with her mother, told reporters on Tuesday that two policewomen had thrashed her and warned her not to make the gang-rape allegation public. In a widely circulated video, a weeping girl is seen standing on a courtyard, holding on to a parked car for support, and telling an older woman never to take her to any police station again. A Hindi signboard on the courtyard says “Kotwali police station Saharanpur”. Two women in police uniform are seen standing on the veranda of the police station and shouting at an unseen man after he objects to the assault on the girl. The male voice asks: “Why did you attack the girl?” A woman in khaki shirt and trousers, who a local source said was a head constable, appears to be replying: “Kaun mara re? Uski maa bhi to ro rahi hai (Who beat her up? Even her mother is crying).” The other woman on the veranda, wearing khaki salwar-kurta and apparently a constable, appears to say: “A ja, a ja, phir se aja (Come, come, come here again).” The girl, who her mother corroborated was a minor, told reporters that four youths had drugged and raped her inside a car, and later blackmailed her with nude videos. “I know one of the rapists — he lives in my neighbourhood. He gave me a lift in his car a few days ago and offered me a soft drink. I fell unconscious,” the girl said. “When I regained consciousness, I saw four youths in the car.” She said she had no clothes on her body and realised she had been raped. “They showed me nude videos of myself and threatened to circulate them if I told anybody at home. After two days, they demanded money to keep the video a secret,” the girl told reporters. “I gave them Rs 5,000 and Rs 7,000 on two different dates. But their demands kept increasing, so I told my mother and she took me to the police.” She added: “Whatever happens to me, I shall never go to a police station again in this life.” Her mother said: “The policewomen asked me to wait outside and took my daughter inside a room. I then heard her cries and rushed into the room, and saw them slapping and kicking her while asking her not to reveal anything that had happened to her.” Rajesh Kumar, Saharanpur city police superintendent, denied the allegation against the policewomen. “We received a complaint and registered a case of gang rape. One of the accused, who is a minor, has already been arrested and an inquiry is on,” he told The Telegraph over the phone on Tuesday. “The allegation against the policewomen is wrong. The girl was enacting a drama because she didn’t want to give her statement.” He did not say when a medical test would be done on the girl, or explain why someone who had come to a police station by herself would refuse to give a statement — and then make the statement before the media. Adityanath has not yet reacted to the allegations or the video, busy as he has been since Monday directing the police to ensure that no cows are slaughtered on the occasion of Bakr Id on Wednesday. Modi had on July 15 claimed that Adityanath had put an end to crimes against women, ignoring the high-profile gang rapes and murders in Unnao and Hathras. “Those who used to target sisters and daughters cannot escape the law…. It became possible because of the hard work by Yogiji,” Modi had said in Varanasi. Another woman had made a similar allegation of being beaten up at Bicchawan police station in Mainpuri district when she went there on July 9 with her mother to complain of gang rape by four men. She alleged that Ativir Singh, a male sub-inspector, had assaulted her and forced her to change her statement. Taking cognisance of a video in which a man in uniform resembling Singh appears to be thrashing a woman, superintendent of police Ashok Kumar Rai has attached Singh to the police lines, removing him from active duty. A gang-rape complaint has been registered and a departmental inquiry started against Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
