23-07-2021||India||Can't be speculated that Delta variant by itself can give rise to third wave of Covid-19: Govt||The Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been shown to be more transmissible than other variants of concern, however, it cannot be speculated that this variant by itself can give rise to a third wave of COVID-19 in the country, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday.  The surge in cases is also dependent on available susceptible population, including a host of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions like vaccination, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply.  The SARS-CoV-2 being an RNA virus is prone to mutations, the ministry said, underlining that laboratories undertake genetic analysis of circulating virus to detect such changes which develop naturally and continuously and may have significant public health implications.  The Delta variant was first detected in India on genomic sequencing of samples in October 2020. This variant is the dominant lineage for new cases across India currently and remains the most rapidly rising lineage globally.  "Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been shown to be more transmissible than other variants of concern. However, it cannot be speculated that this variant by itself can give rise to third wave of COVID-19 in the country since the surge in cases is also dependent on available susceptible population including host of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions including vaccination," the minister said.  The government of India under the INSACOG network of laboratories is also undertaking genomic sequencing of positive samples. Information on genome sequencing for mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 is regularly shared with the states.  The issue of mutant variants is also flagged through regular formal communications to all states and UTs.  The MoHFW has alerted all the states and UTs to keep a watch on any unusual surge in COVID-19 cases from districts in which the delta-plus variant was detected as well as from other districts.  States and UTs have been advised to keep strict surveillance in the districts reporting new variants of concern and take up stringent public health measures, Pawar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Road ahead more daunting, need to recalibrate priorities: Manmohan Singh on 30 yrs of liberalisation||The road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 economic crisis and the nation would need to recalibrate its priorities to ensure a dignified life for all Indians, said former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Friday. In a statement marking the 30th anniversary of economic liberalisation, Singh said he was deeply saddened at the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the loss of millions of fellow Indians and livelihoods. Recalling that as finance minister in 1991, he ended his budget speech by quoting Victor Hugo, 'No power on Earth can stop an idea whose time has come', and said, "Thirty years later, as a nation, we must remember Robert Frost's poem -- 'But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep'." "It is not a time to rejoice and exult but to introspect and ponder. The road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 crisis," Singh said in the statement. "Our priorities as a nation need to be recalibrated to foremost ensure a healthy and dignified life for every single Indian." He said that on this day, 30 years ago in 1991, the Congress party ushered in significant reforms of India's economy and paved a new path for the nation's economic policy. Over the last three decades, successive governments have followed this path to catapult the nation to a USD 3 trillion economy and into the league of the world's largest economies, the former prime minister noted. More importantly, he said, nearly 300 million fellow Indians have been lifted out of poverty in this period and hundreds of millions of new jobs have been provided for the youth. Singh said the reforms process unleashed the spirit of free enterprise which has helped produce world-class companies and help India emerge as a global power in many sectors. "The economic liberalisation process in 1991 was triggered by an economic crisis that confronted our nation then, but it was not limited to crisis management. The edifice of India's economic reforms was built on the desire to prosper, the belief in our capabilities and the confidence to relinquish control of the economy by the government," he said. Singh said he was fortunate to play a role in this reform process along with several of his colleagues in the Congress party. "It gives us immense joy to look back with pride at the tremendous economic progress made by our nation in the last three decades. But I am also deeply saddened at the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the loss of millions of fellow Indians," he said. The social sectors of health and education have lagged behind and not kept pace with our economic progress. Too many lives and livelihoods have been lost that should not have been, Singh lamented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Amit Shah to chair meeting of northeastern chief ministers||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is arriving in Shillong on two days visit Saturday to chair a meeting with the Chief Ministers of eight Northeastern states in which interstate border issues might be taken up, officials said. In addition, Mr Shah has some official engagements in Meghalaya during his stay. Officials said Friday that Mr Shah will be chairing a closed-door meeting with the Chief Ministers, Chief Secretaries and police chiefs of all the Northeastern states on Saturday, where among other issues, the chief ministers are likely to discuss the interstate boundary issues plaguing the region. Northeastern states include Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. Assam has boundary conflicts with Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Mizoram. Giving detail of Mr Shah's program, the officials said he will inaugurate the Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) at Mawiong in the outskirts of Shillong and the Cryogenic Plant at the New Shillong Township. The union minister is also scheduled to visit Sohra (erstwhile Cherrapunji) on Sunday to inaugurate an afforestation project, to inaugurate the Greater Sohra Water Supply Scheme and he is scheduled to pay a visit to the Ramakrishna Mission Ashram there. Sohra is about 65 km South of Shillong and on a clear sunny day, one can get a full view of the plains of Bangladesh. The home minister has scheduled a 30 minutes meeting with the leaders of civil organisations where he is expected to give a patient hearing to their grievances, a senior official said. The organisations are all prepared to apprise the union home minister on various issues of the state which included the need to implement the inner Llne permit (ILP), inter-state border disputes, inclusion of Khasi language in the Eighth Schedule and amendment to the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution of India, sources close to the organisations said. Security has been beefed up here ahead of the visit of the union home minister, officials said. Police and paramilitary forces have been directed to stay alert, keep a strict vigil and intensify patrolling in the city, especially in the vicinity of the venue and the roads leading to the ISBT and New Shillong Township as Mr Shah is scheduled to inaugurate both the projects, they said. A mock drill to facilitate smooth movement of the union minister cavalcade from the helipad to the venue was also undertaken since Thursday as part of the security arrangements. All markets and business establishments here have been ordered shut on Saturday and Sunday by the district administration despite the lockdown being relaxed to avoid any law and order issues, a senior home department official told PTI. He said all necessary measures are being done in coordination with the state police, central agencies, and the paramilitary forces in all the places the minister is scheduled to visit during his two day-visit to the state beginning Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Around 1,000 homes damaged, hundreds evacuated in flood-hit Goa||One person died, around 1,000 houses were damaged and hundreds of people evacuated from low-lying parts inundated due to heavy rains and overflowing of rivers as Goa on Friday reeled under one of the worst floods in nearly 40 years, the state government said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters here that the floods had badly hit talukas of Sattari, Bicholim, Ponda, Dharbandora, Bardez and Pernem, while other areas also suffered damage. He said there was a report of a woman drowning in Dharbandora taluka but a confirmation on the exact cause of the death was awaited. The chief minister visited certain affected areas in Bicholim taluka in the afternoon to monitor rescue and relief operations. He said government-run schools have been converted into temporary shelter homes to accommodate people evacuated from flooded areas. “This is one of the worst floods since 1982. Properties worth crores of rupees have been damaged,” Sawant said. The chief minister said teams of the disaster management cell swung into action on Friday and evacuated several people who were stranded at different locations. He said in Pernem taluka (North Goa), the Chapora river was flowing above the danger mark due to which water had entered low-lying areas damaging 88 houses, while eight persons were evacuated. The Chapora river also caused devastation in Bardez taluka where 167 homes were damaged and nine people evacuated, Sawant said. He said in Bicholim taluka, Valvanti and Chapora rivers were overflowing due to which 164 houses were damaged, while 40 people rescued. Sattari was one of the worst hit talukas where 130 houses were damaged while 65 people had to be rescued as Valvanti and Mahadayi rivers crossed their danger levels, the CM said. He said in Ponda taluka, several people in Waghurme village were stranded in their submerged homes and attempts were on to rescue them. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane was personally monitoring the evacuation process. In South Goa's Salcette taluka, the Kushavati river was flowing above the danger level, damaging 18 houses, Sawant said. In Dharbandora taluka in South Goa, 135 houses were damaged and 150 people evacuated, he said. In Canacona, the Talpona river was overflowing due to which 60 homes were damaged, the chief minister said. The coastal state has been experiencing heavy rains over the past few days. On Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a warning that a circulation in the Bay of Bengal is likely to trigger low-pressure area that will cause more rainfall in Goa. Till Wednesday, the coastal state had received 1,998.3 mm rainfall during the ongoing monsoon season as against the average of 1,612.7 mm for the corresponding period. The state fisheries department has asked fishermen not to venture out into the sea due to gusty winds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra's custody extended, police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in porn case||A court in Mumbai on Friday extended till July 27 the police custody of businessman Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe in a case related to alleged production and distribution of pornographic films through apps.  The crime branch of Mumbai Police also recorded the statement of Kundra's wife and actor Shilpa Shetty in connection with the case.  Seeking his further custody, the police claimed that Kundra had plans to sell 119 adult films to a person for a sum of USD 1.2 million. Separately, an investigation officer said that the police also wanted to probe alleged transfer of funds from a South Africa-based sports betting firm into Kundra's bank account.  Kundra was arrested on July 19 by the police under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act.  He, along with Thorpe, was produced before the magistrate after their earlier remand expired on Friday. Seeking the duo's further custody, the police told the court that the probe found that Kundra set up Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd, which, through London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, bought the Hot Shots app to upload "objectionable videos" on social media. Kundra's phone contained WhasApp chats regarding Kenrin and its economic transactions. These conversations also revealed that he had discussed selling 119 adult films to a person for USD 1.2 million, police said.  They wanted to probe if this deal went through and the videos were transferred, the remand plea said.  Searches at the accused's office led to the seizure of 51 obscene videos, the police said.  An employee who handled accounts of Hot Shots told investigators that between August 2019 and November 2020 it earned a net profit of GBP 4,000 to 10,000 per month, police said, adding that Kundra's company Viaan Industries was involved in the maintenance of the app.  Viaan's employees told the police that the app was removed from Google Play in June 2020 and the Apple app store in November as it had obscene content, the remand plea said.  Thorpe allegedly directed the employees to remove all data related to the Hot Shots app after a case was registered in February this year, so IPC sections related to `destruction of evidence' have been added to the case, the police said.  The police also wanted to record the statements of the women who were allegedly lured and forced into acting in porn films by the accused, the application said.  During the day, the police recorded Shilpa Shetty's statement in the case at her residence. They also seized a laptop from the house. As per police, Shetty was a director of Kundra's firm for some time.  Kundra on Friday moved the Bombay High Court, seeking quashing of the lower court's order remanding him in police custody. He claimed that the alleged porn videos in question did not contain any sexually explicit scenes. The petition is yet to be heard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Bharat Biotech ends agreement with Brazilian partners after graft allegations||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it terminated the Memorandum of Understanding entered with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C for its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin for the Brazilian market.  The termination of the MoU came after the deal with the Brazilian government for supply of 20 million doses of the vaccine landed in controversy and attracted investigation by authorities in that country.  Precisa Medicamentos is Bharat Biotech's partner in Brazil, providing assistance, guidance and support with regulatory submissions, licensure, distribution, insurance and conduct of phase III clinical trials, among others.  "The Company has terminated the said MOU with immediate effect. Notwithstanding such termination, Bharat Biotech will continue to work diligently with ANVISA, the Brazilian drug regulatory body to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin," it said.  Bharat Biotech is pursuing approvals in various countries as per legal requirements applicable in each country, it said.  Bharat Biotech signed a MoU with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C on November 20 for the purpose of introducing Covaxin in the territory of Brazil.  The global pricing of the vaccine has been set between USD 15-20 and accordingly, the jab was offered to the Government of Brazil at the rate of USD 15 per dose, Bharat Biotech said.  It is further stated that the company has not received any advance payments from, nor has it supplied any vaccines to the Ministry of Health in Brazil, the company said.  The vaccine maker stressed that all its actions, including its global dealings, are done in accordance with local laws and the company employs and follows the highest standards of ethics, integrity and compliance at all times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Covid: India expects to vaccinate all above 18 by end of year||The pace of COVID-19 vaccination across India is amongst the fastest in the world and in view of the evolving nature of the pandemic, it is expected that all beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021, the Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a written reply, said while there have been instances of vaccine wastage in states and Union territories (UTs), but extra doses have also been extracted from a given vial according to the Co-WIN portal. "The vaccine doses wasted and maximum possible doses extracted beyond the labelled quantity are taken into account to arrive at vaccine wastage figures for a state," he noted. The minister was responding to a question on whether the states/UTs are not keeping up the pace of the vaccination and wasting the doses. "Between May 1, 2021 to July 13, 2021, a total of 2.49 lakh doses were wasted, while 41.12 lakh extra doses were extracted beyond the labelled quantity," he said. Mandaviya underlined that regular review meetings are held with states and UTs to review all aspects of the vaccination drive, including vaccine wastage, and they are advised to keep the wastage to the minimum. Regular advice in this regard is also communicated to them through regular letters from the Ministry of Health, he said. Asked if the government has decided to administer the COVID-19 vaccine to the entire population free of cost on priority basis and if so, the target fixed to administer the doses, the health minister said according to Revised Guidelines for Implementation of National COVID Vaccination Program, which came into effect from June 21, all citizens aged 18 years and above, irrespective of their income status, are entitled to free vaccination at all government vaccination centres. The COVID-19 vaccination is an ongoing and dynamic process, which is being guided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) on the basis of concurrent scientific evidence. "In view of the dynamic and evolving nature of COVID-19 pandemic, no fixed timeline at present can be indicated for the completion of the vaccination drive, however, it is expected that all beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021," he said. Mandaviya further informed that in accordance with the 'Revised Guidelines for Implementation of National COVID Vaccination Program', the Centre is procuring 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country. These vaccines are provided free of cost to states/UTs on the basis of their pro rata target population, consumption pattern and vaccine wastage. As on July 20, 2021, a total of 34.83 crore doses have been supplied free of cost by the Government of India to states and UTs, he told the House. Two vaccines, namely Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech, that have been granted permission for restricted use in emergency situation by the national regulator are being procured by the central government for free supply to states/UTs, the minister said. Apart from these two vaccines, Sputnik V marketed in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories and Moderna vaccine have also received permission for restricted use in emergency situation by the national regulator. Sputnik V is being used in private hospitals for Covid vaccination, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Centre: There has been no vaccine shortage, we provided free jabs to states, UTs||There has been no shortage of vaccines and the Government of India has been supplying the jabs to states and Union Territories for free to be given to prioritized beneficiaries as recommended by NEGVAC, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. "Advance visibility of vaccine allocation -- total doses that would be available for states and UTs -- are provided 15 days in advance to enable them to plan for acceleration of vaccination coverage while being cognizant of the available vaccines," she said in a written reply. Asked whether the government is aware that many inoculation sites got closed down due to non-availability of vaccines there, Pawar said, "There has been no shortage of vaccines and the Government of India has been providing free supply of vaccines to states and UTs for administration to prioritised beneficiaries as recommended by NEGVAC (National Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration against Covid-19)." On whether the government is aware that less than 10 per cent of Indians have got single dose of Covid vaccine despite India being the world's leading vaccine manufacturer, the minister said as of July 20, around 34.5 per cent of the estimated population aged 18 years and above has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. "As of July 20, 2021, a total of 32.64 crore first doses and 8.55 crore second doses have been administered across the country. A total of 2.15 lakh Covid-19 Vaccination Centres have been operational across the country," Pawar said. "The Government of India has taken many steps to augment the domestic manufacturing capacity of Covid-19 vaccines. These include support to M/s Bharat Biotech and three Public Sector Enterprises under 'Mission CovidSuraksha-the Indian Covid-19 Vaccine Development Mission', technology transfer of Covaxin production, financial assistance to one of the domestic vaccine manufacturers for 'at-risk manufacturing', advance payment against the supply orders placed with M/s Serum Institute of India and M/s Bharat Biotech, and streamlining of regulatory norms for approval of vaccines," the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Heavy rains batter west coast, several reported dead||Heavy rainfall battered the west coast on Friday, strongly affecting Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, with the IMD predicting more showers in the area over the next 24 hours. In Maharashtra, 36 people died due to landslides near a village in the coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. The incident occurred near Talai village in Mahad tehsil on Thursday evening, they said. Around 30 houses were also damaged. The search and rescue operation is on by the NDRF teams, personnel of the local disaster management cell, police and district administration. In Mumbai, four people died when a building and seven others suffered injuries after a single-storey house collapsed in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi in eastern Mumbai early on Friday, a civic official said. The incident occurred at plot number 3 near Bombay City Hospital around 5 am, he said. "On being alerted about it, seven fire engines, one rescue van of the fire brigade, and personnel of the police as well as other agencies reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. So far, four persons have lost their lives in the incident and seven others were injured, he said. A fire brigade official said that 15 people have been pulled out of the debris so far and the operation is still underway. Karnataka battered by heavy rains Heavy rains in various parts of Karnataka over the past 24 hours have claimed three lives, led to landslides in eight places and evacuation of about 9,000 people, while the government has sounded a red alert in seven districts. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who reviewed the flood situation with top officials on Friday, directed all district in charge ministers and MLAs to oversee relief work in their areas. He said the government would extend all necessary support to relief and rescue efforts and assist farmers who suffered losses due to the untimely rain and hailstorms. Dr Manoj Rajan, Commissioner, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority said parts of Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dharward, Haveri, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada are facing the brunt of floods due to incessant rains over the past few days. The rivers Krishna, Cauvery, Tungabhadra, Bhima, Kapila (Kabini) and many others in Malnad and coastal Karnataka are in spate, said the KSDMA officer. Details shared by him showed that 131 villages in 18 Taluks are badly hit, affecting 16,213 people. While three people lost their lives, two are missing. The rains damaged 21 houses completely and 804 houses partially. Sixty five bridges, 10 schools and a primary health centre were damaged, while 291.03 km of roads were washed away. So far, 8,733 people have been evacuated to safety. The state has opened 80 relief camps where 4,964 people are staying. Landslides were reported in eight places, including Virajpet in Kodagu district and Arabail Ghat in Uttara Kannada district. A red alert has been sounded in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts for the next 24 hours in view of a possible heavy to extremely heavy rainfall and an orange alert, in Belagavi and Dharwad, the officer said. The rains have also led to filling up of most of the reservoirs in Karnataka, including Almatti, Bhadra, KRS, Kabini, Harangi, Hemavathi, Narayanapura, Malaprabha and Ghataprabha, he said. Flood-like situation in Goa Several parts of Goa, including Sattari and Bicholim tehsils in north and Dharbandora in south, are reeling under a flood-like situation, where a large number of houses got inundated as the water level of some rivers rose following heavy rains over the past few days, officials said on Friday. However, no loss of human life has been reported so far due to it, they said. At least 100 houses in Sattari tehsil have been under water since Thursday night as the water level of the Mahadayi river increased due to incessant rains that has been lashing the state since over a week now, a senior official said. There were no fatalities, but flood-like situation exists. Those people whose houses have gone completely under water have shifted to safer places on their own, he said. Almost half of Velus village located near Valpoi town in Sattari, is inundated, while several other villages were cut off as roads and culverts are under water, eyewitnesses said. Valpoi MLA and state minister Vishwajit Rane said on Twitter, Due to continuous and heavy rainfall, Mhadei (Mahadayi) has been overflowing. Water has entered different parts of Valpoi. Necessary directions have been issued to the collectors to have the Disaster Management team stationed at Sattari & Usgao. Water has entered their houses causing a lot of damage. It is very important for us to ensure our people's safety. With the intervention of the Disaster Management Team, they will be shifted to safer locations, he added. Near Sankhalim town in Bicholim tehsil, Valvanti and Sakhali rivers are overflowing and have crossed the danger level, officials said. People residing in and around Harvalem village in Bicholim have been asked to be on alert as flood-like situation prevails there, they added. Similar situation is seen in and around Mollem village in South Goa's Dharbandora tehsil. Official sources said that Sangod village in Mollem is facing a flood-like situation, where water has entered to the houses and roads are flooded. Modi condoles Maharashtra deaths Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the loss of lives in a landslide in Maharashtra's coastal Raigad district and announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased. Modi said the situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected. Thirty-six people were killed in a landslide near a village in coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. The incident occurred near Talai village in Mahad tehsil on Thursday evening. "Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. The situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected," the prime minister said. Prime Minisgter Modi has announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra, according to a tweet by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). The PMO said Rs 50,000 would be given to the injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Farmers discuss agri laws at second day of Kisan Sansad||The 'Kisan Sansad, being held at Jantar Mantar near Parliament where the Monsoon Session is underway, entered its second day on Friday. Paramilitary forces and police personnel have been deployed at the site with heavy barricading at the entrance to avoid any kind of untoward incident. The protest by the farmers was peaceful. The farmers started 'kisan sansad' (farmers' parliament) with speaker Hardev Arshi, deputy speaker Jagtar Singh Bajwa and the agriculture minister. The sansad had a one-hour question hour where questions were thrown at the agriculture minister who tried his best to defend the Centre's new agriculture laws. The minister told the sansad how amid the raging Covid pandemic, farmers were requested to head back to their homes and get themselves vaccinated. Every time the minister failed to give a satisfactory response, the members shamed him, raised their hands and objected to his answers. Bajwa, while addressing the media, said, "The agriculture minister failed to answer questions following which members of the sansad shamed the minister leading to disruption. "The question raised was when the prime minister himself has stressed on the fact that there was MSP, it is still there and it will continue to be there then why is there an issue to make it a law (kanoon). If all the three agri laws are made for the farmers, then why not cancel them and make them again by consulting the farmers on it." Arshi said the kisan parliament was adjourned for a brief period and Friday's proceedings were similar to the way the actual Parliament functions. "In the question hour, we raised questions and the agriculture minister could not respond to the queries and continued to misguide the house," he said. A group of 200 farmers reached Jantar Mantar in central Delhi on Thursday to protest against the Centre's three contentious farm laws as the Monsoon session of Parliament was underway. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given special permission for the demonstration by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres away from the Parliament Complex, till August 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra moves HC on cases against him, says films don't contain explicit acts||Businessman Raj Kundra on Friday challenged before the Bombay High Court his arrest in a case of alleged production and distribution of pornographic films through apps, saying these videos might be described as "lascivious" but do not show "explicit sexual acts". Kundra (45), the husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on July 19 by Mumbai Police. A magistrate's court remanded him in police custody till July 27. Meanwhile, a team of Mumbai Police has reached the actor's Juhu house to question her in the case, India Today reported. Kundra's petition sought quashing of the lower court's order. The magistrate's order sending him in police custody violated the law as serving a notice under section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (before arrest) is mandatory, especially in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, it said. As per section 41A, the police may, in cases where arrest is not warranted, issue summons to the accused person and record his or her statement. The material which the police claim to be pornographic did not depict direct explicit sexual acts and sexual intercourse but shows material in the form of short movies which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of persons at best , Kundra's plea contended. Hence section 67A of the Information Technology Act (publishing sexually explicit content) cannot be invoked, and at the most it would attract section 67 (publishing lascivious content), it said. On July 19, 2021, the police carried out a search at his office and requested him to go to the police station to record statement, Kundra said. "The respondent (police) arrested the petitioner in the police station where he was called under the garb of recording his statement, the plea alleged. After his arrest Kundra was asked to sign a notice issued under section 41A of CrPC which he refused to do, it claimed. Further, the sections under which he is booked do not prescribe a sentence of more than seven years in jail, so his arrest, without prior notice under section 41 A, "is completely illegal", the petition said. When the First Information Report (FIR) was registered in February 2021, he was not even named as accused, Kundra said, adding that a charge sheet was filed in the case in April and several other accused are now out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||PU introduces New Vocational Education Courses at  Lakshadweep Islands to benefit students ,VC Prof. Gurmeet Singh says||The Union Territory of Lakshadweep Administration proposed to introduce three years Under Graduate and one year Diploma Programmes from the upcoming Academic Year 2021-2022 with the affiliation of Pondicherry University. Accordingly, based on the proposal, on behalf of Pondicherry University, NOC has been issued to Lakshadweep Administration for affiliation of New three years Under Graduate Vocational courses in Tourism & Service Industry & Soft Ware Development and one year Diploma course in Catering and Hospitality at the proposed new Vocational Degree College at Kadmat Island, Lakshadweep and one year Diploma courses in  Marine Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering and Mechanical Engineering to be introduced at Minicoy Islands, Lakshadweep from the current Academic Year 2021-2022.  All these courses will have an intake of 30 seats each. Professor Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor, Pondicherry University was the Chief Guest and presented No Objection Certificates to Shri Vijendra Singh Rawat, IAS, Secretary, Department of Technical Education & Skill Development, Union Territory Administration of Lakshadweep Administration taken at the policy level by the University for affiliation of  such Vocational UG and Diploma Courses at Lakshadweep Islands by the Administration. On this ceremony after issuing the NOC to the Officials concerned, Professor Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor said it is gratifying that Pondicherry University continues to be one of the leading Universities in the World in the rankings particularly on Research activities. PU, a NAAC – A ranked accredited Central University, also ranked among the top 1000 Universities in the QS World University Ranking 2022 and NIRF Central University Ranking - 9. He also said after independence, first time in India, Pondicherry University has introduced such new Vocational Courses for the welfare of Tribal Students. He also appealed the youth residing such Islands to make use of the educational opportunities offered by the University. This is great step towards the development of the Lakshadweep lslands which need a great deal of attention on Higher Education as well as Job oriented courses. This mile stone achievement which is the land mark improvement in the Educational Scenario of Minicoy and Kadmat Islands has been possible because of the able leadership and vision of Professor Gurmeet Singh, VC, PU. On this special occasion, Dr. S. Balakrishnan, Director, Studies, Educational Innovation & Rural Reconstruction, Professor Chandra Sekhara Rao, Dean, College Development Council, Dr Chithra, Registrar, and Shri Rajkumar, Nodal Officer for Andaman and Nicobar Islands Centre of Pondicherry University and Professor Sivararadje, Pondicherry Technical University, Government of Puducherry were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Karnataka HC quashes notice to Twitter MD seeking his presence at UP||The Karnataka High Court on Friday quashed the notice issued to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari by Uttar Pradesh police, seeking his personal appearance as part of its probe into a communally sensitive video uploaded by a user on Twitter platform, saying it was issued by malafide. The single bench of Justice G Narendar said that the notice under Section 41(A) CrPC should be treated as Section under 160 of CrPC, allowing Ghaziabad police to question Maheshwari through virtual mode, at his office or his residential address in Bengaluru. Maintaining that the provisions of the statute under Section 41(A) CrPC should not be permitted to become "tools of harassment", Justice Narendar said Ghaziabad police did not place any material which would demonstrate even the prima facie involvement of the petitioner, though the hearing has been going on for the past several days. "In the background of the fact that section 41(a) notice was issued by malafide, the writ petition (filed by Maheshwari seeking quashing) is maintainable. Accordingly, the notice under section Annexure A notice shall be read as section 160 of the CrPC," the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Centre using agencies as coercive tools to curb press freedom: Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India on Friday said it is worried that government agencies are being used as a "coercive tool" to suppress free and independent journalism. Its remarks come after the Income Tax Department's raids on Thursday across several states against prominent media group Dainik Bhaskar as well as Uttar Pradesh-based TV channel Bharat Samachar for alleged tax evasion. "The Editors Guild of India (EGI) is concerned about the income tax raids on July 22 at the offices of country's leading newspaper group Dainik Bhaskar as well as a Lucknow-based independent news channel Bharat Samachar," it said in a statement. "They come against the backdrop of in-depth reporting on the (Covid-19) pandemic by Dainik Bhaskar, which brought to the fore the gross mismanagement by government authorities and the immense loss of human lives," the guild said. It claimed that in a webinar hosted by it recently, Dainik Bhaskar's national editor Om Gaur had stated that their advertisements from government departments have been cut down after recent critical coverage of state authorities. "He had also written an Op-Ed in the New York Times, headlined 'The Ganges is Returning the Dead. It Does Not Lie'," the EGI noted. It said, "The EGI is therefore concerned that government agencies are being used as a coercive tool to suppress free and independent journalism. This is all the more disturbing given the recent media reports on the widespread surveillance of journalists and civil society activists using the Pegasus software." On raids by the tax department on Bharat Samachar, the guild said that it is one of the few channels in Uttar Pradesh that has been asking difficult questions to the state government with respect to the pandemic's management. "Notwithstanding the merits of the case, the timing of these raids is concerning given the recent critical coverage by both the organisations," the EGI said. In February, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had conducted raids at the office of NewsClick.in, which had been at the forefront of reporting on the farmers agitation and the anti-CAA protests, it noted. The raids against Dainik Bhaskar, which has a presence in 12 states and runs newspapers as well as operates radio stations, web portals and mobile phone apps, started around 5:30 am on Thursday and were going on till late in the evening. They were taking place in 30 locations in different states. The premises of Bharat Samachar and its promoters and staffers were raided in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Only 22 heritage trees had to be relocated because of Central Vista, says govt||Only 22 heritage trees had to be relocated because of the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project, the government informed Parliament on Friday. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- includes the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. It also envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. Responding to a question in Lok Sabha on the relocation of trees to the Badarpur Eco-Park, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said according to information received from the Central Public Works Department, "Only 22 number of trees have been relocated from the Central Vista Avenue to the eco-park, Badarpur, and there is no other proposal to relocate trees from the Central Vista Avenue to Badarpur". He said there is a proposal to plant 10 saplings for every tree uprooted or removed, and the compensatory plantation will be done at the Badarpur Eco-Park, Badarpur. On another query on census of trees, Yadav said, "As per available information, no tree census has been conducted in the recent past." "However, the Forest Survey of India (FSI) carries out sample plot based regular inventory of trees in forests and outside forests in the country under its National Forest Inventory Programme," he said. On the basis of data collected growing stock -- stems and volume of wood -- estimates are generated at the national and state levels, he told Lok Sabha in a written response. To a question about the survival rates of relocated trees and details of existing and ongoing research that supports relocation, Yadav said the Indian Council for Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE), Dehradun, had conducted a study on tree translocation in India last year and it has submitted a report to the ministry. "There is no further ongoing study under the ICFRE at present in this regard," he said. The Centre had earlier rubbished reports that several jamun trees, nearly 100 years old, could be uprooted as a part of the Central Vista project, and had claimed that the overall green cover will increase. In May, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry had said that only a few trees will be transplanted as part of the project. The environment ministry has already granted clearance for expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament building, which is a part of the Rs 13,450 crore Central Vista redevelopment project. The construction of the prime minister's residence under the ambitious project will be completed by December 2022, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) had informed a central government appointed expert panel, which has given its nod to the project. The CPWD, the project developer, informed the expert appraisal committee (EAC) that the expansion of Parliament building and construction of new Parliament building will be done by November 2022 and prime minister's residence will be constructed by December 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Bharat Biotech commits to supply 500 million Covaxin doses to Centre||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has committed to supply over 500 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to the Centre under the countrywide immunisation programme. Speaking at a virtual conference organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, Suchitra Ella, joint Managing Director of the city-based vaccine maker, said the company's facilities in four cities - Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Pune and Ankaleshwar - are currently producing Covaxin. "In a nutshell if I have to tell you, this is the journey of Covaxin from April 2020 until June 2021. And it is still ongoing as we continue to manufacture, taking a commitment of more than 50 crore (500 million) of doses to be submitted to the government of India for its immunisation programme," she said narrating the journey of Covaxin. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar had said in Parliament on Tuesday that from January to July 16, 5.45 crore (54.5 million) doses of Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and 36.01 (360 million) crore doses of Covishield have been supplied by the Serum Institute of India to the Centre. Suchitra Ella said the data of Phase 3 trials has been submitted to the Drug Controller General of India for its perusal and efficacy of the vaccine against many of the coronavirus variants was also tested. Covaxin demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic Covid-19 and 65.2per cent protection against the B.1.617.2 Delta variant, Bharat Biotech said recently, while announcing the final analysis of the jab. It had said the Efficacy Analysis demonstrates Covaxin to be 93.4 per cent effective against severe symptomatic Covid-19 cases. The MD further said that when it comes to vaccines not only for Covid-19, India, when compared to some other countries, has more capacity to produce vaccines in large numbers. The current average monthly production capacity of Covishield by Serum Institute of India is 11 crore doses and of Covaxin by Bharat Biotech is 2.5 crore doses, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation, which is currently reviewing Bharat Biotech's application for an Emergency Use Listing (EUL) of  Covaxin, has said it is assessing the data of the jab. In an update on its website, the WHO, which began rolling data on July 6, said the date for a decision on the jab is yet "to be confirmed". Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. India, on the other hand, recorded 35,342 Covid-19 cases on Friday, as the tally climbed to 3,12,93,062. As many as 483 more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 4,19,470, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active cases has declined to 4,05,513, accounting for 1.3 per cent of the total caseload and the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. A decline of 3,881 cases was recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,68,561 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Thursday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,29,39,545, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.12 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 32 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.14 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,04,68,079, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Zomato CEO terms debut day in stock market as 'new Day Zero'||As Zomato made a stellar debut on Dalal Street, its Founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal said this was a big day for the company -- A new Day Zero. Shares of the firm listed at nearly 53 per cent premium in its debut trade against its issue price of Rs 76. With this rally, its market valuation went past the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark on BSE. Earlier in the day, he also said in a blog post, "Today is a big day for us. A new Day Zero. But we couldn't have gotten here without the incredible efforts of India's entire internet ecosystem." In the blog titled, "Letter from Deepi" he said he was a firm believer in India, and where the country will be in the future, adding that India is a tough market to operate in, but if you are building to succeed in India, you are already an exception . He believes Zomato and Swiggy are two of the best food delivery apps in the world today. "We have a long way to go before we can call ourselves world class by our customers' standards, but we are determined to get there. "Zomato's over 10 -year journey has not always been smooth. It has lived through many ups and downs something not every company has the privilege of living long enough to do," he added. "We have found ourselves managing times of crisis on different occasions in much the same way impatiently staying focused on the long term, executing relentlessly, and committing ourselves to doing the very best we can do today," Goyal said. Even in its hardest times, the company has had half of its tech/engineering team work on long-term initiatives, he added. "We are going to relentlessly focus on 10 years out and beyond, and are not going to alter our course for short term profits at the cost of long term success of the company," Goyal said. "The tremendous response to the company's IPO, gives us the confidence that the world is full of investors who appreciate the magnitude of investments we are making, and take a long term view of our business," he added. "They say it takes a village to raise a child, and Zomato is no exception," he said, noting that hundreds of people have selflessly played a part in making Zomato what it is today. He also thanked the investors who have stood by the company through thick and thin. "Jio's prolific growth has set all of us up for unprecedented scale. Flipkart, Amazon, Ola, Uber, Paytm have also over the years, collectively laid the railroads that are enabling companies like ours to build the India of the future," Goyal said. Zomato stands proudly and humbly on the shoulders of giants, and thanks everyone for giving it, and so many other startups, the opportunity to look ahead into the future, he added. "I don't know whether we will succeed or fail we will surely, like always, give it our best. But I hope that the fact that we are here, inspires millions of Indians to dream bigger than we ever have, and build something way more incredible than what we can dream of," Goyal said. In a tweet, Goyal said: "A lot of people are calling this a 'historical moment'. It is not. History is always made in hindsight. Never in the present. Back to work." Goyal also retweeted a tweet of Info Edge (India) founder Sanjeev Bikhchandani, "Congratulations and very well done team Zomato and Deepinder. Great things take time to build. Thank you for making us look like smart investors."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu takes charge as Punjab Congress president||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday took over as the new chief of the Punjab Congress at an event held here, which was attended by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, with whom he was at loggerheads in the recent past. The new working presidents of the Punjab Congress -- Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra -- also assumed charge at the event at the party's state headquarters here in the presence of a huge number of Congress workers and supporters. Senior Congress leader and AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, senior leaders Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present among others. In his address, Sidhu said, "All Congress workers in Punjab have become the party's state unit chief today. There is no difference between a leader and a worker." He said the workers are the soul of the party, which derives power from them. The cricketer-turned-politician, who takes over the state Congress chief's post from Sunil Jakhar, said he will have love for juniors and respect for elders. "Punjab will win, Punjabis will win," he said. Ahead of taking charge of the state Congress, Sidhu met Singh at the Punjab Bhawan here. The chief minister and the Amritsar (East) MLA were seen sitting next to each other at the Congress headquarters ahead of the latter taking charge of the party's state unit. According to a Congress leader, the meeting between Sidhu and Singh earlier at the Punjab Bhawan was "cordial". Speaking to reporters outside the Punjab Bhawan, Congress MLA Pargat Singh said Sidhu met the chief minister over tea in the presence of Rawat. The two leaders sat next to each other and the meeting between them was cordial, he added. Senior Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present. This was the first time in nearly four months that Sidhu and Singh met each other. The chief minister's media adviser tweeted pictures of the two leaders having a chat. Singh had invited Congress leaders for tea at the Punjab Bhawan. Sidhu came from Patiala and went to the Punjab Bhawan shortly before Singh's arrival. Ministers, Congress MLAs and other senior party leaders were also present at the Punjab Bhawan. Nagra and Gilzian, two of the four newly-appointed working presidents of the state Congress, had on Thursday extended a formal invitation to the chief minister at his farmhouse in Mohali's Siswan for the installation ceremony. The invitation letter was signed by over 55 legislators. In an apparent bid to bury the differences with the chief minister, Sidhu had separately requested Singh to come for the installation ceremony and said he had "no personal agenda". Sidhu and Singh were at loggerheads for some time, with the Amritsar (East) MLA recently attacking the chief minister over desecration cases. Singh had earlier opposed Sidhu's appointment as the state Congress chief and said he would not meet him until the cricketer-turned-politician apologised for his "derogatory" tweets against him. On Thursday, after the Congress leaders met the chief minister, the latter's media adviser had tweeted, "Punjab CM @capt_amarinder has invited all @INCPunjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new PPCC team." Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed Sidhu as the new chief of the party's Punjab unit on Sunday, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Singh. She also appointed four working presidents in the Punjab Congress to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the state Assembly polls next year. On Wednesday, several legislators backing Sidhu had said there was no need for him to tender an apology to the chief minister. Tensions between Singh and Sidhu flared up in April after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report on the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. Sidhu attacked the chief minister through his tweets over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police-firing incidents. The Amritsar legislator had resigned as a state minister in 2019 after he was divested of his local bodies portfolio. Sidhu had switched sides from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the Congress before the 2017 state Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||At least 36 dead in Raigad due to rain-triggered landslides||Thirty-six people were killed in a landslide near a village in coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. The incident occurred near Talai village in Mahad tehsil on Thursday evening, they said. "Thirty-six bodies have been recovered from the landslide spot so far," a senior police official said. The search and rescue operation is on by the NDRF teams, personnel of the local disaster management cell, police and district administration, he said. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhary said the landslide incident was reported late Thursday evening. "But since the roads leading to the spot were blocked due to the floods and the sludge, the rescue teams found it difficult to reach the site," she said. "The operation resumed today morning and the bodies were recovered by afternoon," she added. According to officials, there are around 30 houses in the village, which were completely damaged due to the incident. Four dead in Mumbai building collapse Four persons were killed and seven others suffered injuries after a single-storey house collapsed in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi in eastern Mumbai early on Friday, a civic official said. The incident occurred at plot number 3 near Bombay City Hospital around 5 am, he said. "On being alerted about it, seven fire engines, one rescue van of the fire brigade, and personnel of the police as well as other agencies reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. So far, four persons have lost their lives in the incident and seven others were injured, he said. After the incident, the injured were rushed to two hospitals - Ghatkopar-based Rajawadi Hospital and Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital in Sion, the official said. However, doctors at the Rajawadi Hospital declared two of them brought dead. They were identified as Neha Parvez Shaikh (35) and Mokar Zabir Shaikh, (80). A woman, Shamshad Shaikh (45), who was admitted to that hospital in a critical condition, died during treatment later, he added. "Meanwhile, a 22-year-old man, identified as Farin Shaikh, was pulled out from under the rubble and was taken to Rajawadi Hospital, where doctors declared him dead before admission, the BMC official said. A fire brigade official said that 15 people have been pulled out of the debris so far and the operation is still underway. The injured persons are undergoing treatment and their condition is stable, he said. IMD predicts heavy rainfall for Maharashtra The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a red alert for six districts of Maharashtra which have been already pounded by heavy rains, forecasting "extremely heavy" rainfall and recommending preventive actions. The alert was issued for the next 24 hours for the districts of Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg in coastal Konkan and also for Pune, Satara and Kolhapur in Western Maharashtra. Extremely heavy rainfall is "very likely" at isolated places in ghat (hilly/upland) areas, an IMD official said. "Very likely" denotes 51 to 75 per cent probability of occurrence, he added. The forecast for Satara is "most likely" which means a probability of more than 75 per cent, he said. A rainfall above 204.4 mm in 24 hours is considered as extremely heavy. The forecast also included red alert for Ratnagiri and Satara for Saturday. Intensity of showers will drastically come down from Sunday onward, the IMD said. Mahabaleshwar in Satara district, one of Maharashtra's most well-patronised hill stations, has received 594.4 millimetres of rainfall in a 24-hour period ending at 8:30 am on Friday, which an IMD official said may be the highest ever recorded there. Mahabaleshwar, some 260 kilometres from here, got 482 mm of rainfall on Wednesday and 461 on Thursday, data from the India Meteorological Department showed. "Mahabaleshwar received 594.4 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours. This is probably the highest ever rainfall recorded in the hill station," Dr Jayant Sarkar, head of the IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||ICSE, ISC results to be announced tomorrow||The CISCE will announce results for class 10 and 12 on July 24, board Chief Executive and Secretary Gerry Arathoon said on Friday. "The results of the class 10 (ICSE) and class 12 (ISC) examinations will be declared on Saturday, July 24 at 3 PM. The results will be made available on the website of the Council and through SMS," said Arathoon. "The Tabulation Registers will be made available for Schools through the CAREERS Portal. The schools can access the results by logging into the CAREERS Portal of the Council using the Principal's login ID and password. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had cancelled the exams for both the classes this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19. The result will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy decided by the board. Arathoon informed that unlike previous years option of rechecking of answer scripts will not be available this year as the candidates have been awarded "imputed marks". However, a dispute resolution mechanism will be in place for correction of calculation errors, if any. "In the event a candidate has objections regarding computation of marks in the result, she or he may make a written application to the school, stating the objection in detail along with reasons thereof. "Schools will be required to review all such applications, and only upon being satisfied with the contentions made therein, forward the same to the board along with your comments and remarks endorsing the contentions made and documents supporting the opinion regarding the computation of marks," he said. The CISCE will review the request, the supporting documents and the principal's remarks and convey its decision to the School concerned in writing. "In case the result will need to be altered, the CISCE will notify the Head of the School concerned. This dispute resolution mechanism is only for the correction of calculation errors," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Tilak Nagar market in Delhi closed for Covid protocol violations||Several markets in the Tilak Nagar area have been closed by the sub-divisional magistrate till July 27 following violations of Covid protocols, officials said on Friday. Jitender Singh, the sub-divisional magistrate of Patel Nagar, on Thursday ordered the closure of Tilak Nagar markets comprising Mall road, main market, Mangal Bazar road, old market and fruit market area following reports of shopkeepers and customers not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. "It was reported that general public/shopkeepers of the market are not adhering to health protocol which may accelerate the Covid positivity rate in multiple ways and the market may be the hotspot in future for spreading COVID-19," the order said. It also noted that an additional report was received from the SHO of Tilak Nagar that a physical inspection on July 22 revealed that the "DDMA guidelines/covid protocol was not followed in Tilak Nagar markets", and it was recommended that the markets be closed "for at least three to five days to avoid the spread of the virus again". The markets have been ordered to remain shut with effect from July 23 to July 27, in "overall imminent public interest". Delhi was under a complete lockdown from April 19 to May 30 in view of the second wave of the pandemic. Phased unlock of the city started as the COVID-19 situation improved. Markets were allowed to reopen on June 7. However, repeated incidents of Covid protocol violation have led to temporary closing down of several market areas across the city, including those in Laxmi Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, Janpath, Kamla Nagar and Sarojini Nagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha adjourned for the day amid Opposition uproar||The Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day on Friday after Opposition members continued to raise slogans against the Government on various issues. As the House reassembled at 12 noon, Kirit Solanki, who was in the Chair, asked protesting members to take their respective seats. During the brief period for which the House functioned, resolutions were passed to appoint and elect new members in various Parliamentary panels as some of the members have become Ministers in the recent reshuffle of the Union Council of Ministers. As Opposition uproar continued, Solanki said that such behaviour does not suit senior elected members of the House and adjourned the proceedings for the day. Opposition members have been protesting over various issues for the fourth straight sitting of the Monsoon session. Similar scenes were witnessed when the House met in the morning, forcing Speaker Om Birla to adjourn the House till 12 noon. The Lok Sabha will meet on July 26 after a routine weekend break.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Health of Kalyan Singh critical, informs hospital||The health condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is critical and he is on life support, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) said on Friday. He is under close monitoring of senior doctors of critical care medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology departments, the statement said. "Former UP chief minister and former governor of Rajasthan Kalyan Singh ji's health status is critical. He is on life saving support system (ventilator)," a release issued by the hospital said. Director of the institute Prof R K Dhiman is also keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to his health, it added. The 89-year-old BJP veteran was admitted to the ICU of the hospital in the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Shantanu Sen suspended from Rajya Sabha for remaining part of monsoon session||TMC MP Shantanu Sen was suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Friday for the remaining period of the monsoon session after a motion moved by the government was passed by the House. Soon after the obituary references and laying of papers, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan moved a motion for Sen's suspension after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) member snatched papers from Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and tore those in the House on Thursday. The motion was passed by a voice vote and Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asked Sen to leave the House. The TMC members protested and raised objection to the manner in which the motion was brought without listing it in the day's business. TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray raised the issue of Sen being threatened by a minister, but the chairman said it happened after the House was adjourned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Rahul demands SC appointed probe into Pegasus issue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah used the Pegasus spyware against India and its institutions, and "the only word for this is treason", Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Friday. Gandhi demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the matter. Addressing reporters at Vijay Chowk, he also demanded the resignation of the home minister. He said all his phones have been tapped and his friends were informed by intelligence people that this is being done. "I am not a 'potential target'. My phone is tapped, it is clearly tapped. Not only this phone but all my phones are also tapped," he told reporters, as reported by ndtv.com, while the Opposition party members shouted slogans against the Pegasus snooping controversy. "Pegasus is classified by the Israeli state as a weapon and that weapon is supposed to be used against terrorists. The prime minister and the home minister have used this weapon against the Indian state and our institutions. They have used it politically, they have used it in Karnataka..," he told reporters. "The only word for this is treason, he said. The matter has to be investigated," the former Congress president said. "A judicial inquiry monitored by the Supreme Court should be conducted and the home minister must resign," he told reporters. Gandhi claimed he had been told by security personnel that his conversations were monitored. "I get phone calls from IB (Intelligence Bureau) people who tap my phone. They say your phone is being tapped. My security people tell me they have to debrief what I say. I am in no pretensions that I am tapped," he said, according to NDTV. "I am not afraid. I don't get intimidated. In this country, if you are corrupt and a thief, you will be afraid. If you are neither of those, you have nothing to be afraid of," the senior leader added. "The main question is that has the government not paid for this? Can you buy Pegasus? Can I buy Pegasus? Only a government can buy Pegasus. The Prime Minister's signature, or at least the Home Minister's signature, is needed for it. The military of a nation cannot buy Pegasus," Reacting to his remarks, the BJP asked Gandhi to submit his phone for investigation if he believes it was tapped and asserted that no one's phone has been tapped illegally by the Modi government. BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Rathore told reporters that the Congress is determined to stall Parliament for one reason or another after being rejected twice by people in Lok Sabha polls of 2014 and 2019. Rathore said everybody has the right to what they want in a democracy. "Gandhi should submit his phone to probe agency, and investigation will take place as per the Indian Penal Code (IPC)," he said. "The Congress cannot accept the country's development and has been stalling Parliament's functioning often one one pretext or another," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Sidhu meets Amarinder at Punjab Bhawan before taking charge as state Congress chief||Ahead of taking charge of the state Congress, Navjot Singh Sidhu met Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at the Punjab Bhawan here on Friday. According to a Congress leader, the meeting between Sidhu and Singh, who have been at loggerheads with each other for some time, was "cordial". Speaking to reporters outside the Punjab Bhawan, Congress MLA Pargat Singh said Sidhu met the chief minister over tea in the presence of AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. The two leaders sat next to each other and the meeting between them was cordial, he added. Senior Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present. This was the first time in nearly four months that Sidhu and Singh met each other. The chief minister's media adviser tweeted pictures of the two leaders having a chat. The Congress leaders will head to another venue where Sidhu will assume charge as the party's new state unit chief. Four working presidents of the Punjab Congress will also assume charge at the ceremony at the party's state headquarters here. Singh, who reached here from his farmhouse in Siswan, had invited party leaders for tea at the Punjab Bhawan. Sidhu came from Patiala and went to the Punjab Bhawan shortly before Singh's arrival. Media was not allowed entry inside the Punjab Bhawan. Ministers, Congress MLAs and other senior party leaders were also present at the Punjab Bhawan. Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian, two of the four newly-appointed working presidents of the state Congress, had on Thursday extended a formal invite to the chief minister at his farmhouse in Mohali's Siswan for the installation ceremony. The invitation letter was signed by over 55 legislators. In an apparent bid to bury the differences with the chief minister, Sidhu had separately requested Singh to come for the installation ceremony and said he had "no personal agenda". Sidhu and Singh have been at loggerheads for some time, with the Amritsar (East) MLA recently attacking the chief minister over desecration cases. Singh had earlier opposed Sidhu's appointment as the state Congress chief and said he would not meet him until the cricketer-turned-politician apologised for his "derogatory" tweets against him. On Thursday, after the Congress leaders met the chief minister, the latter's media adviser had tweeted, "Punjab CM @capt_amarinder has invited all @INCPunjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new PPCC team." Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed Sidhu as the new president of the party's Punjab unit on Sunday, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Singh. She also appointed four working presidents in the Punjab Congress -- Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra -- to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the state Assembly polls next year. On Wednesday, several legislators backing Sidhu had said there was no need for him to tender an apology to the chief minister. Tensions between Singh and Sidhu flared up in April after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report into the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. Sidhu attacked the chief minister through his tweets over the issue of alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police-firing incidents. The Amritsar legislator had resigned as a state minister in 2019 after he was divested of his local bodies portfolio. Sidhu had switched sides from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the Congress before the 2017 state Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||India logs over 35,000 fresh Covid cases, 483 casualties in a day||With a single-day rise of 35,342 cases, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,12,93,062 on Friday, while 483 more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 4,19,470, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active cases has declined to 4,05,513, accounting for 1.3 per cent of the total caseload and the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. A decline of 3,881 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,68,561 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Thursday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,29,39,545, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.12 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 32 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.14 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,04,68,079, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 42.34 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5 and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 487 new fatalities include 122 from Kerala, and 120 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,19,470 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,038 from Maharashtra, 36,293 from Karnataka, 33,838 from Tamil Nadu, 25,040 from Delhi, 22,743 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,040 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||J&K police shoots down drone carrying IED material ||The Jammu and Kashmir police averted a cross-border terror plot by shooting down a drone carrying improvised explosive device (IED) material weighing five kg in the border belt of Jammu district on Friday, officials said. Following information about a drone flying over the border belt of Kanachak along the International Border (IB), a quick reaction team (QRT) of the police swung into action and shot it down using anti-drone strategy in the early hours, they added. "At about 1 am, the drone made a low flight to release the payload (IED), when it was shot down," Additional Director General of police (ADGP) Mukesh Singh told reporters here. He said the drone was carrying a payload of five-kg IED material in a semi-assembled state and only wires had to be connected to it to trigger a blast. According to a preliminary analysis, the flying object was a hexa m-copter with six wings and had a GPS device and a flight controller, the officer said. "A possible IED blast has been prevented," he added. There is a one-digit difference in the serial number of this drone and the drone shot down in Kathua last year, which points towards the fact that terrorist organisations across the border such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) have acquired flight controllers and are sending drones with arms and IEDs to the Indian side, the ADGP said. He said the drone shot down on Friday was an assembled one made up of equipment from China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Another interesting information is that the string used to drop the payload from the drone was similar to the one found from the crater site of the Jammu Air Force station, which confirms that a drone was used to drop an IED at the airport, the officer said. According to the ADGP, the drone used in Kathua had entered 30 kilometres inside the border and the distance travelled by such flying objects depends on the weight of the payload. The drones that dropped consignments of AK-47 rifles earlier in the border areas had a range of 0-12 kilometres from the border. The recoveries of weapons dropped from drones in the border areas over the last one-and-a-half years included 16 AK-47 rifles, four M4 US rifles, 24 pistols, 15 grenades and 18 IEDs, he said, adding that currency notes were also seized. Replying to a question, the officer said the IED material was well packed and someone had to pick it up from the Indian side and trigger a blast. "We waited for the person, but nobody came," he added. The ADGP said the JeM and the LeT are using drones for terror attacks and sending weapons to their operatives on the Indian side of the border. This information was obtained from those arrested in connection with around 24-25 such drone sorties in the last one-and-a-half years, he added. According to the officials, the drone was flying seven to eight kilometres inside the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Several rivers in spate after heavy rains in Goa||Several parts of Goa, including Sattari and Bicholim tehsils in north and Dharbandora in south, are reeling under a flood-like situation, where a large number of houses got inundated as the water level of some rivers rose following heavy rains over the past few days, officials said on Friday. However, no loss of human life has been reported so far due to it, they said. At least 100 houses in Sattari tehsil have been under water since Thursday night as the water level of the Mahadayi river increased due to incessant rains that has been lashing the state since over a week now, a senior official said. There were no fatalities, but flood-like situation exists. Those people whose houses have gone completely under water have shifted to safer places on their own, he said. Almost half of Velus village located near Valpoi town in Sattari, is inundated, while several other villages were cut off as roads and culverts are under water, eyewitnesses said. Valpoi MLA and state minister Vishwajit Rane said on Twitter, Due to continuous and heavy rainfall, Mhadei (Mahadayi) has been overflowing. Water has entered different parts of Valpoi. Necessary directions have been issued to the collectors to have the Disaster Management team stationed at Sattari & Usgao. Water has entered their houses causing a lot of damage. It is very important for us to ensure our people's safety. With the intervention of the Disaster Management Team, they will be shifted to safer locations, he added. Near Sankhalim town in Bicholim tehsil, Valvanti and Sakhali rivers are overflowing and have crossed the danger level, officials said. People residing in and around Harvalem village in Bicholim have been asked to be on alert as flood-like situation prevails there, they added. Similar situation is seen in and around Mollem village in South Goa's Dharbandora tehsil. Official sources said that Sangod village in Mollem is facing a flood-like situation, where water has entered to the houses and roads are flooded. On Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a warning that a circulation in the Bay of Bengal is likely to trigger low-pressure area that will cause more rainfall in Goa. Till Wednesday, the coastal state had received 1,998.3 mm rainfall during the ongoing monsoon season as against the average of 1,612.7 mm for the corresponding period. The state fisheries department has already issued a warning to local fishermen, asking them not to venture out into the sea due to gusty winds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Modi pays tributes to Tilak, Azad on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid rich tributes to noted freedom fighters Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Chandra Shekhar Azad on their birth anniversary on Friday and recalled their contributions to the country. Modi tweeted that Tilak was a firm believer in Indian values and ethos, and his views on education and women empowerment continue to motivate several people. He was an institution builder, nurturing many top-quality institutions that have done pioneering work over the years, the prime minister said. He said, "I bow to the great Lokmanya Tilak on his Jayanti. His thoughts and principles are more relevant than ever before in the present circumstances, when 130 crore Indians have decided to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat that is economically prosperous and socially progressive." Fondly remembering the revolutionary freedom fighter Azad, Modi said he was a valiant son of "Bharat Mata" and a remarkable man. "During the prime of his youth he immersed himself in freeing India from the clutches of imperialism. He was also a futuristic thinker, and dreamt of a strong and just India," he said. Associated with a string of revolutionary incidents to target the colonial British regime, Azad had vowed never to be captured by police and remain "azad" (free). After being surrounded by police following an encounter, he shot himself and died at an young age of 24 years in 1931. Born in 1856, Tilak was a pioneering leader of the Indian freedom movement and his concept of "swaraj" (self-rule) caught people's imagination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Baramulla||Two militants were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in the Sopore area of Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district, police said on Friday. The security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Warpora area of Sopore on Thursday, following information about the presence of ultras there, a police official said. "During the house-to-house search, the location of the terrorists was established and they were asked to surrender. However, they refused the offer," the official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants started firing towards the positions of the security forces, which was retaliated. "Two militants were neutralised in the operation, which was carried out without any collateral damage," the official said. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar congratulated the security forces for the successful operation. "One of killed #terrorist Fayaz War was involved in several attacks & #killings of civilians/ SFs. He was last #perpetrator of #violences in #NorthKashmir," Kumar was quoted as saying in the official Twitter handle of the Jammu and Kashmir police. Security forces have killed 80 militants in the valley since the beginning of this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Anil Ambani and ADA group official's numbers on list||The phone numbers of Anil Ambani and another official of his ADA Group were in 2018 added to the list of potential phone numbers to be hacked through the Pegasus spyware, The Wire news website reported on Thursday night. The mere inclusion of a number on the list does not imply that the smart phone linked to it was hacked. For that to be established, the holder of the number has to allow the phone to be put through a digital forensic examination. The two numbers were added to the list in the year the Rafale deal ran into rough weather, with former French President Francois Hollande claiming that France had had no say in the choice of an Anil Ambani company as the offset partner and that it was an Indian government decision, The Wire reported. In a related report, The Wire said that hours after Alok Verma was removed as CBI chief on October 23, 2018, an unidentified Indian agency known to be a user of the Pegasus spyware had made a note of three telephone numbers registered in his name. The personal phone numbers of his wife, daughter and son-in-law too were eventually placed on the list, making it a total of eight numbers from the family. The numbers of two other senior CBI officers, Rakesh Asthana and A.K. Sharma, were added to the database soon after Verma’s was, the report said. Verma and his family ceased to be people of interest after he retired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Santanu Sen snatches govt statement from IT minister, tears it amid uproar in Parliament||The Pegasus snooping row turned physical in Parliament on Thursday when Trinamul MP Santanu Sen snatched and tore the government’s statement on the controversy that was being read out by information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in the Rajya Sabha. Vaishnaw’s readout did not offer anything new from what he had read out in the Lok Sabha earlier this week, and Trinamul was not alone in protesting the government’s effort to tamp down the controversy with a statement. Sen later alleged that after the proceedings were hurriedly adjourned for the day, Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri misbehaved with him and verbally abused him. Sources said the government was planning to initiate disciplinary action against Sen for his behaviour. According to the sources, the government is likely to move a motion seeking the suspension of Sen for the remainder of the session, invoking Rule 256 of the Rajya Sabha. The MP had also thrown pieces of paper into the Well of the House, which was also frowned upon by presiding officer Harivansh before he adjourned the session. Asked why the Opposition had disrupted the proceedings instead of hearing the minister out and exercising its right to seek clarifications, Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said: “We want a structured discussion in Parliament on this issue. Structured discussion is not reading out a statement.” He added that the Pegasus scandal was way beyond the brief of the IT minister and that “the Prime Minister and the home minister must come and answer”. While part of Trinamul’s combative stance stems from its recent electoral victory, in the case of the Pegasus controversy there is the added angle of party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s phone number being on the list of potential targets for hacking. Trinamul made it clear that the party would settle for nothing less than Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah addressing the matter, referring to their alleged track record on surveillance. “Let the Prime Minister and the home minister respond... otherwise we are very clear this protest will continue till August 13 (the last day of the monsoon session),” O’Brien said. Surveillance using military-grade spyware that the Israeli firm NSO Group claims is sold only to governments can be authorised only by the Union home ministry. In addition, recently appointed IT minister Vaishnaw was himself a potential target of snooping through the Pegasus spyware. The Telegraph sent a message to Puri for his response to the allegations levelled against him by Sen. Sources close to Puri claimed the allegations were “laughable”, saying it was Sen who had snatched the papers from the IT minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Farmers hold Kisan Parliament at Jantar Mantar ||Protesting farmers on Thursday finally managed to bring their agitation to the vicinity of Parliament after two aborted attempts over the past six months. The farmers held a Kisan Parliament at Jantar Mantar while the Opposition parties tried to raise the issue in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Junior foreign minister Meenakshi Lekhi described the farmers as “hooligans” while reacting to allegations that the protesters roughed up a cameraperson at Jantar Mantar. “Phir aap un logon ko kisan bol rahe hain. Mawali hain woh (Again you’re calling them farmers. They are hooligans),” Lekhi told reporters. In reply to another question, the newly appointed minister said: “Stop calling them farmers. They are not farmers.… A farmer doesn’t have time to come to Jantar Mantar and protest. They are working in their farms.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh demanded Lekhi’s immediate resignation for her intemperate comments on the farmers. Given the BJP’s “brazen” attempts to “stifle” all voices of dissent and protest, the fact that it had failed to break the spirit of the farmers was clearly rankling, Amarinder said. The government has no right to “malign” and “defame” the farmers, the chief minister added. In both Houses, members of various Opposition parties submitted notices for suspension of regular business to discuss the farmers’ demand for repeal of the three contentious farm laws. In the Rajya Sabha, such notices were submitted by the CPM’s Elamaram Kareem and the CPI’s Binoy Viswam, while the Congress’s Manickam Tagore did so in the Lok Sabha. They also held protests within the Parliament complex, holding banners that were not permitted in the legislative chambers. While the Congress held a protest in the morning, the Left parties along with the DMK and the RJD organised a dharna around noon. The Trinamul Congress is said to have raised the issue at the business advisory committee meeting and demanded repeal of the three laws. Between the Pegasus controversy and the farmers’ agitation, no business could be taken up in either House all day as proceedings were adjourned repeatedly in the face of disruptions. Outside, the farmers held their own “parliament” under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) at Jantar Mantar with a tight security cordon around them. Some MPs visited the site where the Kisan Panchayat was held but no one was allowed to use the SKM platform to address the gathering in keeping with the farmers’ policy not to allow any political party to hijack their agenda. According to Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan, farmers have issued a “people’s whip” to the parliamentarians to raise their movement continuously in Parliament during the ongoing monsoon session. “The Kisan Panchayat is our effort to keep a watch on the MPs and ensure that they bow to the people’s whip.” Only 200 farmers proceeded to Jantar Mantar and everyone was issued an identity card by the SKM as a precaution against any mischief making and to avoid a repeat of the tractor rally fiasco on January 26 that had almost derailed the movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Income-tax officials raid offices of Dainik Bhaskar & Bharat Samachar||Income-tax officials on Thursday raided across five states the offices of the Dainik Bhaskar, one of the country’s largest Hindi newspaper groups that has been at the forefront of reporting on the Narendra Modi government’s Covid mismanagement and the Pegasus snooping controversy. Income-tax raids took place also on the Lucknow headquarters of the news channel Bharat Samachar, which has highlighted the Yogi Adityanath government’s Covid failures, as well as the home of its editor Brajesh Mishra and the homes and offices of its promoters. The raids that began at 7am were still continuing at most of the Dainik Bhaskar offices at 10pm, while those on Bharat Samachar wound up around 8.30pm. Sources in the income-tax department claimed that the two media houses had been raided for suspected tax evasion. Late on Thursday night, the tax department tweeted that the searches were confined to financial affairs and not linked to editorial content. Dainik Bhaskar, the Bhopal-headquartered newspaper whose sister publication Divya Bhaskar is widely read in Gujarat, remained defiant through the day and ran a social media campaign, saying “the government was afraid of our journalism” and tweeting screenshots of some of the newspaper’s reports on Covid. It posted a series of tweets in Hindi that said: “I am independent because I am Bhaskar. What shall rule Bhaskar is the readers’ will. Dainik Bhaskar is independent and will always keep on raising its voice in the interests of democracy. “The government has got scared of true journalism. The income-tax raids on the Bhaskar group are for presenting the actual figures of Covid-related deaths and the dumping of bodies in the Ganga.” Dainik Bhaskar’s national editor Om Gaur told The Telegraph: “I think the (Dainik Bhaskar) raid is the outcome of our aggressive reporting during the second wave of Covid. Unlike some other media outlets, we highlighted the true picture and reported how people died for lack of oxygen and hospital beds.” Gaur added: “We will not be scared at these intimidating tactics. We are accountable to our readers and will continue to stand with the truth.” An opinion piece by Gaur on the Covid deaths was published in The New York Times last month under the headline, “The Ganges is returning the dead. It does not lie”. It said India’s holiest river had become an exhibit for the Modi administration’s failure. Congress veteran Kapil Sibal used an expression made popular by home minister Amit Shah to put the raid in perspective, tweeting: “Bhaskar Group published two days ago scathing piece on phone tapping and snooping and also referred to a past incident in Gujarat.... IT raids in Ahmedabad, Bhopal etc.... Aap chronology samajhiye!” On Monday, the newspaper had in an article said that phone-tapping controversies were not new for Prime Minister Modi or Shah. It cited allegations about the tapping of BJP politicians’ and bureaucrats’ phones in Gujarat 15 years ago, when Modi was chief minister of the state. On Thursday, clicking on the headline — which said “Then Gujarat, now the Centre” — did not lead to the article on the newspaper’s website. A link to the article provided in a tweet by the newspaper too had gone dead. The Dainik Bhaskar newspaper had in April-May splashed pictures of mass cremations on its front pages, reported on the bodies floating in the Ganga and challenged the official pandemic death figures. Dainik Bhaskar has also stood out among Hindi newspapers by reporting extensively on the allegations that the government used the Israeli spyware Pegasus to tap the phones of politicians, journalists, rights activists and others. At least 100 income-tax sleuths raided Dainik Bhaskar’s offices in Bhopal and Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Mumbai (Maharashtra), Delhi and Ahmedabad (Gujarat), an editor with the group said. The newspaper said tax officials had raided the homes of several group employees too and confiscated the mobile phones of staff present in the offices. Income-tax officials also conducted raids across Uttar Pradesh on people they said were promoters of Bharat Samachar. Among them were Haraiya MLA Ajay Singh of the BJP and liquor contractor Om Prakash Jaiswal. While the raid was on, the channel ran scrolls saying it would continue showing the “truth” and would “neither bow nor fear”. The Press Club of India said it “deplores such acts of intimidation by the government through enforcement agencies to deter the independent media from discharging their duty to serve the society”. This is the second time this year that government agencies have raided media establishments over claims of economic offences. In February, the Enforcement Directorate had searched the office of the NewsClick news portal in Delhi for 37 hours, and also raided the home of its editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha. NewsClick, an investigative news site that faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit from the Adani group, has extensively covered the protests against the new citizenship regime and the farmers’ movement. In 2017, the CBI had raided the office of the NDTV news channel and the home of its top executives Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “The attack on journalists & media houses is yet another brutal attempt to stifle democracy. #Dainikbhaskar bravely reported the way @narendramodi ji mishandled the entire #Covid crisis and led the country to its most horrifying days amid a raging pandemic.” She added: “I strongly condemn this vindictive act that aims to suppress voices that bring out the truth. It’s a grave violation that undermines the very principles of democracy. Urging everyone in the media to stay strong. Together we shall never let the autocratic forces succeed!” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said Dainik Bhaskar was “paying the price” for exposing the government’s "monumental mismanagement" of the pandemic. “An undeclared emergency as Arun Shourie has said — this is a Modified Emergency,” he tweeted. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “The message is clear — those who speak against the BJP government will not be spared.... Everyone should raise their voice against it. These raids should be stopped immediately and the media allowed to work freely.” Snoop probe Several journalists’ bodies — the Press Club of India, Editors Guild of India, Press Association, Delhi Union of Journalists, India Women’s Press Corps — and media organisations met on Thursday and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry into the Pegasus controversy. “The use of the Pegasus spyware to snoop on Indian citizens and groups endangers Indian sovereignty and it is necessary that the Government of India should intervene decisively and clarify how and why this was done,” a joint statement issued after the meeting said. Additional reporting by Piyush Srivastava in Lucknow||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa goes soft on exit, to follow BJP’s decision on his future||Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday dropped the first hint that he could be on his way out and that he would abide by the BJP’s decision on his future. The veteran leader also urged religious leaders and party workers not to kick up a storm over whatever decision is taken on July 25. Emerging from a temple where he conducted a ritual in the morning, Yediyurappa, 78, told reporters that he would go by what the party leadership announces on Sunday. “I will start my work on July 26 based on what the national leadership would say on July 25. There is a special programme to commemorate two years (of Yediyurappa’s current tenure) on July 26. After that I will go by what the national leadership says,” he said. This was a departure from the Lingayat strongman’s assertions so far that he would remain in power for the rest of his term. Even his die-hard supporters that include pontiffs of Lingayat mutts have been throwing their weight behind the biggest leader from the community. Yediyurappa also made it clear that he would continue to work for the party. “It is my duty to strengthen the party and bring it back to power.” In view of the possibility of massive disapproval of any move to remove him, Yediyurappa urged religious leaders and BJP workers to desist from creating any issues. But Lingayat seers continued to flow to his office in Bangalore, urging him to stay on and warning the BJP that it would pay a heavy price if he was replaced. “All the pontiffs and party workers should cooperate and not create any issue. No one should issue any statements on my behalf from today,” Yediyurappa said, repeating a message he had tweeted late on Wednesday. He acknowledged the fact that the BJP had allowed him to continue in office even after he crossed 75. While the BJP generally does not allow those above 75 to remain in electoral politics, the party had been left with no choice on Yediyurappa’s continuance when he engineered the defections of 17 lawmakers of the Janata Dal Secular-Congress coalition in 2019 to regain power. His age is one of the factors for the party to take a call on his exit. But it was the sustained rebellion against Yediyurappa that harangued the BJP and made his replacement inevitable. Although Yediyurappa and his supporters tried hard to ensure that he stays in office till the 2023 Karnataka elections, the party could not ignore the mounting dissidence. A leaked audio clip purportedly featuring the voice of state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel sparked the latest round of developments in what seems to be the endgame for Yediyurappa who has been a force to reckon with for over two decades. While Kateel denied any role in the audio clip, a male voice resembling his is heard saying he has three alternative names for the chief minister’s post. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, the party’s Karnataka in-charge, said on Thursday when asked in Delhi about a possible leadership change: “My namaskar (greetings) to you all. We will sit together someday and discuss. We will also sit together and have tea.” Once the final word on Yediyurappa’s future is said, the BJP would have the massive task of placating dominant communities in picking a successor. A section of the Lingayat pontiffs has insisted that only a person from their community should succeed Yediyurappa. But party sources confirmed there were other options. The BJP could look at an alternative outside the two dominant communities, the Lingayats and the Vokkaligas. The names that are doing the rounds in this category are Union minister for coal, mines and parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi and Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, both of whom are RSS favourites and Brahmins. The two Lingayat names being spoken about are Aravind Bellad and Murugesh Nirani, while deputy chief minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan is an option from the Vokkaliga community that has thus far stood by the Congress and the JDS. Since one of the major grouses in the BJP against Yediyurappa is said to be his “soft” approach on minority communities, the BJP also has a hardliner in national general secretary C.T. Ravi on the list of probables. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday appointed Ganesh Godiyal as the Uttarakhand party unit president and former chief minister Harish Rawat as the chairman of the campaign committee. The appointment of Rawat indicates he will be the face of the party and the probable chief ministerial candidate in the election-bound hill state. All the election-related committees were also announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Meenakshi Lekhi calls global investigative report ‘fake’||Newly appointed junior external affairs minister Meenakshi Lekhi on Thursday called the global investigative report on snooping through the Pegasus software “fake” and claimed that Amnesty International had “denied the list” of targets, an assertion the rights watchdog categorically dismissed. Amnesty, which had obtained the list of more than 50,000 cellphone numbers along with the Paris-based journalism nonprofit Forbidden Stories and shared it with 16 news organisations, said in a statement that “false rumours” were being pushed on social media to distract from the unlawful snooping of journalists, activists, politicians and others. “Amnesty International categorically stands by the findings of the Pegasus Project, and the data is irrefutably linked to potential targets of (the Israeli) NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware,” the organisation said. “The false rumours being pushed on social media are intended to distract from the widespread unlawful targeting of journalists and others that the Pegasus Project has revealed,” the statement added. Earlier, addressing her first media conference at the BJP headquarters after becoming a minister, Lekhi had said: “The fact is that this story, which is floating around about Pegasus is a fake story. The fact is also that Amnesty has denied the list, which is circulating.” “The list that is being circulated is not an actual list and it’s only indicative of something,” she added. On whether the government had purchased the Israeli spyware Pegasus, Lekhi said such things were “classified documents” and they couldn’t be revealed. “We have to deal with terrorists and Leftists. Will I tell you which software I’m using? This is a classified document,” she replied. Although she didn’t state the basis of her claim regarding Amnesty’s “denial” of the list, it appeared she had fallen for the rumours on social media to authoritatively claim that a fake story was being pushed to malign India. “From yellow pages to yellow journalism is what we have seen in this story. Some list is crafted, created and circulated and the story goes around the fake list,” Lekhi said, claiming that the names had been picked from some publicly available telephone directory. Lekhi, who also holds the culture portfolio, slammed the Opposition for protesting against the snooping charges. She said the spyware had been used in 10 countries and asked whether the Opposition in those nations had behaved the way the government’s rivals were in India. She alleged a conspiracy behind this. “If 10 countries used the spyware... I don’t know what spyware is used but if the spyware is used by those 10 countries, have the other countries’ Opposition behaved the way our Opposition has?” she asked. “This is not a story but a non-starter across the globe because it’s based on a concocted and fabricated list,” she said. The minister said the story called for “forgery and defamation”. Asked why the government didn’t order a probe to expose the fake list, Lekhi said: “Why should the government waste its resources and energy?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Public interest plea moved in Supreme Court||A public interest plea has been moved in the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored special investigation team probe into alleged government snooping on Indian citizens through the Israeli spyware Pegasus, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the CBI named as respondents. An advocate, Manohar Lal Sharma, moved the petition on Thursday pleading that not only was the alleged surveillance a violation of citizens’ fundamental right to privacy, but the use of foreign spyware to snoop on Indians posed a threat to national security. “Privacy is not about the wish to hide, as is often asserted. It is about having a space of one’s own where our thoughts and being are not the instrument of someone else’s purposes. It is an essential component of dignity and agency,” the petition says. “Pegasus is a chilling software. It is not just eavesdropping on conversations; it can be used to access the entire digital imprint of your life. It renders helpless not just the owner of the phone hacked but everyone who is in contact with them.” Sharma has argued that the alleged use of Pegasus for spying on Indians violates Articles 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution, according to which the government cannot appropriate the country’s consolidated or contingency funds without legislative approval. This implies that if the apex court admits the petition, the purported source of funds for the alleged purchase of the spyware may come under the scanner. Sharma has also argued that any snooping on citizens’ personal data violates Sections 65, 66 and 72 of the Information Technology Act — which deal with data privacy and misuse — read with Section 3 of the Official Secrets Act. His petition asks whether the Constitution allows a Prime Minister and his ministers to snoop on Indian citizens for their “vested political interest”. It seeks the prosecution of those responsible under the IT Act and Official Secrets Act as well as Indian Penal Code Sections 408, 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servants) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Sharma says he was compelled to petition the Supreme Court because his representation to the CBI for the registration of an FIR against the officials concerned had brought no response. His petition says the national security implications of the alleged spying are enormous at a time the explosive growth of surveillance technology vendors has become a global security and human rights problem. It says Pegasus is not just a surveillance tool but a “cyber-weapon being unleashed on the Indian polity”. “Even if authorised (which is doubtful), the use of Pegasus poses a national security risk,” it adds. Sharma has said the cause of action had arisen as far back as November 28, 2019, when Modi and his ministers had failed to reply in the Lok Sabha to Congress members Digvijaya Singh and Jairam Ramesh who had asked whether the government had bought the Pegasus software. Sharma says a “fresh cause of action arose” on July 20 this year when, in the Rajya Sabha, the IT minister failed to reply to Opposition members’ questions about the purchase of Pegasus and its use “in India against the Opposition leaders, human right(s) activist(s) and political rivals” before and after the 2019 general election. “It’s an amount of admission, serious violation of Art(icles) 21 (life and liberty including privacy), 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution of India read with serious financial and personal injury to the citizens of India,” the petition says. “The Pegasus scandal is a matter of grave concern and a serious attack upon Indian democracy, judiciary and (the) country’s security. The widespread and unaccountable use of surveillance is morally disfiguring.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi reacts to I-T raids on Dainik Bhaskar group||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday that truth written with ink on paper was enough to frighten a weak government, reacting to the income tax raids on the Dainik Bhaskar group of newspapers. The Opposition party said the raids on one of the largest Hindi daily groups, which had widely reported on the government’s mismanagement of the second wave of the pandemic, was part of the Narendra Modi dispensation’s attempts to create an “era of fear” through tyranny and despotism. “Kagaz par syahi se sach likhna ek kamzor sarkar ko darane ke liye kafi hain (To write the truth on paper with ink is enough to scare a weak government),” Rahul tweeted. The Congress insisted that it was not about targeting “Group A or B” as the issues involved were more fundamental to India’s democracy — the freedom of media and the draconian nature of the government. The party said the Centre was trying to crush democratic freedom and rights in every sphere of life, as manifested in the clampdown on the Opposition in Parliament, the attitude towards the farmers’ protest, the refusal to investigate wrongdoings and the persistent attacks on the media. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath said a project was being ruthlessly executed to control the media. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said: “The Modi government cannot tolerate even an iota of criticism. Due to its fascist mentality, the BJP doesn’t want to see the truth in a democratic set-up. By indulging in such actions and gagging the media, the Modi government wants to convey the message that if the media doesn’t become godi media, then its voice will be suppressed.” Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh predicted worse attacks on the media as the political opposition to the Modi government builds up. In several tweets, he wondered why people were shocked as this was the BJP’s governance model. “They succeeded in Gujarat by curbing opposition, but at the national level it may not be that easy. I have been warning about Modi’s style of governance from day one. They have only CBI-ED. And this is just the beginning. They would become more vindictive as opposition grows nationally. All should get together to condemn it and fight the Modi-Shah duo at every level,” Digvijaya said. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “It is not about one particular group. The fundamental issues are freedom of press and the draconian nature of the government. Today they went for A, tomorrow they will go for B. We are least concerned whether it is ‘A’ or ‘B’ or ‘C’. “You are all journalists, you know that it is the freedom of expression that matters much more. The issue is why are central agencies being misused to attack all institutions. We can use any adjective — totalitarian, autocratic, despotic, tyrannical… the main issue is of course the anti-democratic mindset.” Recalling that the Dainik Bhaskar had published a series of critical reports on the government’s handling of Covid and its editor had written an article about bodies floating in the Ganga in The New York Times, Singhvi said: “There are several examples of attempts to create an era of fear. An Uttar Pradesh television channel, Bharat Samachar, was also raided today. Their reporting has also been critical of the Yogi (Adityanath) government. “In January 2021, the Enforcement Directorate raided (the web portal) NewsClick’s New Delhi office, as well as the homes of its editor-in-chief, Prabir Purkayastha, one other editor, and two members of its management.” Calling upon every section of society to rise against this attack on the media, the Congress leader added: “After filing a case against online news platform The Wire and several others over tweets linked to the assault of a Muslim man in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad, the state police have filed another case against the news website — this time in Barabanki. “On October 11, 2018, a few income tax officials conducted a 22-hour raid at the office of news portal Quint. In June 2017, the CBI raided the home of NDTV promoter Prannoy Roy on the charges of tax evasion.” Delhi police on Thursday obstructed Congress MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa and Deepender Hooda when they were talking to reporters outside Parliament about the farmers’ struggle. The police told them to seek permission from the higher authorities before briefing the media. Outraged, the MPs moved a privilege motion in the Rajya Sabha against Delhi police for trying to curb their freedom of expression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Covid-19: High death rate remains a cause of concern for Odisha govt||High Covid-19 death rate in Odisha remains a cause of concern for the state government even though the number of positive cases is on the decline. The state recorded 67 more deaths due to the pandemic in the last 24 hours taking the total death toll in the state to 5,308. Health and family welfare department, however, clarified that the daily list of deaths does not reflect the fatalities occurring on a particular day. They also reflect past deaths with figures being released following the completion of the audit process. Opposition parties have accused the government of suppressing the actual number of Covid deaths in the state and demanded a white paper on the issue. The pandemic situation is particularly worrisome in districts such as Khurda under which the state capital falls. Of the 67 new deaths reported in the state during the last 24 hours Khurda accounted for 20, including 13 from the capital city of Bhubaneswar. This was followed by 8 deaths in Balasore, 7 in Bargarh, 6 in Nabarangpur, 5 each in Angul, Puri and Rayagada, 4 in Dhenkanal, 2 each in Kandhamal and Mayurbhanj and one each in Kalahandi, Kendrapara and Nuapada districts. With this, the Covid toll in Khurda district has reached 977 deaths followed by Sundargarh (458), Ganjam (424), Puri (317), Cuttack (315), Bargarh (268), Angul (211), Kalahandi (194), Mayurbhanj (193), Balasore (170), Rayagada (157), Sambalpur (154), Nayagarh (141), Jharsuguda (137), Kendrapara (119), Dhenkanal (106) and Keonjhar (100). On the other hand as many as 1948 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 during the last 24 hours in the state. Test positivity rate (TPR) in the state, which tested 79,372 samples in the last 24 hours, stood at 2.45 per cent. Khurda district registered the highest number of 480 fresh infections, followed by Cuttack (279) and Jajpur (115). High caseload in some areas of the state also continues to bother the central government, which had sent a two-member expert team to Odisha a few weeks ago to study the situation. The state government has stepped up precautionary measures with enhanced vigil on the Odisha-Chhattisgarh border as cases in the neighbouring state are once again on the increase. Meanwhile, the Orissa High Court will hear a petition on the alleged under counting of Covid-19 deaths in Odisha on July 28. Vaccination drives in the state are also being ramped up to contain the spread of the disease. “The vaccination programme in Odisha is quite successful. The wastage of vaccine is almost nil in Odisha,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, P.K. Mohapatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Farmer dies of poisoning three days after NIA quiz on terror suspicions||A 28-year-old farmer from a Meerut village died of apparent poisoning under mysterious circumstances three days after his latest questioning by the National Investigation Agency on terror suspicions. Paramjeet “Mangal” Singh of village Doodhli Khadar died in the early hours of Thursday at a local hospital that had found him lying unconscious on its premises on Wednesday night. His father Ajit Singh said that while releasing Mangal after questioning him on Monday, the NIA had given him “two days” to confess to being an active member of the banned Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF). “My son was first picked up from home by the NIA and Meerut police on July 11 and released after three-four hours of interrogation. Later, the NIA summoned him to its Chandigarh office on July 19 (Monday),” Ajit told reporters. “I went with him to Chandigarh. He was questioned from 2pm to 7pm. The NIA personnel told me to ask him to speak the truth. When I told them he had nothing to do with the KLF, they said he had two days to confess.” Ajit added: “We returned home on Tuesday. Paramjeet went out the same evening and didn’t return that night or the following night.” He said he didn’t file a missing persons report with the police because he felt scared after Mangal’s questioning. “I received a call around 2am (on Thursday) from a hospital saying my son had been admitted in a critical condition. He died later in the night,” Ajit said. He said the doctors told him Mangal had suffered “trauma”, and that the police later said he had consumed some sort of poison. Ajit said the NIA had told him a youth named Gagandeep whom it had arrested early this month had confessed to supplying arms to the KLF and named Mangal as a member of the outfit. The father suggested this was an act of personal revenge, alleging Mangal had a few months ago beaten up Gagandeep for trying to molest a girl at a wedding in Meerut. “My son seemed tense and didn’t talk to his wife or anybody else in the family after returning from Chandigarh. He left home without saying where he was going. All I know is that he was a family man and had been very happy before the ordeal,” Ajit said. Meerut superintendent of police (rural) Keshav Kumar said Mangal’s body had been handed over to his family after a post-mortem but his organs had been preserved for the sake of the investigation. “Prima facie, it appears he had consumed some kind of poison,” he said. Kumar said the NIA had found and seized Rs 9 lakh from Ajit’s home. Ajit said: “I have shown the NIA documents proving I had got the money after selling a plot of land.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Govt seeks more time to provide details on sale of electoral bonds||The government has sought more time to provide details on the sale of electoral bonds although RTI documents suggest the information is available. “The government seeks more time to furnish the replies,” the finance ministry said in a written reply on Tuesday to questions posed by Trinamul Congress MP Santanu Sen in the Rajya Sabha. The details sought included phase-wise and denomination-wise bonds printed and sold and those remaining unsold since their inception in 2018, details of bonds encashed during the 15th and 16th phases of their sale, the commission earned by the State Bank of India from their sale till date, and the expenditure incurred on their printing. Electoral bonds are sold in 10-day phases, and the 17th tranche was issued earlier this month. RTI activists have accessed from the department of economic affairs in the finance ministry most of the details sought by the Trinamul MP, barring the party-wise break-up of the beneficiaries of the bonds. Commodore (retd) Lokesh Batra has said he has got much of the information sought by Sen from the department of economic affairs using the RTI route. He shared the documents with The Telegraph and wondered why the finance ministry had been economical with the facts in Parliament, to which the government is accountable. On May 24 this year, the department of economic affairs had provided Batra branch-wise details of the number of electoral bonds sold and redeemed in the 16th phase between April 1 and 10, along with the bank commission. A similar document was provided by the department to Batra on January 27 in response to an RTI query on the 15th tranche of the bonds. Similar details about all phases, including the bank commission, have been provided by the department since the bonds were introduced in 2018. The government has, however, not shared through RTI the details of the amount each party received through the bonds. This information has usually been gleaned out of the audit reports of individual political parties. Even the break-up of the bonds — issued in denominations of Rs 1,000, Rs 10,000, Rs 100,000, Rs 10,00,000 and Rs 1,00,00,000 — are available with the government because the SBI had provided the details to RTI activists. On March 19, the department of economic affairs provided details of the total amount, including the GST charged by the SBI to the government as commission for the sale of electoral bonds in 15 phases, the total number of electoral bonds printed till then and the cost of printing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
