24-07-2021||India||Erotica is not porn: Shilpa Shetty defends husband Raj Kundra||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty told police that she had no idea about the content of the `Hot Shots' app through which her husband Raj Kundra allegedly distributed pornographic films, sources said on Saturday. Kundra, a city-based businessman, was arrested by the Mumbai police on July 19 for alleged production of pornographic films and their dissemination through apps. In her statement given to the police on Friday, Shetty said she did not know about the content of the app, nor did she interfere in her husband's business, police sources said. She was not linked to the app business in any way, the actor said, as per the sources. She also told police that she had resigned from the post of director of Kundra's firm Viaan Industries. The police seized a laptop from Kundra's house during search on Friday and also recovered some bank statements, sources said. According to police sources, Shilpa Shetty said it was another accused - London-based Pradeep Bakshi, Kundra's brother-in-law - who was involved with the app. She also stressed the difference between 'erotica' and 'pornography', and said Kundra was not involved in producing pornographic content, reports ndtv.com. On Friday Kundra was sent to police custody till July 27. Police said they had seized 48 TB worth of images and videos, most of which is adult content. Police also said they had a record of transactions - from an account in Yes Bank registered to Kundra to one in the United Bank of Africa. They suspect money from sale of pornographic content was used for online betting. Rs 7.5 crore has been seized so far, reports ndtv.com. During Friday's hearing his lawyer, Abad Ponda, had objected to classifying the seized content as 'pornography'. Ponda said the content could not come under Section 67 of the IT Act - for which bail is not allowed - as similar material is available on OTT platforms like Netflix. It can be covered only under Section 292 of the Indian Penal Code - which deals with "lascivious" material, he said, adding "no further custody is needed". Kundra has denied any wrongdoing, and has also named Pradeep Bakshi as the key figure. However, police have said Kundra was kept updated on the finances of the app, and allegedly also set up a WhatsApp group to discuss the production, distribution and selling of content. Kundra has approached the Bombay High Court to challenge his arrest and dismiss the lower court's order on extending police custody on that distinction. His petition also claims he was arrested after being summoned to the police station "under the garb of recording his statement". The police say Raj Kundra, 45, is a "key conspirator" in the case, and that they had sufficient evidence against him; this includes pornographic clips and emails found in his office. The case was registered February 4 after a woman told the police she had been forced to take part in a porn film after being promised an acting job, a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||Dainik Bhaskar: Tax evasion of Rs 700 cr spread over a period of six years found during raids||A CBDT statement alleged that media group, Dainik Bhaskar, has more than 100 companies including the holding and subsidiary companies and that they have been operating several companies in the names of their employees that have been used for booking "bogus" expenses and routing of funds.  "During the search, several of the employees, whose names were used as shareholders and directors, have admitted that they were not aware of such companies and had given their Aadhaar card and digital signature to the employer in good faith.  "Some were found to be relatives, who had willingly and knowingly signed the papers but had no knowledge or control of the business activities of the companies, in which they were supposed to be directors and shareholders," the CBDT claimed.  Such companies, it alleged, have been used for multiple purposes like "booking bogus expenses" and "siphoning off" the profits from listed companies, routing of funds so siphoned into their closely held companies to make investments, making of circular transactions etc.  "The nature of such bogus expenditures booked vary from supply of manpower, transport, logistics and civil works and fictitious trade payables.  "The quantum of income escapement using this modus operandi, detected so far, amounts to Rs 700 crore spread over a period of six years," it claimed.  However, the quantum may be more as the group has used multiple layers and investigations are being carried out to unravel the entire money trail, it added.  The statement said the tax department is probing the violation of certain sections of the Companies Act and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement prescribed by SEBI for listed companies in this case.  "Application of Benami Transaction Prohibition Act will also be examined," it said. The CBDT claimed to have detected "fictitious transactions" of Rs 2,200 crore after the Income Tax Department carried out multi-city raids against the Dainik Bhaskar media group early this week. It said the searches that were launched on July 22 in nine cities like Bhopal, Indore, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Noida and some others are "continuing and further investigations are in progress." "The voluminous material found during the search operations is being examined," the CBDT statement issued here said. "Cyclical trading and transfer of funds among group companies engaged in unrelated businesses to the tune of Rs 2,200 crore has been found. The enquiries have confirmed that these have been fictitious transactions without any actual movement or delivery of goods. The tax effect and violation of other laws are being examined," the statement alleged. While the statement did not name the group, official sources identified it to be the Bhopal headquartered Dainik Bhaskar group which is involved in various business sectors like media, power, textiles and real estate with a group turnover of more than Rs 6,000 crore per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||Lt Governor overturns Delhi govt's decision to appoint its choice of lawyers for farmer protest cases||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has overturned the Delhi Cabinet's decision to appoint a panel of lawyers of its choice to argue cases related to the farmers' agitation, the AAP government said on Saturday and wondered what was the need of an elected dispensation if everything has to be done through the "Centre via L-G".  Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the lieutenant governor (L-G) has invoked his special powers granted under the Constitution and referred the matter to the President.  Addressing a virtual press conference, he said that in the interim, Baijal has approved a panel of 11 law officers chosen by the Delhi Police to argue the cases.  In a tweet in Hindi, Chief Minister Arvind Kerjiwal said, "Overturning the Cabinet's decisions in such a way is an insult to Delhiites. The people of Delhi formed the AAP (Aam Aadmi Party) government with a historic majority and defeated the BJP."  "Let the BJP run the country and let the AAP run Delhi. Such interference in everyday work is an insult to the people of Delhi. The BJP should respect democracy," he said.  Earlier this month, the Kejriwal-led Cabinet had taken a decision that lawyers chosen by the Delhi government will fight cases of violence during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26 this year, rejecting the Delhi Police's panel of lawyers.  "But, today, the L-G has changed it. The Constitution has given him (L-G) the right that in case of a disagreement with the elected government, he can send the matter to the Centre and the President of India for reference," the deputy chief minister said during the press conference.  However, the L-G is to intervene in issues of the city government only in "exceptional circumstances" and not in every other matter, Sisodia said.  "What is the need of an elected government in Delhi if everything has to be done through Centre via LG," he asked.  The Constitution has given a right to the elected government to appoint its lawyers, Sisodia said, adding that also, the Supreme Court has properly explained that an elected government has the power to choose its lawyers.  According to Sisodia, the L-G has said that "I (L-G) have referred the matter to the Centre for decision of the President of India".  "In exercise of the powers conferred in provisions of Article 239A of the Constitution, I (LG) hereby direct that 11 law officers, advocates as suggested by the Delhi Police....be appointed," Sisodia said, quoting the L-G's communication.  Questioning the central government, he sought to know what is the Centre's intent behind rejecting the panel of lawyers decided by the Delhi government.  "The central government is afraid that the panel of lawyers appointed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will expose the conspiracy led by the central government against the farmers in court," Sisodia said.  Earlier in the day, sources in the L-G office had said it has been recommended that the 11 special public prosecutors in Republic Day violence-related cases and three others in northeast Delhi riots cases, proposed by the Delhi Police be immediately appointed in view of the gravity of the two matters.  This is the first time the L-G has reserved any matter for consideration of the President, owing to the difference of opinion with the Kejriwal dispensation, since the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, came into force in April, they said.  Sisodia alleged that the constitutional rights of the elected Delhi government are continuously being violated by the Centre through the L-G and all the decisions of the Delhi government are being obstructed.  He also said that the Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court, including five senior judges, had clearly stated in its order that the lieutenant governor of Delhi has only two powers.  "Either the L-G can agree with the decision of the elected government and act accordingly, and if the LG disagrees, then he may send his disagreement to the President. The Supreme Court had also said in its order that the lieutenant governor has been given the power to refer a matter to the President only in extraordinary circumstances and not in every case," the deputy chief minister added.  In April, however, Delhi's lieutenant governor became the effective in-charge of the national capital with the Centre notifying a new law making it clear that the elected government will now have to seek the opinion of the L-G before any executive decision.  The Union Home Ministry's notification giving effect to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 came into effect from April 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||India’s cumulative Covid vaccination coverages crosses 43 crore||India's cumulative COVID-19 vaccination coverage has achieved the landmark milestone of 43 crore with nearly 46 lakh vaccine doses administered on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. The 22,80,435 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 2,72,190 vaccine doses given as second dose in the age group 18-44 years on Saturday. "India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has achieved the landmark milestone of 43,26,05,567 with nearly 45,74,298 vaccine doses administered on Saturday," the health ministry said in a statement. Cumulatively, 13,77,91,932 persons in the age group 18-44 years across 37 states or union territories have received their first dose and 60,46,308 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Three states namely Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 1 crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||Fire at farmers’ protest site on Singhu border||A tent was damaged as a fire broke out at the farmers' protest site on the Delhi's Singhu border on Saturday, police said. No loss of life was reported in this incident, a police official said. However, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the stir against the Centre's farm laws, said two tents were damaged in the incident. However, the spirit of the farmers is unaffected, the body said. Meanwhile, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh said no person was injured in the incident but things were damaged. Sukhwinder Singh, a protester, suspected that it was someone's doing. Rain stopped around 5 pm and the fire in the first tent broke out around 5.30 pm. Later, another tent, which was around 100 metres away, caught fire. We suspect that someone has come here and done this thing, he said. Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the Centre's three contentious farm laws and a new law to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||India lodges strong protest on drone activities at meeting with Pakistan||India on Saturday lodged a strong protest over drone activities by Pakistan in the Jammu area during a sector commander-level meeting between the Border Security Force and the Pakistan Rangers, officials said. "It was the first sector commander-level meeting between the two border guarding forces after the declaration of ceasefire agreement by DGMOs (in February)," a BSF spokesperson said. The meeting was held at the request of Pakistan Rangers at the International Border (IB) in the Suchetgarh area and it was decided to re-energise instant communication between field commanders, whenever required, to resolve operational matters, the spokesperson said. Commanders of both the border guarding forces discussed various issues with the main emphasis by the BSF delegation on Pakistani drone activities, terrorist activities and digging of tunnels from across the border and other issues related to border management, he said. A very strong protest was lodged by BSF delegates regarding drone activities by Pakistan authorities in the Jammu area, the officials said. At the same time, both sides expressed their commitment to maintaining peace and harmony at the IB, they said. "The meeting was held in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere and both sides agreed on an expeditious implementation of the decisions taken in the earlier DG-level talks and committed to each other to maintain peace and harmony at the IB," the spokesperson said. The BSF delegation was led by DIG Surjit Singh and the Pakistan Rangers delegation was headed by Brigadier Murad Hussain, sector commander of Sialkot. The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Friday shot down a drone carrying improvised explosive device (IED) material weighing five kilograms in the border belt of Jammu district. Additional Director General of police (ADGP) Mukesh Singh had said terrorist outfits across the border such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) were using drones for attacks and sending weapons to their operatives on the Indian side of the border. Drones were used on June 27 to drop explosives at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu airport, causing minor injuries to its two personnel. Following the terror attack, several border districts have banned or put restrictions on the use of drones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||Delhi Metro, buses at full capacity, theatres at 50 per cent occupancy from Monday||The Delhi Metro and public buses in the city will operate at full seating capacity while cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes will open with 50 per cent occupancy from Monday, according to the DDMA's latest unlock guidelines issued on Saturday. The city witnessed an unprecedented surge of cases and deaths during the second wave of coronavirus in April and May. The situation seems to have been improving over the past few weeks, allowing the government to reopen the city in a phased manner. The latest unlock guidelines by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said the Delhi Metro, the city's lifeline, will be allowed to operate with 100 per cent seating capacity from Monday but no standing passenger will be allowed. Cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes will be allowed to open with 50 percent seating capacity from July 26, while business-to-business (B2B) exhibitions will also be allowed, but only with business visitors, the guidelines said. The order also directed that number of people allowed at marriage functions and last rites will be raised to 100 from Monday. Spas can also open from July 26 but their all employees have to be fully vaccinated or undergo RT-PCR test fortnightly, the DDMA said. Delhi faced a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a large number of lives daily. The rapid rise in the number of cases led to a shortage of medical oxygen at various city hospitals. On April 20, the city had reported a record 28,395 cases. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. At 448, the highest number of deaths was reported on May 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||Rainfall intensity to decrease over west coast in next 24 hours, says IMD||The India Meteorology Department (IMD) on Saturday said rainfall intensity along the west coast is expected to decrease over the next 24 hours, in a much-needed relief to rain-battered Maharashtra and Goa. Rainfall activity will increase over the north Indian plains and hills from July 25, it said. "Further reduction in rainfall intensity is very likely along the west coast, including Konkan, Goa and adjoining interior Maharashtra, during the next 24 hours," the IMD said. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls (are) very likely to continue over west coast, including Maharashtra, on July 24 and isolated heavy falls thereafter," it said. Extremely heavy rains have killed scores of people in Maharashtra over the past few days, submerging several areas and damaging property. The IMD said scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over Gujarat till July and reduce thereafter. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over east Rajasthan till July 26 and reduce thereafter. In north India, rainfall activity is likely to increase over northwest India from July 25. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls (are) likely over Uttarakhand during July 25-28; Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh during July 26-28, and Punjab and east Uttar Pradesh on July 27 and 28," the IMD said. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on July 27 and 28, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||BJP top brass has not spoken to me about succedding Yediyurappa, says Pralhad Joshi||Union Minister for Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi on Saturday said the BJP top leadership has not spoken to him about succeeding Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, whose exit seems imminent, and it is only the media that is discussing the matter. As Yediyurappa had announced that he would abide by the party's top brass instruction on July 25, Joshi said he has no clue whether the central leadership has asked him to resign. "No one has spoken to me about it (succeeding Yediyurappa). It's only the media, which is discussing it. As no one has spoken to me, there is no need to react to it," Joshi told reporters. Asked what if he is made the chief minister, the Union Minister quipped, "I never answer hypothetical questions with ifs and buts... I don't want to answer such questions." To a question, Joshi said he would not react because he was not aware that the chief minister had been asked to resign. He emphasised that the supreme leaders Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah apart from the BJP leadership led by party president J P Nadda would decide. "There is no high command in the BJP but national leadership. We got different leaderships from time to time. There was Rajnath Singh, after which Nitin Gadkari came, who was succeeded by Amit Shah and now J P Nadda is there. In the present situation, we have supreme leaders in Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. They will decide," Joshi said. He declined to comment on seers of the dominant Lingayat community warning the BJP that it would be ruined if Lingayat strongman Yediyurappa is removed from the post. The 58-year-old Joshi has been Dharwad MP since 2004. He had also served as the BJPs state unit president from July 2012 to January 2016. With Yediyurappa dropping a strong hint that his exit as chief minister was on the cards, speculation is rife that Joshi would take on the mantle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||Millions sleep well at night due to technologies like Pegasus, says NSO||Amidst the raging controversy over its surveillance software Pegasus, Israeli cybersecurity company NSO Group has defended itself by saying that millions of people around the world sleep well at night and walk in the streets safely due to such technologies available with intelligence and law enforcement agencies. The company also stated that it does not operate the technology nor does it have access to the data collected by its clients. The alleged use of the Pegasus software to spy on journalists, human rights defenders, politicians and others in a number of countries, including India, has triggered concerns over issues relating to privacy. Politicians, rights activists and journalists were among those targeted with phone spyware sold to various governments by the Israeli firm, according to an international media consortium. "Millions of people around the world are sleeping well at night, and safely walking in the streets, thanks to Pegasus and similar technologies which help intelligence agencies and law enforcement agencies around the world to prevent and investigate crime, terrorism, and pedophilia rings that are hiding under the umbrella of end-to-End encryption apps," a spokesperson for NSO said. NSO, together with many of the other cyber intelligence companies in the world, provides cyber intelligence tools for governments because law enforcement agencies around the world are in the dark and there's no regulatory solution that allows them to monitor malicious acts on instant messaging and social media", the company said. On the controversy around its snooping software that has rocked the world, the spokesperson asserted that "NSO does not operate the technology, nor do we have visibility to the data collected". "We are doing our best to help creating a safer worl,." it said. NSO in a written response to PTI in October 2019, when the issue first came to the limelight with reports of misuse in India, had said that it considers "any other use of our products than to prevent serious crime and terrorism a misuse, which is contractually prohibited". "We take action if we detect any misuse. This technology is rooted in the protection of human rights including the right to life, security and bodily integrity and that's why we have sought alignment with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, to make sure our products are respecting all fundamental human rights," it said which is a stand its executives still maintain. Without confirming, or denying, if the software was sold to India, the company had said that its "products are licensed to government intelligence and law enforcement agencies for the sole purpose of preventing and investigating terror and serious crime". "To protect the ongoing public safety missions of its agency customers and given significant legal and contractual constraints, NSO Group is not able to disclose who is or is not a client or discuss specific uses of its technology," the written statement had said. Amidst the latest controversy, Israel has established a committee to review the allegations of misuse of the NSO group's surveillance software and hinted at a possible "review of the whole matter of giving licences". The defence establishment appointed a review committee made up of a number of bodies," lawmaker Ram Ben-Barak, the head of Knesset's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, told Army Radio on Thursday. When they finish their review, we'll demand to see the results and assess whether we need to make corrections," Ben-Barak, who earlier was the former deputy head of Israel's Mossad spy agency, added. Israel's priority was to review this whole matter of giving licenses , he stressed. NSO''s chief executive, Shalev Hulio, welcomed the move, telling Army Radio that he would be very pleased if there were an investigation so that we'd be able to clear our name . Hulio claimed that there was an effort to smear the whole Israeli cyber industry". Ben-Barak noted that Pegasus had helped expose many terror cells , but if it was misused or sold to irresponsible bodies, this is something we need to check".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||CISCE declares ICSE, ISC results||The CISCE on Saturday announced results for classes 10 and 12, with class 10 girls and boys achieving the same pass percentage. In the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) class 12 results girls outshone boys by a margin on 0.2 per cent. The board said that like last year, there will be no merit list this time too in view of the exceptional circumstances in which results have been prepared. The CISCE had cancelled exams for both classes this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19. The results has been prepared on an alternate assessment policy decided by the board. "In class 10, girls and boys have achieved a pass percentage of 99.98 per cent. In class 12, the pass percentage of girls is 99.86 per cent while that of boys is 99.66 per cent," CISCE Chief Executive and Secretary Gerry Arathoon said. He informed that unlike previous years option of rechecking of answer scripts will not be available this year as candidates have been awarded "imputed marks". However, a dispute resolution mechanism will be in place for correction of calculation errors, if any, Arathoon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||India likely to start vaccinating children by September, says AIIMS chief||Children are likely to get their vaccines by September, AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria said on Saturday, explaining that it will be a significant move to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. "I think Zydus has already done the trials and they're waiting for the emergency authorisation. The Bharat Biotech's Covaxin trials should be over by August or September, and by that time we should get approval. Pfizer vaccine has been already approved by the FDA (US regulator - Food and Drug Administration)," Guleria told ndtv.com "Hopefully, by September, we should start vaccinating children, and that will be a big boost as far as breaking the chain of transmission is concerned," the expert added. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 42.78 crore, while the Centre hopes to inoculate all citizens above 18 by December 2021. However, India is yet to clear a vaccine for children amid a growing concern of a possible third wave affecting them. Meanwhile, the European Medicines Agency has recommended authorising Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 12 to 17, the first time the shot has been authorized for people under 18. "We need to get our own vaccines too - that's why both Bharat Biotech and Zydus are important. Getting the Pfizer vaccine will also be helpful, as there is enough data to suggest it's safe... but we can't be sure if we will get required numbers. We will hopefully have more than one vaccine for children by September,"  Guleria said on Saturday. Taling about a Lancet study, which says that "living with 11-17 year olds increases the risk of infection by 18-30 per cent", the AIIMS chief said, "It's an important issue. Vulnerable people - the elderly or those having illnesses - are at an increased risk of getting the infection (in such cases). That's one of the reasons why people are worried about children going to schools... they may get a mild infection but they may pass it to their grandparents. We need more data but this is something that has been shown even with influenza." Talking about a serosurvey that revealed two-third of the Indian population has developed antibdies, Guleria said it is even the younger population has developed immunity. "What is encouraging is the serosurvey this time also looked at the younger population also. There was a lot of worries that children may be vulnerable in the third wave. The survey suggested that even children may have got the infection, and to some extent, they're protected," he explained. India can hope to reopen its schools fully by the end of this year as children get vaccinated, the AIIMS chief further said. "I personally feel, in a graded manner, physical classes should start. A lot of children who don't have access to online classes are suffering. By October, November or end of the year, when children start getting vaccinated, we should be in a position that schools open fully," he told ndtv.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||At least 76 dead in Maharashtra floods,  Raigad worst-affected||At least 76 people died, 38 others injured and 59 are missing after many areas in Maharashtra were hit by floods and landslides triggered by heavy rains, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday. Raigad district seems the worst-affected by the rain fury where 47 people lost their lives, including 37 in the landslide at Taliye village on Thursday, according to the state disaster management department. Speaking to reporters in Pune, Pawar said 90,000 people were evacuated to safety so far from nine districts, hit by heavy rains over the last four days. Parts of the Raigad and Ratnagiri districts in the coastal Konkan region and Kolhapur district in western Maharashtra have been worst affected by the floods. Besides that, heavy rains have been pounding parts of the Satara district. Pawar said 21 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been working with 14 teams of the Army, the Coast Guard and others in the rain-ravaged districts. Besides, four teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have also joined the evacuation operations. As per a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) earlier in the day, 76 people died and 38 others were injured in the floods that ravaged parts of the state while 30 people went missing. A senior official of the state disaster management department told PTI on Friday that as many as 129 people have died in rain-related incidents, including multiple landslides, in Maharashtra over the two previous days. The CMO statement said that as per the information received from the Relief and Rehabilitation Department, nearly 90,000 people have been evacuated. Seventy-five animals have perished, it added. According to Pawar, 23 areas in the Pune district are landslide-prone including five areas in Ambegaon, two in Maval, two in Khed, three in Bhor, besides one area each in Mulshi, Junnar, and Velha. In these areas also many people have lost their lives," he added. "A total of 76 people have lost their lives due to heavy rains till Saturday morning (in Maharashtra). These include 47 in Raigad, six in Satara, four in Mumbai and nearby areas, one in Pune, 11 in Ratnagiri, five in Kolhapur, and two in Sindhudurg. 53 people are missing in Raigad, four in Satara and two in Thane till Saturday morning, the deputy CM said. Pawar said the state government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the victims killed in floods and landslides while the Central government has announced Rs 2 lakh each. Speaking about the rescue operations, Pawar said 90,000 people have been relocated from the affected areas (in nine districts) and the flood-prone areas. "21 teams of NDRF have been working along with 14 teams of the Army, the Coast Guard and others. Four teams of the SDRF have also joined the operations, he said. Earlier in the day, five bodies were recovered from the landslide site at Ambeghar village in Satara district, an official had said. The district administration had said that at least 16 people are feared trapped in the landslide at this village located in Patan tehsil as four to five houses were buried under the debris. Pawar also said the government has decided to distribute ration kits in these affected areas. Usually a ration kit includes wheat, rice, pulses, and kerosene. But considering the restrictions to get wheat flour in this scenario, the government has decided to give rice, pulses, and kerosene in ration kits, which will help people prepare khichdi as a meal. Along with this, we are appealing social organisations to come forward to run Shivbhojan thali centres in the affected areas, Pawar said. The deputy CM further said the Maharashtra government is coordinating with its Karnataka counterpart to ensure flood relief for the people (in Kolhapur district) by releasing water (from Almatti dam).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||Brazil suspends Covaxin trial after termination of agreement ||Brazil has suspended the clinical studies of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin following termination of the company's agreement with its partner there, the South American Country's health regulator said. Bharat Biotech on Friday announced cancellation of the MoU it signed with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin for the Brazilian market. The termination of the pact comes after the deal with the Brazilian government for supply of 20 million doses of the vaccine landed in controversy and attracted investigation by authorities in that country. "In The Coordination of Clinical Research at Anvisa (Copec/GGMED) determined this Friday (23/7) the precautionary suspension of clinical studies of the Covaxin vaccine in Brazil The suspension was carried out as a result of a statement from the Indian company Bharat Biotech Limited International, sent to Anvisa on Friday (23/7)," Anvisa, the Brazilian health regulator said on Friday. Precisa Medicamentos was Bharat Biotech's partner in Brazil, providing assistance, guidance and support with regulatory submissions, licensure, distribution, insurance and conduct of phase III clinical trials, among others. "Anvisa received this Friday (23/7) a statement from the company Bharat Biotech, via e-mail, informing that Precise Comercializao de Medicamentos Ltda. is no longer authorized to represent Bharat in Brazil," the Brazilian regulator said. There are two processes of the company related to the regularisation of Covaxin in Brazil- an application for authorisation for emergency use and a protocol for conducting clinical research in that country. Based on the communication made by Bharat Biotech, Anvisa will reassess the processes underway at the Agency and adopt the relevant measures, it said. The clinical trials of Covaxin in Brazil did not commence. On February 26, Bharat Biotech Ltd had said it signed an agreement with the Brazilian government for the supply of 20 million doses of Covaxin during the second and third quarters of 2021. Following the graft allegations and subsequent inquiry by the authorities, the Brazilian government had earlier suspended Covaxin's order temporarily. Bharat Biotech will continue to work diligently with Anvisa, the Brazilian drug regulatory body to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin, Bharat Biotech said on Friday while announcing the termination of its pact with its Brazilian partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||CBI raids multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir, New Delhi in gun license scam||The CBI on Saturday started searches at 40 locations in Jammu and Kashmir, and in the national capital in connection with cases related to alleged irregularities in the issuance of thousands of arms licences to non-residents on forged documents, officials said. The search operation is spread across Jammu, Srinagar, Udhampur, Rajouri, Anantnag, Baramulla and Delhi at the official and residential premises of public servants, including IAS officers, around 20 gun houses among others in an ongoing investigation of a case related to arms licence racket, CBI Spokesperson said in a statement. Premises of at least two IAS officers -- Shahid Iqbal Choudhary and Niraj Kumar -- are being searched, officials said. The CBI had in December 2019 carried out searches at over a dozen locations in Srinagar, Jammu, Gurgaon and Noida on the premises of the then district collectors and magistrates of Kupwara, Baramulla, Udhampur, Kishtwar, Shopian, Rajouri, Doda, Pulwama, and several other places. The searches were carried out in connection with a probe into two cases pertaining to alleged issuance of around two lakh arms licences from different districts of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir by their collectors and magistrates. It is alleged that arms licences were issued in lieu of illegal gratification. It is alleged that then public servants in cahoots with other accused issued arms licences to non-residents of state in violation of rules and received illegal gratification. The Rajasthan ATS had unearthed the scandal in 2017 and had arrested over 50 people for their alleged involvement in the illegal issuance of arms licences. According to the ATS, over 3,000 permits were granted allegedly in the name of Army personnel. Based on ATS findings, then Jammu and Kashmir Governor N N Vohra had handed over the matter to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||India records over 39,000 fresh Covid cases, 546 casualties in a day||India's tally of COVID-19 infections rose by 39,097 in a day to reach 3,13,32,159, while 546 more people succumbed to the viral disease during the same period taking the death toll to 4,20,016 on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. The number of active cases in the country has increased to 4,08,977, accounting for 1.34 per cent of the total caseload while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stood at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 3,464 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a day. Also, 16,31,266 tests to detect COVID-19 were carried out on Friday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,45,70,811, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.40 per cent. It has remained below 3 per cent for 33 days in a row. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.22 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,05,03,166, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 42.78 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5, and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20, and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 546 new fatalities include 167 from Maharashtra and 132 from Kerala. A total of 4,20,016 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,31,205 in Maharashtra, 36,323 in Karnataka, 33,862 in Tamil Nadu, 25,041 in Delhi, 22,748 in Uttar Pradesh and 18,056 in West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Gujarat: Seven dead in explosion caused by LPG cylinder leakage||Seven persons have succumbed to the burn injuries after leakage of gas from an LPG cylinder triggered fire and explosion inside a room on the outskirts of Gujarat's Ahmedabad city, police have said. The incident took place on Tuesday night (July 20), but the victims - labourers and their family members - died over the last couple of days during treatment, said S S Gameti, sub-inspector of Aslali police station in Ahmedabad rural on Friday. Besides men, the deceased included children and women, he added. "Some labourers working in a factory and their family members were sleeping in a small room when gas from their LPG cylinder started leaking on the night of July 20. When their neighbour knocked on their door to alert them, a labourer got up and switched on the light, which caused an explosion due to concentration of gas," Gameti said. "Ten persons were sleeping there at that time and all of them received severe burn injuries as fire engulfed the room. While three persons died during their treatment on Thursday, four others succumbed to the injuries at a hospital on Friday, he said. Three persons are undergoing treatment, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Pan India agitations protesting 'institutional murder' of Fr Stan||Human rights activists, civil society groups, mass organisations and trade union members staged agitations in Jharkhand, Delhi and other parts of the country on Friday in protest against the “institutional murder” of Father Stan Swamy. More than 70 people, including academics such as the development economist Jean Dreze, students and representatives of trade unions and the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, braved the rain to form a 1km human chain on the Main Road near the Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi. The protests are part of a series of public observances called by rights groups, trade unions, Christian organisations, Left parties and their student and youth wings over the next five weeks to protest against the government’s treatment of Father Stan and push for a more humane policing and justice system. The 84-year-old, ailing Jesuit  and tribal rights activist from Ranchi had died in custody in Mumbai while waiting for bail nine months after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested him in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. “(Friday’s protests in Jharkhand were) part of the national campaign called by more than 120 organisations,” PUCL organisational secretary Arvind Avinash said. “A delegation will be submitting a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind through Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais with a charter of demands.” The demands include the repeal of “draconian” legislation such as the anti-terror law UAPA, the sedition law and the National Security Act; the release of all political prisoners; fixing accountability on law-enforcement and investigative agencies for filing false cases; and compensation for victims of false cases and police atrocities. Another demand is the immediate withdrawal by the Jharkhand government of all the cases lodged against Father Stan and others in connection with the Pathalgadi tribal rights movement. “There were agitations in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Delhi and other states on Friday demanding justice for Father Stan and calling on the judiciary to restore dignity to Father Stan and give him justice at least in death,” PUCL national general secretary Kavita Srivastava told The Telegraph from Jaipur. She said the month-long campaign would witness an agitation on August 9 to mark World Indigenous Day and the launch of the Quit India Movement of 1942. On August 15, a pledge would be taken to defend democracy and the Constitution with a countrywide reading of the Preamble. “There are also plans for a countrywide mass hunger strike between August 15 and 27,” Srivastava said. “There will be a nationwide protest on August 28, too, as it is the day when five people in the Bhima Koregaon (Elgaar Parishad) case were arrested three years ago. There are plans to end the campaign with a candlelight vigil for all jailed comrades (political prisoners).” The Jesuit Conference of India has called on its followers and friends to mark July 28 as National Justice Day in memory of Father Stan, and invited people irrespective of religious identity to join in paying homage to the priest. Civil society groups will hold a candlelight march across Jharkhand on August 15 to protest the Centre’s crackdown on dissent. Several Left groups held protests in Delhi on Friday on the sidelines of the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar. Prasenjeet Kumar, working general secretary of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association, said: “The new revelations about the Pegasus spyware have brought into common knowledge the kind of surveillance and repression Indian people are being subjected to. Governments are colluding in order to oppress people.” He added: “The death of Father Stan Swamy is another example of how inhuman the RSS-BJP regime is. We demand an independent inquiry and immediate release of all political prisoners.” The other participants in Delhi included CPM student arm SFI, the CPIML’s Liberation and Red Star factions and their fronts, several Far-Left student groups, and the National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations. “Mass movements are built by the masses. No matter how many leaders are taken political prisoner by the central government, many more will come from the masses and take their place,” SFI Delhi state committee member Varkey Parakkal told the gathering. The New Trade Union Initiative (NTUI) too held meetings and protests across the country on Friday. “All trade unions, irrespective of political affiliations, and all organisations of farmers, women, students, and communities that are discriminated against besides democratic rights organisations joined our daylong protests across the country in memory of the fearless Father Stan,” NTUI general secretary Gautam Mody said. “The objective was to defend our democracy, workers’ right to strike, our right to dissent and, above all, the idea of a plural and progressive India.” In Bombay High Court, a judge who praised Father Stan’s work withdrew his oral observations in response to a law officer’s request. PTI quoted additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA at the hearing of a plea challenging the denial of bail to the Jesuit, told Justice S.S. Shinde: “We have all condoled the death of Mr Swamy, but any personal comments or private comments coming from the judges or any law officer, especially in the open court, are normally being twisted by the press and social media.” Justice Shinde, who heard the case along with Justice N.J. Jamadar, said: “If you want, I take my words back. Our endeavour is to stay fair and balanced always. That should be the end of the matter.” Father Stan’s counsel Mihir Desai asked the court to monitor the mandatory magisterial probe into the custody death that is yet to begin. The NIA opposed this on the ground that as the priest was dead, the appeals on his bail stood abated and this is where the hearing should end. The court asked Desai for a written submission and adjourned the matter till August 4. The bail plea of lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, a co-accused of Father Stan, too was adjourned to August 2 by the same bench after the Maharashtra government and the NIA argued she shouldn’t be granted default bail on a technicality. Bharadwaj’s lawyer had sought bail on the ground that the prosecution had erred by getting an additional sessions judge, and not the designated special judge of an NIA court, to take cognisance of her chargesheet. Additional reporting by PTI from Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Rahul fires shots at Modi and Shah on Pegasus scandal||Rahul Gandhi on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah had committed “treason” by using the Israeli spyware Pegasus against the Indian State and the country’s people. The Congress leader demanded an investigation specifically to look into the Prime Minister’s role in the matter, and argued that none apart from the Prime Minister and the home minister can authorise the use of Pegasus in India. “Pegasus is classified as a weapon. It is called a spying software, but Pegasus is classified by the Israeli state as a weapon and that weapon is supposed to be used against terrorists. The Prime Minister and the home minister have used this weapon against the Indian State and against our institutions,” Rahul said. “They have used it politically. They have used it in Karnataka. They have used it to scuttle probes, they have used it against the Supreme Court — they have used it against all the institutions of this country.” Rahul added: “The only word for this is ‘treason’. There is no other word for this and this has to be investigated and the home minister has to resign. An inquiry monitored by the Supreme Court should be held against the Prime Minister.” The Congress alleges the spyware was used to facilitate the toppling of its coalition government in Karnataka through defections. It has highlighted that a judgment by an apex court bench headed by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi had saved the defectors from disqualification and that Gogoi was made a Rajya Sabha member soon after retirement. According to the Pegasus exposé, a woman Supreme Court employee who had complained of sexual harassment by Justice Gogoi was put on surveillance along with her family. Asked why he was accusing the Prime Minister, Rahul said: “Are you allowed to buy Pegasus? Can I buy Pegasus? Pegasus has to be authorised by the nation-state. The file has to be signed by the Prime Minister, or perhaps the home minister. Pegasus cannot be sold to the military of a country; it is sold to the government of the country. Please read the contract.” Asked whether he thought the Indian government had bought Pegasus, Rahul appeared to resort to sarcasm. “The government says it has no knowledge of Pegasus use. If it (spying on Indians) has not been by the Indian government, then some other government is doing it. Maybe the Japanese government, the Israeli government have done it. The Russian government did it, Uganda did it,” he said. “Because, only a government can buy Pegasus. Even then there should be an inquiry. Why is the Prime Minister not saying that ‘People have been spied upon and I will order an enquiry?’ Why is the government only saying, ‘We have not done it?’” Asked about a businessman’s name being on the purported list of potential phone-tapping targets, Rahul said: “I have said very clearly that there has been theft in Rafale. None of you people supported me. This is the truth — for whatever reason, none of you supported me — but the truth has a way of coming out.” Rahul said: “There is an inquiry in France and you will see, the Prime Minister himself is responsible for corruption in Rafale. You can’t buy everybody. You might think you can buy everybody; the Prime Minister might think he can suppress everybody, (that) he might buy everybody. He can’t.” The Wire news website, part of the media collaboration that investigated the possible Pegasus targets worldwide, on Thursday reported that the phone numbers of Anil Ambani and another official of his ADA Group were added to the list of potential targets in 2018. This was the year when the Rafale controversy deepened, with former French President Francois Hollande claiming that France had had no say in the choice of an Anil Ambani company as the offset partner and that it was an Indian government decision. Rahul said: “Why are you not asking about the CBI director’s phone being tapped? Why are you asking me about Anil Ambani?” The Wire has said that hours after Alok Verma was removed as CBI director on October 23, 2018, in a hush-hush midnight operation, an unidentified Indian agency known to be a user of the Pegasus spyware had made a note of three telephone numbers registered in his name. The personal phone numbers of Verma’s wife, daughter and son-in-law too were eventually placed on the list, making it a total of eight numbers from the family, The Wire said. The Congress has alleged that Verma was removed in such haste because he had started making inquiries about possible corruption in the Rafale deal. “The real question is, why at the last minute — when the CBI director was about to file an FIR — why was his phone tapped and why was he blackmailed, that’s the real question,” Rahul said. “Who did it, that’s the question. The issue is not whether Anil Ambani’s phone was tapped. The issue is, the entire Indian State is under attack.” Asked about his own phone being a potential target, Rahul said: “No, no, it is not a potential target, my phone is tapped. It is clearly tapped, so it is not a potential target.” He said every single phone he was using was being tapped. “And let me tell you another thing, I get phone calls from IB (Intelligence Bureau) people who tapped my phone. They call me up and say, ‘Please, beware that I am tapping your phone’,” Rahul said. “By the way, my security people tell me that they have to debrief what I say, they have to report to their seniors everything I say. So, I am under no (illusion) that I am not tapped.” Asked if he feared the surveillance, he said: “I don’t get intimidated by these things. I am an open book. Doesn’t make any difference to me. “It is simple — if you are corrupt, if you are a thief, you will be scared. If you are not corrupt, you won’t fear Modi. You will laugh.” To another question about his phones being tapped, Rahul said: “Three-four times it has happened that my friends have been informed and told to convey to me that my phone is being tapped.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Congress questions govt's security wing budget boost ||The Congress on Friday asked the government whether the massive increase in the budgetary allocation for the National Security Council secretariat, from Rs 26 crore during UPA rule to Rs 333 crore in 2017-18, was meant for purchasing the Pegasus spyware. The Narendra Modi government is yet to answer whether it has bought the Israeli spyware in the first place. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “The National Security Council secretariat is largely concerned with administration and co-ordination. The UPA government had in 2011-12 allocated Rs 17.43 crore. This amount marginally increased to Rs 20.33 crore in 2012-13 and further to Rs 26.06 crore in 2013-14.” Khera added: “In the year 2014-15 when the Modi-led government came to power, the amount of grant to the National Security Council secretariat had increased to Rs 44.46 crore. It came down to Rs 33 crore in 2016-17. But in 2017-18, a new sub-head was added to the National Security Council secretariat called ‘Cyber Security Research and Development’. The grant jumped to Rs 333 crore. Interestingly, the snooping using Pegasus allegedly began the same year.” The Congress spokesperson continued: “What explains (the huge) increase in the allotment of grants to the secretariat? Was this grant to the secretariat used to purchase Pegasus?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Congress-JDS turncoats seek refuge in the face of Yediyurappa exit||The likely exit of B.S. Yediyurappa from the Karnataka chief minister’s office has sent heartbeats racing among the Congress-JDS turncoats who helped the BJP veteran return to power two years ago as his successor would have to heed to the rising demand for cabinet berths from the ruling party’s old-timers. Some of the 17 defectors met Yediyurappa on Thursday evening in a sign that they were trying to lobby to retain their places in the cabinet that had come as reward for pulling down the Janata Dal Secular-Congress coalition government. Among them were health minister K. Sudhakar, agriculture minister B.C. Patil, municipal administration minister M.T.B. Nagaraj, excise minister K. Gopaliah, labour minister Shivaram Hebbar and urban development minister B. Basavaraj. Sources close to some of the ministers said the meeting lasted for more than 30 minutes and they discussed their future. “It was Yediyurappa who had inducted them into the cabinet. Naturally they are seen as his loyalists and hence the apprehension about having to make way for others once a new chief minister takes over,” said a BJP functionary who declined to be named. He, however, added it was unlikely that all the defectors would be replaced immediately. “There is a good chance that new faces and youngsters would be inducted into the new cabinet. But that won’t be at the cost of those who helped us form the government. No chief minister can replace all of them at one go,” the functionary told The Telegraph. Nagaraj told reporters that they only discussed “pending projects and transfers” and that there was nothing more to the meeting. But he expressed willingness to resign if the party asked him to. The 17 lawmakers — 14 from the Congress and three from the JDS — had switched to the BJP in an operation engineered by Yediyurappa, who had flown most of them to Mumbai and sequestered them in a hotel till the coast was clear for him to take over after H.D. Kumaraswamy resigned as chief minister on July 23, 2019. Then Assembly Speaker Ramesh Kumar had disqualified the 17 MLAs, forcing them to contest on BJP tickets. Yediyurappa eventually kept his promise by inducting most of them into the cabinet against stiff opposition from BJP old-timers who had to be passed over. With a change of guard imminent in Karnataka, at least some of the defectors may have to be replaced to accommodate aspirants from among the BJP old-timers. “Since we can’t afford to risk a rebellion, our leaders will be careful enough not to antagonise them (the defectors). I think only three or four of them will be replaced with new faces,” said another BJP source from coastal Karnataka. State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar has been claiming that several BJP lawmakers, especially from Yediyurappa’s Lingayat community, were in touch with his party for possible defection. The BJP functionary rubbished such claims. “He (Shivakumar) can say what he wants. Not a single BJP MLA will leave us,” he said. Amid speculation that the 14 lawmakers who had left the Congress in 2019 were in touch with their old party, leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah on Friday denied there was any plan to absorb the deserters. “Who is saying they are coming back (to the Congress)? I had made it clear on the floor of the House that none of them would be taken back,” he said. In the Assembly of 224 seats, the BJP has 119 members, the Congress 68, the JDS 32, the Bahujan Samaj Party one and two Independents who back the ruling party. There are two vacancies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Wait for regular VCs lengthens for JNU and nine central universities ||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) is among 10 central varsities whose wait for regular vice-chancellors will be prolonged further as they don’t feature among the 12 institutions to which President Ram Nath Kovind has appointed VCs. The universities that have got VCs are North Eastern Hill University, Guru Ghasidas University, Maulana Azad National Urdu University, Manipur University and central universities in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Hyderabad and Bihar. In a written reply in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that posts of VCs were vacant in 22 central universities. JNU, Banaras Hindu University (BHU) and Delhi University (DU) are among the central varsities that do not have regular VCs. Prof. M. Jagadesh Kumar is serving as the in-charge VC of JNU after he completed his tenure in January this year, while Prof. V.K. Shukla is the in-charge VC of BHU after Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar completed his tenure in March. Prof. P.C. Joshi is the in-charge VC of DU since October last year after Prof. Yogesh Tyagi was suspended. In response to a question by Indian Union Muslim League leader Abdul Wahab about the reasons for the delay in the appointment of VCs, particularly that of JNU, Pradhan said the incidence and filling up of vice-chancellor vacancies was a continuous process. “The process of appointment of vice-chancellor in a central university is a time-consuming exercise which involves getting executive council/court’s nomination(s) of the concerned central university, constitution of search-cum-selection committee, advertisement of posts, scrutiny of applications, interaction with the shortlisted candidates, getting vigilance clearances, approval of the competent authority, etc, hence, no time-frame can be indicated,” Pradhan said in his written reply. A retired bureaucrat said the appointment of VCs and directors in IITs and other centrally funded institutions usually took around six months. “There is no rule prescribed for the time limit on the appointment of VCs and directors. But in practice, the process takes about six months. The advertisement is issued six months prior to the completion of the tenure of the incumbent VC,” the retired official said. An official in the education ministry said it had set up search-cum-selection panels for the appointment of VCs of JNU, BHU and DU. Retired bureaucrats Yogendra Narain and Hasmukh Adhia are heading the panels for JNU and BHU, respectively, while Manipur University chancellor Prof. T. Tirupati Rao is heading the panel for DU. The panels are yet to interact with candidates. The JNU Teachers’ Association has written several times to the education ministry about the “arbitrary” and “undemocratic” functioning of the varsity administration under the leadership of Kumar. A JNU teacher alleged that the varsity administration took decisions and actions to appease certain sections of the faculty and victimise others who opposed Kumar’s way of functioning. Kumar issued showcause notices to 48 faculty members in 2018 for taking part in a protest on the campus. He also stopped the pension and retirement benefits of a teacher who had been showcaused. But Delhi High Court set aside the decision. An education ministry official said it had completed the process of appointment of VCs in 15 universities that were sent to the President, who is the Visitor for all central varsities, for approval. The appointment files of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University and Central Sanskrit University in Delhi and Dr Harisingh Gour University in Madhya Pradesh have been returned to the ministry without approval, the official said. Sources said some candidates whose names were in the search-cum-selection panels withdrew themselves from the race at the last moment. It is not clear if the ministry will initiate a fresh appointment process or ask the selection committee to suggest more names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Punjab: Amarinder Singh attends Sidhu's installation ceremony||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday attended the programme where Navjot Singh Sidhu formally took charge as state Congress president but the orchestrated meeting couldn’t hide the frost in their relations. While the seemingly irreconcilable differences are not a secret, the party appeared contended by showcasing a charade of unity as the chief minister’s absence would have spoiled the event. Amarinder, being a seasoned player, avoided making any hostile gesture but largely remained aloof. Even Sidhu made no attempt to conceal his indifference, demonstrating that he was merely completing the formalities as part of the political exigency plan. While Amarinder had explicitly indicated that he would not meet the new state Congress chief unless he publicly tendered an apology for attacking him, the central leadership intervened to ensure the internal rift didn’t derail the political project of retaining Punjab in the elections due in February next year. Sidhu and other office-bearers had invited the chief minister to the programme in Chandigarh after a lot of behind-the-scenes reconciliation efforts and Amarinder agreed to attend without an apology. The chief minister might have altered his stand sensing the swift metamorphosis in the political climate after a majority of MLAs and ministers close to him accepted Sidhu’s leadership and many senior leaders convinced him about the futility of challenging the high command’s decision. But the political one-upmanship could not be abandoned and Amarinder extended an invite to Sidhu, MLAs and MPs to tea just before the inaugural ceremony to ensure it was Sidhu who first came to him. Sidhu came and greeted the chief minister with folded hands without any show of emotion, uttering just these few words: “How are you Sir, such a pleasure.” He tried to take a seat across the table to maintain a distance but some senior leaders insisted he sat beside the chief minister. The two leaders barely spoke to each other. Even at Sidhu’s installation at the party headquarters, the new state Congress chief and Amarinder didn’t talk even though they sat next to each other. Sidhu hugged a few leaders and cheerfully met others on the stage but the deadpan face and stiffness overtook his countenance as he took his seat next to the chief minister. Sidhu touched the feet of veterans Lal Singh and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and greeted some other leaders with folded hands before starting his speech without even looking at Amarinder. It was clear that the new state chief didn’t intend to change the tenor of his discourse as he referred to every single issue he had been harping on for months to highlight the chief minister’s purported failures. Sidhu said: “For months now, I am hearing controversies about Sidhu becoming state chief. That’s not the issue. The issue is farmers sitting in protest outside Delhi. The issue is sacrilege, insult of our guru. The issue is drugs mafia, high electricity cost. The issue is thieves have been spared.” Sidhu knows it is better to align with the dominant sentiment of Punjab than humouring the veteran chief minister who nurtures extreme antipathy against him. By doing so, he will encroach upon the Opposition space as well, preventing the disgruntled voters from shifting to the Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party. Although Sidhu declared that every ordinary party worker had become the state unit president on Friday with his elevation, it couldn’t be overstated that Amarinder, the most prominent and powerful Congressman in Punjab, remained outside the ambit of his emotional outreach. Amarinder, who recalled how his father was closely related to Sidhu’s parents, promised to work together for the benefit of the Congress. However, he pointed out that Punjab was a complex state and defended his track record by arguing that action in certain kinds of cases takes time. He was under pressure as the outgoing chief, Sunil Jakhar, too had pointed to his unfulfilled promises in a powerful and candid speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||TMC MP Santanu Sen suspended for rest of monsoon session ||Trinamul Congress MP Santanu Sen was on Friday suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the remainder of the monsoon session for “unruly” behaviour amid protests by leaders of his party over the Pegasus controversy. Rajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu approved Sen’s suspension after minister of state for parliamentary affairs V. Muraleedharan moved a motion. Sen had snatched and torn a copy of the government statement on the Pegasus snooping row from information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday and thrown it towards the Chair. In his motion, Muraleedharan had said Sen’s actions had brought disrepute to the House. Trinamul leader Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the motion had not been mentioned in the list of business for Friday. The party also did not get an opportunity to react to the motion, he added. Earlier, Naidu expressed anguish over Thursday’s incident and said the “proceedings of the House hit a new low with the papers being snatched from the minister and torn into pieces and thrown in the air”. “Such actions are a clear assault on our parliamentary democracy,” Naidu said. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said the IT minister must be available to answer the clarifications sought by members on his statement on the Pegasus controversy. Naidu assured the members that they would be given an opportunity. As Sen was present after the approval of the suspension motion, Naidu asked him to withdraw himself from the House. However, Sen kept sitting, forcing Naidu to adjourn the session for 35 minutes. When the House reassembled at noon, deputy chairman Harivansh asked Sen to leave. The MP complied. At 2.30pm, the Rajya Sabha reconvened but did not function for long. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge raised the Pegasus issue and said the government had been carrying out spying and online surveillance_ of senior politicians, judges, journalists and activists. _This has implication on the right to privacy of citizens, he said. The Congress leader wanted a discussion by suspending all other business. Deputy leader of the House Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said a discussion had already taken place as the IT minister had made a statement. Trinamul Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra has given a privilege notice against IT minister Vaishnaw for allegedly misleading the House on the Pegasus spyware. Attaching documents in support of her contention, Moitra said in a petition to the Lok Sabha secretary-general that the minister had misled the House by making statements that he knew to be false. Moitra said the question of privilege should be referred to the committee concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Spotlight back on removal of former CBI chief in 2018||The Pegasus controversy has brought the spotlight back on the sudden removal of then CBI director Alok Verma in October 2018, which had prompted speculation that he had started enquiring about possible corruption in the Rafale deal and paid the price. On Thursday, news website The Wire reported that shortly after Verma’s ouster in a hush-hush midnight operation, an unknown Indian agency put his phones and those of his family members on the list of potential targets of Pegasus-enabled snooping. Sources in the CBI and the corridors of power had suggested after Verma’s removal that he had been benched in a panic reaction because he had made enquiries with the defence ministry on the Rafale deal and sought certain documents. The official reasons for Verma’s removal had included various charges of misconduct and corruption, such as accepting bribes and influencing investigations, most of which the Central Vigilance Commission purportedly failed to substantiate while prima facie accepting the rest on the basis of circumstantial evidence. The Wire reported that the phones of two other senior CBI officials — Rakesh Asthana and A.K. Sharma — who had been involved in a power struggle with Verma too were put on the list of potential surveillance targets. Asthana, a Gujarat-cadre IPS officer and Verma’s deputy, was considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He was locked in a turf war with Verma, who had registered a bribery FIR against him. Both officers, who had accused each other of taking bribes from the same businessman to provide him relief in a particular case, were benched the same night. The Modi government had appointed Sharma, another Gujarat-cadre IPS officer, and Asthana to senior CBI positions in 2015. Sharma’s name had figured in a purported sting that claimed the Gujarat police had snooped on a woman architect in 2009 at the behest of an aide to Modi, who was then chief minister. Asthana had overseen the probe into the Godhra train fire that ignited the 2002 Gujarat riots. His findings had backed then chief minister Modi’s claims of a conspiracy although the initial probe had suggested a “spontaneous attack”. Asthana and Sharma had both undermined Verma’s authority in the agency before Sharma fell out with Asthana and sided with Verma. The Wire reported that eight phones belonging to Verma’s family, including those of his wife, daughter and son-in-law, were put on the list of potential targets of snooping.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Bhubaneswar: Congress protests waterlogging issue||Odisha Congress on Friday resorted to a unique style of protest to highlight the problem of waterlogging in the capital city in the wake of torrential rains during the past 24 hours. Party workers led by Jatni MLA and former minister Suresh Kumar Routray demonstrated in the centre of the city at Master Canteen Square where they placed a huge boat on the road to attract the attention of the passers by. The party demanded that the Naveen Patnaik government, which has failed to resolve the waterlogging problem, should launch a “Mo Danga – My Boat – programme on the lines of Mo Bus (My bus — public transport bus service that runs in Bhubaneswar) Routray said: “The city has been waterlogged for the last 24 hours. Most of the areas of the city including the environs of Lingaraj temple, Chandrasekharpur, Gadkanna and other parts of the city, have been submerged following the incessant rains. No steps have been taken to resolve the issue and bring relief to the people.” Routray, who stood on the boat carrying the Congress flag, said, “The Naveen Patnaik government has introduced a number of programmes like giving umbrellas and slippers to people. It should also initiate the Mo Danga programme to help people reach their houses when the city is water-logged.” The leader warned that his party would soon gherao the office of the Bhubaneswar Development Authority, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporations and other offices concerned with the issue if the administration failed to take longterm steps to overcome the waterlogging problem. Bhubaneswar has been experiencing intermittent rains for the last three days. The city, which won two awards in June in the India Smart City Awards contest and was adjudged the second best in the social aspects project category, has encountered the problem of severe waterlogging even in the past. Another Congress leader Biswajit Das said, “There has been no development in the city. Even the main roads get waterlogged after short spells of rain. This has been recurrent problem. The talk of smart city is just an eye-wash.” Congress leaders had procured the boat from a boat repairing shop in Mancheswar and after transporting it to the central part of the city loaded it on the truck using a crane. The boat mounted on the truck was placed on the road near the iconic warrior horse statue at Master Canteen Square, to draw maximum attention. The party office, Congress Bhavan, is located nearby. Neither the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) nor any wing of the government, including the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), have reacted to Congress’ charge so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
24-07-2021||India||Maharashtra landslides and floods kill 129 in the last 48 hours||As many as 129 people have died in rain-related incidents, including landslides, in Maharashtra in the last 48 hours, while 84,452 people under the Pune division have been shifted to safer places as heavy showers continued to wreak havoc in the state. At least 38 people were killed at Talai in Mahad tehsil of coastal Raigad district, 180km southeast of Mumbai, when a landslide flattened most of the small village, said minister Vijay Wadettiwar. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhary said the landslide struck on Thursday evening. “But since the roads leading to the spot were blocked due to the floods and the sludge, the rescue teams found it difficult to reach the site,” she said. “The operation resumed today (Friday) morning and the bodies were recovered by afternoon,” she added. In Mumbai, four persons were killed and seven suffered injuries after a single-storey house collapsed in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi early on Friday, a civic official said. “Seven fire engines, one rescue van of the fire brigade and personnel of the police as well as other agencies reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation,” the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. Two of those injured — Neha Parvez Shaikh, 35, and Mokar Zabir Shaikh, 80 — were declared brought dead at Rajawadi Hospital. Shamshad Shaikh, 45, who was admitted to the hospital in a critical condition, died during treatment. “A 22-year-old man, identified as Farin Shaikh, was pulled out from under the rubble and was taken to Rajawadi Hospital, where doctors declared him dead before admission,” the BMC official said. A fire brigade official said 15 people had been pulled out of the debris so far and the operation was still under way. Several people were swept away in floodwaters. The official of the state disaster management department put the death toll in various incidents in western Maharashtra’s Satara district at 27. Earlier, the district police had said 20 people were feared trapped after landslides hit eight houses in Ambeghar and Mirgaon villages in Satara’s Patan tehsil. “Two persons died in Jawali tehsil while another two died in Wai tehsil in landslides and other incidents. A woman and a man died in separate incidents of landslide and flash floods in Patan tehsil,” the official said. “Four persons were swept away by floodwaters in Jawali tehsil, of whom two were found dead. The remaining two are missing. One person from Mahabaleshwar is also missing,” he said. In Ratnagiri district, at least 10 people are feared trapped in a landslide, a senior official said on Friday. The body of a man was recovered in Chiplun city after floodwaters receded. Mahabaleshwar, one of Maharashtra’s most well-patronised hill stations, has received 594.4 millimetres of rainfall in a 24-hour period ending at 8:30am on Friday, which an IMD official said could be the highest ever recorded there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
24-07-2021||India||Kerala: Police files chargesheet in pre-poll car robbery case||Kerala police on Friday filed the chargesheet in a case related to an alleged Rs 3.5-crore, pre-poll car robbery that had led to money-laundering allegations and the questioning of several BJP politicians. While the 22 people accused in the chargesheet of plotting or participating in the April 3 highway heist are history sheeters, 19 people from the BJP and the RSS have been named as witnesses. Among them are state BJP president K. Surendran, his son K.S. Harikrishnan, state BJP organising secretary M. Ganesh and RSS worker Dharmarajan, from whom the money was allegedly stolen. Harikrishnan had allegedly called Dharmarajan on his mobile number several times on the day of the robbery. The special investigation team assigned to probe the case had questioned Surendran on July 14. A gang had allegedly waylaid a car in which Dharmarajan and his friend Shamjeer were carrying the cash in the early hours of April 3 in Kodakara, Thrissur. This was three days before the Kerala Assembly polls. Dharmarajan and Shamjeer had in their April 7 police complaint claimed to have been robbed of Rs 25 lakh, but the police say their investigations revealed the sum stolen was Rs 3.5 crore. The BJP’s political opponents say the money had been brought from outside to influence the April 6 elections. The BJP has denied any connection with the money or the robbery. The police, who claim the cash had been brought from BJP-ruled Karnataka, have in the chargesheet recommended investigations by the Enforcement Directorate and the income-tax department to identify the source of the money. The police are also expected to provide a copy of the chargesheet to the Election Commission of India. The 625-page chargesheet in the dacoity case names 219 witnesses in all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
24-07-2021||India||Price caps on digital thermometers, glucometers, BP devices, oxymeters and nebulisers||The Centre on Friday announced price caps on digital thermometers, glucometers, blood pressure measurement devices, oxymeters and nebulisers, halving the price tags on some of the devices. The National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA) released the revised maximum retail prices for these five categories of medical devices that would reduce their retail costs by tens of rupees to several hundreds of rupees. But health activists have questioned the government’s inaction on these devices through the two Covid-19 waves and said the formula for the caps continued to facilitate high trade margins. The price caps will be effective from July 20. The actual difference between the earlier and revised MRPs will vary from brand to brand and device to device. An oxymeter with an earlier MRP of Rs 3,999 will have a new MRP of Rs 1,545, another oxymeter earlier priced at Rs 2,600 will need to be priced at Rs 1,950. A blood pressure monitoring device earlier priced at Rs 3,500 will have a price tag of Rs 1,375. A glucometer available earlier at Rs 1,590 will now be priced at Rs 675. A digital thermometer will now be priced Rs 249 against Rs 270 earlier. Prices won’t change for devices whose makers had already applied the formula enforced by the NPPA. The formula specifies that the MRP should be computed by adding three components — the price to the distributor, 70 per cent of price to the distributor and the goods and services tax. Health activists said the 70 per cent cap was too high and wanted the government to cap the trade margin at an earlier point in the supply chain — the landed cost or ex-factory cost — and not from the price to the distributor. “This is a strategic exercise to legitimise high margins and any relief to consumers is extremely belated,” said Malini Aisola, a coordinator for the All India Drug Action Network, a consortium of doctors and health activists monitoring pricing trends in the healthcare sector. “The NPPA did not lift a finger during the first wave, nor during the second wave,” Aisola said. The demand for some of these devices — particularly oxymeters — from consumers across the country has skyrocketed over the past year. Aisola said the revised MRPs, which continued to support high trade margins across the supply chain, provided a glimpse of the “excessive profiteering” on these devices during Covid-19. She said the formula was inadequate and “does not keep affordability at the heart of the exercise”. The NPPA, through an office memorandum on Friday, asked state drug controllers across the country to ensure that the devices were available at the revised MRPs and take action against hoarding, black-marketing or overpricing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
