25-07-2021||India||Suspense continues on possible change of guard in Karnataka||Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa kept people guessing on Sunday about his political future after dropping more than one hint that his hold on power was no longer guaranteed amid speculation about his replacement. The 78-year-old Lingayat strongman, the face of the BJP in the state in the past two decades, said this evening that he was yet to receive the "message" from the party's central leadership on whether he should continue in his post or quit. "Nothing has come till now... In the morning there is a programme to mark two years of government. I will speak about the achievements in those two years. After that, you will know the progress," he said on Sunday evening. "I have decided that I will work till the very last minute. I already said two months ago that I was ready to resign whenever I was asked to. I will say it again - until now I have got no message from the centre. As soon as it comes, if they ask me to continue I will. If not, I will resign and work for that party," he said. "I believe the information will come tonight or tomorrow morning," Yediyurappa added. Yediyurappa made a sudden visit to Delhi earlier this month where he met the Prime Minister and other senior leaders. Through days of speculation, the chief minister has said that he has not been asked to resign. On Thursday, he told reporters, "There is an event on July 26 on completion of two years of our government here. After this, I will follow whatever JP Nadda will decide". There are, however, questions on whether the 78-year-old will be asked to step down as the state battles floods. This morning, Yediyurappa left Bengaluru to fly to Belagavi, one of the flood-affected districts in the state. The torrential rain over the last few days in several districts of the state has left 10 people dead and three people missing. Yediyurappa said he has the "lone target" of toiling for the next two years and bringing the BJP back to power in Karnataka, where assembly elections are due in 2023.  He agreed with BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravis statement that everyone in the BJP is an ordinary party worker and he would abide by the partys instruction.  "He is 100 per cent right. We will not exceed the disciplinary line. We have been following it and will do so in future as well", the chief minister said.  In Panaji, BJP National President J.P. Nadda on Sunday praised Yediyurappa for his "good work".  "It is good, he has done a good job. Karnataka (government) is running smoothly. Yediyurappa is looking (managing) at things on his part," Nadda said in response to a question on Yediyurappa government completing two years in office and how he views his leadership. To a question that there seemed to be a political crisis in Karnataka, he said, "That is what you feel. We dont feel so." Indicating that Monday might be his last day in office, Yediyurappa had recently said that based on the instructions the central leaders will give him on July 25, he will begin "his work" from July 26. With nobody else in his cabinet for several days, Yediyurappa toured the rain hit districts to supervise relief operations as the only member of the cabinet. This time, he has asked his ministers to remain on the ground in their districts to supervise the rescue an Amid heightened speculations state minister Murugesh Nirani arrived in the national capital on Sunday apparently to meet BJP leaders, party sources said. People close to Nirani, however, claimed he is on a personal visit to the national capital. Nirani, the Minister for Mines, hails from the Lingayat community like Yediyurappa and is being seen as one of contenders for the chief ministerial post along with BJP general secretary CT Ravi, Home Minister in Karanataka government Basavaraj Bommai and Union minister Pralhad Joshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
25-07-2021||India||Regional parties should form national front for 2024 Lok Sabha elections: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Regional parties should come together and form a national front to take on the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, Shriomani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Sunday and asserted that his party's story with the saffron party was over. Underlining that issues of farmers are at the core of the SAD ideology, Badal said his party can never compromise on these and, therefore, severed its decades-old alliance with the BJP and moved out of the government at the Centre over three contentious farm laws. “SAD is a farmers’ party and their issues are core of our ideology. Whatever may happen and whatever cost we may have to pay, we wouldn't let these laws be implemented in Punjab,” Badal told PTI in an interview. The Centre's three farm laws have triggered a protest by farmers. In September last year, Badal’s wife Harsimrat Kaur quit as Union minister in protest against the legislations. The protesting farmers claim these laws will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides. Talking about the SAD's new alliance with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Badal said the alliance between the two parties is permanent and that the Akali Dal's story with the BJP was over. On the party's future course of action, Badal said that the SAD is talking to various regional parties so that they all can come on one platform before the 2024 general elections. “There is a need for regional forces to get together. Regional forces are more connected to the ground and have better understanding of the people. We have been talking to various parties. Regional parties should come together and form a front before the 2024 general elections. And I am sure before 2024 this front will emerge as very strong force,” he said. Badal further said it would be a second front rather than a third front as the main opposition Congress is no more a pan-India party. The BJP will be the new front's main target. In the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, Badal said, farm laws will be the main issue for the Akali Dal and “if the party is voted to power, it will provide government job to a family member of all those farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest against the laws.” In addition, the government will provide free education to the children of the deceased farmers and pension to the parents of those who died young, Badal said. He also said the SAD will bet big on new and young faces and will try to field as many women as possible in the assembly elections slated for early next year. On a question about reports of alleged snooping on politicians, activists and journalists using Pegasus spyware, Badal termed it an attack on democracy and demanded establishment of a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) headed by an opposition MP to probe the matter. “This entire snooping episode is an attack on the Constitution, democracy and rights of the people. It is completely unethical and a JPC should be formed headed by an opposition MP to investigate it,” Badal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Seafarers' body seeks Centre's help as China 'not allowing' ships with Indian seamen||Alleging that China is “not allowing” entry of ships with Indian crew onboard, All India Seafarer & General Workers Union has sought the central government's help in saving the jobs of thousands of Indian seamen, as companies are not recruiting them for the China-bound ships. In a letter to Union minister for ports, shipping and waterways Sarbananda Sonowal, the seamen's body has “claimed that as many as 20,000 seafarers are ”home” because of this reason. “From March 2021, any ship reaching China Port and having Indian seafarers as a crew on it, China government is not allowing all those ships to enter into the port,” the union said in the letter, posted on its twitter handle. The copies of the letter have also been marked to the Ministry of external affairs and sector regulator, Directorate General of Shipping. “Because of this reason, the companies have stopped recruiting seafarers from India to join the vessel. Approximately, 20,000 seafarers are home because of this reason,” it stated. “The union (is) requesting you ... all the higher authorities (to) look into this serious issue and help us to save the job of our seafarer brothers,” the union said in the letter. According to the Union, around 80 per cent of seafarers on various ships come from India and “without them, the shipping industry will collapse and will be in big disaster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Kargil Vijay Diwas’s eve: Bipin Rawat visits areas along LoC in Dras sector of Kargil||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat visited the areas along the Line of Control in Dras sector of Kargil district on Sunday, a day before Kargil Vijay Diwas, to review the prevailing security situation and operational preparedness, an official statement said. President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Dras on Monday on 22nd anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas to pay homage to the indomitable courage and sacrifice of the Indian armed forces during the Kargil conflict of 1999 at the Kargil War Memorial. In 2019, bad weather had prevented the president from visiting Dras to participate in Kargil Vijay Diwas, and instead, he paid tributes by laying a wreath at a war memorial at the Army's 15 Corps headquarters in Badamibagh in Srinagar. The Indian Army said on Twitter on Sunday, “General Bipin Rawat, CDS visited Dras sector along Line of Control and reviewed the prevailing security situation and operational preparedness.” “The CDS also interacted with troops and complimented them for their high morale and exhorted them to remain resolute and steadfast,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||800-year-old Telangana's Ramappa Temple inscribed as Unesco World Heritage Site||Unesco has conferred the  World Heritage inscription to the historic Rudreswara Temple, also known as the Ramappa Temple, at Palampet in Mulugu district of Telangana, Union minister G. Kishan Reddy said on Sunday. The Rudreswara temple was constructed in 1213 AD during the reign of the Kakatiya empire by Recharla Rudra, a general of Kakatiya king Ganapati Deva. The temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva and worshiped by devotees. The presiding deity is Ramalingeswara Swamy. It is also known as the Ramappa temple, after the sculptor who executed the work in the temple for 40 years,an official release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Indian National League splits after factions come to blows||The Indian National League (INL), a constituent of Kerala's ruling LDF, split into two irreconcilable factions following an infighting which led to a street fight between two warring groups here on Sunday. While a prominent faction headed by INL state president A P Abdul Wahab expelled general secretary Kasim Irikkoor, a rival faction led by Irikkoor hit back at them by removing Wahab from the state president's post and expelling seven secretariat members belonging to his group. The party's lone nominee in the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF government, Ahammad Devarkovil, is with Irikkoor. Talking to reporters here, Irikkoor announced working president B Hamsa Haji as the party's new state president.     Irikkoor claimed that his faction enjoys the full support of the INL national leadership. Both factions had held parallel meetings of their supporters before announcing their decisions. The Wahab faction alleged that Irikkoor was acting as an agent of the IUML and his intention was to create trouble for the LDF government to help the opposition in the state. Irikkoor said INL had been with the LDF since its formation in 1994 and there will be no change in its position. Earlier in the day, supporters of two warring factions came to blows in the presence of its leaders here. A scuffle broke out in front of a hotel here after a section of INL leaders led by Wahab boycotted the party's working committee meeting alleging anti-democratic actions by Irikkoor. In the previous meeting, Irikkoor had allegedly mentioned in the minutes that two senior leaders had been expelled from the party. Provoked by it, the Wahab faction raised this issue in Sunday's meeting and it triggered a war of words between the two groups following which the faction led by Wahab walked out. Police reached the spot in large numbers and used force to disperse the supporters of the groups fighting outside the hotel. Amid the melee, Devarkovil, the Minister for Ports, was escorted out of the hotel where the working committee meeting was held allegedly violating Covid-19 protocols. Dismissing allegations, party leaders claimed that the meeting was organised adhering to Covid protocols. The Indian National League was formed in 1994 after a split in the Indian Union Muslim League. The party, a member of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front, was given a ministerial berth for the first time in the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government after the front's emphatic win in the Assembly polls held in April this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah calls for sustained Indo-Pak dialogue||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah Sunday called for a sustained and result-oriented Indo-Pak dialogue process, saying the two countries should realise they cannot win a war against each other. Addressing party functionaries at two separate meetings at Laamad and Devsar in south Kashmir's Kulgam district, the Srinagar Lok Sabha MP asked both the countries to be consistent, coherent and serious in their nascent engagement. He asked the two countries to ensure that the people of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh live a life free from "unending miseries". Stressing there is no substitute to dialogue, the NC president said the recent moves and the messages indicating a thaw in the relations between the neighbouring countries have put brakes on the escalating tensions. "For the entire chest-thumping, both the countries cannot win a war against each other. The sooner both the neighboring countries realise the ground reality the better. "The more serious, coherent and consistent both the nations are in settling all outstanding areas of disagreements, the better it will be for early return of lasting peace and stability to Jammu and Kashmir and the entire region," he said. Emphasising the need for a result-oriented dialogue between the two countries, Abdullah said it will benefit the people of Jammu and Kashmir the most. "Both the nations, I have maintained all along, have to live side by side. It is up to them, if they want to live as enemies or supportive friends and partners in development. Both countries can achieve much by joining hands in progress," he said. The former chief minister said if the ties between the two nations are to improve then they have to come out of their "shells" and narrow down their differences and source of conflict to get together on the table to work towards an environment that recognises the concept of J-K's historical individuality, uniqueness of its sociopolitical complexes and the restoration of its political dignity and historical selfhood. Lending his party's support to the peace and camaraderie between the two neighbours, he said the NC has all along been a strong votary of Indo-Pak dialogue. "There is no substitute to dialogue. But the dialogue should result in J-K centric CBMs (confidence-building measures) including the resumption of cross-LoC trade through a proper banking mechanism and doing away with the present barter system. "Such J-K centric CBMs will indeed help the two neighbouring countries solve their disagreements amicably and in an objective manner for the greater good of the people of JK, Ladakh and the entire region," he said. He also asked the party workers to draw lessons from the worrying disadvantages of disunity and impressed upon them to work towards strengthening democracy and the party. "The last person out there in Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh is looking up to us with sheer optimism that we will salvage the entire region from murderous manifestations of communalism, and regionalism and to catapult the people from the prevailing economic distress, and instability," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Delhi to get 5 high-mast Tricolors under AAP govt's ‘Deshbhakti budget’||The Delhi government has started implementing the schemes announced under its ‘Deshbhakti budget', with officials saying up to five high-mast Tricolours will be installed in the city by August 15. The Public Works Department (PWD) has been tasked with the project under which it will install the national flag on 100-feet high polls at 500 locations in the city. Officials said that initially they will install high-mast Tricolours at about five locations in as many constituencies as a sample exercise. "To celebrate the country's 75th Independence Day, we are planning to set up high-mast Tricolours in 4-5 assembly constituencies including New Delhi and Patparganj. We are hoping to set up these by August 15. In total, the PWD will install 500 such flags across the city," said a senior PWD official, who wished not to be named. In March this year, the Delhi government had announced its annual budget themed on patriotism and named Deshbhakti budget' under which Rs 45 crore has been set aside to install high-mast Tricolour at 500 locations across the national capital. Officials said that high-mast flags will be set up on the lines of the one at the Connaught Place in such a fashion that at least one is visible at every two-three kilometres. A PWD official said that a tender for the project has also been floated. Another senior PWD official said that initially five assembly constituencies have been identified where these flags are to be installed by August 15. These assembly constituencies include New Delhi, Patparganj, Shakurbasti, Kalkaji and Dwarka. New Delhi is Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's constituency while his deputy Manish Sisodia is elected from Patparganj. Shakurbasti is represented in the assembly by PWD minister Satyendar Jain. "The PWD has also been directed to conduct a survey and identify public places, parks, grounds, big commercial buildings complexes, big school premises, residential complexes to install high-mast Tricolours. The deadline of installing 500 Tricolours is yet to be fixed," an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh gets ‘Special 40’ squad to protect girls, women ||The Indore police in Madhya Pradesh has set up a 40-member squad to protect minor girls from sex offenders and curb crimes against women, an official said on Sunday. The 'Special 40', comprising women volunteers, will collect information for police and also be deployed in festivals, fairs and other gatherings as a safety measure, he said. "Young girls are targets of drug addicts and other criminals, especially in the slums. We want to protect minor girls and women with the help of this squad. It has women volunteers in the 20-50 age group. In additional to physical training, they are being taught legal provisions related to crimes against women," Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Prashant Choubey said. The squad, which has been given a special attire and walkie-talkie sets, will teach girls about 'bad touch, good touch" in slums and ways to prevent sexual assault, he said. Incidents of minor girls fleeing their homes and falling prey to anti-social elements have come to light recently, and this squad, if need be, will provide counseling to prevent such cases, the Additional SP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Himachal: PM condoles loss of lives due to landslides||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Sunday expressed condolences over the death of people due to landslides in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur and said all arrangements are being made for the treatment of those injured. It is a very painful incident, Modi said and also announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund. Nine people were killed and three others injured in multiple incidents of landslide near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district Sunday, police said. Heavy boulders fell on a tempo traveller carrying 11 people, killing nine and injuring two, according to the police. In a similar incident, one person was injured in another landslide in Kinnaur district, they added. The police said they have started rescue operations and further details are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Himachal: 9 dead, 3 injured in multiple landslides||Nine people were killed and three others injured in multiple landslides in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Sunday, police said. Multiple landslides occurred near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road, they added. Heavy boulders fell on a tempo traveller carrying 11 people, killing nine and injuring two, according to the police. In a similar incident, one person was injured in another landslide in Kinnaur district, they added. The police said they have started rescue operations and further details are awaited. IMD issues yellow and orange alert issued for Madhya Pradesh The Met department on Sunday issued orange and yellow alerts predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall, thunderstorms and lightning in large parts of Madhya Pradesh, which has been experiencing intermittent downpours for the last three days. Both these alerts are valid till Monday morning, India Meteorological Department's Bhopal office senior meteorologist PK Saha told PTI. Anuppur city in east MP received the highest 234.5 mm rainfall in the state in the last 24 hours ending 8.30 AM on Sunday, he said, adding Shamshabad area in Vidisha district of the west MP received 190.6 mm rainfall during the same period. The orange alert- which asks authorities to "be prepared - warning possible heavy rains and thunderstorms accompanied with lightning at isolated places has been issued for 23 districts, namely Indore, Dhar, Alirajpur, Jhabua, Khargone, Barwani, Khandwa, Burhanpur, Ujjain, Dewas, Ratlam, Shajapur, Agar-Malwa, Mandsaur, Neemuch, Hoshangabad, Betul and Harda. It (orange alert) also forecasts similar weather in Rajgarh, Guna, Sheopur, Shivpuri, and Ashoknagar districts. A yellow alert, which advises authorities to be updated on the situation, warning likely heavy rains and thunderstorms accompanied with lightning at isolated places, was issued for Chhatarpur, Tikamgarh, Balaghat, Anuppur and Narsinghpur districts. Saha said a low-pressure area was lying over the northern part of the central MP and adjoining areas, and an east-west trough was running along 25 degrees north latitude. Besides, the monsoon trough was passing through the low-pressure area over the northern part of the central MP, he said. "All these factors are causing rains in MP, " he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Centre constantly insulting farmers, must repeal laws, says Priyanka||After the Centre said it has no record of farmers who have died during the agitation at Delhi's borders against three agri laws since 2020, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday alleged that the government has been constantly "insulting" the farmers and demanded that it must repeal the legislations. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Friday that the government has no record of farmers who have died during the agitation at Delhi's borders against three new farm laws since last year. "The BJP government said in Parliament that neither it made any effort to know farmers' opinion on the three black agri laws nor does it have any data on how many farmers have been martyred," Priyanka Gandhi said. Alleging that the government was looking at the issue from the prism of its "billionaire friends", the Congress general secretary said this government is "constantly insulting farmers". She made the remarks in a tweet in Hindi using a Hindi hashtag which translated to "Take back black farm laws". Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year in protest against the three laws. Out of them, a small group of 200 farmers are now staging a protest at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi after getting special permission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||NIA conducts searches in four Tamil Nadu districts over Facebook posts propagating ISIS ideology||The NIA has conducted searches at six locations in four districts of Tamil Nadu in a case related to Facebook posts by an extremist advocating the ideology of the Islamic State terror group and fundamentalist organisation Hizb-Ut-Tahrir, an official said on Sunday. The searches were carried out in Thanjavur, Madurai, Theni and Tirunelveli districts at the residences of arrested accused Abdullah and his associates, the official of the NIA said. In April, a complaint was received at Theppakulam police station that Abdullah had posted incendiary messages on Facebook, instigating people on religious grounds to wage war against India and establish Khilafat, thus threatening the unity, security and sovereignty of India, the official said. The extremist advocated the ideology of the ISIS terror group and Hizb-Ut-Tahrir, the official of the premier investigation agency said. An FIR was lodged by the Tamil Nadu Police in Madurai and the case was later taken over by the NIA. During searches, 22 digital devices, including mobile phones, hard disks, memory cards, pen drives, laptops and many booklets containing incriminating materials have been recovered, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Experts: Many now have better immune system to combat Covid-19||While a large number of people now have immunity against coronavirus due to previous infections or vaccination, a guarded approach is needed in terms of implementing restrictive measures to avoid a second wave-like crisis, experts said. Dr Yudhyavir Singh, who has been managing the COVID-19 ICU at AIIMS New Delhi, said it is important to lift a few restrictions to resume economic activities when cases are low. "However, one should not lower their guard Adopt a guarded approach in terms of following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and implementing restrictive measures," he said. Dr Singh added that Delhi may have already achieved herd immunity, considering the massive number of cases seen during the second wave. However, Dr Pooja Khosla, senior consultant (Department of Medicine), Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said the second wave of the coronavirus has taught us that cases can increase suddenly. "There are warning signs from different parts of the world. In India too, a small increase in cases has been recorded. Infections can increase exponentially anytime. I think one should not assume anything and make all efforts to prevent a second wave-like crisis, which was a nightmare," she said. "Opening everything is not appropriate everyone has been saying the third wave is a couple of days away," Dr Khosla added. Pragya Sharma, professor (Department of Community Medicine) at the Maulana Azad Medical College, said a third wave is a certain thing but the number of people it will infect will depend on the implementation of preventive measures and the pace of vaccination. "Even if there are breakthrough infections among vaccinated people, the severity will be less and hospitals will not be overwhelmed," she said. Sharma thinks the implementation of preventive and restrictive measures is an issue. "People either don't wear mask or don't wear it properly. Most of them use cloth mask, which doesn't serve any purpose. There is hardly any vigil being maintained in crowded areas," she said. After a devastating second wave of the coronavirus, people had started taking vaccination seriously. There would be queues at vaccination centres, but things have changed again. There is laxity on the part of the people, Dr Sharma said. "At the inoculation centre at MAMC, only around 50 people are getting vaccinated a day, while we can vaccinate around 200 people every day. Vaccines are available but people are not coming forward," she said. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the Community Medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital, said around 80 per cent of people have immunity against the virus, either due to previous infection or due to vaccination. "The Delta variant of coronavirus was responsible for up to 60 per cent of the cases during the second wave. We haven't observed any major difference between 'Delta' and 'Delta Plus' variant. So, a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases is not expected, until a new, more infectious variant emerges," he said. Still, there is a percentage of people who have not been infected or did not develop enough antibodies despite getting vaccinated, due to various reasons. This set of people, which is almost 30 per cent of the population in Delhi, is likely to get infected. "Two cases are possible first, the virus continues to infect people slowly until heard immunity is attained, and second, a new, more infectious variant leads to an increase in cases till everyone has immunity. But it seems the third wave won't be as severe as the second," he said. With the lifting of restrictions, people from rural areas have started coming to Delhi or those who have remained isolated so far are stepping out. "If such people go to crowded places, then there is a possibility of a spike in cases," he said. There is also a possibility that a new variant bypasses the immunity achieved through vaccination and previous infection. If that happens, it will a huge problem then, Dr Kishore added. Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul has also told the Delhi government to remain watchful as the next three months are important and unlocking activities can lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases. However, a third wave of Covid-19 is unlikely to be as severe as the second wave , Dr Samiran Panda of the Indian Council of Medical Research had told the Delhi Disaster Management Authority during a meeting on July 9. He had mentioned that a substantial third wave would be plausible if any new, more infectious variant of the coronavirus emerges and escapes prior immunity in the absence of adequate lockdown measures. Dr Panda had suggested that vaccination efforts be ramped up to strongly mitigate the impact of a possible third wave. Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a massive number of lives, with the shortage of oxygen at hospitals across the city adding to the woes. On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22 the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. The capital has recorded 2,369 cases of the coronavirus in the last 30 days (since June 24), 79 cases a day on an average.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Opposition has no other issue left with it, says Nadda on Pegasus row||Amid speculation about a change of guard in Karnataka, BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday ruled out any leadership crisis in the southern state and said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has done good work. He termed as baseless the Pegasus snooping allegations, and hit out at the opposition parties over it, saying that there was no issue left with them. Talking to reporters here at the end of his two-day Goa visit, Nadda also said that the BJP would fight the Assembly elections in Goa due early next year under the leadership of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, but added that a formal decision about it would be taken by the party's parliamentary board. On Karnataka, he said, "Yediyurappa has done good work. Karnataka is doing well. Yediyurappa is taking care of the things in his own way." When asked if there is a leadership crisis in the southern state, Nadda said, That is what you feel. We don't feel so." Nadda's remarks assume significance as they came hours after the Karnataka CM said he will take an appropriate decision, once he receives directions from the BJP high command this evening, regarding his continuation in the post. "By evening once it comes, you will also get to know about it, once it comes I will take an appropriate decision," Yediyurappa had said in Belagavi in response to a question whether the directions from the party high command in Delhi were expected today. Replying to a question over the Pegasus snooping row, Nadda said, It is baseless It is issueless. The opposition parties led by the Congress do not have any issue which they want to raise for people. That is why they raise this kind of issue." Last Sunday, an international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO. However, the government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. Speaking about frequent disruptions in Parliament, Nadda said, "We are ready for all types of discussion, but Congress along with other opposition parties has become disappointed and issueless, and hence resorts to such disruptions They do not know what to do. They want to stop Parliament over issueless things. "But people know that despite all their efforts, the productivity of Parliament has broken all the records under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, the business has broken all the records, he added. Responding to another question, Nadda termed the Congress as a rudderless boat. "Congress party, from Delhi to Goa, is a rudderless boat and its sailor does not know which side to sail He does not know where the winds are blowing," he added. Nadda, while talking about the upcoming Goa elections, said that he was very happy over the performance of the Pramod Sawant-led government and the ruling BJP in the state. "Goa has done an all-round development under the leadership of Pramod Sawant," he said. On asked whether the party will project a fresh chief ministerial face in the next year's election, Nadda said, "We are proceeding under his (Sawant's) leadership. There is no possibility of looking at any other thing...But there is a system in the party that such announcements are done by the Parliamentary Board." Talking about the MLAs, who had switched over to the BJP from the Congress two years back, Nadda said that all the legislators have assimilated themselves "totally and fully" into the party fold. From 2017, the BJP has grown and become a formidable force in the state, he asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||PM must clarify whether snooping was done: P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday said the government should either call for a joint parliamentary committee probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations or request the Supreme Court to appoint a sitting judge to investigate the matter, and demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi make a statement in Parliament clarifying whether there had been surveillance or not. The former home minister said he was not sure that one can go to the extent of saying that the entire electoral mandate of 2019 was vitiated by the "unlawful snooping" but added that it may have "helped" the BJP to score that victory which has been "tainted" by the allegations. In an interview with PTI, Chidambaram also said a probe by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) can be more effective than an investigation by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, asserting that the former would be more empowered by Parliament. Asked about Parliament IT panel head Shashi Tharoor's remarks that the subject is already on the mandate of my committee and a JPC is not required, Chidambaram expressed doubts whether the IT panel with a majority of BJP members will allow a full investigation into the matter. "The parliamentary committee rules are rather strict. For example they cannot take evidence openly but a JPC can be empowered by Parliament to take evidence in public view, to cross examine witnesses, and to summon documents. So I think a JPC will have far more powers than a parliamentary committee," he said. At the same time, he said he is not diminishing the role of the parliamentary committee to the extent it can probe the matter and is welcome to do so. Last Sunday, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. On the government's response to the allegations, Chidambaram referred to IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw statement in Parliament, saying he is obviously a very "clever minister" and therefore the statement has been "very cleverly worded". "He (Vaishnaw) denies that there was any unauthorised surveillance. He does not deny that there was surveillance. He does not deny that there was authorised surveillance. Surely the minister knows the difference between authorised surveillance and unauthorised surveillance," the Congress leader said. Posing questions for the government, he asked whether there was surveillance at all and whether snooping was done through Pegasus. "If Pegasus spyware was used, who acquired it? Was it acquired by the government or by one of its agencies," he asked. The Rajya Sabha member also asked the government to come clean on the amount paid to acquire the spyware. "These are simple, straightforward questions which the average citizen is asking and the minister should answer that directly. After all, France has ordered an investigation when it was revealed that President (Emmanuel) Macron's number was one of the numbers that were hacked. Israel itself has ordered an investigation by its National Security Council," he said . If two major countries can order investigation, why should India not order a probe and find answers to the four simple questions, he asked rhetorically. Chidambaram said the matter also raises issues of national security because, if the government says that it did not conduct surveillance, then the question arises who conducted the snooping. "Was it a rogue agency in India doing it without the knowledge of the government or was it a foreign agency hacking into Indian telephones without the knowledge of the government. Either way...it is a more serious matter than the government conducting the surveillance," he said. Asked about the Opposition's demand of a Supreme Court-monitored probe and whether the top court should take it up suo motu, Chidambaram said he would not want to comment on what the court may or may not do, but pointed out that there is already a public interest litigation filed by one or two persons, separately, asking it to take suo motu cognisance of the Pegasus revelations. "Be that as it may, the government should request either Parliament to constitute a JPC or the government should request the Supreme Court to spare an honourable judge to conduct the investigation," he said. Asked about Home Minister Amit Shah's assertion that the allegations were aimed at humiliating India at the world stage, Chidambaram said the home minister chose his words very carefully and did not deny that there was surveillance. "He (Shah) does not deny that a certain number of telephones in India were hacked using Pegasus software. So, in fact, rather than what the home minister said, what he did not say is more important," he said. If the home minister is unable to categorically deny that Indian telephones were infiltrated by the spyware, then obviously he must take responsibility for this "scandal" happening under his watch, Chidambaram said. Asked about the logjam in Parliament over the issue and calls from Opposition ranks that the PM should make a statement on the Pegasus issue, he said Modi should have made a statement on the first day of Parliament's Monsoon Session itself when the allegations came to the fore. "There are only a few agencies which could have done this surveillance. All the agencies are under the prime minister's control," he said. "Each minister knows only what is under his department. The PM knows what is happening under all departments. So, it is the prime minister who should come forward and say whether there was surveillance or not and if there was surveillance whether it was authorised or not," Chidambaram said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Maha monsoon fury leaves 113 dead, 100 missing||The number of deaths due to flooding, landslides and other rain-related incidents in parts of Maharashtra reached 113 on Sunday with one more casualty reported in the last 24 hours, while 100 people were missing after the monsoon fury, the state government said. So far, 50 people have also been injured in these incidents, the government said in a statement. On Sunday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Chiplun, the site of severe flooding in Ratnagiri district of the Konkan region. A group of locals stopped the CM's convoy and informed him about the problems they were facing following the rain havoc in the area. The chief minister interacted with residents, businessmen and shopkeepers, and promised them all help from the state government to restore normalcy in the area. Thackeray said they will require "central assistance for long-term mitigation measures", and added that he will tour western Maharashtra on Monday and a comprehensive data of the extent of damages will be prepared. Union MSME Minister Narayan Rane visited Taliye village in Raigad, the site of a massive landslide on Thursday, and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked him to submit a report on the damage caused by the rains. Rane said damaged houses would be rebuilt under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana after suggestions are taken from local residents. Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Council Pravin Darekar accompanied Rane. In the last 24 hours, one death was reported from Pune and one person was reported missing from Thane district, the state government said. The government said 52 deaths were so far reported in Raigad, 21 in Ratnagiri, 13 in Satara, 12 in Thane, seven in Kolhapur, four in suburban Mumbai, and two each in Sindhudurg and Pune. A total of 875 villages in Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Pune were affected by the torrential rains, while 1,35,313 people were evacuated to safer places, it said. Around 2,000 people were lodged at six relief camps in Ratnagiri, the release said. A bridge on the Vashisthi river in Chiplun had earlier got damaged following heavy downpour. Thackeray, while talking to reporters after a review meeting in Chiplun, said the economy was "sluggish" because of the COVID-19 pandemic. "We will require central assistance for long-term mitigation measures. The central government has provided assistance by deploying rescue teams from defence forces," he said. The chief minister said he will tour western Maharashtra on Monday and a comprehensive data of the extent of damages will be prepared. "We will provide all assistance," he assured. Thackeray said there will be no technical difficulty in providing assistance to the affected people. Some residents of Chiplun, who had stopped Thackeray's convoy, later told reporters that they informed the chief minister that they need immediate relief, and not assurances. "We have lost everything in the flood. For the last three days, no one came to conduct the punchnama (spot inspection). Now, with the water level receding, we are clearing the debris from our homes and shops. If the officials come later and find our area clean, will they give us compensation?" asked a woman who met the CM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Human rights issues extend beyond national perspectives, govt sources say on Blinken's remarks||Human rights and democracy are universal and extend beyond a particular national or cultural perspective, government sources here said on Sunday, a day after the US said that Secretary of State Antony Blinken will raise the issues during his upcoming visit to India. As a long-standing pluralistic society, India is open to engaging those who "now recognise" the value of diversity, the sources said. "Issues such as human rights and democracy are universal and extend beyond a particular national or cultural perspective. India is proud of its achievements in both domains and is always glad to share experiences," said a source. Blinken is scheduled to arrive in India on Tuesday on a two-day visit. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Friday said Blinken will meet External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. A statement by the US State Department said Blinken will also meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Dean Thompson, the Acting Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs told reporters on Saturday that Blinken will raise issues of human rights and democracy with Indian officials during the visit. "With respect to the human rights and democracy question, yes, you're right; I will tell you that we will raise it, and we will continue that conversation because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don't," Thompson said. "We believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts in partnership as we go forward," Thompson said in response to a question. It will be Blinken's first visit to India after assuming charge as the US Secretary of State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India|| Will take decision after receiving order from BJP top brass this evening: Yediyurappa on CM issue||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said he will take an appropriate decision, once he receives directions from the BJP high command this evening, regarding his continuation in the post. "By evening once it comes, you will also get to know about it, once it comes I will take an appropriate decision," Yediyurappa said in response to a question whether the directions from the party high command in Delhi were expected today. To a question on pontiffs holding a mega conclave in Bengaluru Sunday, which is seen as expressing solidarity with him, he said, "there is no need for pontiffs to hold any meet, I have confidence in PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national President J P Nadda." Questioned about a Dalit Chief Minister replacing him, Yediyurappa said, "I'm not the one to decide about it, it is for the high command to decide. Let's first see what decision they will take today..." Asked whether he was satisfied with his work for two years, he said, "if you are satisfied that's enough for me." Indicating that Monday might be his last day in office, Yediyurappa had recently said that based on the instructions that the central leaders will give him on July 25, he will get on with "his work" from July 26. His government will complete two years in office on July 26. Meanwhile, scores of pontiffs are expected to participate in a "maga conclave" to be held here on Sunday, coinciding with the possible decision by the BJP central leadership on his exit. Dingaleshwar Swamiji of Balehosur mutt, who had held a press meet here on July 23 to inform about the conclave with other Swamijis, had refused to connect the event directly with the possible leadership change, but it is being widely seen as an attempt to muster support to Yediyurappa and send out a message. Yediyurappa is in flood and rain ravaged Belagavi district to review the relief and rescue operation there. Noting that he will be visiting people affected by rains and floods, the Chief Minister said after visiting some affected villages and analysing the situation there, he will be heading back to Bengaluru. "By the god's grace, rains have receded both yesterday and today and if the situation continues in the same way for the next couple of days, I'm confident that things will come under control," he said, adding that rains receding in Maharashtra is a good sign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Afghanistan situation, Pakistan terror financing to feature at talks during Blinken visit||The implications of the withdrawal of American forces from Afghanistan and the need for sustained pressure on Pakistan on terror financing and safe havens will be part of the agenda of talks during US Secretary of State Antony Blinken's two-day maiden India visit beginning July 27, official sources said on Sunday. The discussions will also focus on deepening engagement under the framework of the Quad with the possibility of a foreign ministerial meeting of the grouping expected to take place later this year, the sources said. Both sides will also take forward the Quad vaccine initiative to enable the supply of vaccines produced in India from early 2022 to countries in the Indo-Pacific region. The sources said the visit will be an opportunity to further consolidate bilateral cooperation across a vast agenda and the areas of focus will be trade and investment, healthcare, education, digital domain, innovation and security. It will be Blinken's first visit to India after assuming charge as the US Secretary of State and the second by a high-ranking Biden administration official since it came to power in January In the defence domain, both sides are expected to explore ways to deepen collaboration, the sources said. India will also press for gradual resumption of international travel while maintaining health protocols, especially for easing the mobility of students, professionals, business travellers and for ensuring family reunions, besides humanitarian cases, they said. "The need for resilient supply chains of critical medicines and healthcare equipment is likely to come up," said a source. The two sides will exchange assessments about Indo-Pacific with a focus on Covid assistance, economic slowdown and security scenario, the sources said. On vaccines, India will continue to push for ensuring open and consistent supply chains for materials and items required for vaccine production as India ramps up the manufacturing for domestic and global supplies thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle: No contradiction among party leaders, says Ajay Maken||AICC general secretary Ajay Maken on Sunday said there is no conflict among the party leaders in Rajasthan on the planned cabinet reshuffle and they have left the decision on the central leadership. After meeting ministers, MLAs and office bearers at the party office here, Maken said they have expressed confidence in the party high command for the reshuffle decision. Maken did not disclose any date for the cabinet expansion, but he will again be in the state capital on July 28. "I can say that there is no conflict among the party leaders and they all have left the final decision about the cabinet expansion to the party high command," he told reporters. Maken, together with AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal, arrived at the party office in Jaipur for the meeting. He said issues like inflation and the Pegasus matter were discussed. "People of the country are suffering from high inflation, many have lost jobs during the pandemic, and instead of spending money and resources for people, the central government misused the resources for snooping and spying on leaders, journalists and judiciary. This is highly condemnable," he said. To a question on the BJP's allegations against PCC chief and Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra of influencing the interview process of the Rajasthan Administrative Services 2018 examination in favour of two relatives, Maken said Dotasra is being cornered as he had targeted RSS leader Nimbaram and the BJP. Nimbaram, the regional pracharak of the RSS, is named in an FIR registered with the Anti-Corruption Bureau in a matter related to graft, and recently, Dotasra had said that the state government would give "treatment" to the RSS leader. By saying "treatment", he apparently meant action against the leader. Maken said he would come to Jaipur on July 28 to hold discussions with MLAs on the appointment of district and block presidents of the party. Venugopal and Maken late on Saturday night held discussions on the issues of cabinet reshuffle and political appointments with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence. After Punjab, the party high command has shifted its focus to Rajasthan, where demands for Cabinet expansion and political appointments have gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot last year. Three days back, Pilot had indicated that the Congress would take suitable steps soon to address issues raised by him. He had said that he is in touch with the party high command over the issues raised by him and hoped that the required steps would be taken soon. Pilot was sacked as the deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief in July last year after he rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot. After a one-month-long political crisis, the party high command announced to form a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by him. Last month, MLAs from the Pilot camp said that the party should fulfil the promises made to Pilot last month, following which the demand for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum. At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers, including the chief minister, and nine slots are vacant. Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi questions Narendra Modi on Covid-19 vaccination pace||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday questioned the pace of Covid-19 vaccination, and said had the country's "Mann ki Baat" been understood, such would not have been the state. His remarks came just ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "Mann ki Baat" address to the people of the country. "Had you understood the country's 'Mann ki Baat', such would not have been the state of vaccinations," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. He used the hashtag "WhereAreVaccines" to question the government on the inoculation rate. The former Congress President also shared a video highlighting the alleged slow vaccination rate and media reports where people were not getting vaccines across the country. The video highlighted India's vaccination equation which is aimed to stop the third wave of coronavirus and the target to vaccinate 60 per cent of population with both doses by December 2021. The graph highlighted that the required vaccination rate (vaccinations per day) is 9.3 million per day (93 lakh) and the actual rate in the last seven days (average vaccinations per day) is 3.6 million per day, with a daily shortfall in the last seven days being 5.6 million per day. It also highlighted the actual vaccinations on July 24(vaccinations in previous 24 hours) at 2.3 million per day with a shortfall today of 6.9 million per day. One million is equal to 10 lakh. The Congress has been criticising the government over the slow inoculations and the vaccine policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Modi endorses 'Nation First, Always First' mantra as India nears 75th Independence Day||Stressing on 'Nation First, Always First' mantra, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that as the country enters its 75th year of Independence, every citizen should lead a "Bharat Jodo Andolan" in the same manner as Mahatma Gandhi had led the "Bharat Chhoro Andolan". In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast, he noted that on the coming August 15 India will enter its 75th year of Independence and highlighted that Amrit Mahotsav is being celebrated throughout the country to mark that year. The need of the nation is to unite and work towards national progress, Modi said. "Just like Bapu (Mahatma Gandhi) led the 'Bharat Chhoro Andolan' (Quit India movement), every Indian must lead the 'Bharat Jodo Andolan (Unite India Movement)'. It is our responsibility that we do our work in such a manner that it helps in uniting our country which is full of diversities ," Modi said. "We have to move forward with Nation First, Always First," he asserted. Many programmes in connection with Amrit Mahotsav are being run, the prime minister said, adding that the Ministry of Culture has started an initiative to have maximum number of Indians sing the national anthem together. For this, a website, rashtragan.in, too has been created . "With the help of this website, you can render the national anthem and record it, thereby getting connected with the campaign. I hope you connect yourselves with this novel initiative. In the days to come, you will get to see many such campaigns and efforts," he said. The prime minister urged people to keep encouraging and supporting Indian athletes participating in the Tokyo Olympics. He called on the people to support the Indian Olympics team on social media by joining the 'Victory Punch Campaign' which has already begun. "You also share your victory punch along with your team and cheer for India," Modi said. Noting that on July 26 the nation will mark Kargil Vijay Diwas, the prime minister asked people of the country to pay tributes to those who made our nation proud in 1999. Talking about his Mann Ki Baat programme, he said it celebrates positivity and collectivity. "I am unable to take up all the inputs I receive for Mann Ki Baat but I do forward many of them to government departments concerned, he said. In the broadcast, he also cited a study done MyGov to highlight that out of those sending messages and suggestions for Mann Ki Baat close to 75 per cent are below the age of 35 years. "I view this as a very good indicator. Mann Ki Baat is a medium which has positivity, sensitivity. In Mann Ki Baat, we talk about positive things; its character is collective," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Search operations for missing people in Maharashtra rains underway||The rain intensity reduced in Maharashtra's Satara district on Sunday and authorities continued search operations for those missing after landslides, while traffic remained suspended on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway as a stretch in neighbouring Kolhapur was still inundated, officials said. The death toll in rain-related incidents at Satara in western Maharashtra rose to 28 by late Saturday evening while at least 14 people are still missing, they said. Till Saturday night, 11 bodies were recovered from Ambeghar village after a landslide there, six from Mirgaon village and four from Dhokawale village. Besides, seven people died in other rain-related incidents in Satara district, officials said. The search operation at Dhokawale was completed on Saturday night, as per the district administration and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Satara Superintendent of Police (SP) Ajay Kumar Bansal said, "The search operation for those missing has begun since morning. We will be able to complete the operation by noon. Since last evening, there is relief due to less or no rain which will help in speeding up the search operation." As many as 379 villages in the district were affected due to heavy rains over the last three days and more than 5,000 people were shifted to safer places, as per the local administration. In adjoining Kolhapur also, the rainfall activity ebbed and the water level of the Panchganga river at Rajaram weir came down to 52 feet, but it was still flowing above the danger mark of 43 feet, as per the district disaster cell. "The vehicular traffic remained suspended on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway as the stretch near Shiroli village continued to be inundated, Kolhapur SP Shailesh Balkawade said. District Guardian Minister Satej Patil on Saturday said over 74,000 people were shifted to safer places from the flood-hit regions. Six teams of the NDRF and a column of the Army were carrying out rescue operations in the flood-hit areas. In neighboring Sangli district, the Krishna river at Irwin bridge was flowing at 54.5 feet, as against the danger mark of 45 feet, according to the local administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha MP moves Supreme Court, seeks probe into Pegasus issue||Rajya Sabha member John Brittas has moved the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored probe into reports of alleged snooping of activists, politicians, journalists and constitutional functionaries using Israeli spyware Pegasus. A massive political row has erupted after media reports claimed that Pegasus spyware was used to conduct surveillance on about 300 Indians, including ministers, political leaders, government officials and journalists. Brittas, who has filed a public interest litigation in the Supreme Court, said that recent allegations of snooping has caused concern among a large section of people in India and that snooping would have a chilling effect on free speech and expression. He has sought a court-monitored investigation into allegations of snooping using Pegasus spyware. In a statement on Sunday, Brittas, who is a CPI-M member, said that despite the very serious nature, the central government has not cared to investigate into the allegations involved in the issue but "made only a hopeful hope that the time tested processes in our country are well-established to ensure that unauthorised surveillance does not occur". "Therefore, the queries were raised in the Indian Parliament with respect to this leakage. But the government has neither denied nor admitted the snooping by the spyware," he said. Amid a row over the Pegasus spyware issue, the government had said that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws and alleged that attempts were being made to malign the Indian democracy. On July 19, IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told the Lok Sabha that media reports on alleged snooping published a day before the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament "cannot be a coincidence" and stressed that there is "no substance" behind the sensationalism. However, the minister did not specify whether the Indian government was using Pegasus spyware. Brittas, on Sunday, also claimed that allegations lead to two inferences, either snooping was done by the government or by a foreign agency. If it was done by the government, then it was done in an unauthorised manner. If snooping was carried out by some foreign agency, then that is an act of external aggression and needs to be dealt in a serious manner, Brittas pointed out. The NSO, the company which owns the technology, has also "clearly rubbished the claims in the report", the minister had said. The NSO had said that the list of countries shown using Pegasus in the report was incorrect and many countries mentioned were not even the clients of the company, as per the minister's statement to the Lok Sabha on July 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||India logs 39,742 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload declines||India added 39,742 new cases of coronavirus infection taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,13,71,901, while the death toll rose to 4,20,551 with 535 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 4,08,212 and comprise 1.30 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decline of 765 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. As many as 17,18,756 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 45,62,89,567. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.31 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for 34 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.24 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,05,43,138, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 43.31 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The 535 new fatalities include 224 from Maharashtra and 98 from Kerala. A total of 4,20551 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,429 from Maharashtra, 36,352 from Karnataka, 33,889 from Tamil Nadu, 25,041 from Delhi, 22,749 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,064 from Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Congress high command to take final call on Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle||A final decision on the issue of cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan has been left to the Congress high command and the expansion is likely to be held in the next few days, party sources said. AICC general secretaries KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken late on Saturday night held discussions on the issues of cabinet reshuffle and political appointments with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence. The cabinet expansion is likely to be held in the next few days. After discussions, the leaders have left the final decision about the reshuffle to the party high command, the sources said. "The meeting lasted for nearly two-and-a-half hours during which discussion on cabinet reshuffle and political appointments were held. The final decision about the reshuffle has been left to the party high command," the sources told PTI. At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers, including chief minister, and nine slots are vacant.Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers. After Punjab, the party high command has shifted its focus to Rajasthan, where demands for Cabinet expansion and political appointments have gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot last year. Three days back, Pilot had indicated that the Congress would take suitable steps soon to address issues raised by him. He had said that he is in touch with the party high command over the issues raised by him and hoped that the required steps would be taken soon. Pilot was sacked as the deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief in July last year after he rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot. After a one-month-long political crisis, the party high command announced to form a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by him. Last month, MLAs from the Pilot camp said that the party should fulfil the promises made to Pilot last month, following which the demand for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum. During the meeting on Saturday night, "It was also decided that political appointments in various boards and corporations should take place as soon as possible with discussion and consensus of elected public representatives, state office bearers and senior leaders of the party," the sources said. It was also decided that the manifesto committee of AICC will hold a meeting to review the progress in the implementation of the party manifesto of Rajasthan. The committee chairman will visit the state later this month, the sources added. PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said that Venugopal and Maken will hold meeting with party MLAs here on Sunday. He also clarified that no meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) has been convened on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Torrential rains trigger landslides in Pune and Konkan divisions   ||The death toll from the torrential rains that battered Maharashtra’s Pune and Konkan divisions over the last three days and triggered landslides in some areas rose to 112 on Saturday, including 52 in the coastal Raigad district alone, the state government said in a release. As many as 1,35,313 people have been shifted to safer places including 78,111 in Western Maharashtra’s Sangli district followed by 40,882 in Kolhapur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Supreme Court ex-judges suggest reforms to avert misuse of laws||Justice Madan B. Lokur, the former Supreme Court judge, has expressed doubt whether a clause and a law dealing with sedition and terrorism would be scrapped altogether but has suggested measures to insulate them from misuse. Several former Supreme Court judges and a former high court judge on Saturday called the sedition clause and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) unconstitutional. Four former Supreme Court judges — Justices Lokur, Aftab Alam, Deepak Gupta and V. Gopala Gowda —as well as the former Patna High Court judge, Justice Anjana Prakash, were speaking at a webinar hosted by the Centre for Judicial Accountability and Reform. Justice Lokur said: “It’s nice to say that UAPA, sedition should go. But as I said, I don’t think they’re going to go. Probably, the National Security Act is now going to be used. So how do people deal with the situation? The only way is accountability. Accountability has to be in two forms; one is financial accountability where compensation has to be given. Once the courts start telling police or prosecution that you better pay Rs 5 or 10 lakh, I think they’ll probably come to their senses.” He added: “There is now… something called ‘soft torture’. We know about third and second degree methods, but you have soft torture.” Justice Lokur cited the overcrowding of jails and the lack of sanitation and proper food for juveniles as examples. “You have somebody like Hany Babu (the Delhi University teacher now lodged in a Mumbai jail) whose eye is in a very bad shape and when it appears that he might lose his eye, then he will be sent to hospital but not before that. Everybody has talked about Stan Swamy. Why could he not be given medical treatment earlier? Isn’t that torture?” Justice Alam cited National Crime Records Bureau data to show that the UAPA had been proved to harass the innocent rather than punish the guilty. He said: “In 2019, there were 2,361 UAPA cases pending trial; 113 were disposed of with conviction in 33 cases, acquittal in 64 and discharge in 16 cases. With low rates of disposal and high rates of pending, even if the case may fail, the accused may come out of incarceration after 8, or even 13 years…. The case doesn’t stand but the accused has suffered. “It’s, therefore, not incorrect to say that in UAPA, the process itself is punishment…. We must then ask whether results justify the high toll on constitutional freedom that this legal framework is based upon.” The collection of data itself was now being done to create a political narrative, Justice Alam added. “Murders arising from class, caste… such as lynching are shown as individual offences under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code…. The grouping of violent terrorist acts, which earlier accounted for a mere 3.3 per cent of total violent crimes, with non-violent speech creates a new imagination of terrorism and national security which brings the problem of terrorism centre-stage.” Justice Gowda said: “Some principles that could inform a jurisprudence that accords due deference to civil rights even within the restrictive confines of the UAPA can be culled out from certain judgments already delivered on the point by high courts and the Supreme Court. “One, operations of legislation like the UAPA, designed to deal with exceptional circumstances, must be restricted to such cases and their operation shouldn’t be blurred with ordinary legislation. Two, the word ‘terrorism’ in the UAPA must be given a specific meaning that relates to defence of India as a sovereign nation which must be distinguished from public order offences. Public order must not be coloured with seditious motives.” Justice Gupta said that even Section 124A of the IPC (sedition) should be repealed. He explained: “In my view, the only reason it was held to be constitutional was that it was held in the straitjacket of only being incitement to violence, etc. Today you have so many other laws dealing with incitement to violence, including the UAPA.” The retired judge added that the UAPA was unconstitutional as well. He said: “When Mohammed Ilyas and Irfan were acquitted by an NIA court after 12 years, people (were) acquitted in Surat after 20 years, Natasha Narwal did get bail only after her father died, Siddique Kappan’s mother died when he was in jail.... Father Stan Swamy, 84 years old, suffering from Parkinson’s disease…. I mean, are we not human? Have we lost all touch of humanity? This man requires bail even if there’s 43D or 43E (of the UAPA)… a provision which effectively takes away the power of the superior courts to grant bail, denies the power of judicial review to the accused person and, therefore, is unconstitutional.” Justice Prakash said: “It is unchallenged that the presumption of innocence shouldn’t be dislodged…. The point is, whether the SC and courts as protectors of rights do not think there’s a possibility of misuse. The HC doesn’t do anything; when they do, SC says ‘no, no’. This is absurd. What happens to the protection of civil rights?” The former Supreme Court judge, Justice A.K. Ganguly, was replaced as a speaker at the webinar after outrage on social media about the absence of a woman and the inclusion of Ganguly who faced a sexual harassment charge in 2013. Justice Prakash replaced Justice Ganguly at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||CBI arms licence racket lens on feted senior IAS officer||A senior IAS officer who played a key role in enforcing the Centre’s writ in the wake of the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019 and was twice honoured by Prime Minister Narendra Modi woke up on Saturday to CBI searches for alleged involvement in a multi-crore “arms licence racket”. The CBI raided around 40 locations in Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi linked to former and serving officers, including the residence of 2009-batch IAS officer Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, who has served as the deputy commissioner of Srinagar, Kathua, Udhampur and Reasi and is presently posted as secretary, tribal affairs, and chief executive officer of the J&K Youth Mission. The CBI has not named the bureaucrats subjected to searches. At least eight former deputy commissioners who have served in Jammu and Kashmir are under the CBI scanner for allegedly issuing over two lakh illegal gun licences from 2012 to 2016, suspected to be one of the biggest such rackets in the country. Even after the allegations against Choudhary had surfaced, he was posted as DC Srinagar in February 2019. In 2018, as deputy commissioner of Rajouri, he had received a national award for women’s empowerment from Modi. Three years earlier, he had been honoured with the Prime Minister’s Award for Excellence in Public Administration. In a tweet on Saturday, Choudhary confirmed the CBI “searches” at his residence but claimed the sleuths found “nothing incriminating in the ongoing arms licence probe”. He said he had issued the lowest — “0.38 per cent” — of all arms licences in Jammu and Kashmir during the four years under the scanner. “I am fully answerable to CBI for my tenure,” he said. He had angered many during his tenure as deputy commissioner of Srinagar, which coincided with the August 5, 2019, dilution of Article 370. Choudhary had led the clampdown in the capital, booking several top politicians including former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah under the stringent Public Safety Act. The grounds for detaining Omar had sounded bizarre to many. “The capacity of the subject (Omar) to influence people for any cause can be gauged from the fact that he was able to convince his electorate to come out and vote in huge numbers even during the peak of militancy and poll boycotts,” the dossier issued by Choudhary had read. Some politicians had publicly accused Choudhary of ill treatment. Two MPs — Hasnain Masoodi and Mohammad Akbar Lone — had issued a statement in September 2019 accusing the IAS officer of not even responding to their phone calls when they had tried to approach him to meet the incarcerated leadership. Last year, Choudhary had publicly backed a police officer who had been frequently booking people for online posts, saying he was behind the “purification of social media”. A CBI spokesman said on Saturday that around 40 locations were raided in Jammu, Srinagar, Udhampur, Rajouri, Anantnag, Baramulla and Delhi. These were the official and residential premises of public servants “including IAS, KAS (Kashmir Administrative Service) officers, then DM, then ADM, etc, and around 20 gun houses and dealers in an ongoing investigation of a case related to the arms licence racket.” “The CBI had registered two cases on the request of the J&K government and further notification from the government of India, and taken over the investigation of two FIRs — No. 18 of 2018 dated 17.05.2018 earlier registered at Police Station Vigilance Organisation Kashmir (VOK) and FIR No. 11 of 2018 dated 17.05.2018 of Police Station Vigilance Organisation Jammu (VOJ) — on the allegations of bulk issuance of arms licences in the erstwhile state… during the period 2012 to 2016,” the spokesman said in a statement. “It was alleged that more than 2.78 lakh arms licences were issued to non-entitled persons.” The CBI also collected documents pertaining to the issuance of the said armed licences allegedly spread over 22 districts of J&K.” The spokesman said the investigations had revealed that several district magistrates had allegedly issued illegal arms licences to ineligible persons. “It was also alleged that the persons who got these licences were not residents of the places from where the said arms licences were issued,” the spokesperson said. No officer was named in the statement. In 2020, two IAS officers, including Rajiv Ranjan, had been arrested by the CBI for allegedly issuing gun licences against payments to thousands of people. The scam was first discovered by Rajasthan’s anti-terror squad in 2017 when they arrested Ranjan’s brother and others working as conduits for gun dealers. The then PDP-BJP government of Jammu and Kashmir, it is believed, had been going slow on the matter but then governor N.N. Vohra handed the case over to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Centre to state: Provide digital access for students||The Centre has passed on to the states the onus of providing digital access for all students, disappointing some academics who said it was the Union government’s responsibility to implement its push for online education. To a question in the Rajya Sabha from Shiv Sena member Anil Desai, education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said the states had been asked to address the issues of digital access. “Education is a subject in the concurrent list of the Constitution, and the matter relating to education pertains to central as well as the state government concerned,” Pradhan replied. “The states and UTs (Union Territories) have been advised to map the students school-wise with their individual performance. Accordingly, the state governments have been directed to act based on the situation prevailing at every place to meet the demands of all students for providing them with the digital access required for learning digitally.” The Narendra Modi government has been pushing for the digitalisation of education in a big way. Since the Covid outbreak, school and higher-education institutions have been conducting classes and exams online. However, poor Internet connectivity, erratic power supply and the lack of quality devices have left the economically disadvantaged and rural students in the lurch. David Lalrinchhana, a master’s student of the Mizo language at Mizoram University, Aizawl, said he had to move out of his home in New Ngharchhip village, Hnahthial district, in search of good Internet connectivity to take his online exams or download video lectures. “The Internet connectivity is unstable in our village. To take our exams, we sometimes have to climb to the top of a hill,” David said. Biju Dharamapalan, academic and member of an expert committee on biosciences at M.G. University, Kottayam, said only a central government initiative can help bridge the digital divide among students. “Like the midday meal programme, we need a centrally sponsored scheme to successfully implement online education across India. The scheme should provide smart phones or TV sets with DTH connections to economically backward students,” he said. Dharmapalan said the states would not have the cash to provide students with electronic devices. On the other hand, the Centre could get the public-sector electronics companies to bring out low-cost smart phones, laptops and TV sets. The Indian Academy of Sciences has released a report, “Higher education going online: The challenges in India”, edited by academics Sujin Babu and Ram Ramaswamy. “In many families, two or three students share a single smart phone. If the (central) government is serious about digital education, it must put in place a dedicated education network and ensure that economically disadvantaged students get at least a free tablet and cheap data,” Ramaswamy told this newspaper. Manoj Killedar, a teacher at the Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University and an expert on distance education, said the government’s thrust on online education was welcome but it should be implemented properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Brazil’s health surveillance agency suspends permission for planned clinical trial of Covaxin||Brazil’s health surveillance agency Anvisa on Friday suspended permission for a planned clinical trial of India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech, hours after the vaccine maker cut ties with its Brazilian partner amid corruption allegations. Anvisa on Friday night announced the “precautionary suspension” of the clinical trials, linking it to Bharat Biotech’s decision to terminate its pact with Precisa Medicamentos through which it had hoped to introduce the vaccine in Brazil. The termination means the local partner “is no longer authorised to represent Bharat (Biotech) in Brazil which, in Anvisa’s assessment, makes it impossible” to carry out the clinical trial, the agency said. Covaxin has mired President Jair Bolsonaro’s government in allegations of irregularities with whistleblowers alleging the government had accepted a $15 per dose deal for 20 million doses although Covid-19 vaccines were available at lower prices. The allegations had triggered investigations by a Brazilian parliamentary commission of inquiry and the country’s comptroller general. Brazil’s health minister Marcelo Quieroga had announced on June 29 that the country would suspend the contract. Bharat Biotech and Bolsonaro have denied any wrongdoing or knowledge of irregularities. The company has said it has not received any advance payments from Brazil, nor has it supplied any vaccines to the Brazilian health ministry. Covaxin is available to the Indian government at Rs 215 ($2.8) per dose and in private hospitals in India at Rs 1,250 ($16) per dose. Bharat Biotech has said the vaccine’s global price has been set between $15 to $20 per dose. Bharat Biotech, in its statement released on Friday announcing its decision to cut ties with Precisa Medicamentos, had said that it would “continue to work diligently” with Anvisa to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin in Brazil. But Anvisa’s decision to suspend the clinical trial of Covaxin puts a question mark on the regulatory approval. Anvisa had on May 13 approved a clinical trial on 4,500 volunteers — 3,000 in Sao Paulo, 500 in Rio de Janeiro, 500 in Bahia and 500 in Mato Grosso. The trial had yet to start. India is mainly using Covaxin and Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, in its vaccination campaign, although limited supplies of Russia’s Sputnik V have also been administered to recipients. Clinical trial data have shown Covaxin as 78 per cent effective against symptomatic Covid-19 and 93 per cent effective against severe disease. Efficacy data also indicated that Covaxin offers 65 per cent protection against the highly contagious Delta coronavirus variant. Bharat Biotech has said Covaxin has received emergency use authorisation approvals in 16 countries, including India, Iran and Mexico, and is under evaluation for similar approvals in over 50 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
25-07-2021||India||Delhi lieutenant governor grants power to cops to apprehend anyone under National Security Act||Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Saturday granted power to the police commissioner to apprehend anyone under the National Security Act, according to a notification. “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) read with clause (e) of Section 2 of the National Security Act, 1980, the Lt Governor pleased to direct that during the period July 19 to October 18, the Delhi police commissioner may also exercise the powers of detaining authority under sub section (2) of the section 3 of the aforesaid Act,” said the notification issued by Baijal on Saturday. The move comes ahead of Independence Day and at a time when farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws have been holding a Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar. Sources in Delhi police, however, said it was a routine order and was issued periodically.“It is a routine and regular order with no connection to the farmers’ protest. Similar orders were issued in January last year during the anti-CAA protests in the capital,” a police official said. In the absence of such blanket permission, police have to seek the approval of the home department before they can slap charges under the NSA on any individual. The NSA has been widely criticised for being “draconian” because of the powers of preventive detention that it gives to the government.The NSA allows preventive detention of an individual for months if the authorities feel that they are a threat to national security and the law and order of the country. The individual also need not be informed of the charges for 10 days. The areas around Parliament are heavily guarded and additional security personnel deployed in the wake of the Kisan Sansad. Parts of the national capital are under triple-layer security cover ahead of Independence Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
25-07-2021||India||Mob kills woman constable after death of Dalit man in custody||A mob attacked and killed a woman constable and injured several others in Jehanabad district of Bihar on Saturday following the death of a Dalit man in custody on charges of flouting the liquor ban. Local people had blocked National Highway 110 near Nehalpur under Parasbigha police station in Jehanabad in protest against the death of Govind Manjhi, who hailed from the Musahar community. Sources said Govind, a resident of Sarsa village, was arrested on July 19 in a case related to illegal liquor trade and allegedly thrashed by the police. He was later sent to jail, where his condition deteriorated. He was admitted to a government hospital in serious condition for treatment, but died early on Saturday. His family members and other people from Sarsa brought his body back from the hospital in the afternoon. They later blocked the highway and attacked a police team that reached Nehalpur. “The people blocking the road started pelting bricks and stones on our team after a man accused in a case related to flouting the liquor ban died. He was sent to judicial custody and was lodged in a jail in neighbouring Aurangabad district,” Jehanabad sub-divisional police officer Ashok Kumar Pandey said. “Our team retreated, but were chased by the mob. The woman constable seems to have been run over by a vehicle while trying to save herself. Many other police officials were injured in the incident and some of our vehicles were also damaged. We have arrested a few persons so far in connection with the incident,” he said. The deceased policewoman has been identified as Kanti Devi. She was a resident of Khagaria district. Reinforcements were rushed to Nehalpur and the police resorted to lathicharge and allegedly fired a few rounds in the air to control the situation. The injured police officials have been admitted to the district hospital for treatment. The police claimed that the protesters fired a few bullets during the clash. Jehanabad superintendent of police Deepak Ranjan rushed to Nehalpur and has been camping at the spot. “We have arrested five persons so far. We have also got video footage of the incident and other persons involved in the incident have been identified. Raids are on to nab them,” Ranjan told The Telegraph over the phone. He added that Govind was arrested in connection with the liquor trade. “Govind was kept in a jail at Daudnagar in Aurangabad district for quarantine purposes as per the protocol for the Covid-19 pandemic. The medical report will make the reason for his death clear. The Aurangabad district magistrate and superintendent of police are taking care of it,” he said. The state went dry in April 2016, when chief minister Nitish Kumar banned liquor by bringing in a prohibition law. Though some of its draconian provisions were toned down later, it has ended up vesting much of the power on the police and excise officials. The authorities have been accused of misusing their powers while the liquor ban is being flouted across the state with impunity. A nexus has been alleged between the liquor mafia, police and excise officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
25-07-2021||India||US: Antony Blinken will raise issues related to 'human rights and democracy' with India||The US state department on Friday said secretary of state Antony Blinken would raise issues related to “human rights and democracy” with India during his visit to New Delhi next week. Blinken leaves for a two-nation tour of India and Kuwait on Monday and is expected in Delhi on Tuesday. He will be the second high-ranking official of the Joe Biden administration to visit India since the change of guard in Washington in January. In a pre-departure briefing, acting assistant secretary for South and Central Asian affairs in the state department, Dean Thompson, was asked specifically what the conversation might be on human rights since he had not mentioned it in his opening remarks. The questioner also flagged the “free pass” the Narendra Modi government had got “on a lot of the anti-Muslim legislation and actions they took”, articulating a view in certain quarters of Washington that the US was going soft on India because of other geo-strategic considerations. Thomson replied: “With respect to the human rights and democracy question, yes, you’re right; I will tell you that we will raise it, and we will continue that conversation, because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don’t. And we believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts in partnership as we go forward.” Washington is to host a 2+2 ministerial dialogue with India later this year with the foreign and defence ministers of both countries in attendance. Last week at the International Religious Freedom Summit hosted in Washington, several US legislators had underscored the need for the Biden administration to do more to ensure that India abided by the foundational principles articulated in its Constitution. Thomson also made it clear that the “cosy relationship” the Modi government had with the Donald Trump administration did not have a bearing on bilateral ties. “The relationship with India is a strong one that has endured through administrations of all colours and stripes in the United States, and will continue to do so.” About Blinken’s agenda, Thomson said the two sides would discuss efforts to support just and durable peace in Afghanistan, developments in the Indo-Pacific region including the Quad vaccine partnership announced at the first summit of the grouping in March and climate change. About the Quad vaccine programme, Thompson acknowledged that the challenges India faced recently in Covid management had “created a bit of a delay in getting certain aspects of it started”, but added that the working groups had been meeting. “The plan had always been for a billion doses to roll out in 2022, and so we hope to continue to work towards that goal.” The initiative involves a jab developed in the US being manufactured in India with financial support from Washington and Japan, and Australia providing the logistics for delivery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
25-07-2021||India||Crocodile fear hits cultivation work in coastal districts of Odisha||Farmers in the coastal districts of Odisha, particularly Kendrapara, are having to contend with an unexpected guest this monsoon. Crocodiles from the Bhitarkanika National Park, spread over an area of 145sqkm, are entering their fields to prey upon fish and other aquatic animals, forcing peasants to avoid work affecting cultivation. “The wildlife sanctuary is usually inundated by the two major rivers — Brahmani and Baitarani — which are now in spate. When these rivers swell following heavy rainfall, crocodiles from Bhitarkanika enter the surrounding villages via natural nullahs and creeks. They often venture into the paddy fields. People have spotted crocodiles in their fields and are now scared of going there for farm related work,” Kendrapara district Congress president and former Rajanagar MLA Anshuman Mohanty told The Telegraph. Farmer Rakhel Patra said: “Last week, people spotted a crocodile measuring around 15 feet in one of the villages of Rajanagar block. With the help of forest officials, they drove the crocodile back to the Bhitarkanika sanctuary.” Patra admitted the farmers were living in fear. “Such is the fear of crocodiles that many farmers in the waterlogged areas prefer not to venture to their fields and skip transplantation work in several areas of Rajanagar, Rajkanika and Mahakala blocks. There have been incidents where some have lost their lives in crocodile attacks. This is the right time for transplantation of paddy and missing this period will adversely affect agricultural activities,” he said. Another villager Sudarshan Rout said: “Earlier agricultural work was hit by a deficit in rainfall and the transplantation of paddy seedlings was delayed. Now when it is raining, we are facing this new problem. A crocodile had entered a pond in our area. The fear of crocodile intrusion will certainly hit kharif cultivation.” Farmers said as river embankments are low in many areas, when the water overflows, the crocodiles find it easy to enter the natural creeks and nullahs. Rajanagar divisional forest officer, mangrove forest division (wildlife), J.D. Pati told this newspaper: “We have launched a massive awareness programme in the areas. We have constructed around 100 bathing zones for people. They have all been barricaded.” He added: “The department has identified the danger zones. Our forest officials have been deployed to drive away the crocodiles if they sneak into human habitation. Besides, the people of the area have grown up seeing crocodiles since their childhood. During the monsoon, human and animal (crocodile) conflict is being noticed in these areas. The people of this area know how to live without fear. There are nearly 1,768 crocodiles in the sanctuary and many of them are more than 15 feet in length.” “All steps are being taken to reduce the human-animal conflict and provide a conducive atmosphere to both,” said a forest official.Odisha has three species of crocodiles — saltwater, gharial and mugger — inhabiting its river system. The Bhitarkanika wildlife sanctuary houses 70 per cent of India’s estuarine or saltwater crocodiles. The conservation of this species that began in 1975 with just 96 has reached 1,768 crocodiles. The wildlife sanctuary has emerged as a major tourist attraction and provides livelihood support to more than four lakh people. The area possesses a rich and diverse ecosystem with tidal waterbodies, estuaries and a bewildering variety of flora and fauna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
