26-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra's employees turn witnesses in porn case, says ‘were asked to delete clips’||Businessman Raj Kundra’s four employees have turned witnesses in the case involving production and distribution of pornographic films and told police that they were asked to delete clips, sources said. According to the sources, the employees also confirmed that the clips were uploaded from ‘HotShots’, the businessman's controversial app that the police believe was used for streaming porn. Police said the app was removed from the Google Play Store for Android phones and Apple's App Store, so the accused "activated Plan B" and launched another app, Bollyfame. Raj Kundra, 45, was arrested on July 19 by Mumbai Police. A magistrate's court sent him to police custody till July 27. A day after his arrest, a lot of data was deleted from the records, said police. An employee of the Intelligence Bureau has been found to have links with another accused Yash Thakur, who is on the run, sources said. Sources also said that Yash Thakur befriended the IB official and then got him to work on starting the app to stream the clips. The official got the app registered in his wife's name, said police sources. He objected when Yash Thakur started uploading porn clips on the app against his earlier proposal that it will stream only award winning short films, the sources said. Raj Kundra has said the videos might be described as "lascivious" but do not show "explicit sexual acts". His wife Shilpa Shetty had told police that she was unaware of the exact nature of content on the mobile app via which Raj Kundra is accused of streaming pornographic content. She also underlined the difference between 'erotica' and 'pornography', and said her husband was not involved in producing pornographic content. Raj Kundra's lawyer, Abad Ponda, has objected to the content being classified as pornography, arguing that similar material is available on OTT platforms like Netflix. Maharashtra BJP leader Ashish Shelar has alleged that the state government is deliberately being slow in taking action in the case. Shelar has written to Amit Shah asking for a multi-ministerial task force in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
26-07-2021||India||Education ministry drafting bill for setting up higher education commission: Dharmendra Pradhan||The Ministry of Education is in the process of drafting a bill for establishment of the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI), the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. The information was shared by Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in the lower house. “The Ministry of Education has announced the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 on 29 July, 2020 after obtaining approval of Cabinet. The NEP envisions setting up of a Higher Education Commission of India as an umbrella body with four independent verticals to perform distinct functions of regulation, accreditation, funding, and academic standard setting,” he said in a written response to a question. “Accordingly, the ministry is in the process of drafting a Bill for establishment of the Higher Education Commission of India,” Pradhan added. The Higher Education Commission of India, envisages replacing autonomous bodies like the University Grants Commission (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE). The National Education Policy 2020 recommended setting up of the HECI as a single overarching umbrella body for higher education, excluding medical and legal education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
26-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Demonstrators will seal roads leading to Lucknow after September 5, warns Tikait||All roads leading to Lucknow will be sealed by farmers after September 5, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait announced today, marking eight months of agitation over the Centre's three new farm laws. "Lucknow will become Delhi," Tikait announced at a press conference in the city, flanked by other leaders of the agitation like Yogendra Yadav, Shivkumar Kakka, and others The leaders also announced 'Mission UP and Uttarakhand', a strategy to take their agitation to all corners of the election-bound states. They are scheduled to go to polls in February-March 2022. However, this intensification of the protest will take place only after a farmer meeting or 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' scheduled on September 5 in western Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar. The event will be the biggest ever of its kind, the farmer leaders claimed. "We are launching Mission UP and Uttarakhand. It will make the movement more focused and intensive. There will involve big rallies and a Mahapanchayat and we will ensure that the protest against the BJP and the policies of the BJP government resonate at all steps, starting right from the village level," Yadav said. Farmers have been protesting at various border points of the national capital since November 26 against the laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Farm leaders and representatives of the Central government have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains. Earlier, on January 26, protesters broke barricades to enter New Delhi and clashed with police in several parts of Delhi following a tractor rally organised by the farmers. They also entered the Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Over 44 crore vaccine doses administered in India so far: Health Ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 44 crore, the Union health ministry said on Monday. In another significant achievement, Maharashtra on Monday became the first state to inoculate more than 1 crore people with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine, it said. The ministry said that 57,48,692 vaccine doses have been administered on Monday, according to the 7 pm provisional report. It said 7,20,900 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 3,49,496 doses as second in the age group 18-44 years on Monday. Cumulatively, 14,19,55,995 persons in the age group 18-44 years across the country have received their first dose and 65,72,678 their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||JEE-Advanced exams to be held on October 3 ||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced will be conducted on October 3, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced on Monday. The exam, earlier scheduled on July 3, was postponed in view of the COVID-19 situation. “JEE (Advanced) 2021 examination for admission in #IITs will be held on the 3rd October, 2021. The examination will be conducted adhering to all Covid-protocols,” Pradhan tweeted. This year, IIT-Kharagpur is conducting the exam, which is the qualifying test for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). While the JEE-Mains is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country, it is considered as a qualifying test for the JEE-Advanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||UK High Court declares Vijay Mallya bankrupt||A British court on Monday granted a bankruptcy order against Vijay Mallya, paving the way for a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) to pursue a worldwide freezing order to seek repayment of debt owed by the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.  "As at 15.42 [UK time], I shall adjudicate Dr Mallya bankrupt," Chief Insolvencies and Companies Court (ICC) Judge Michael Briggs said in his ruling during a virtual hearing of the Chancery Division of the High Court.  "I have to decide if there is a real prospect of payment of petition debt in full within a reasonable period of time there is insufficient evidence that [Mallya's asset realisations in India] will pay the debt in full within a reasonable period of time, Judge Briggs noted, in reference to defence arguments pointing to a restoration process in India following a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court order for the attachment of Mallya's assets.  "In my judgment, the sums provided to date are conditional there is no evidence Dr Mallya will return to India to deal with the criminal trial and seek to unlock the allocation of realisations which have been made," the judge concluded.  The 65-year-old businessman, wanted in India on fraud and money laundering charges, remains on bail in the UK while a "confidential" legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved in connection with the unrelated extradition proceedings.  During the course of Monday's hearing, Judge Briggs asked Mallya's barrister, Philip Marshall, if there was any "indication" if his client intended to return to India to deal with the criminal proceedings and was told that there was no such indication.  The Indian banks, represented by the law firm TLT LLP and barrister Marcia Shekerdemian, had argued for the bankruptcy order to be granted in favour of the Indian banks who are owed over GBP 1 billion and pointed out that the long-drawn legal battle would complete its third birthday in September this year".  "The Petitioners [banks] say enough is enough. They have not been paid in full and no part of their debt is the subject of a serious dispute warranting the dismissal or further adjournment of the petition. A bankruptcy order should be made, with no further delay, the banks' legal team argued.  "The sum of GBP 1.05 billion remains due. Even if one were to treat his interest challenge as having any relevance (which it does not, whether as a matter of discretion or otherwise) a sum of close to GBP 0.5 billion is due Moreover, even if the assets received by the Petitioners provisionally were to be treated as payment towards the Debt (which they should not be), the sum of circa GBP 0.52 billion (INR 5,336.39 crores) would still remain due to the Petitioners. Even on that footing, therefore, the Petitioners are entitled to a bankruptcy order, they argued.  Once a bankruptcy order is made in the UK, there is an automatic vesting of all of the bankrupt's assets in a Trustee in Bankruptcy, whose role is to investigate their affairs and establish their true assets and liabilities, with a view to selling relevant assets and paying back the bankrupt's creditors. Under UK law, a bankrupt person must cooperate with the Trustee in Bankruptcy.  Such a person is prohibited from obtaining credit for more than GBP 500 without disclosing their bankrupt status, or acting as the director of a company without the court's permission.  A bankrupt person is also automatically discharged from their bankruptcy after one year unless an order is made suspending this discharge.  Immediately after the order was handed down on Monday, Mallya's barrister sought a stay followed by an adjournment of the order while legal challenges remain ongoing in the Indian courts. However, the requests were turned down by the judge, who also declined an application seeking permission to appeal against the bankruptcy order as he found there was no "real prospect of success" of such an appeal.  Mallya's counsel, who has indicated plans to pursue an appeal against the bankruptcy order in the higher appellate court, had argued that the Indian banks were pursuing the same debt against him both in India and the UK.  He said: "It is the Petitioners who have chosen to seek to ride two horses, by pursuing enforcement measures for themselves in India even as they seek to invoke a class insolvency remedy here.  "Any bankruptcy order, by contrast, would be self-evidently unjust and cause irreversible harm to Dr Mallya, notwithstanding the (at least) serious doubt which exists as to whether any further sum in fact remains unpaid or outside the Petitioner's power to realise."  The petitioners were made up of SBI-led consortium of 13 Indian banks, including Bank of Baroda, Corporation bank, Federal Bank Ltd, IDBI Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, United Bank of India and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt Ltd.  The debt in question comprises principal and interest, plus compound interest at a rate of 11.5 per cent per annum from 25 June 2013. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Special Court frames terror charges against PDP leader Waheed Parra||A special court has framed terror charges against Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra, a senior PDP leader and close aide of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, based on a police charge sheet claiming that he was an asset for Pakistan-based terror groups and that his 13-year journey as a journalist and politician from 2007 was a "saga of subterfuge, deceit and double-dealing". The court had heard arguments on the framing of charges from the defence and the prosecution earlier this month and it allowed framing of charges against Parra, who is alleged to have established a nexus with terrorists. He sought support from terrorists for political gains and reciprocated by providing a range of help which led to terror strikes. The eight-page order made available on Monday stated that "prima facie there is sufficient evidence against the accused for alleged commission of offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Indian Penal Code." The special NIA judge charged him with being a member of a terror group, raising funds for them as well as aiding an outfit. He was also charged under sections related to waging of war against the country, spreading disaffection against the government and criminal conspiracy. "I have gone through the police report as well as the statements of the witnesses of the prosecution and have applied my mind into the present facts and circumstances levelled in the police report...as well as statements of the witnesses and the digital evidence against the accused, there is sufficient evidence against the accused for alleged commission of offences...," the judge said in his order. With the help of five protected witnesses and technical intelligence, the Criminal Investigation Kashmir (CIK), a wing of the CID Department, submitted a charge sheet before the court alleging that Parra was hand in glove with terrorists to further the agenda of Pakistan-based terror groups and also to ensure that his political adversaries are neutralised. The 19-page charge sheet, with hundreds of pages of annexures, has given instances of his attempts to eliminate political opponents and to help his party leaders by paying terror groups to swing the electoral battle in his party's favour. His lawyer Shariq Reyaz has denied all these charges and said that he would contest the order against his client. The charge sheet has highlighted his links to Pakistan-trained Abu Dujana and Abu Qassim, who were killed in separate encounters with security forces, and went on to allege that he used to meet them personally as well as through Over Ground Workers (OGWs). The police tracked his journey from 2007 when he went to Pakistan and interviewed banned Hizbul Mujahideen's chief Syed Salahuddin and broadcast it on his local media channel which was being operated from Pulwama, his home district in south Kashmir. Parra joined the PDP in 2013 and "once ensconced in the safety of a recognised political party..., the accused systematically went about strengthening himself by craftily deepening his roots on two sides of the divide -- India and Pakistan". "...Parra had the permission of the Pakistani establishment to keep throwing crumbs at India, allowing them petty tactical gains and systematically pushing the overall situation, slowly but surely, in favour of Pakistan in a strategic sense. What played out over 13 years (2007-2020) was a saga of subterfuges, deceit and double meaning," the charge sheet alleged. The CIK, which is mandated to probe cases under the UAPA and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), took sanction for Parra's prosecution from the Jammu and Kashmir Home Department under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The CIK had filed a case last year against unknown politicians and others based on "reliable and confidential sources" who said some political functionaries were misusing their power and helping militants. In March this year, Parra was charge-sheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and it was alleged that the PDP youth leader had paid Rs 5 crore to the son-in-law of hardline Hurriyat Conference leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani for keeping Kashmir in turmoil after the death of Burhan Wani, a commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist group, in 2016. The NIA accused Parra, who was arrested last November, of being involved with banned terrorist groups such as the Hizbul Mujahideen and the Lashkar-e-Taiba. The NIA alleged that after the death of Wani, who was killed in an encounter with the Army in July 2016, Parra got in touch with Altaf Ahmad Shah, alias Altaf Fantoosh, and asked him to ensure that the valley was kept on the boil with widespread unrest and stone-pelting. In January this year Parra was granted bail by the NIA court, which said there was no reference to him in the original as well as the supplementary charge sheets presented in July and October last year respectively. However, he was arrested by the CIK Wing in the case related to nexus between mainstream politicians and secessionists, and he continues to be in jail since then. His bail was rejected by the NIA court in Srinagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Registration begins for Delhi University PG courses||The Delhi University on Monday commenced the registration process for 20,000 seats for postgraduate courses and more than 4,500 aspirants visited its admission portal within the first 15 minutes, a senior university official said. The registration process for MPhil and PhD also began on Monday. The last date for registration of the programmes is August 21. "Within 15 minutes, more than 4,500 visitors logged in to the admission portal. More than 500 queries were received within a few minutes," said Rajeev Gupta, chairperson, admissions. The registration process for undergraduate programmes for which Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) will be conducted also began. The DUET-2021 for all PG programmes, selected undergraduate programmes and M.Phil and Ph.D courses will be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for which the dates will be announced soon. The university will also organise Virtual Open Days for the benefit of all prospective candidates from July 27 to July 30. "These Virtual Open Days have been planned to assist the prospective candidates about the registration process and the admission process. Applicants will have the option to interact with the panelists. The webinar will also be telecasted live on DU's official Facebook and YouTube channels," the university said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team confined to Agartala hotel for questioning by local police||A team of Prashant Kishore's Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) which has been camping in a hotel in Agartala since last week to assess the political situation and potential support base for Trinamool Congress (TMC) is being questioned by the local police. While Tripura unit of TMC described it as an attack on democracy and said they were confined to their hotel by the police, Manik Das, Superintendent of Police, West Tripura, claimed members of the 22-member I-Pac team are being questioned in a Agartala city-based hotel, as part of a routine check-up. The outsiders-- around 22 persons were roaming around in various places. Since Covid restrictions are in place, we are enquiring to verify the reasons behind their arrival and stay in the city. They all underwent Covid tests on Monday, the reports are awaited, Das told reporters. President of the Tripura unit of Trinamool Congress, Ashish Lal Singha however termed it as an attack on democracy. “It's an attack on democracy. Being a resident of Tripura, I am shocked. It's not Tripura's culture. BJP has panicked following the overwhelming response and support to TMC due to the misrule of the BJP led government in Tripura. The I-PAC team has been under detention since Sunday night in a hotel. However, the police are saying it's a part of routine check-up,” said Singh. He said the I-PAC team, comprising 23 members, had reached the state a week ago and also visited several places to conduct a survey at ground zero'. They had discussions not only with Trinamool Congress but also with the other parties and the team is assessing the political situation and the prospect of TMC in the next assembly election in 2023, he said. The district police chief, however, denied the allegation levelled by Singh that the I-PAC team was under detention and said it was a routine process'. When contacted, officer-in-charge of East Agartala police station Saroj Bhattacharjee said, “They were not detained. We are now verifying their documents.” They are all in the hotel. Meanwhile, according to sources, the incident has been reported to TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and professional political campaigner I-PAC chief Prashant Kishor. When contacted, President of BJP in the state Manik Saha said he is not aware of anything about this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||BJP parliamentary board and legislators to decide next Karnataka CM ||BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh on Monday declined to comment on the next chief minister after the resignation of B S Yediyurappa, saying the decision is left to the party's parliamentary board and BJP legislature party. "I will not say now.The parliamentary board of the BJP will decide the next chief minister and in the legislature party meeting," Singh told reporters in New Delhi. When asked when the meeting was likely, he said he cannot say anything at this juncture. To a question on the reason behind Yediyurappa's resignation as Chief Minister, Singh said he himself has explained it. Regarding his next Bengaluru visit, he said he would let people know later. Yediyurappa on Monday resigned as Chief Minister and thanked the BJP leadership for giving him an opportunity to serve as CM for two years despite completing 75 years of age.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu gears up to cope with Covid third wave||The Tamil Nadu government has planned to vaccinate the most vulnerable sections soon and also train medical professionals to cope with the possible third wave of coronavirus, state Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan said on Monday. Also, localised infections would be closely monitored and all out efforts would be made to ensure the pandemic is under check, he said. "Doctors and nurses would be trained to cope with the possible third wave and already the infrastructure at all the paediatric wards in the government hospitals across the state have been upgraded," Radhakrishnan said. The third wave is likely to affect children more. The government's efforts are oriented towards averting any new infections, he added. "We have to be mentally prepared to face it. And appropriate steps were already taken to improve the beds and oxygen supplies," he said referring to the nearly 80,000 beds created across Tamil Nadu. Oxygen cylinders and concentrators have also been readied. But a disheartening factor is the behaviour of some of the people, he lamented. "Despite the state government's best efforts in enforcement and monitoring to bring the pandemic under control, an element of casualness which is creeping among the people could cause a spurt in cases," Radhakrishnan said and appealed to the people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. "Some people are still not wearing face masks or following social distancing. The absence of masks and non-conformity to social distancing norms are causing concern," he said and warned that this could affect the efforts in bringing down the coronavirus cases. On Sunday, Tamil Nadu reported 1808 cases with its overall tally going to 25,48,497. The active cases stand at 23,364. Regarding inoculation, the senior official said the government has planned to cover the most vulnerable sections soon, subject to availability of vaccines. "The emergence of Covid variant is not in our control. So, we have to be mentally prepared to face any eventuality," Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||National Commission for Women all set to launch 24-hour helpline ||The National Commission for Women will be starting a 24-hour helpline to provide immediate assistance to women facing domestic violence and sexual harassment. The new helpline, scheduled to be launched on Tuesday, aims to facilitate an integrated range of services for women affected with violence under one roof such as help from police, psycho-social counselling and access to One Stop Centres, among other services, the NCW said in a statement. The helpline has been developed in collaboration with Digital India Corporation, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The objective of the helpline is to provide immediate assistance to women affected by violence by linking them with appropriate authorities such as police, hospitals, District Legal Service Authority, psychological services and providing information about women-related government programmes across the country. The helpline will function with a team of trained experts. Any girl or woman aged 18 years and above can seek help by calling on this helpline which will be operated from the premises of the National Commission for Women in New Delhi, the NCW said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Bill to set up Higher Education Commission of India is being drafted: Education Minister||The Ministry of Education is in the process of drafting a bill for establishment of the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI), the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. The information was shared by Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in the lower house. "The Ministry of Education has announced the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 on 29 July, 2020 after obtaining approval of Cabinet. The NEP envisions setting up of a Higher Education Commission of India as an umbrella body with four independent verticals to perform distinct functions of regulation, accreditation, funding, and academic standard setting," he said in a written response to a question. "Accordingly, the Ministry is in the process of drafting a Bill for establishment of the Higher Education Commission of India," Pradhan added. The Higher Education Commission of India, envisages replacing autonomous bodies like the University Grants Commission (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE). The National Education Policy 2020 recommended setting up of the HECI as a single overarching umbrella body for higher education, excluding medical and legal education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Hisar duo dupe Amazon of lakhs, gets arrested by UP police||The Uttar Pradesh police have arrested two Haryana-based men who allegedly duped e-commerce giant Amazon of lakhs of rupees, officials said on Monday. The accused, both natives of Hisar district in Haryana, were arrested by officials of the Cyber Crime police station in Noida who were investigating the case, they said. The accused have been identified as Anil alias Alok Singh (27), a B.Sc graduate, and Sachin Jain (30), a Class 12 pass, the UP police said in a statement. “The duo had created at least 99 accounts on Amazon website using forged identification. They had linked several bank accounts of various banks to these Amazon accounts which were used by them to order electronic products. It would either be prepaid or cash on delivery (COD) orders,” the statement read. “However, after receiving the goods, they would sell them off at cheap prices in Delhi's Gaffar Market and then contact Amazon, saying they wanted to return the products as they were 'defective',” it added. According to its policy, the company would send their delivery partner to pick up the defective product and refund the money, the police said. “But the duo would collude with the delivery agents who fraudulently marked these orders as 'picked up' on the data base and get them a refund in the bank accounts linked with their Amazon accounts,” the police said. After the arrest, the UP police has frozen the multiple bank accounts linked to the 99 Amazon accounts of the duo, according to the statement. These frozen bank accounts had Rs 26 lakh in them, the police said, adding further investigation in the case in which the FIR is lodged at Noida's Sector 36 Cyber police station is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Tharoor demands probe monitored by SC judge on Pegasus scandal||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday demanded a Supreme Court judge-monitored probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations and indicated that opposition parties would continue to disrupt Parliament's proceedings until the government agrees to a debate on it. He alleged that it appears that the government used public money for snooping for its "selfish political interests". Last week, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including those of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for snooping through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO Group, which only sells the hacking software to "vetted" governments and government agencies. The government has been denying all opposition allegations in the matter. Speaking to reporters in the Parliament complex after the Lok Sabha was adjourned, Tharoor said, "We want the government to agree to a debate on the issue, but it is not ready. What we are saying is that if you (government) do not agree to this and answer our questions, then why we should allow you to transact your business." He said other issues like price rise and contentious farm laws are also important for the opposition but the Pegasus row is a priority. Both Houses of Parliament have transacted little business since the Monsoon session began on July 19 as opposition parties have forced adjournments with their protests over a number of issues with the Pegasus row being the main one. Tharoor also made light of IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw's statement on the issue in both Houses, saying he just shared his "Mann Ki Baat" without listening to the opposition. Vaishnaw had termed the snooping stories a bid to malign India, claiming that there is "no substance" to this sensationalism. The parliamentary panel on information technology led by Tharoor is likely to question top government officials, including from the home ministry, later this week on Pegasus snooping allegations, according to sources. The 32-member Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology is scheduled to meet on July 28. The agenda of the meeting is "Citizens data security and privacy", according to a notification issued by Lok Sabha Secretariat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa another victim of Modi alleges Congress||The Congress on Monday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over B S Yediyurappa's resignation as Karnataka chief minister, and said he is yet another "victim" of the PM who has a record of allegedly forcing retirements of senior BJP leaders. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala charged that it is Delhi's autocracy that decides chief ministers and not the will of BJP's MLA's. He also alleged that the BJP government in Karnataka is an "illegitimate" one as it is born out of "defection and corruption". The Congress has been alleging that the BJP used the Pegasus spyware to oust the Congress-JDS government in the state. "The ignominy, torment and insult being heaped upon Sh. B.S.Yediyurappa by Modi ji, dictating him to tender his resignation, makes him PM's latest victim and member of the 'forced retirement club'," Surjewala charged on Twitter. "We now know that Delhi's autocracy decides CM's and not the will of BJP's MLAs," he further charged. "The stark reality is that Modiji habitually insults and compulsorily throws senior BJP Leaders in dustbin of history," the Congress leader alleged. Yediyurappa has, however, claimed that there is no pressure on him from the party leadership to resign and he has tendered his resignation of his own. "Modiji's record is replete with painful and forcible retirements of Advaniji, M.M.Joshiji, Keshubhai Patelji, Shanta Kumarji, Yashwant Sinhaji and many others. The list of Modiji's victims in BJP doesn't end here," Surjewala said. He also cited the names of Sumitra Mahajan, Sushma Swaraj, Uma Bharti, C.P.Thakur, A.K.Patel, Haren Pandya, Harin Pathak, Kalyan Singh as those leaders who have been retired by the top brass of the BJP. He said the latest "victims" are Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Sushil Modi. Congress leader Mallikarujun Kharge, however, termed the resignation of Yediyurappa as an internal matter of the BJP. Taking on the BJP over the Pegasus spying issue, Surjewala said, "Malady is with BJP's corrupt Government and appalling maladministration in Karnataka, for it is an illegitimate Government born out of defection and corruption." "Will merely changing the face change the diabolical character of BJP Government synonymous with mal governance and decay," he said. Yediyurappa announced his resignation as chief minister in the Karnataka Vidhan Souda on Monday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Tejashwi lashes out at Bihar govt on day 1 of monsoon assembly session||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday alleged that the honour of elected representatives in Bihar was under attack from a high-handed bureaucracy that has been given a "free run" by the Nitish Kumar government. He made remarks to the effect while talking to reporters outside the assembly premises on the inaugural day of the monsoon session, soon after chairing a meeting of all legislators of the five-party Grand Alliance helmed by the RJD. “It is shameful that on a date remembered for the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh, honourable members of the House were hit by boots of police personnel who also physically dragged female legislators,” the leader of the opposition said. Yadav was referring to the infamous incident of March 23 when opposition MLAs had held Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha hostage inside his chamber in protest against a bill that aimed to give more teeth to the Special Armed Police though it was seen as "draconian" by the Grand Alliance. As marshals seemed overwhelmed by the enormity of restoring order, police was called and the unruly legislators were physically evicted before proceedings resumed and the bill was passed with the opposition in absentia. Yadav, who was flanked by other leaders of the Grand Alliance which also includes the Congress, the CPI, the CPI(M) and the CPI(ML), lamented that a motion he moved earlier in the day with regard to the incident that took place during the budget session was turned down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa tenders resignation to the Governor, says it has been accepted||After months of speculation about over his exit, B S Yediyurappa on Monday stepped down as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, coinciding with his government completing two years in office. He termed these two years as "trial by fire", pointing out that he had to run the administration without cabinet in the initial days, followed by devastating floods and the challenge of Covid-19 management, among other issues. The 78-year-old BJP veteran who submitted his resignation to Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot at the Raj Bhavan here, said he quit "voluntarily". "I had decided to resign two months ago, as we complete two years of our government today. I thought it was apt to resign now and have submitted the resignation to the Governor, and he has accepted it," Yediyurappa told reporters emerging from the Raj Bhavan. An official notification from the Governor's office said Gehlot has accepted Yediyurappa's resignation and has dissolved the Council of Ministers headed by him with immediate effect. Thanking the party leaders and the people for giving him an opportunity to serve the state, he said, he had no "pressure" from the party's central leadership in Delhi, and has quit on his own "voluntarily", to make way for others to serve as the Chief Minister. "I will not make any proposal on who should be the next Chief Minister, it is left for the high command to decide. Whomever they choose, I will cooperate and work with...I don't want to take any names," he said in response to a question. Monday's developments now shift the focus to the BJP veteran's successor who could lead the party-led government for its remainder of term till 2023. Among the names that have been doing the rounds as the probable successor to Yediyurappa are that of Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, BJP national General Secretary C T Ravi, its national organising secretary B L Santhosh and state Assembly Speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri. The names of Home Minister Basavaraj S Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Deputy CM C N Ashwath Narayan have also been doing the rounds. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who has earlier served as the Chief Minister--is also seen as a contender. Mining Minister Murugesh Nirani and MLA Arvind Bellad also seem to be in contention. Meanwhile, the Governor's office said Yediyurappa shall continue to function as Chief Minister till alternate arrangements are made. Considered the architect of the first ever BJP government to the south of Vindhyas, Yediyurappa had headed the state four times. Asserting that he will hundred per cent continue in politics and work for bringing BJP back to power from tomorrow itself, the Lingayat strong man said, "...there is no question of political retirement for any reason, I'm with the karyakartas and the people." "Party has nurtured me to this height, most probably no other politician in the country has got the privileges that I have got." Responding to a question whether he will accept, if there is an offer to make him the Governor, he said, "Atal Bihari Vajpayee had offered me to become the central Minister, when he was the PM, I had said no. There is no question of becoming Governor. I will work to strengthen the organisation in Karnataka. I have not asked for any position, nor will accept it." Yediyurappa who has played an instrumental role in building the BJP in Karnataka, had served as its state President, Member of Parliament, MLA and Deputy Chief Minister. Earlier in the day, speaking at an event organised to mark his government's two years in office at Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state legislature and secretariat here, Yediyurappa had announced his decision to step down, as his voice choked and he turned emotional. "Not out of grief, but with happiness," he said, as he thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National President JP Nadda for giving him an opportunity to serve as Chief Minister for two years, despite completing 75 years of age. There is an unwritten rule in the BJP of keeping out those above 75 years from elected offices. During the speech, Yediyurappa termed his tenure for two years as "trial by fire", recalling that he had to run the administration without cabinet in the initial days, followed by devastating floods and the COVID-19 management, among other issues. Thanking the people of Shikaripura constituency for electing him to assembly for seven terms, Yediyurappa while speaking to mediapersons later said, no one in BJP was given the opportunity to hold any position after 75 years, but that he was allowed to become CM, despite crossing that age bar. "... Am humbled and sincerely thank the people of the state for giving me the opportunity to serve them," he tweeted. Asked about the future of those who had defected from Congress-JD(S) and are now Ministers, as they had helped BJP to come to power, he said, "all are together with us." "I am confident that the next chief minister will also cooperate with those who helped in forming this government. All will work together."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Finally, Yediyurappa says he will step down as Karnataka CM ||B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced his resignation as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, as his government completes two years in office. The 78-year old, BJP veteran said he will submit his resignation to the Governor post lunch. "Don't take me otherwise, with your permission... I have decided that after lunch I will go to the Raj Bhavan and submit my resignation as the Chief Minister to the Governor," Yediyurappa said with a choked voice, as he turned emotional. "Not out of grief, but with happiness," he said, as he thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National President J P Nadda for giving him an opportunity to serve as Chief Minister for two years, despite completing 75 years. There is an unwritten rule in the BJP of keeping out those above 75 years from elected offices. The Chief Minister also said that he will work to strengthen the party and bring it back to power, as per the expectations of the central leaders. Yediyurappa was speaking at an event organised to mark his government's two years in office at Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state legislature and secretariat here. During the speech, Yediyurappa termed his tenure for two years as "trial by fire", recalling that he had to run the administration without cabinet in the initial days, followed by devastating floods and coronavirus among other issues. The chief minister yesterday said he was expecting a “message” from the party leadership. “I will let you know if the message comes by this evening,” he had told reporters in Belgaum while touring the flood-ravaged areas. Hours later Nadda had told reporters in Goa: “He (Yediyurappa) has done good work. The Karnataka government is running properly and Yediyurappa is handling everything in his own way.” Asked about the much-speculated change of leadership in the state, Nadda shot back: “That is what you feel; we don’t feel so.” On his way back to Bangalore, Yediyurappa was asked again whether the party leadership had conveyed a decision and whether he might resign on Monday. “I don’t know anything yet,” he said. Told that his supporters were anxious about his likely removal, Yediyurappa said: “I will abide by the party’s decision. No one should create any issues.” Soon after reaching Bangalore, Yediyurappa said he had received “no information so far” from the party leadership. “I hope I’ll get the message tonight or by tomorrow morning,” he said, adding he would “take a call tomorrow” if the party doesn’t say anything. He sidestepped a question on Nadda’s statement. “Nadda is our party leader and it’s my duty to work as he says,” he said. Yediyurappa had on Wednesday dropped the first clear hint that he might resign and switch to party work. He had then said he was expecting a “message” from the party leadership on Sunday and would take a decision based on that on Monday after attending a meeting of party lawmakers to mark the second anniversary of his current tenure. His statement was followed by a flood of visitors, including more than a hundred pontiffs from Lingayat mutts, to his home. The seers were among those who wanted the BJP to allow Yediyurappa to stay in office until the 2023 state elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi drives tractor to Parliament to protest farm law||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday drove a tractor to Parliament along with other party MPs and demanded that the three contentious farm laws be repealed. Gandhi along with party MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa, Ravneet Singh Bittu and Deepinder Singh Hooda also carried banners and raised slogans. "These laws are aimed at helping only two-three industrialists. The entire country knows for who whom these laws have been brought. These laws are not for the benefit of farmers and that is why they have to be withdrawn," Gandhi told reporters. Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala and Youth Congress chief BV Srinivas along with a number of party leaders were detained by the Delhi Police outside Parliament and taken to Mandir marg police station. The detained Congress leaders raised slogans demanding the withdrawal of farm laws. "We will not be cowed down by such actions. This struggle will continue under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and we will not allow the Modi government to hand over the rights of 62 crore farmers to three-four industrialists," Surjewala told reporters after he was detained. The tractor ride to Parliament was aimed at highlighting the cause of farmers and extend their support to them, party leaders said. The BJP has, however, termed the move as "theatrics".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Rahul warns govt against ignoring China's actions||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged that the government is clueless on how to handle China, and said ignoring its actions now will cause problems later. He cited a media report which claimed that in Demchok in Eastern Ladakh, China's tents are still on the Indian side and there is no date yet for talks between core commanders of the two countries. "GOI is clueless on how to handle China. Ignoring their actions now will cause huge problems in the future," Gandhi said on Twitter. India and China are involved in a stand-off in Eastern Ladakh since May last year and two countries have been holding talks for de-escalation and disengagement. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also took a swipe at the prime minister over the matter. "Show red eyes, Saheb, blow your 56" saheb," he said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag #RemoveChinaFromOurLand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||India logs over 39,000 fresh Covid cases, 416 casualties in a day||With 39,361 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,14,11,262, while the daily positivity was recorded above three per cent after 35 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 4,20,967 with 416 fresh fatalities. The active cases have increased to 4,11,189 and comprise 1.31 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,977 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 11,54,444 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 45,74,44,011. The daily positivity rate has increased to 3.41 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.31 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,05, 79,106 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 43.51 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 416 new fatalities include 123 from Maharashtra, 67 from Odisha and 66 from Kerala. A total of 4,20,967 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,552 from Maharashtra, 36,374 from Karnataka, 33,911 from Tamil Nadu, 25,043 from Delhi, 22,750 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,073 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Vijay Diwas: PM pays tribute to soldiers, President's Drass visit cancelled||President Ram Nath Kovind could not visit Drass on Monday for paying homage to Kargil martyrs on the 22nd anniversary of Vijay Diwas due to bad weather, officials said here. The President instead visited the Baramulla War memorial in north Kashmir where he laid a wreath to pay homage to the martyrs, the officials said. In 1999, the Indian armed forces defeated attempts by Pakistan to capture strategic heights in Kargil. It was named 'Operation Vijay' (victory). Kovind is also likely to visit the High Altitude Warfare School at Gulmarg after the Baramulla visit, they said.  Paying tributes to the soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the Kargil war, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said their bravery motivates us every single day . On the 21st anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas, Modi said the country remembers the sacrifice and valour of its soldiers. He tweeted, "We remember their sacrifices. We remember their valour. Today, on Kargil Vijay Diwas we pay homage to all those who lost their lives in Kargil protecting our nation. Their bravery motivates us every single day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Moderate rain likely in Delhi today, says IMD||The national capital woke up to a cloudy sky on Monday morning as the minimum temperature settled at 28.3 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said. The city is expected to receive moderate rain during the day, while the maximum temperature may settle around 34 degrees Celsius, it said. The relative humidity was recorded at 77 per cent at 8.30 am. The city had experienced sultry weather on Sunday with some parts getting light rain. The maximum and minimum temperatures had settled at 37.3 and 27.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Pegasus: CPM Rajya Sabha MP seeks court-monitored investigation||A Rajya Sabha MP has petitioned the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored special investigation team probe into the Pegasus controversy, listing the unfathomable threat to every walk of life if surveillance did take place. John Brittas, the CPM Rajya Sabha member from Kerala and a journalist with wide reporting experience, has contended that the alleged surveillance on the government’s critics and opponents with the help of the Israeli spyware would, if not dealt with seriously, have a “chilling effect” on citizens’ rights to free speech and privacy. This is the second petition moved in the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored SIT investigation into the controversy, the first having been filed by an advocate, Manohar Lal Sharma. Both petitions are expected to come up for hearing this week. Brittas’s petition says that WhatsApp and Facebook have successfully sued the Israeli company that owns the Pegasus spyware in a Californian court for “its notorious interception/ cyber-attack in the past”. It adds that while questions have been asked in Parliament on the alleged phone-tapping of Indian rights activists, journalists, politicians and constitutional authorities, the government has neither denied nor admitted the charge. Brittas has submitted that Union IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw’s statement in the Rajya Sabha had failed to categorically deny the allegations and merely said that “the time-tested processes in our country are well-established to ensure that unauthorised surveillance does not occur”. “This statement is as empty as making a hope that there will not be any crimes in India as Indian Penal Code is there,” the petition, filed through advocate Resmitha R. Chandran, says. Among the points the petition raises are: ⚫ If the government sticks to the then IT minister’s statement in Parliament on November 28, 2019, that there had been “no unauthorised interception”, the latest surveillance — if it happened — can only be considered authorised interception. So, the government needs to explain the reasons for the alleged snooping. ⚫If Pegasus was used in an unauthorised manner, it violated the fundamental rights to free speech and life and liberty and was a “slap on the face of the right to privacy”, upheld by a nine-judge constitution bench in 2017. It would also have violated provisions of the Information Technology Act and the Indian Telegraph Act, for which strict punishment must be awarded after an immediate, independent and transparent investigation. ⚫ If the alleged surveillance targeted judges and Supreme Court staff, as claimed, it would amount to unprecedented interference in the administration of justice. ⚫ If a former Election Commission member’s phone was tapped, it would mean the fundamentals of democracy and free elections too have been shaken. ⚫ If the phone numbers of Opposition members were snooped on, it would have “a chilling effect” on dissent against the government and weaken democracy. ⚫ If senior CBI officials were spied on, it would suggest either that the government does not trust its own investigating officers or that some external agencies were accessing highly confidential data belonging to India’s topmost investigating agency. This would be a threat to the independence of the central investigating agencies and to the unity and integrity of India. ⚫ If a well-known Indian virologist’s phone was tapped, it would be an alarming development amid a pandemic “with respect to the safety and security” of Indians. ⚫ The controversy raises fears about India’s financial interests being compromised as the purported list of potential targets includes the phone numbers of businessmen associated with the Rafale deal. ⚫ The alleged snooping must have been carried out either by the Indian government or by a foreign agency. If it was done by the government, it was unauthorised. Spending public money for the ruling party’s political interests cannot be allowed. If a foreign agency did the spying, it’s an act of external aggression that must be dealt with seriously. ⚫ If rights activists and journalists were snooped on, it would mean the government has no regard for citizens’ fundamental rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Shiv Sena compares 'Pegasus attack' to Hiroshima bombing||The Shiv Sena on Sunday compared the “Pegasus attack” to the Hiroshima bombing, saying “freedom is dead now” and alleging a pervasive “fear of snooping” in the country. Sena spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said a smart phone now resembled a “bomb planted in the hand”, that the Narendra Modi government was peeping into “bedrooms” and that “we are being pushed towards slavery”. The Congress wondered why the Centre had not yet answered the simple question whether any government agency in India had used the Israeli spyware. “The nuclear bombs dropped on Hiroshima were no different from the Pegasus attack. People died then, freedom is dead now,” Raut wrote in Sena mouthpiece Saamana. He said the fear spawned by the surveillance on judges, journalists, rights activists, businessmen and politicians was not healthy for freedom or national security. He recalled that a leading businessman he had met recently was carrying a basic phone as it was safer. “Hundreds of crores are being spent. Reports suggest Rs 60 crore is required for (renewing the) licence every year to use Pegasus. Who is bearing the cost?” Raut wrote. “Former telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said 45 countries were using Pegasus and asked why India should be singled out. He confirmed the use of Pegasus. Who (else) in India has the wherewithal to use such a spyware?” P. Chidambaram, former Union minister for home and finance, too said the government needed to answer which agency was using Pegasus. The Congress leader asserted that Prime Minister Modi should himself make a statement in Parliament. In an interview to PTI, Chidambaram said: “If the Pegasus spyware was used, who acquired it? Was it acquired by the government or by one of its agencies?” He added: “Was it a rogue agency in India doing it without the knowledge of the government or was it a foreign agency hacking into Indian telephones without the knowledge of the government? Either way, it is a more serious matter than the government conducting the surveillance.” Chidambaram said a probe by a joint parliamentary committee or one monitored by the Supreme Court was a must. He emphasised that none of the ministers had yet denied the use of the Pegasus spyware — they had only made “clever” statements to try and wriggle out of the situation. “Communications minister Ashwini Vaishnaw is obviously a very clever minister and therefore the statement has been very cleverly worded,” Chidambaram said. “He denies that there was any unauthorised surveillance. He does not deny that there was surveillance. He does not deny that there was authorised surveillance.” Rahul Gandhi, who has used the controversy to accuse the Prime Minister and home minister Amit Shah of treason, tweeted: “Pegasus: benefits for friends and surveillance of opponents. Aam ke aam, guthliyon ke daam (Two at the price of one).” Raut, who wondered why the government was averse to any investigation, wrote: “How dirty has politics become. We have to face it daily. More so in Delhi. The Modi government has intruded into people’s bedrooms. “Why have mostly those people been targeted who are not blind bhakts of Modi? Those people who are not ready to accept the government’s slavery have been targeted. “The fear of snooping has affected everybody — politicians, activists, journalists, businessmen. The judiciary and the media are working under pressure. The open atmosphere in the national capital has ended over the last few years. A phone is like a bomb planted in the hand. Information about your daily routine is collected.” The Congress too ran a campaign on social media on the attack on individual freedom. It posted screenshots of Google searches, arguing people were concerned only about negative issues like surveillance and a vaccine shortage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Covid: Study puts virus deaths at six times the Centre’s official count||India’s Covid-19 deaths may be six times the Union health ministry’s official count or even higher, researchers said on Sunday after analysing the central government’s own civil registration and health information datasets. Their study, based on three independent data sources, has estimated 2.7 million to 3.4 million deaths through the country’s two waves until July 2021. Even the lower estimate is about 6.4 times the 421,000 deaths officially recorded until Sunday. “We used three distinct datasets reaching similar conclusions,” Prabhat Jha, professor and epidemiologist at the Centre for Global Health Research, University of Toronto, Canada, who led the study, told The Telegraph. The findings place India’s Covid-19 death rate at about 2,000 per million population, close to the range reported in Latin America, according to the study by Jha and his colleagues that has been posted on MedRxiv, an online preprint server, but not been peer reviewed yet. India’s health ministry has for months used official death counts to suggest that India’s Covid-19 death rate is among the lowest measured per million population — currently about 309 per million. The new study is the latest among independent research efforts that have used different methodologies to estimate the excess deaths (compared with corresponding periods in previous years after correcting for population rise) or Covid-19 deaths in India, all indicating that the country has vastly undercounted its deaths. The health ministry has described these efforts at extrapolating the excess Covid-19 deaths in India as “audacious” and said the country has a “robust system of recording Covid-19 deaths”. The ministry has added that it has always asked the states to conduct death audits and record any missed deaths. Many public health experts in India have argued since April that the crowds at the crematoriums and funeral sites in multiple cities, and the bodies dumped in rivers, reflected a large volume of excess deaths that were difficult to manage through the available crematorium or funeral infrastructure. Jha and his collaborators used the Centre’s Civil Registration System (CRS) that records births and deaths, using data from eight states and seven cities, and the health ministry’s Health Management Information System (HMIS) that contains mortality data from around 200,000 health facilities across India. They compared the data from the CRS and the HMIS for 2020 and 2021 with the death data between 2015 and 2019 to estimate the “excess mortality”, which would most likely have occurred because of Covid-19 during 2020 and 2021. Across the two waves, the median excess mortality during 2020 and 2021 compared with earlier years, going by CRS data, was 32 per cent for the states and 37 per cent for the cities. The HMIS data suggested 27 per cent excess mortality from July 2020 to May 2021, with 120 per cent excess mortality during April-May 2021. The researchers also collaborated with India’s Centre for Voting Opinion and Trends in Election Research, or C-Voter, which questioned over 137,000 randomly selected households across India about Covid-19 deaths among their members. The national survey by C-Voter found about 3.5 per cent adults reporting a Covid-19 death in their household during April-June 2021 and estimated 29 per cent to 32 per cent excess deaths between June 2020 and June 2021. These proportions of excess deaths are consistent with the 32 per cent excess deaths from the CRS estimates and 27 per cent excess deaths from the health facilities covered by the HMIS, the researchers said. The health ministry has said that excess mortality is a term used to describe an all-cause mortality figure, and that attributing these deaths to Covid-19 is “completely misleading”. But many health experts say the spikes in deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic are likely to be caused by Covid-19. Any changes in the death figures from causes apart from Covid-19 “are likely small compared to the sharp increases in Covid-19 deaths”, particularly during the second viral wave, Jha and his colleagues said in their study. Earlier this year, Bhramar Mukherjee, a senior biostatistician at the University of Michigan, and her colleagues had estimated that around 1.2 million people had died of Covid-19 in India up to May 15 this year when the official count was about 270,000. Last week, Arvind Subramanian, former chief economic adviser to the Indian government who is currently at Brown University in the US, and his colleagues had used different methodologies for three estimates of India’s excess deaths — 3.4 million, 4 million and 4.9 million. The health ministry has said the extrapolation of deaths “has been done on an audacious assumption that the likelihood of any given infected person dying is the same across countries, dismissing the interplay of direct and indirect factors such as race, ethnicity, genomic constitution of a population and previous exposure levels to other diseases and associated immunity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa waits for ‘message’ on imminent departure as CM||The Karnataka BJP remained on tenterhooks through Sunday amid expectations of B.S. Yediyurappa’s imminent departure as chief minister, but the matter remained hazy even though the would-be successors stepped up their lobbying for the post. Yediyurappa himself spoke nonchalantly about the possibility of his exit but BJP national president J.P. Nadda confounded all by lauding his performance. The chief minister kept saying he was expecting a “message” from the party leadership. “I will let you know if the message comes by this evening,” he told reporters in Belgaum where he toured flood-ravaged areas on Sunday. Hours later Nadda told reporters in Goa: “He (Yediyurappa) has done good work. The Karnataka government is running properly and Yediyurappa is handling everything in his own way.” Asked about the much-speculated change of leadership in the state, Nadda shot back: “That is what you feel; we don’t feel so.” On his way back to Bangalore, Yediyurappa was asked again whether the party leadership had conveyed a decision and whether he might resign on Monday. “I don’t know anything yet,” he said. Told that his supporters were anxious about his likely removal, Yediyurappa said: “I will abide by the party’s decision. No one should create any issues.” Soon after reaching Bangalore, Yediyurappa said he had received “no information so far” from the party leadership. “I hope I’ll get the message tonight or by tomorrow morning,” he said, adding he would “take a call tomorrow” if the party doesn’t say anything. He sidestepped a question on Nadda’s statement. “Nadda is our party leader and it’s my duty to work as he says,” he said. Yediyurappa had on Wednesday dropped the first clear hint that he might resign and switch to party work. He had then said he was expecting a “message” from the party leadership on Sunday and would take a decision based on that on Monday after attending a meeting of party lawmakers to mark the second anniversary of his current tenure. His statement was followed by a flood of visitors, including more than a hundred pontiffs from Lingayat mutts, to his home. The seers were among those who wanted the BJP to allow Yediyurappa to stay in office until the 2023 state elections. In a show of strength, the pontiffs held a conclave in Bangalore on Sunday expressing solidarity with Yediyurappa, who belongs to the politically influential community. But Yediyurappa said: “There was no need for the pontiffs to hold such a conclave. I have complete confidence in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, (home minister) Amit Shah and Nadda.” Asked whether a Dalit politician might take over from him, Yediyurappa had said it was not for him to say anything. “It’s up to the party.” Leader of the Opposition and former Congress chief minister P.C. Siddaramaiah had challenged the BJP to pick a Dalit chief minister. Among the aspirants are mines and geology minister Murugesh Nirani, who recently travelled to Delhi to apparently lobby with the party bosses. The rest have been meeting party lawmakers in Karnataka. They are Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, the three deputy chief ministers — C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Laxman Savadi and Govind Karjol — BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi and MLA Aravind Bellad. Karjol is the lone Dalit among them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Centre to apply Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act after 42 years||Migrant labourer Raja Kumar’s lockdown-induced miseries in successive years may have been less acute if the country’s governments had not sat on a 42-year-old legal provision that the Centre is now set to implement under a Supreme Court nod. Kumar, 25, who worked in Noida for a paltry Rs 225 a day, had to return home to Sameswari village in Bihar’s Banka district in April when work became unavailable amid the second wave of Covid. But the labour contractor who engages him did not give him a transport allowance. “I had to borrow money to go home,” Kumar said. Had the government implemented the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, Kumar would have been able to register himself as a migrant labourer in his home state and in any state where he chose to work and claimed social security. Registration under the act would have ensured his protection under the labour laws relating to minimum wage, safety and accident coverage. His labour contractor would have had to pay him a transport allowance for the journey back home. An additional benefit of the registration would be that during crises like the pandemic, state governments looking to provide free rations or meals and other help to stranded migrants would be easily able to identify and reach them all. After the Covid outbreak last year, an out-of-work Kumar had been forced to stay back in Mumbai — where he worked then — running up debts to feed himself. Unorganised-sector workers like Kumar may now hope for easy registration and government welfare, thanks to a June 29 directive from the Supreme Court. The apex court — which had taken up the matter on its own — criticised the delay over the database and directed the labour ministry to finalise and implement the portal by the end of July. (The 1979 act has now been subsumed under a new labour law, the Code on Occupational Safety, passed by Parliament last year.) On July 19, the Centre told Parliament that an Aadhaar-seeded National Database for Unorganised Workers would become operational from August. To a question from Congress member Suresh Kudikonnil, labour minister Bhupender Yadav said his ministry was developing a portal for the database in collaboration with the National Informatics Centre. A dry run and a security audit were under way. “The project is expected to commence the registration work by August 2021 after addressing all critical technical issues. Thereafter, the state governments are to populate the data on the portal through mobilising the unorganised workers,” Yadav said in a written reply. Workers will be able to register themselves free of cost at nearly 4 lakh “common service centres” and select post offices, Yadav said. The apex court has also directed the enrolment of more beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act, which provides for up to 75 per cent of rural people and 50 per cent urban residents to be brought under the subsidised food programme. With the rural-urban population ratio being 70:30, about 67-68 per cent of Indians should be covered under the programme. But the government’s list of beneficiaries, based on the National Statistical Office’s household consumption survey report for 2011-12, covered barely 60 per cent of the population. The apex court has directed a list revision. A survey of 8,023 migrant labourers by the civil society group Stranded Workers Action Network (Swan) between April 21 and May 31 showed that about 82 per cent of these workers had at best two days’ worth of rations left. Seventy-six per cent had Rs 200 or less left with them. “I feel the government should increase our wages and provide subsidised rations at the workplace as well as medical insurance,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Bengal girl rewrites school’s score in Kerala||When her mother told 16-year-old Rukshat Khatun on Saturday morning that Malayalam film star Dileep wanted to talk to her, the daughter of a domestic worker had to “pinch myself”. Many in Kerala seem equally surprised — not so much at Dileep’s gesture but at Rukshat’s feat that had impressed the actor so deeply. Rukshat, a Bengali girl from Murshidabad whose parents shifted to Kerala 12 years ago, has topped her school by scoring an A-plus in every subject in her Class X board exams — which she wrote in Malayalam. Never before had any student of the NGO Quarters Government Higher Secondary School, Kozhikode, achieved this. Over the past week since the results were declared and some web media outlets highlighted her achievement, Rukshat and her parents have received a flood of congratulatory calls. But on Saturday morning, her mother Jhuma Bibi, who works as a domestic hand, couldn’t believe her ears when heard the caller’s name. “My mom ran to me and put us on a WhatsApp video call with my favourite actor. He congratulated me and promised to come and visit us when he is in Kozhikode the next time,” Rukshat told The Telegraph in fluent Malayalam. “My parents, my sister and I spoke with Dileep Sir for about 10 minutes. Even now I’m pinching myself to make sure it was not a dream.” Learning a new language so different from Bengali may have been a challenge, but Rukshat is thankful that father Rofik Sheikh, who works at a metal fabrication unit in Kozhikode, made the shift to Kerala in search of livelihood. She believes she owes a debt to the southern state. “People are very poor in my village (in Murshidabad), so we don’t get to help each other like they do here in Kerala. Had I been there, both of us (sisters) would have been married by now,” she said. “But in Kerala we got a chance to study and achieve something in life.” As for picking up Malayalam, “it was very difficult for me and my elder sister but our schoolteachers devoted extra time and attention to us”. Rukshat and sister Najiya speak fluent Bengali, too, since they and their parents talk among themselves in their mother tongue. “I can speak and read Bengali very well but struggle to write in the language. But I shall learn to write Bengali since it’s my mother tongue and part of my culture,” she said. Rukshat said reading Anandabazar Patrika on her father’s mobile phone “almost every day” had helped improve her Bengali. Although she wants to complete her higher secondary schooling in Kozhikode, Rukshat is open to seeking higher education in Bengal. “I’m proud of my state, which has given birth to legends like Rabindranath Tagore. Once I’m old enough, I’m ready to move to Bengal for higher studies or even employment,” she said. Rukshat plans to enrol in the commerce stream and later do a BCom and get a job with the government or a commercial bank. Najiya, who too did well in her Class X boards and is now waiting for her higher secondary results, wants to graduate in science. Rukshat thanked her parents for roughing it out at a place hundreds of kilometres from home to ensure their two daughters had a good education. “I could study only up to Class VII while my wife studied till Class X,” Rofik said. “So we are doing our best to ensure our daughters study as much as they can since they have a good opportunity in Kerala.” Overall, 121,318 students scored an A-plus in every subject this year, up from 41,906 last year, in Kerala where physical exams were held even amid the pandemic. These students scored between 90 and 100 per cent in all subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Family members cremate youth outside lover’s home in Bihar||The family members of a youth brutally killed over a love affair cremated his body in front of the house of the girl whom he loved in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district. The police have arrested the girl’s father on murder charges. The incident occurred at Sonbarsa village under Kanti police station, around 85km north from the state capital on Saturday evening. Saurabh Kumar, 22, a resident of Repura Rampur Shah village, working with a private firm in Odisha had come home to attend the marriage of his sister. On Friday night, he went out for a rendezvous with his beloved staying at the neighbouring Sonbarsa village. Both were seeing each other for the past four years. However, the girl’s family members caught the youth. They brutally assaulted him with sticks and iron rods, cut off his genitals, and dumped him at a nearby government hospital. They also informed his family members about their act. Saurabh succumbed to his injuries while being treated at the hospital. The police registered an FIR and took his body for post-mortem. “The deceased youth’s family members, relatives and local villagers became angry and aggressive after we handed over his body to them. They blocked a nearby road for some time and then moved towards Sonbarsa village with a plan to cremate the body in front of the girl’s house,” Kanti police station official Mithilesh Kumar Singh told The Telegraph. “We tried to stop the crowd but it did not listen to us. It built a funeral pyre outside the girl’s newly constructed house, and cremated Saurabh on it. It was done as an act of vengeance. We have arrested the girl’s father Sushant Kumar Pandey alias Dinesh Pandey under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” Mithilesh added. The police have also arrested three persons from the side of the deceased youth on the charges of creating a law and order situation. Saurabh’s father Manish Kumar is an auto-rickshaw driver and a part-time farmer. “The girl’s family was against the relationship on the ground that our financial status did not match. They used to threaten to kill my son. They had attacked him last year and had tore off his nails, following which we sent him to Odisha to work. “He had come to attend my daughter’s marriage on July 8 and had stayed back. He was our only son and we always used to tell him to stay away from love,” Manish told reporters. Meanwhile, the police are camping at both the villages due to tension prevailing among the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
