28-07-2021||India||Ministers request PM to implement OBC, EWS reservation in all-India quota of medical education||A delegation of NDA MPs belonging to the OBC category, including Union Minister Bhupender Yadav, on Wednesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to implement the reservation for OBC and EWS candidates in the all-India quota of undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses.  The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) delegation included BJP MPs Yadav, Ganesh Singh, Surendra Singh Nagar and Apna Dal (Sonelal) MP and Union Minister Anupriya Patel.  The delegation of the ruling coalition handed over a letter to the prime minister, requesting him to implement reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBC) and the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in the all-India quota in medical education.  "We....request you to take necessary measures and implement the reservation for OBC and EWS candidates in the all-India quota for undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses," the delegation wrote.  In a review meeting earlier this week, the prime minister desired that the issue may be resolved by the ministries concerned on priority, sources had said earlier.  The National Eligibility cum Entrance Examination (NEET) is conducted for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses.  Under rules, all states were required to surrender 15 per cent undergraduate and 50 per cent postgraduate medical and dental seats in state-run colleges to a "central pool", with the rest going to a "state pool".  The "central pool" is the all-India quota and students across the country are eligible to apply for admission to this.  For admission, SC and ST aspirants have reservation under this quota.  "However, the candidates from the OBC category have been denied reservation under the all-India quota," The NDA delegation said.  The MPs also congratulated Modi for his exemplary leadership in these trying times of COVID-19 pandemic that has engulfed the whole of humanity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-07-2021||India||India fail to attend climate meet in London due to technical issues: Government||India could not attend a climate conference in London a few days ago due to technical difficulties, an environment ministry official said on Wednesday while dismissing reports that it amounted to skipping the meeting as the country's stand was already made clear at the G20 Summit held on July 15-16. ”India attended the G20 ministerial meeting and made its stand clear. The UK climate ministerial meeting was right after that. It was being held in the middle of the Parliament session, so it was decided that this time we cannot be present physically, but we never decided not to participate. ”At an official level we wanted to participate virtually but could not because of various technical issues,” Ministry of Environment spokesperson Gaurav Khare said. India was among the 51 countries invited to the conference held in London. It was a closed-door ministerial meeting on the global climate crisis, ahead of the 26th UN Climate Change Conference (COP 26) to be held in Glasgow, UK later this year. India was invited to the conference called by COP 26 president-designate Alok Sharma following the G20 joint ministerial meeting on energy and climate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-07-2021||India||Covid: Kerala reports over 22,000 new cases, 131 deaths||Kerala on Wednesday recorded 22,056 fresh Covid-19 cases pushing the infection caseload to 33,27,301, with the number of people who succumbed to the virus rising to 16,457 with 131 more deaths. As many as 17,761 people have been cured of the infection, taking the total recoveries to 31,60,804 and the number of active cases to 1,49,534, a state government release said. In the last 24 hours, 1,96,902 samples were tested and the TPR was found to be 11.2 per cent. So far, 2,67,33,694 samples have been tested, it said. Some of the worst affected districts in the state are Malappuram (3931), Thrissur (3005), Kozhikode (2400), Ernakulam (2397), Palakkad (1649), Kollam (1462), Alappuzha (1461), Kannur (1179), Thiruvananthapuram (1101) and Kottayam (1067). Of the new cases, 100 are health workers, 120 had come from outside the state and 20,960 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 876 cases, the release said. There are currently 4,46,211 people under surveillance in various districts of the state. Of these, 4,19,098 are in home or institutional quarantine and 27,113 in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-07-2021||India||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken announces $25 million for India's Covid vaccination programme||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Wednesday announced that his country will provide $25 million to support India's vaccination programme as the two sides held wide-ranging talks on further boosting cooperation in dealing with the pandemic and its adverse impacts. At a media briefing after talks with Blinken, External Affairs minister S. Jaishankar thanked the US for its “truly exceptional” support to India during the second wave of the pandemic and for keeping the supply chain for raw material open for vaccine production in India. Jaishankar also said that the travel challenges resulting from the coronavirus pandemic were also discussed. Separately, at an event in the US embassy, Blinken said by the end of August, the mission plans to conduct 68,000 student visa interviews which would be the “highest” in years. He said that there are few relationships that are more vital than the one between India and the United States and that his country will not forget the assistance provided to it by New Delhi in the early stages of the pandemic. In a tweet, Blinken announced supporting India's Covid-19 vaccination programme with an additional $25 million from the US government through the US Agency for International Development (USAID).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-07-2021||India||Nishikant Dubey accuses Mahua Moitra of calling him 'Bihari Gunda'||Nishikant Dubey alleged that in the meeting of the IT committee, Mahua Moitra called him 'Bihari gunda' thrice which  broke a war of words between the BJP MP and the Trinamul MP inside and outside Parliament on Wednesday as. As the allegation was presented on Twitter, Moitra too responded on Twitter and said she is amused by the charge of name-calling as she said that the said meeting did not take place as there was no quorum. BJP MPs on Wednesday did not sign the attendance register of the IT meeting protesting against "the agenda of the meeting becoming public". Tagging Trinamool supremo Mamata Banerjee, Dubey wrote, "The way your MP abused, your party's hatred towards North Indians and towards Hindi-speaking people is now clear in front of the country." "Am a bit amused by charges of namecalling. IT meeting did not happen because NO quorum -- members did not attend. How can I call someone a name who was not even present! Check attendance sheet!" Mahua Moitra wrote on Twitter. However, the heated argument began in Parliament itself when BJP leaders boycotted the IT committee meeting and refused to sign the attendance register. Dubey asked why the agenda of the meeting was being made public, to which Mahua Moitra said, "if you refuse to mark attendance, then you are not present. They how are you asking a question?" On Wednesday, Dubey gave the notice to move a privilege motion seeking Congress MP Shashi Tharoor's removal as the head of the standing committee on information technology. The committee was scheduled to discuss the alleged Pegasus snooping, but the meeting could not be held as the BJP MPs refused to sign the attendance. The MP said it is shocking that the Opposition does not want Parliament to function but wants the issues to be discussed at the committee meetings which the government is ready to discuss in the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-07-2021||India||Opposition hardens stand on Pegasus issue, Rahul rejects govt's charges on Parliament disruption||The opposition on Wednesday hardened its stand on the Pegasus spyware issue with 14 parties unitedly demanding a debate in Parliament in the presence of the prime minister or the home minister and a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the matter. Leaders of various opposition parties met in the morning and later submitted similar adjournment notices on the issue in both the Houses of Parliament. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attended the meeting of 14 opposition parties but the Trinamool Congress was not present. "The opposition is united for a discussion on the Pegasus issue... We are not going anywhere till it is discussed in Parliament," Gandhi told reporters in the presence of leaders of 13 other opposition parties later. He also rejected the government's charges over the disruption of Parliament and said the opposition was only fulfilling its responsibility. Gandhi attacked the government over the Pegasus spyware row, accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah of "hitting the soul of India's democracy by snooping upon its institutions". The voice of the opposition is being suppressed in Parliament, he alleged. "We just have one question. Has the Government of India bought Pegasus, yes or no? Did the government use Pegasus weapon on its own people, yes or no? That is all we wish to know," he told reporters at Vijay Chowk. Gandhi also said the Pegasus spyware row "for us, is an issue of nationalism, treason". "This is not a matter of privacy. For me, it is anti-national work." Accusing PM Modi of using Pegasus spyware against the people of the country, Gandhi said, "This weapon has been used against India." "It should be used against terrorists. We are asking the prime minister and the home minister why did you use it against democratic institutions? What has Indian democracy done that you have used the weapon against democracy?" he posed. The government has been rejecting all opposition charges over the issue. At least 10 opposition parties gave adjournment notices in the Lok Sabha and at least six in the Rajya Sabha seeking a discussion on the Pegasus issue but were rejected by the Chair in both the Houses. Rahul Gandhi said the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha are places "where we have to speak and everyone is united on a discussion on Pegasus". "The government is refusing to allow us a discussion. Obviously, the government has done something wrong, something dangerous for the country. That is the issue." "We want a discussion in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha where either the prime minister, who has ordered the action, or the home minister, who is a party to ordering that action, because no one else can do it, has to be present. Pegasus is a weapon sold by one country to another," Gandhi said. The former Congress chief said people need to understand that if the issue of Pegasus spyware is not discussed now, then the matter would be over. "The prime minister and the home minister have assaulted the democratic spirit of India. That is why we are seeking Pegasus discussion and without that, we will not go anywhere," Gandhi said. DMK's T R Baalu said the government has given an impression that the opposition parties are against holding discussions in Parliament. "It's not so. We wanted a discussion from day one. Every day, we are giving notices but the government is not coming forward for a discussion... It is a matter of great concern for democracy. Pegasus matter has to be taken very seriously. Like-minded people should come together to see that the matter is discussed," he said. Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut alleged that "the government has indulged in backstabbing and attacked us with this weapon". Ram Gopal Yadav of the Samajwadi Party said the government's allegation that the opposition is running away from a discussion is "false propaganda". "No institution has been left out of this snooping and the truth will not come till a Supreme Court-monitored probe is conducted. The corruption in the Rafale deal is linked to this snooping issue," said Sanjay Singh of the AAP. NCP's Supriya Sule said the opposition parties were united in their demand for the discussion in Parliament on the snooping row. Later, Rahul Gandhi shared pictures of his meeting with opposition leaders on Twitter, claiming that they were all "united". "Sitting with the entire opposition is extremely humbling. Amazing experience, wisdom and insight in everyone present," Gandhi said in the tweet. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-07-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal meets Mamata Banerjee||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee here and discussed several political issues with her. The meeting took place at TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's residence at 181, South Avenue. Met @MamataOfficial didi today. It was our first meeting since her resounding victory in West Bengal assembly elections. Conveyed my best wishes and discussed several political issues with her, Kejriwal said in a tweet. The Delhi CM was accompanied by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, while Banerjee attended the meeting with her nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee. The West Bengal chief minister and TMC supremo earlier also met Congress president Sonia Gandhi at the latter's residence as part of her series of outreach meetings in the national capital. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi was also present during the meeting at 10, Janpath, the residence of Sonia Gandhi. Mamata Banerjee has been reaching out to various opposition leaders in a bid to bring together non-BJP forces ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India||Cloudburst near Amarnath shrine in J&K, no casualty reported||A cloudburst occurred near the holy shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir Himalayas on Wednesday. No loss of life was reported during in the incident, officials said. Massive volume of water rushed down the shrine during the afternoon, leading to shooting stones which caused damage to some tents, maintained the officials. However, there was no loss of life in the incident, they said. However, at least 30 people were reported missing after a cloudburst in a remote village in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir early Wednesday. The officials said, “Two teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are already deployed at the holy cave while an additional team has been deputed from Ganderbal district.” Taking note of the cloudburst, Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha directing him to take stock of the situation arising due to the cloudburst near the holy shrine of Amarnath and in Kishtwar in the Union Territory. “I have spoken to L-G of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha and got information about the cloudburst near the holy cave of Baba Amarnath. NDRF teams are being sent there for relief operations and an accurate assessment of the situation,” Shah tweeted in Hindi. Shah also discussed the situation with Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India||ICMR serosurvey indicates 2 of 3 Indians have Covid-19 antibodies||At least two-third of the population surveyed in 11 states were found to have developed coronavirus antibodies, according to the findings of a serosurvey by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) done between June 14 and July 6. Madhya Pradesh leads the chart with 79 per cent seroprevalence while Kerala is at the bottom with 44.4 per cent. Seroprevalence in Assam is 50.3 per cent and Maharashtra 58 per cent. The findings of the fourth round of national serosurvey conducted by the ICMR across 70 districts of India was shared by the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. Seroprevalence was found to be 76.2 per cent among the surveyed population in Rajasthan, 75.9 per cent in Bihar, 75.3 per cent in Gujarat, 74.6 per cent in Chhattisgarh, 73.1 per cent in Uttarakhand, 71 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, 70.2 per cent in Andhra Pradesh, 69.8 per cent in Karnataka, 69.2 in Tamil Nadu and 68.1 per cent in Odisha. Referring to the findings, the Health Ministry has advised states and union territories to conduct seroprevalence studies of their own in consultation with the ICMR to ensure that those studies follow a standardized protocol. The findings of such serosurveys can then be utilized quickly by the states to guide objective, transparent and evidence-based public health response to Covid-19. "The national sero-survey by ICMR was designed to capture the extent of the spread of Covid infection at the national level. Therefore, the national serosurvey results do not reflect the heterogeneity of seroprevalence between districts and even between states," a statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India||Parliament clears amendment Bill to strengthen juvenile justice law||Parliament passed the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, which seeks to increase the role of district magistrates and additional district magistrates in matters concerning child care and adoption. The Bill was passed by Lok Sabha in March 2021. Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani moved the Bill in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday and it was passed amid a ruckus as the Opposition parties kept up their protests over Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and price rise. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021, which seeks to amend the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, proposes to increase the role of district magistrates and additional district magistrates in matters concerning child care and adoption, she said. "The children of our country deserve a united house to support the amendments proposed. The amendments empower the district magistrates, enhance CWC (child welfare committee) and enhance accountability. Hence I beseech that this House irrespective of its political differences stand together in service of our children," Irani said amid protests. According to the amendments, background and educational qualification checks will be included in the process of selection of a member of a child welfare committee. "If an individual has a record of violation of human rights, that individual can never be appointed as a member of the child welfare committee. If an individual is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude and has not been granted pardon, that individual cannot serve as a member of the child welfare committee. If an individual has ever abused a child, employed a child labour or indulged in immoral acts, that individual cannot serve in the child welfare committee," Irani said. "To ensure that there is absolutely no conflict of interest, those individuals who run child care institutions or other NGOs that profit from the government, who are from the management part of child care institutions, they cannot be a part of child welfare committees," she said. The Bill also seeks to categorise offences wherein the maximum sentence is more than seven years' imprisonment but no minimum sentence or a minimum sentence of less than seven years has been provided as "serious offences" under the Juvenile Justice Act, and to remove difficulties in interpretation of the Act. "Serious offences" include those for which the punishment under the Indian Penal Code or any other law for the time being is imprisonment between three and seven years. The Bill intends to ensure that the district magistrate is suitably placed to ensure effective coordination among the stakeholders for facilitation of necessary services for children's rehabilitation or re-integration. By further empowering district magistrates to deal with child protection and adoption processes, it aims to facilitate a coordinated and effective response of the administration to various issues pertaining to children, including adoption, the Bill said. On the child welfare committee, the Bill said no person shall be appointed as a member unless he or she has been actively involved in health, education or welfare activities pertaining to children for at least seven years or is a practising professional with a degree in child psychology or psychiatry or law or social work or sociology or human development. The Bill further proposes that the appointment of any member of the committee shall be terminated by the state government, after making an inquiry, if they fail to attend the proceedings of the committee consecutively for three months without any valid reason or if they fail to attend less than three-fourths of the sittings in a year. The Bill makes the district magistrate the grievance redressal authority for the child welfare committee, and anyone connected with a child may file a petition before the official, who shall consider and pass appropriate orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India||Crime against Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes saw a 11:46 % rise in 2019: Athawale ||The number of cases related to atrocities on Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes communities in 2018 decreased approximately by 11.15 per cent from the year 2017, but increased by 11.46 per cent in 2019 from the previous year, the Centre said on Wednesday. In a written response in Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale also said that the central government has been reviewing with the law implementing agencies of state governments for ensuring prompt registering of atrocities, speedy investigation of the offences and timely dispensing of cases by the courts. The atrocity cases against SC/STs in the year 2018 decreased approximately by 11.15 per cent from the year 2017, but increased by 11.46 per cent in the year 2019 from the previous year, he said. According to the National Crime Records Bureau data shared by him, in 2019, a total of 49,608 such cases were registered under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in conjunction with IPC, while 44,505 cases were registered in 2018 and 50,094 cases in 2017. Further, the government has issued advisories to the state governments/UT administrations from time to time for effective implementation of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and rules, the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India||No room for complacency in Covid fight, says MHA to states||The Union Home Ministry Wednesday said there is no room for complacency in the approach to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic as the absolute number of positive cases is still significantly high. Extending the existing pandemic guidelines till August 31, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also said there should be continuous focus on the five-fold strategy of 'test, track, treat, vaccinate and adhere to COVID-appropriate behaviour' for effective management of COVID-19. He also said there is a need to ensure adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour (CAB) in all crowded places in view of the upcoming festivals. In his communication to all states and union territories, Bhalla said that with the decline in the number of active cases, states and UTs are reopening economic and other activities in a gradual manner. "While the decline in the number of cases is a matter of satisfaction, it may be noted that the absolute case numbers are still significantly high," he said. Therefore, the home secretary said, there is no room for complacency and the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated, as has been reiterated in his earlier communications. Bhalla said the reproduction number of the virus, commonly known as the 'R' factor, is hovering just below 1 but is high in some of the states. Referring to his letter dated July 14, the home secretary said all efforts should be made to ensure that there is no increase in the 'R' factor. "Further, strictest possible measures should be taken in the districts that are still showing high positivity rates. "In view of the upcoming festivals, there is need to ensure Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) in all crowded places," he said. Bhalla urged state governments and UT administrations to issue strict directions to the district and all other local authorities to take necessary measures for Covid-19 management. "The officers concerned should be made personally responsible for any laxity in strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour. "I would also advise that Orders issued by the respective State governments and UT administrations, district authorities in this regard, should be widely disseminated to the public and to the field functionaries, for their proper implementation," he said. India logged 43,654 fresh Covid-19 cases taking its tally to 3,14,84,605, while 640 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,22,022, according to Union Health Ministry data on Wednesday. The number of active cases stood at 3,99,436, an increase of 1,336 in a span of 24 hours, and comprises 1.27 per cent of the total infections. The Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 17,36,857 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 46,09,00,978. The daily positivity rate increased to 2.51 per cent from 1.73 per cent on Tuesday. The weekly positivity rate stood at 2.36 per cent, the data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India|| All of us have to come together to defeat BJP, says Mamata after meeting Sonia||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met UPA chairperson and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi at her residence in Delhi on Wednesday afternoon, the first time after the Trinamul’s victory in the state elections in which the Congress was one of its rivals. "We had a very positive meeting. All of us have to come together to defeat the BJP. I am not a leader, I am a cadre," Mamata told newspersons after the meeting that lasted for around 45 minutes. "We will put up a united front." Wednesday’s meeting with Sonia is significant amid Opposition moves to join forces for a united fight in the 2024 national election. Mamata, who is scheduled to be Delhi for the week, had met with senior congress leaders Kamal Nath and Anand Sharma on Tuesday. Since her Bengal victory, Mamata Banerjee has emerged as a pivotal figure in the Opposition's attempts to unite to take on the BJP in the next general election. In Delhi for the first time after her thumping victory in the Bengal assembly elections, Mamata has lined up meetings with several key opposition leaders. "Poore desh me khela hoga. It's a continuous process...When general elections come (2024), it will be (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi vs country," she told reporters earlier in the day, according to ndtv.com. "After the Parliament session there will be talks, there should be a common platform to work together. I am meeting Arvind Kejriwal (too). I spoke to Lalu Prasad Yadav yesterday. We will be talking to all parties." On who could lead any Opposition front, she replied: "I am not a political astrologer, it depends on the situation." Asked to comment on the view that the Congress is now a weak link for the Opposition, Mamata said: "I don't want to interfere in the internal math of any political party. But I think Sonia Gandhi wants Opposition unity." Earlier in the day, at a meeting at Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Shekhar Roy’s residence in Delhi, around 30 MPs of the Trinamul Congress declared Mamata Banerjee as the leader of the Opposition unanimously for the 2024 general elections. "She will lead the battle for 2024 against the BJP. We want to see her as prime minister. All of us told her so," said Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee. Mamata's idea behind pitching for the 2024 polls from now is to keep up the momentum she has gained from this summer's assembly polls which she won decisively to stop the BJP on its tracks. But she is not the only chief minister to successfully thwart the BJP's regional ambitions. In Pinarayi Vijayan's Kerala, the BJP could not win a single seat. In Tamil Nadu, the MK Stalin- led alliance that includes the Congress and the Left also defeated the BJP. As of now though neither Vijayan nor Stalin have made any national noises. "It is too early to commit on a united front with poll projections from now. This has never been done," said a Congress MP. Having got herself declared as the chairperson of the Trinamul's parliamentary party, Mamata's visits to Delhi are likely to be more frequent in the coming months to keep reinforcing her claim as the most credible face against Modi. Even if she manages to stitch an alliance with the Congress in Bengal, it is unlikely to leave more than two seats for the grand old party. Without spelling out a seat-sharing formula,  simply announcing a PM face will not help create an Opposition front. Since the 2019 polls, most of the major Opposition parties have been jointly signing statements against the Modi government. These had signatures of leaders from both the Left and Trinamul. That does not necessarily translate into an electoral adjustment. Mamata's message to her party workers was to concentrate on proceedings within the House. Mamata warned the MPs against meeting BJP ministers individually and without permission from the leadership. "Some months ago, Dibyendu Adhikary went to meet Modi. There is a feeling some people could strike deals especially before polls," said a Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India||Delhi High Court asks Centre to draft national policy to protect kids from tech addiction||The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked the Centre to decide a representation seeking to formulate a national policy to protect children from online games addiction which is causing them psychological problems. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the concerned authorities to decide the representation in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the case and disposed of a petition which also sought to constitute a regulatory authority to monitor and rate the content of both offline and online games. The petition filed by NGO, Distress Management Collective (DMC), through advocates Robin Raju and Deepa Joseph, said the organisation has been receiving numerous complaints from parents who are concerned about children getting addicted to online games, as a result of which the kids are developing various psychological problems. The counsel told the court that they have already made a representation to the authorities on July 10. The plea said some recent news of children committing suicides or going into depression, and also committing crimes like theft due to online game addiction, compelled the NGO to file the petition. "The pandemic period has posed a major problem in controlling and monitoring children from excessive gadget use. As classes are now online so parents are not in a position to reprimand children for being with a mobile phone like they did in the past. There are numerous studies that show the adverse impact of online games on the psyche of both young children (6-10 years) and adolescents (11-19 years), the plea said. It stressed on the need for schools to give emphasis to counselling sessions and periodic sessions regarding the drastic effects of getting addicted to online gaming and said there is also a need for a national policy that lays emphasis on the role of schools and the Cyber Cell in tackling the issue. Evil forces trying to brainwash, exploit kids via online Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said "evil forces" are "deliberately" trying to brainwash children via various platforms like online gaming and the darknet and strict action is required against the same. Besides taking action against such entities, whose intent is to expolit children and push them towards extreme steps like suicide, awareness needs to be created among parents and children about the problems associated with such platforms, the chief minister said in response to a query in the Assembly on steps that can be taken to control the menace of online gaming. He also said parents need to be informed about the dangers of these platforms and children need to be counselled against such entities. Vijayan said more and more children are falling prey to these "evil forces" which are trying to enslave their minds and in some cases sexually exploit them. He said the brainwashing and exploitation was a continuous process and does not happen overnight. The chief minister said help from international agencies or groups, which in this particular field, can be sought to find a solution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India||Trinamul MPs ‘declare’ Mamata as Opposition leader for 2024 elections||Around 30 MPs of the Trinamul Congress called out in one voice to anoint Mamata Banerjee as the leader of the Opposition for the 2024 general elections in Delhi on Wednesday, Day Two of her visit to the national capital in preparation for the Lok Sabha elections of 2024. "She will lead the battle for 2024 against the BJP. We want to see her as prime minister. All of us told her so," said Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee after a meeting held at the New Delhi residence of the party's Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Shekhar Roy. Chatting with reporters after the meeting, Mamata said, "I am not a political astrologer. The leadership issue depends on the situation, structure and system in place. It is not that everybody can take the lead. When the matter is discussed, we can work together." "When Narendra Modi contests the next poll it will be him against the whole country," Mamata said Mamata's idea behind pitching for the 2024 polls from now is to keep up the momentum she has gained from this summer's assembly polls which she won decisively to stop the BJP on its tracks. But she is not the only chief minister to successfully thwart the BJP's regional ambitions. In Pinarayi Vijayan's Kerala, the BJP could not win a single seat. In Tamil Nadu, the MK Stalin- led alliance that includes the Congress and the Left also defeated the BJP. As of now though neither Vijayan nor Stalin have made any national noises. "It is too early to commit on a united front with poll projections from now. This has never been done," said a Congress MP. In fact, during the second term of the UPA when it was becoming clear that the BJP would mount an offensive on the Congress with a concerted campaign, the saffron combine had not rushed in to project a prime ministerial face. It was only in September 2013 did it declare Narendra Modi as its prime ministerial nominee. Trinamul's political fortunes may be on the upswing, but it is unlikely to stay so till 2024. A test of its strength would be in the form of Bengal's civic polls. In some instances like Calcutta Municipal Corporation, elections should have been held in 2020 but got delayed due to the Covid pandemic. But Mamata cannot use the Covid shield to delay the civic polls indefinitely. Memories of the 2018 panchayat polls when Opposition parties were not allowed to file nominations are not yet distant. Mamata felt the backlash in 2019. Local Trinamul leaders have already started threatening Opposition workers against filing nominations for the panchayat polls due two years from now. Having got herself declared as the chairperson of the Trinamul's parliamentary party, Mamata's visits to Delhi are likely to be more frequent in the coming months to keep reinforcing her claim as the most credible face against Modi. Even if she manages to stitch an alliance with the Congress in Bengal, it is unlikely to leave more than two seats for the grand old party. Without spelling out a seat-sharing formula, simply announcing a PM face will not help create an Opposition front. Since the 2019 polls, most of the major Opposition parties have been jointly signing statements against the Modi government. These had signatures of leaders from both the Left and Trinamul. That does not necessarily translate into an electoral adjusdtment. Mamata's message to her party workers was to concentrate on proceedings within the House. Mamata warned the MPs against meeting BJP ministers individually and without permission from the leadership. "Some months ago, Dibyendu Adhikary went to meet Modi. There is a feeling some people could strike deals especially before polls," said a Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India||Antony Blinken: Few relationships in the world as important as that of US-India||In reflection of growing bilateral ties between India and the US, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Wednesday held wide-ranging talks covering the situation in Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific engagements, Covid-19 response mechanism and ways to strengthen regional security. At a joint media briefing, Blinken said there are few relationships in the world that are more vital than the one between the US and India. At the same time, he said as the world's leading democracies, "we take seriously our responsibilities" towards freedom, equality and opportunity to all of "our people". He said actions by India and the US shape the 21st century and beyond, and that is why strengthening partnership with India is one of the top foreign policy priorities of the US. "Shared values - freedom and equality - are key and none of us have done enough. We need to strengthen our democratic institutions. This is at the core of our relationship, beyond strategic and economic ties," Blinken was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. "One of the elements Americans admire most is fundamental freedom and human rights. That's how we define India. India's democracy is powered by free-thinking citizens," Blinken said. "Both of our democracies are works in progress... As I said before, sometimes that process is painful. Sometimes it's ugly. But the strength of democracy is to embrace it," the US Secretary of state added. Referring to Afghanistan, Blinken said both India and the US are committed to the proposition that there is no military solution to the conflict in that country, asserting that there has to be a peaceful resolution that requires the Taliban and the Afghan government to come to the negotiating table. "We both agreed strongly that any future government in Afghanistan has to be inclusive and fully representative of the Afghan people... Ultimately it has to be an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process," he said. Blinken said India "has and will" continue to make a vital contribution to Afghanistan's stability and development. On his part, Jaishankar said that the talks took place at an important juncture when key global and regional challenges needed to be effectively addressed. "Our bilateral partnership enhanced to a level that it enables us to deal collaboratively with larger issues," he said. Jaishankar said the issue of the coronavirus pandemic was naturally a particular priority. "We discussed travel challenges resulting from Covid," he said. "We looked at Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific and the Gulf region," he added. On Afghanistan, Jaishankar said that the world wishes to see an independent, sovereign, democratic and stable Afghanistan. Earlier in the Day, Blinken met civil society members and said that both US and India share a commitment to democratic values and it is part of the bedrock of the bilateral relationship. The US Secretary of State said that successful democracies include "thriving" civil societies, noting that they are needed to make democracies "more open, more inclusive, more resilient, more equitable." All people deserve to have a voice in their government and be treated with respect no matter who they are Blinken asserted while noting that Indians and Americans believe in human dignity, equality of opportunity, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms, including freedom of religion and belief. "Perhaps most important, we're connected by shared values, and I believe shared aspirations, that are common to our people. The Indian people and the American people believe in human dignity, in equality of opportunity, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms, including freedom of religion and belief," he said. "We believe that all people deserve to have a voice in their government and be treated with respect no matter who they are. These are fundamental tenets of democracies like ours, and our purpose is to give real meaning to these words and constantly renew our commitment to these ideals," he added. Ahead of his two-day visit, US officials had said Blinken would raise issues related to “human rights and democracy” with India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-07-2021||India||Kashmiri Pandits feeling more secure, says Centre||Kashmiri Pandits have been feeling "more secure" and over 3,800 youngsters from the community have moved back to Kashmir recently to take up jobs provided as part of the prime minister's rehabilitation package, the government informed Parliament on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai said this in a written reply to a question put to his ministry in the Rajya Sabha. He was asked a clutch of questions on Kashmiri Pandits such as whether the government is aware that many of them have become "insecure" in the last few years, the number of Kashmiri Pandit and Dogra Hindu families currently staying in the Kashmir valley and their demands from the government. As per the report of the Relief Office set up in 1990 by the government of Jammu and Kashmir, 44,167 Kashmiri migrant families are registered, who had to move from the valley since 1990 due to security concerns. “Out of these, the count of registered Hindu migrant families is 39,782,” the minister stated. "Kashmiri Pandits have felt more secure in the recent past, as evident from the fact that 3,841 Kashmiri migrants youth have moved back to Kashmir and have taken up jobs in various districts of Kashmir under the Prime Minister's rehabilitation package," he said. Rai added that another 1,997 candidates were selected for jobs under the same package in April and they will be moving to Kashmir soon. It is also pertinent to mention that as many as 26,684 Kashmiri migrant youth showed interest in going back to the valley by applying for the above referred 1,997 posts, which were advertised by the Jammu and Kashmir's recruitment board in December, 2020. “The government has also prepared a comprehensive policy to provide residential accommodation to these Kashmiri migrants who have moved back to Kashmir,” Rai said. He said 6,000 residential units are being constructed for them at an "accelerated pace" and 1,000 residential units are already being used by these employees. The minister also gave the number of these families based in the valley. "Approximately 900 such families, including Kashmiri Pandit and Dogra Hindu families, are residing in Kashmir. "As regards those who never migrated from Kashmir, the government allowed their inclusion in the jobs package for Kashmiri migrants," he said. Besides, they are getting all the benefits of government schemes along with others in Kashmir, Rai added. The government has taken "necessary steps" to protect the life and property of people and these include proactive operations against terrorists, identification and arrest of overground workers or supporters of terrorism, action against members of banned organisations, intensified night patrolling checking at nakas, security arrangements through appropriate deployment, coordination meetings amongst intelligence agencies and maintaining a high level of alertness, he stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||Delhi HC expresses displeasure over non-compliance of IT Rules by Twitter||The Delhi High Court Wednesday expressed displeasure over Twitter Inc appointing a contingent worker as Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and said the microblogging platform was non-compliant with the new Information Technology (IT) Rules. Justice Rekha Palli noted that while the rules mandated appointment of a key managerial person or a senior employee as CCO, Twitter disclosed in its affidavit that it had appointed a contingent worker through a third party contractor. He (CCO) is categorical (in his affidavit) that he is not an employee. This itself is in the teeth of the rule. There has to be some seriousness about the rule. Some sanctity has to be given, the court remarked. The court added that it had reservations with respect to the usage of the term contingent worker by Twitter especially when it was not known who the third party contractor was. “What is this contingent worker? I don't know what it would mean. I have a problem with the word. Contingent then third party contractor! What is this? I am not happy with the affidavit,” the judge told Twitter. The court said Twitter's affidavit was unacceptable and asked it to comply with the rules whole-heartedly. File a better affidavit. This is not acceptable. I'm giving you a long rope but don't expect the court to do it on and on. Disclose the name of the third party contractor and explain contingent, the court said as it granted a week's time to Twitter to file the new affidavit. The court further directed Twitter to not only disclose all the details pertaining to the appointment of the CCO as well as the Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) but also clarify as to why a Nodal Contact Person had not been appointed yet and by when the position will be filled. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the central government. Pursuant to the last order, Twitter Inc filed an affidavit before court, informing that it has appointed a resident of India as CCO, effective July 6. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, stated that while the CCO was a contingent worker, appointed via third party contractor, he has undertaken to perform all functions and responsibilities under the IT Rules. Usage of the term contingent worker was on account of structure of employment and the fact that Twitter Inc did not have a liaison office in India, Poovayya said as he added that the platform would no longer appoint interim officers to the posts. It was reiterated that the process for establishing a liaison office on ongoing. The person appointed as CCO would also act as the RGO, effective July 7, Poovayya said. In the affidavit, Twitter has stated that while one Vinay Prakash has been appointed to the two positions as contingent worker via third party contractor, it has posted publicly a job announcement for CCO and RGO as direct employee and that it will make endeavour in good faith to make an offer of employment to a qualified candidate who is resident in India to fill this position in 8 weeks . Poovayya further submitted that the Nodal Contact Person was yet to be appointed and sought two weeks from the court for the appointment. I don't know what you want to do. If you want to (comply with the rules), do it whole-heartedly, the judge responded. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Central government, argued that Twitter was acting in abject non-compliance of the rules as the CCO has to be an employee of the social media intermediary and not a contingent worker. It has been months. You can't have it so easy. We hold our hands because we are before your lordship, ASG Sharma said. Advocate G Tushar Rao, appearing for petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya, objected to the appointment of the same person as CCO and RGO and said that since the roles were different, the same person could not hold the two positions. Poovayya responded that there was no bar on appointment of the same person as CCO and GRO in the rules. Acharya, in his petition, claimed that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance of IT Rules by Twitter when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. Twice before, on July 6 and July 8, the court had granted time to Twitter to file an affidavit to show compliance with the IT Rules. The Centre had said in its affidavit that Twitter failed to comply with India's new IT Rules, which could lead to its losing immunity conferred under the IT Act. The matter would be heard next on August 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||Calcutta HC permits Bengal govt to file supplementary affidavit on post-poll violence ||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday granted the Bengal government time to file supplementary affidavits by July 31 in connection with an NHRC inquiry committee report on alleged post-poll violence in the state. A five-judge bench, presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, directed that the matter will be taken up for hearing again on August 2. The high court granted the state government time to file the supplementary affidavits following a prayer by it. The DNA report of deceased BJP labour wing leader Avijit Sarkar was also submitted by the additional solicitor general before the bench, which was hearing PILs claiming assault on people, forcing them to flee homes and destruction of property due to violence following the Assembly elections. The court had directed a DNA matching of Sarkar with his brother for identification. A second autopsy had earlier been carried out at the Command Hospital here on an order by the bench. The NHRC committee, set up by its chairman on a direction by the court, had made scathing comments on the law and order situation in Bengal in its final report submitted before it on July 13. The state government, in an affidavit submitted on Monday, denied the findings of the report and alleged that it is politically motivated and aimed at maligning the Mamata Banerjee dispensation. The 95-page affidavit placed by state home secretary B.P. Gopalika described as “sweeping homilies, absurd and false” the report of the NHRC committee, which the chief minister had called “a great liar”. The report, which the BJP has gone to town with since, had named several current and former lawmakers of the Trinamul Congress, including a senior minister, in its list of 123 “notorious criminals/goons”. The state government’s affidavit countered every point and allegation in the report of the eight-member committee to convince the five-judge bench of the high court that the report was biased and based on the false allegations that the state’s BJP leaders had been levelling against the ruling party after their miserable defeat in the Assembly elections. The affidavit tried to prove that at least three on the eight-member committee were well connected with the BJP. The affidavit claimed that the committee did not have the power to make recommendations in its report for the state administration to implement them. In its long list of recommendations, the committee endorsed most of the demands being made so far by the BJP, such as probes by the CBI, trials outside Bengal, a witness protection scheme, ex-gratia payments, compensation for alleged damages, static pickets of central forces, and action against “delinquent” government servants. The affidavit claimed that the so-called recommendations were invalid and illegal, and countered every allegation with references, stating police action already taken with regard to the complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||Mamata remains ambivalent on being face of Opposition||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday remained ambivalent on being the face of the Opposition to take on the BJP, saying it will depend on the situation. "I want to help all the opposition parties to bell the cat. I don't want to be a leader, but a simple cadre," she said on the leadership issue. "I am not a political astrologer. It depends on the situation, structure. I have no problem if someone else leads. When the matter is discussed we can decide. I cannot impose," Banerjee told a select group of reporters here when asked if she would be the face of the Opposition. On the Pegasus row, she said the situation was more serious than Emergency and accused the Centre of being unresponsive. "Everywhere they are sending ED, IT for raids. Here there is no response. In a democracy, the government has to respond. "The situation is very serious, it's more serious than the emergency," the Trinamool Congress chief said. On Tuesday, Banerjee had said the unity of opposition parties will take shape on its own. "I am a simple worker and want to continue as a worker," Banerjee, who is in the national capital for the first time after her party's resounding victory in the assembly polls, said on Wednesday. "I want to see sachcha din, bahut din acha di dekh liya," Banerjee added, in a jibe at the BJP's poll slogan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha passes Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill without debate||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the IBC amendment bill without debate, which among other things provide for a pre-packaged resolution process for stressed MSMEs. Minister of State for Corporate Affairs Rao Inderjit Singh moved the Bill for consideration and passage amid the din. The bill was approved by the House without any discussion, as Opposition members continued their protest over Pegasus snooping issue and three new farm laws. Singh said the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021, will replace the ordinance that was promulgated on April 4 as part of efforts to provide relief to MSMEs adversely impacted by the pandemic. The proposed amendments would enable the government to notify the threshold of a default not exceeding Rs 1 crore for initiation of the pre-packaged resolution process. The government has already prescribed the threshold of Rs 10 lakh for this purpose. The bill proposes a new chapter in the IB Code to facilitate the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process for corporate persons that are Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). As per the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill, it seeks to specify a minimum threshold of not more than Rs 1 crore for initiating the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process as well as provisions for disposal of simultaneous applications for initiation of the insolvency resolution process and pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, pending against the same corporate debtor. There would be a penalty for fraudulent or malicious initiation of the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, or with intent to defraud persons, and for fraudulent management of the corporate debtor during the process. Further, punishment would be meted out for offences related to the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||48 % parents unwilling to send kids to school till they get jabbed: Survey||Nearly 48 per cent parents are not willing to send their children to schools till they are vaccinated against the novel coronavirus infection, says a new survey. The survey conducted with over 32,000 parents across 361 districts in the country found that 30 per cent parents are willing to send their wards to schools if coronavirus cases in their districts come down to zero. "Vaccinating children in the coming months is going to be key if children are to go to schools for physical classes. Forty-eight per cent of the surveyed parents said they are not willing to send their children to schools till they are vaccinated. “At least 21 per cent of parents said whenever the schools reopen, they are ready to send their wards there,” said the survey by an online platform, Local Circles. Nearly 47 per cent of the respondents of the survey were from tier 1 districts, 27 per cent from tier 2 and 26 per cent respondents were from tier 3, 4 and rural districts. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had on Tuesday told BJP MPs that Covid vaccination for children was likely to start soon. Schools across the country were ordered shut in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the highly contagious infection. While several states started partial reopening of schools in October last year, physical classes were again suspended following the exponential rise in the Covid-19 cases during the second wave. The states that have partially reopened schools this month include Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh have announced reopening of schools in the first week of August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||Graft case against Anil Deshmukh, CBI raids 12 locations in 8 cities across Maharashtra||The CBI has conducted searches at 12 locations in eight cities of Maharashtra, including at the premises of ACP Sanjay Patil and DCP Raju Bhujbal, in connection with allegations of corruption against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, officials said on Wednesday. The searches were carried out in Mumbai, Pune, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Thane, Solapur, Sangli and Osmanabad, they added. The premises of "encounter specialist" Patil in Pune and Mumbai, and those of Bhujbal in Ahmednagar and Mumbai were covered during the operation, which concluded on Tuesday night, the officials said. The other premises belonged to alleged middlemen whose names have not been disclosed by the agency. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked Deshmukh and other unidentified persons under the IPC section related to criminal conspiracy and sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempting to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty". In his letter to Maharasthra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the Mumbai police commissioner's post, Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh asked Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from the bars and restaurants of the city, the officials said. "The preliminary enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognizable offence is made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra, Anil Deshmukh, and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty," the CBI FIR alleges. According to the CBI manual, a preliminary enquiry is initiated to assess if there is enough prima facie material in the allegations to proceed with a regular case for a full-fledged probe, the officials said. The CBI enquiry found that Waze was reinstated into the police force after being out of service for more than 15 years. Waze was entrusted with most of the sensational and important cases of the Mumbai City Police and Deshmukh, the then Maharashtra home minister, was aware of it, the FIR alleges. It further alleges that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials, thereby exercising undue influence over the performance of their official duties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir will be granted statehood after normalcy is restored, says government||Jammu and Kashmir would be granted statehood at an "appropriate" time after normalcy is restored there, the government told Parliament on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai stated this in a written reply to Rajya Sabha. He was replying to a question on whether the government had any proposal to "reinstate" the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir and whether some efforts have been made to end the year-long ban on different means of communication. "Statehood to Jammu and Kashmir would be granted at an appropriate time after normalcy is restored in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. "In view of the constitutional changes and bifurcation of the erstwhile state of the Jammu and Kashmir into Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh, in national interest and also in the interest of security of J&K, temporary restrictions on various communication channels like internet and mobile services were resorted to in Jammu and Kashmir," the minister stated. Subsequently, the matter "was reviewed from time to time and restrictions imposed were gradually eased out in a phased manner and 4G internet data services were restored in the entire Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir from February 5, he said. The Centre had revoked the special status of the erstwhile state that was provided to it under Article 370 and bifurcated it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||Maharashtra BJP legislators to donate salaries for flood relief efforts||BJP legislators in Maharashtra will donate a month's salary to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMRF) for relief and rehabilitation of flood and rain-affected people in the state, party MLA Ashish Shelar said on Wednesday. Shelar made the announcement after holding a meeting with the party's state unit chief Chandrakant Patil and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. All legislators of the BJP in lower and upper houses will donate a month's salary to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. The decision was taken in a meeting attended by state chief Chandrakant Patil and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, he said. It is our request to the chief minister to accept our salaries for relief and rehabilitation work. The state should also provide additional assistance to the affected people, Shelar added. Heavy rains last week caused massive floods and landslides in large parts of the state, especially in the coastal Konkan and Western Maharashtra regions. At least 209 people have died, while 4,34,185 people have been evacuated from their homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Rahul accuses Modi, Shah of 'hitting the soul of democracy'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Wednesday said the Opposition was united in demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row in Parliament in the presence of the prime minister or the home minister. He rejected the government's charges over the disruption of Parliament and said the Opposition was only fulfilling its responsibility. He also attacked the government over the Pegasus snooping row, accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit of "hitting the soul of India's democracy". The voice of Opposition was being suppressed in Parliament, he alleged. "We are only asking if the government bought Pegasus and snooped upon Indians." "I want to ask the people - there is a weapon Narendra Modi has planted in your phones... used against opposition leaders, journalists, activists... should there not be a discussion in Parliament," he stressed "... if we (the Opposition) agree there will be no discussion on Pegasus... the issue will get buried... till the time Pegasus is not discussed in Parliament, we are going nowhere," the Congress leader, whose name was on the potential target list, said. "We are not disturbing Parliament, we are only fulfilling our responsibility," he said. He also said the Pegasus row "for us is an issue of nationalism, treason". "This is not a matter of privacy. It is an anti-national work." He said the Opposition was united over the issue. Earlier in the day, Opposition parties met in Parliament to discuss the issue. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, who was part of that meeting, said the parties were "united in our stand to protect issues of national security, democracy and farmers' welfare." "Like Rahulji explained, the government has used this weapon as an arrow again democracy and we will not stand for it. This must be discussed in Parliament," he was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. The government has been rejecting all Opposition charges over the issue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday singled out the Opposition Congress and accused the party of blocking Parliament. Modi singled out the Congress and attacked it despite the fact that other Opposition parties like the DMK, Trinamul Congress and the Left were also protesting and stalling Parliament. “Modiji said that the Congress was not only blocking Parliament but it was also not allowing efforts to resolve the deadlock succeed,” said one BJP MP, who attended the closed-door meeting. “He asked us to expose the Congress before the people and the media.” The government has been trying to show that it was ready for discussions on all issues but it was the Opposition, particularly the Congress, which was bent on only obstructing Parliament proceedings. The monsoon session of Parliament commenced on July 19, a day after the Pegasus hacking row broke out, and is scheduled to continue till Aug 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
28-07-2021||India||Everyone deserves to have a voice no matter who they are, says Antony Blinken||All people deserve to have a voice in their government and be treated with respect no matter who they are, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken asserted on Wednesday while noting that Indians and Americans believe in human dignity, equality of opportunity, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms, including freedom of religion and belief. Addressing civil society members in his first public event after arriving here and ahead of his meetings with the Indian leadership, Blinken said that both US and India share a commitment to democratic values and it is part of the bedrock of the bilateral relationship. The US Secretary of State said that successful democracies include "thriving" civil societies, noting that they are needed to make democracies "more open, more inclusive, more resilient, more equitable." Blinken cited business cooperation, educational engagement, religious and spiritual ties and ties between millions of families as some of the key pillars of the overall relationship. "Perhaps most important, we're connected by shared values, and I believe shared aspirations, that are common to our people. The Indian people and the American people believe in human dignity, in equality of opportunity, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms, including freedom of religion and belief," he said. "We believe that all people deserve to have a voice in their government and be treated with respect no matter who they are. These are fundamental tenets of democracies like ours, and our purpose is to give real meaning to these words and constantly renew our commitment to these ideals," he added. The transcript of his address was released by the US State department. In the course of his remarks, Blinken referred to rising global threats to democracy and international freedoms, talked about "democratic recession", noting that it is vital for India and the US to continue to stand together in support of these ideals. "When you put it all together, the relationship between our countries is one of the most important in the world. And I think that's because not only is it a relationship between governments when we're working between our governments, but critically it's through relationships between the Indian and the American people," he said. "And of course, both of our democracies are works in progress. As friends, we talk about that, because doing the hard work of strengthening democracy and making our ideals real is often challenging. "We know that firsthand in the United States, where we aspire to be, in the words of our founders, a more perfect union. That's an acknowledgement from day one of our country that in a sense we will always fall short of the mark, but that the way to make progress is by constantly trying to achieve those ideals," he said. Sometimes that process is "painful, sometimes it's ugly", but the strength of democracy is to embrace it, Blinken added "At the same time, we celebrate our achievements. Here in India, that includes the free media, independent courts, a vibrant and free and fair electoral system -- the largest expression of free political will by citizens anywhere in the world," he said. "At a time of rising global threats to democracy and international freedoms - we talk about a democratic recession -- it's vital that we two world leading democracies continue to stand together in support of these ideals," he noted. Blinken said he is in India to underscore the importance of the relationships and to try to deepen the ties and extend the cooperation. "I think it's hard to find countries with more -- who do more together in more different areas than with the United States and India," he said. Later he in a tweet, he said,"I was pleased to meet civil society leaders today. The U.S. and India share a commitment to democratic values; this is part of the bedrock of our relationship and reflective of India's pluralistic society and history of harmony. Civil society helps advance these values." Ahead of his visit, the Indian side had indicated that it is prepared to engage with the US on issues relating to human rights and democracy after a senior Biden administration official said that Blinken will raise these matters with Indian leaders. US acting assistant secretary for South and Central Asian affairs Dean Thompson said on Friday that Blinken will raise issues of human rights and democracy with Indian officials during the visit. Following the comments, government sources said India is proud of its achievements in upholding democratic values and human rights and it is open to engaging with those who recognise diversity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||SC dismisses Kerala govt's plea to withdraw case against LDF MLAs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea by the Kerala government for withdrawal of a criminal case against some LDF MLAs in connection with a ruckus in the state Assembly in 2015, saying allowing prosecution to be withdrawn would amount to interference in normal course of justice for illegitimate reasons . The apex court said acts of destruction of public property cannot be equated with either the freedom of speech of the legislator or with forms of protest legitimately available to the members of the Opposition. "Privileges and immunities are not gateway to claim exemption from the general law of the land, particularly as in this case the criminal law which governs the action of every citizen," a bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The bench dismissed the appeals, including the one filed by the state against the March 12 order of the Kerala High Court which had dismissed the plea seeking withdrawal of criminal case lodged against some LDF MLAs in the matter. The state Assembly had witnessed unprecedented scenes on March 13, 2015 as LDF members, then in Opposition, tried to prevent the then finance minister K M Mani, who was facing allegations in the bar bribery scam, from presenting the state Budget. Besides flinging the Speaker's chair from the podium, electronic equipment like computers, keyboards and mikes on the desk of the presiding officer were also allegedly damaged by the then LDF members. While pronouncing the verdict, Justice Chandrachud said the purpose of bestowing privileges and immunity to the elected members of the legislature is to enable them to perform their functions without hindrance, fear or favour. "We miss the wood for the trees if we focus on rights without the corresponding duties cast upon elected public representatives", the bench said. "It also observed that public prosecutor is duty-bound to act independently. "To allow the prosecution to be withdrawn in the face of these allegations, in respect of which, upon investigation, a final report has been submitted under section 173 of the CrPC and cognisance has been taken, would amount to an interference in the normal course of justice for illegitimate reasons", it said. The bench said allowing the prosecution to be withdrawn would only result in a singular result that elected representatives are exempt from the mandate of criminal law. The apex court had reserved its verdict on the pleas on July 15. The counsel appearing for the state government had argued that the incident happened in 2015 when there were allegations of corruption against the state government and the finance minister was about to table the budget in the House. The counsel had said the FIR lodged by the secretary of Legislative Assembly did not have any constitutional backing as the Speaker had not given any sanction and to give quietus to the matter, the present government has moved an application for withdrawal of the prosecution. He had argued that the act of the House members was covered under Legislative Privileges and the authority to take action against them vests with the Speaker, not the Legislative Secretary. The lawyer representing some of the accused had said there is new government in place now and if the public prosecutor feels that it was a political issue, then it can be a ground for withdrawal. The case, which also involves V Sivankutty who is a minister in the state, was registered against a group of the then LDF MLAs. In its plea filed in the apex court against the high court order, the Kerala government had claimed that the high court had failed to appreciate that the alleged incident had occurred while the Assembly was in session and no crime could have been registered "without previous sanction" of the Speaker. The state government had moved the high court against an order of the trial court which had dismissed an application filed by the public prosecutor seeking permission to withdraw from prosecution against the accused in the case. The case was registered for the alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 447 (criminal trespass), and under the provision of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||Antony Blinken holds talks with Jaishankar, NSA Ajit Doval on slew of bilateral issues||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Wednesday began talks covering an extensive agenda that included rapidly evolving security situation in Afghanistan, ways to boost Indo-Pacific engagement and enhancing Covid-19 response efforts among others. "A broad-based, multi-sectoral, global comprehensive strategic partnership. EAM @DrSJaishankar welcomes US Secretary of State @SecBlinken," external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted along with a photograph of the two leaders. Before meeting Jaishankar, Blinken held talks with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on a range of bilateral and regional issues including the security situation in Afghanistan. Earlier, Blinken met civil society leaders after which he said the US and India share a commitment to democratic values and it is part of the bedrock of the relationship. "I was pleased to meet civil society leaders today. The US and India share a commitment to democratic values; this is part of the bedrock of our relationship and reflective of India's pluralistic society and history of harmony. Civil society helps advance these values," he tweeted. It is Blinken's first visit to India after assuming charge as the US Secretary of State and the third by a high-ranking Biden administration official after it came to power in January. As Blinken arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday evening, the US State Department said the US supports India's emergence as a leading global power and vital partner in efforts to ensure that the Indo-Pacific is a region of peace, stability, and growing prosperity and economic inclusion. "India is a leading global power and a key U.S. partner in the Indo-Pacific and beyond," it said in a fact sheet on ties between the two countries. People familiar with the agenda of the meeting between Blinken and Jaishankar said that a plethora of pressing issues such as the fluid situation in Afghanistan, regional security concerns, COVID-19 response and boosting Indo-Pacific engagement will figure in the deliberations. Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US withdrew the majority of its troops and is looking at completing the drawdown by August 31, ending nearly two-decade of its military presence in the country. In the talks, the Indian side is expected to raise the implications of the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan and the need for sustained pressure on Pakistan on terror financing and terrorist safe havens. India and the US are also likely to focus on ways to augment trade and investment ties besides looking at opportunities in healthcare, education, digital domains in the talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||Opposition leaders meet to chalk out ways to corner government in Parliament||Amid a stalemate in Parliament over the Pegasus snooping issue, leaders of various Opposition parties on Wednesday met and decided to submit similar adjournment notices on the matter. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attended the meeting at the chamber of the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. The meeting chaired by Kharge was attended by Opposition leaders from both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, and discussed the joint opposition strategy to corner the government on the issue. Gandhi had attended a similar meeting of Opposition leaders of Lok Sabha on Tuesday evening. "Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders will submit similar adjournment motions on Pegasus issue in the Lok Sabha," a senior leader said after the meeting. Gandhi later told reporters that they will continue to raise issues of public interest and will not compromise on the issues of Pegasus, price rise and farmers. Earlier during the meeting with like-minded parties, Gandhi said the government was trying to defame the opposition by accusing them of not allowing Parliament to run, sources said. Gandhi said the Opposition was only raising issues concerning the people, farmers and security and will continue to do so, they said. Leaders of the Congress, DMK, NCP, Shiv Sena, RJD, SP, CPIM, CPI, NC, AAP, IUML, RSP, KCM and VCK attended the meeting. Opposition unity and better coordination and synergy among opposition parties was stressed at the meeting, the sources said. Leaders of 14 Opposition parties attended the meeting. Among the leaders who attended the meeting included Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Jairam Ramesh of the Congress, DMK's TR Baalu, Tiruchi Siva, Kanimozhi, NCP's Supriya Sule and Praful Patel, Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut, National Conference leader Hasnain Masoodi, CPI-M's Elamaran Karim, CPI's Binoy Viswam, AAP's Bhagwant Mann and RJD's Manoj Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||Basavaraj Bommai takes oath as Chief Minister of Karnataka||Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday took oath as the new Chief Minister of Karnataka. The 61-year-old leader was administered the oath of office and secrecy by Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot at the Raj Bhavan here. Ending the heightened suspense, the Karnataka BJP legislature party on Tuesday evening had elected Basavaraj Bommai as its new leader to succeed outgoing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Bommai, a Lingayat leader from North Karnataka is a close confidante of Yediyurappa and, according to party sources, there is clear stamp of the veteran BJP leader in this succession plan. Son of former Chief Minister, late S R Bommai, he was Minister for Home Affairs, Law, Parliamentary Affairs and Legislature in Yediyurappa's council of ministers which was dissolved on Monday. It's the second time of a father-son duo becoming Chief Minister of Karnataka, after H D Deve Gowda and H D Kumaraswamy. Bommai is a three time MLA from Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district and has been MLC twice. Yediyurappa, Union ministers Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy, who were appointed as central observers by BJP's parliamentary board for the legislature party meeting, BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, state president Nalin Kumar Kateel and national general secretary C T Ravi were among those who attended the swearing-in. Ahead of the swearing-in, Bommai met Yediyurappa, also leaders from the centre- Pradhan, Reddy and Singh. Ending months of speculation over his exit, Yediyurappa on Monday stepped down as the Chief Minister, coinciding with his government completing two years in office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||Covid: India logs 43,654 fresh cases, over 600 deaths||India logged 43,654 fresh Covid-19 cases taking its tally to 3,14,84,605, while 640 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,22,022, according to Union Health Ministry data on Wednesday. The number of active cases stood at 3,99,436, an increase of 1,336 in a span of 24 hours, and comprises 1.27 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 17,36,857 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 46,09,00,978. The daily positivity rate increased to 2.51 per cent from 1.73 per cent on Tuesday. The weekly positivity rate stood at 2.36 per cent, the data showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,06,63,147, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it stated. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far as part of the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 44.61 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The caseload crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 640 new fatalities include 254 from Maharashtra, 156 from Kerala and 60 from Odisha. A total of 4,22,022 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,859 from Maharashtra, 36,437 from Karnataka, 33,966 from Tamil Nadu, 25,046 from Delhi, 22,754 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,095 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||At least 5 killed in Jammu and Kashmir cloudburst, over 25 missing||Five bodies were recovered on Wednesday after some houses were swept away by flash floods triggered by a cloudburst in a remote village in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir, a senior official said. Over 25 people are reported missing in the cloudburst which struck Honzar village in Dacchan tehsil around 4.30 am, officials said, adding a joint rescue operation by police, army and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) is underway. Bodies of five persons were recovered from the cloudburst- hit village by the rescuers so far, District Development Commissioner, Kishtwar, Ashok Kumar Sharma, told PTI. He said a total of six houses were swept away by the flash floods triggered by the cloudburst and a search and rescue operation was on when last reports were received. Director General of Police-cum-Commandant General Home Guard, Civil Defence and SDRF, V K Singh, said two women are among the five persons killed in the cloudburst, while over 25 others are still missing. One of our SDRF teams from Kishtwar reached the affected village and two more teams are on their way from Doda and Udhampur districts. Two more SDRF teams are waiting for weather to improve to get airlifted from Jammu and Srinagar to the scene and join the rescue mission, Singh said. He said six houses and a ration store were damaged by the cloudburst. The district development commissioner, Kishtwar, said two more cloudbursts struck remote Lambard area overnight but there was no report of any loss of life. There is some damage to infrastructure but exact details are awaited, Sharma said. He said 60 families were evacuated to safety from the Paddar area in view of incessant rains which posed a threat to their homes. Most parts of the Jammu region have been receiving heavy rains for the past few days. With the prediction of more rains till July-end, authorities in Kishtwar have already asked people living along water bodies and slide-prone areas to remain vigilant. "The meteorological department has predicted heavy rains during the upcoming days and water levels in rivers and drains are expected to rise, which can pose a threat to the inhabitants residing near rivers, drains, water bodies and slide-prone areas," the district administration said in an advisory issued late on Tuesday night.Jamm||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||18 killed in Uttar Pradesh as speeding truck rams into bus||At least 18 people were killed and 25 injured after a truck rammed into a stationary double-decker bus here, police said on Wednesday. The accident took place on the Lucknow-Ayodhya highway under Kotwali Ramsanehighat area late on Tuesday night. The private bus was carrying over 130 passengers to Bihar from Ludhiana in Punjab, they said. The axle of the bus broke down and it was parked on the road when a speeding truck coming from behind hit it, killing 18 people on the spot and injuring 25 others, the police said. Some passengers were standing or resting outside the bus while others were sitting inside while waiting for the axel to be repaired when the incident took place, they said. The victims, mostly labourers from Bihar, were returning home after sowing paddy in Punjab and Haryana, the police said. Police rushed to the spot after receiving information about the accident and the rescue operation was carried out with the help of locals. The injured were rushed to a local hospital and from there eight people, who were seriously injured, were referred to the trauma centre in Lucknow, Additional Director General of Police, Lucknow Zone, S N Sabat said. It was raining heavily when the accident took place and this posed some problems in the rescue operation, he said. Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi in Lucknow said Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath about the accident and extended his condolences to the families of the deceased. The CM has also expressed his condolences and directed the district magistrate and the superintendent of police of Barabanki to provide the best medical care to the injured and make proper arrangements for taking other passengers of the bus to their destinations, Awasthi said. Modi has also announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund for the families of the deceased. The injured would be given Rs 50,000 each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||Organ trafficking concern about Assam and Calcutta||Just as India and its health system limp back to a semblance of normality after the devastation of Covid, an old scandal has resurfaced. India has been one of the global epicentres of trafficking in organs. It is distinguished by the regularity with which it hits national headlines, provokes transient outrage, receives promises of action but comes back again. Given the misery of those suffering from end-stage organ failure, the hopelessness of India’s poor making them susceptible to being allured by promise of quick money and the willingness of a section of healthcare professionals to look away, the organ bazaar refuses to die down. Worryingly, the Covid-19 pandemic seems to have added fuel to the fire. The latest playground of this saga is Assam and Calcutta. In the last few days, paid kidney donors and brokers who facilitate contact with willing recipients and hospitals have been arrested from multiple districts of Assam. Newspaper reports indicate that most of them are informal labourers who are in severe debt due to loss of livelihood as a result of Covid. Left with no recourse to make ends meet, they decided to sell their organs. As happens often in these transactions, they were promised large sums of money but received lesser amounts from the broker, which provoked them to blow the whistle. The alleged destination for these kidneys were certain hospitals in Calcutta. While a latecomer to the lucrative business of paid organ transplantation, going by news reports Calcutta seems to have emerged as a hotspot in recent times. At a time when transplants in the rest of India had largely stopped during Covid, some Calcutta hospitals seems to have continued their business unabated. The history of commercial organ transplants in India is rather long and sordid. The Human Organ Transplant Act (THOA) of 1994 partially succeeded in curbing the then rampant kidney selling that thrived in the 70s and 80s. THOA has a comprehensive system of checks and balances that can curb any form of trading. But the system is gamed by complicit players. Given its large numbers of the poor, India remains fertile ground for organ selling. The brokers skilfully tutor donors and help with fudging papers to show they are close relatives of the recipient, which then passes off for a legitimate transplant. Given its complex nature, transplantation needs a large team of trained doctors and support staff. The medical team has close interaction with the donor during the process of evaluation to ascertain fitness to undergo surgery, after which an independent authorisation committee evaluates the altruistic nature of the donation. Whether a donor lured into donating purely by offer of money or coercion and posing as a relative can hoodwink an experienced hospital authorisation committee as well as the medical team is arguable. When this happens regularly in certain hospitals, it indicates a certain permissiveness and even collusion which is driven by the revenue that transplants generate in the private sector. If the healthcare profession refuses to collude, organ selling will come to a halt. Transplantation in India is largely a private sector activity and a significant source of income for hospitals. It is also a big component of “medical tourism” that corporate hospitals like to project as a mark of quality. Some hospitals are known for large volumes of “international” transplants. This is stark in liver transplantation where estimates show that around 20 per cent of transplants are performed on foreigners. Whilst medical tourism brings in foreign exchange and is a recognition of expertise, it poses unique challenges in transplantation. It is believed that a significant number of those who travel for transplants across borders involve some form of unrelated paid donation. Whilst it would be laudable to share expertise with underserved countries, the current model is just a commercial service to the well off from abroad who can travel to India. It is paradoxical that in a country where tens of thousands of our citizens needing lifesaving transplants can’t get them, foreigners with funds can travel and avail themselves of the expertise of those who train in India’s public medical colleges and hospitals. Like in the rest of the world, Covid severely affected the numbers of transplants in India. It also reduced the number of deceased organ donations, which were substantial in some pockets of the country. This means that those waiting for organs are now in an even more desperate situation. On the other hand it is also an opportune time for luring our poor and vulnerable citizens to sell organs. This is an explosive situation. A similar spurt in organ selling by a desperate affected population was noted following the Nepal earthquake of 2015. The Northeast is relatively underserved in health care. Its citizens have traditionally travelled to other parts of India, including Calcutta, for advanced healthcare needs. It is tragic that now its population is being targeted as a source of organs. Poor people from these states and Bangladesh have emerged as a source for human trafficking in many forms, including for organs. It will be important to watch how seriously the current scandal is investigated. There are several regulatory mechanisms to punish the guilty. But we have been there before. Donors, brokers and even recipients are criminalised and jailed whereas the accused healthcare staff and institutions get away either scot-free or with a light slap on the wrist. But what is also critical is the response of transplant professionals and their organisations. Most of them have endorsed the WHO Guiding Principles and the Declaration of Istanbul — a global policy statement against trafficking and commerce in transplantation. They can play a key role by publicly censuring their colleagues. Peer pressure and shaming can make an impact that no law can. On its part, Bengal can act to reign in these transplant centres that seem to be crossing the line with a certain impunity. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has a reputation of taking firm steps to regulate the health sector. This is an opportunity for her once again to demonstrate her commitment to protect the vulnerable. Covid has taught us many lessons. One of them is the need for restoring the primacy of science and ethics in health care to win people’s trust. This is also true of transplantation, which in its legitimate form involves amazing acts of altruism and human solidarity by ordinary citizens. As members of India’s transplantation community we urge our colleagues to remember this. Sanjay Nagral is a liver surgeon from Mumbai and co-chair of the Declaration of Istanbul Custodian Group. Vivekanand Jha is a nephrologist, member of the WHO Task Force for Donation and Transplantation and past president of the International Society of Nephrology. Noble Gracious is a nephrologist from Thiruvananthapuram and nodal officer for the organ transplant programme, government of Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||Covid: SC seeks Centre's response on orphan data discrepancy||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought an explanation from the Centre on the glaring discrepancy between the figures furnished by the Union government and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on the children orphaned in the country because of the coronavirus pandemic. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose told additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati that while the reply filed by the Centre said it has extended financial and rehabilitation assistance to support 645 orphaned children, the data submitted by the NCPCR said 6,855 kids lost their parents from March 2020 to July 2021. Bhati sought time to take instructions from the government on the vast variation in the figures submitted by the Centre and the statutory commission. The court was dealing suo motu on the conditions of children in remand homes because of the pandemic. The bench clarified that its earlier directive in May for providing necessary succour and rehabilitation to orphaned children was not confined to those who lost their parents because of Covid but included those orphaned because of other reasons. Justice Rao pointed out that the PM-CARES Fund provided Rs 10 lakh to each child orphaned during the Covid pandemic to be used till he or she turned 23 but the scheme covered only a few children. Such welfare measures should cover even other children orphaned because of circumstances not relating to Covid, the bench said. “We cannot restrict the orders passed only to orphans who lost both parents to Covid-19,” Justice Rao said. When Bhati said the PM-CARES Fund covers only those children who lost both their parents to the pandemic, the bench clarified that it was not asking the government to extend the relief under the scheme to other orphans. Instead, the court said, it wanted the government to explore the possibility of extending benefits to such orphans from other schemes meant for children. “We want to clarify that we are not on PM-CARES Fund today. You can take instructions but we are clarifying we are not asking you to extend. You can explore the other schemes you have. Please see those are implemented,” the bench said. The bench noted that many schemes were only on paper and were not being implemented for the benefit of children. “We have constantly been speaking about implementation of the schemes. There is announcement of the scheme but it has to reach the children. We have child welfare centres, district child protection officers, but looking at these numbers, they might need some assistance,” the bench said. Justice Rao said the court was of the view that if the kids were produced before the respective district child welfare committees, at least their immediate needs could be taken care of. The court said there had been instances where many kids sent back home to decongest the child care centres had desperately been calling the officials to say that they have nothing to eat and want to come back. On June 8, the top court had directed the Centre, states and Union Territories to take “stringent action” against those resorting to illegal adoption of children orphaned or abandoned on account of Covid. The bench had passed the directives after being informed by advocate Shobha Gupta appearing for an NGO that a large number of children are being illegally adopted by various other NGOs and individuals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
28-07-2021||India||Seven arrested for child trafficking in Odisha||Odisha police have arrested two men and five women from steel city Rourkela for allegedly being involved in a child trafficking racket. However, the police said the prime accused in the case was on the run. Rourkela additional superintendent of police B.K. Bhoi told The Telegraph: “We had got a complaint about the activities of a group which lured poor parents to sell their children. The gang sold babies to childless couples in Ranchi in Jharkhand and Raigarh in Chhattisgarh. We laid a trap and the people involved in the racket were arrested. All of them were sent to jail. However, another accused is yet to be arrested.” According to the police, all those arrested on Monday are from well-to-do families with business backgrounds. “They also run marriage bureaus and organise marriages. Seeing the desperation of the childless couples, they also look for opportunities to sell them children,” said Bhoi. The police have found photographs of several newborns on the mobile phones of the arrested accused. “Investigation is on. We are yet to trace the children who have been sold,” said Bhoi. The gang used to sell male babies for Rs 3 lakh each and female babies for Rs 1.5 lakh, police said. Sources said police have rescued a one-and-a-half-year-old baby from the gang. The accused have been identified as Seema Agrawal, 45, Sarita Agrawal, 50, Neeta Agrawal, 44, Nikhil Agrawal, 25, Asha Devi, 38, Sheela Agrawal, 28, and Sumit Agarwal, 21. The prime accused Sangeeta Agrawal is absconding. According to the complaint lodged with police, Sangeeta and Neeta had contacted one Seema Khuntia, 50, and lured her to hand over her 18-month-old granddaughter and promised payment of Rs 40,000. On July 23, Khuntia was asked to come near the Idgah field in Rourkela with the baby. According to the deal, the woman reached the appointed place with her granddaughter in the evening. However, Sangeeta and Neeta did not turn up for the meeting and sent Sarita and Seema to take the child instead. Problem cropped up when Khuntia demanded the money at the spot while handing over the child. Sangeeta and Neeta asked her to come to the Janata Niwas Lane in the town to collect the promised amount. But when Khuntia reached the place she did not find any one there. Later she approached the police for help and the child sale racket was busted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||SC issues notice to Centre on a plea seeking uniform healthcare||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Centre, states and the Union Territories on a plea seeking fixing of rates for each type of medical treatment and service offered by private hospitals, which account for over 70 per cent of the country’s healthcare system, so that patients are not charged arbitrarily. According to the PIL, there is no uniform or standard rate of treatment in private hospitals despite a 2010 law under which rules were framed in 2012 stipulating mandatory standards and rules to be followed before grant of renewal of licences to the private hospitals. The petitioners wanted the court to direct the Centre and the states to fix the maximum permissible rates private hospitals and clinics can charge. A bench of Justices N.V. Ramana and Surya Kant asked senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for the petitioners, to serve a copy of the PIL on the authorities concerned so that the court can examine the issue at length. The petition was filed jointly by the NGOs Jan Swasthya Abhiyan and Patients’ Rights Campaign, and social activist K.M. Gopakumar. The petitioners have relied on the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010, the Clinical Establishment (Central Government) Rules, 2012, and the Patients’ Rights Charter, which apply to the regulation of both public and private medical facilities, but are not being implemented. The rules mandate fixation of rates for each type of procedure and service within the range of charges determined by the central government from time to time in consultation with the state governments; minimum standards of facilities and services; minimum requirement of personnel, provisions of maintenance of records and reporting by hospitals before being granted permission to start their services. The conditions that every establishment shall fulfil are: ⚫ Every clinical establishment shall display the rates charged for each type of service provided and facilities available, for the benefit of the patients at a conspicuous place in the local as well as in English language; ⚫ The clinical establishments shall charge the rates for each type of procedures and services within the range of rates determined and issued by the central government from time to time, in consultation with the state governments; ⚫ The clinical establishments shall ensure compliance of the standard treatment guidelines as may be determined and issued by the central government or the state government as the case may be, from time to time. ⚫ The clinical establishments shall maintain and provide electronic media records or electronic health records of every patient as may be determined and issued by the central government or the state government as the case may be, from time to time; ⚫ Every clinical establishment shall maintain information and statistics in accordance with all other applicable laws for the time being in force and the rules made thereunder. The petition has referred to the inadequacies that exist in the public healthcare system, such as lack of sufficient infrastructure and human resources, non-availability of medicines, inadequate public investment and forced dependency on the private sector. It said that on account of lack of proper regulations and implementation of the statutory provisions, there was rampant exploitation of the patients by private hospitals by fixing unaffordable and arbitrary rates for different types of treatments and medical care.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||Pegasus: BJP members walk out of meeting of parliamentary panel ||BJP members on Tuesday walked out of a meeting of the parliamentary panel on information technology, protesting against its chairman Shashi Tharoor’s decision to take up the Pegasus snooping controversy a day later, betraying the ruling party’s jitters on the issue. The parliamentary standing committee on information technology, headed by former Union minister and Congress leader Tharoor, is scheduled to discuss “Citizens’ data security and privacy” on Wednesday and the move by BJP members on Tuesday was to scuttle the effort to take up the Pegasus spyware row. On Tuesday, the Tharoor-headed panel was meeting on a different agenda, to hear the views of individuals and organisations on the functioning of the Central Board of Film Certification, in the context of the draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The BJP members walked out of the meeting on the Parliament premises, said they had boycotted it and headed to meet Speaker Om Birla. “The agenda of (Wednesday’s) meeting was not shared with us. Also it’s not proper for the committee to hold a meeting when Parliament is in session,” BJP MP Nishikant Dubey told reporters. “Now we are going to meet the Speaker to lodge our protest,” Dubey added, accusing Tharoor of running a “personal agenda”. The BJP has a majority in the 32-member panel. Tharoor had earlier said the Pegasus snooping row would be taken up for discussion as it was the “most important issue for most members”. The parliamentary panel has the powers to summon government officials concerned and question them. The BJP members seemed to be wary of this. “As per rules confidentiality should be maintained. Agenda became public before the meeting. Agenda should be fixed with the consent of members,” said Zafar Islam, another BJP MP on the panel. The agenda of meeting, however, was declared in a communiqué by the Lok Sabha secretariat. It’s not the agenda but what’s discussed inside the meeting that has to be confidential, according to the rules. The protest highlighted the BJP’s unease over any discussion on the Pegasus scandal. The government has been evading the issue since an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified phone numbers, including those of Indian journalists, a former election commissioner, activists, Opposition leaders, ministers, businessmen and ordinary citizens, could have been subjected to surveillance using the Israeli firm NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware. Let alone order a probe, as the Opposition has demanded, the government has not even discussed the issue in Parliament so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||Centre denies plans of increasing days of work under NREGA scheme||Kaushalya Hembram of Jharkhand has no work these days other than collecting firewood from the jungle to support herself and her elderly mother. Last month, Hembram, a resident of Podhaat village under Sonua block in West Singhbhum district, had got 10 days’ work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), which provides up to 100 days’ of unskilled work to every rural household a year. She had been eagerly waiting for work at the project to lay an earthen road from Jhingamarcha to Gotusahi. However, the project was stalled after complaints that a section of the local panchayat was using a JCB machine instead of hiring labourers. The alleged plan was to usurp the wages meant for labourers by falsely showing that they had been engaged. JCB machines are not allowed under the NREGA. “The MGNREGA is the only source of livelihood for me. Otherwise my earnings get reduced to Rs 50 a day by selling firewood and other forest produce. The permissible days of work under the MGNREGA should be increased to 200 per year and every family should be gainfully employed under it,” Hembram said. Under the MGNREGA, a job card holder has to approach the local gram panchayat, which will provide work within 15 days. The worker will receive unemployment allowance for the period that he or she does not receive work after the expiry of the deadline. A worker is to be paid wage within 15 days of completion of the first phase of work.Because of the pandemic and the economic slowdown, usual private work like construction of houses has come down drastically. Other alternative sources of income have also dried up with farmers preferring to do all the agricultural work themselves rather than engaging labourers to save during the hard times. “Last year, I got work for all 100 days under the MGNREGA. Had more work been allowed, I would have taken that up,” Hembram said. Economists and social activists have written to the central government to amend the law to provide for additional 50 to 100 days of work per family in a year. Such a step will ensure that people get to earn more, thereby stabilising consumption demand that has taken a beating due to Covid and the economic mess. However, the government does not appear keen. On Tuesday, Lok Sabha MP S. Venkatesan of the CPM asked in the House whether the Centre planned to increase the days of work under the MGNREGA. Minister of state for rural development Niranjan Jyoti replied in the negative but said the states were free to provide additional days of work from their own budget. “The Mahatma Gandhi NREGA Act, 2005, is to provide at least 100 days of wage employment in a financial year to every rural household whose adult member volunteers to do unskilled manual work. The states can provide additional man-days of work over and above the 100 days (of labour) from their own resources,” Jyoti said. “An additional 50 days of wage employment is provided over and above 100 days in notified drought-affected areas or areas affected by natural calamities on the recommendation of the ministry of agriculture and farmers’ welfare. At present, there is no plan to increase days of work under the Mahatma Gandhi NREGA,” she added. Work provided under the national rural job scheme has witnessed an increase in the current financial year, the minister said. During 2020-21, more than 389.23 crore person-days of work had been generated. Till July 23 of the current financial year (from April 1), more than 130.9 crore person-days have already been generated, Jyoti said in reply to another question. The NREGA Sangharsh Morcha, a civil society group, had last month demanded additional 50 days of work per person under the rural job scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||Basavaraj Bommai picked as Karnataka CM, to take oath today||B.S. Yediyurappa loyalist Basavaraj Bommai was on Tuesday picked as Karnataka chief minister, with the BJP appearing to have placated both the outgoing veteran and his influential Lingayat community. The choice of Bommai, 61, seemed to have been driven by a compulsion not to miff the former chief minister and his powerful community that has been the BJP’s key support base for two decades and make up a fifth of Karnataka’s population. Yediyurappa proposed Bommai’s name as the leader of the legislature party at a meeting overseen by Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G. Kishan Reddy, paving the way for Bommai to take charge as chief minister. Bommai later told reporters that the governor had invited him to form the government. “The governor has invited me to form the government and I alone will take the oath of office at 11am tomorrow (Wednesday),” he told reporters outside the Raj Bhavan about taking over as the 32nd chief minister of Karnataka. “I will work under the guidance of my predecessor Yediyurappa for a pro-people government,” Bommai added. “Because Yediyurappa volunteered to resign, the party has bestowed that responsibility on me. I want to assure the people of Karnataka that mine will be a pro-poor and pro-people government that will deliver justice to all sections of the society,” he said. The arduous task of picking his council of ministers by overcoming pulls and pressures from aspirants — both BJP old-timers and new entrants from the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular who helped topple the alliance government in 2019 and bring the BJP back to power — now awaits him. He is the son of former chief minister S.R. Bommai who had helmed the Janata Party government for eight months from August 1998 to April 1989. H.D. Deve Gowda and H.D. Kumaraswamy were the first father-son duo to head the Karnataka government. While at least half a dozen names had been doing the rounds to replace Yediyurappa who resigned on Monday, the BJP’s central observers announced the successor at the legislature party meeting held at a Bangalore hotel on Tuesday evening. The selection of Bommai is seen as a victory of sorts for Yediyurappa who prevailed upon the party to go for his loyalist. Hundreds of Lingayat pontiffs had also warned the BJP against inviting the community’s wrath by not opting for a chief minister from the community. Yediyurappa, who had made the tearful announcement of quitting of his own volition on Monday two years into his stint, arrived at the meeting venue flashing the victory sign in a clear indication that his nominee Bommai would be the pick. An engineering graduate, Bommai Jr was also part of the Janata parivar but left the Janata Dal United in 2008 to join the BJP. He has since been a close confidante of Yediyurappa and held the law and parliamentary affairs portfolio in the council of ministers dissolved on Monday. A native of Dharwad, Bommai represents the Shiggaon Assembly constituency in Haveri district in north Karnataka, which is part of the Lingayat belt. A three-time MLA, Bommai had also been elected to the Legislative Council for two terms. Bommai promised to take everyone along without any considerations. “I will take everyone along and work together for the people,” he told reporters. “I had never expected this although I had a belief in my heart,” he said when asked if he had any inkling about being named the chief minister. Bommai drove to the Raj Bhavan at night to meet governor Thaawar Chand Gehlot to fulfil the formality of staking claim to form the next government. Yediyurappa and state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel were among those who accompanied the chief minister-elect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||Mamata focuses on governance issues at interaction with Modi||Mamata Banerjee said in the capital on Tuesday that the Prime Minister should convene an all-party meeting on Pegasus and decide on some sort of a Supreme Court-led probe after taking opinion of all the parties. The Bengal chief minister rolled out the demand within an hour of her meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his 7 Lok Kalyan Marg residence. “On the issue of Pegasus, I think that the Prime Minister should convene a meeting of all political parties, seek their opinion and decide on some sort of an inquiry by the Supreme Court,” Mamata told reporters after the 35-minute meeting with Modi. Asked whether she had placed the same demand before Modi during the meeting, Mamata told The Telegraph later that she had not. During the news conference, Mamata took care to explain that her call-on at the Prime Minister’s residence was a matter of “courtesy” and “protocol” after becoming the chief minister for the third time in a row. During the meeting, she requested Modi to ensure higher supplies of vaccines for the state and faster implementation of the state’s demand for changing the name of West Bengal to Bengal. Some projects related to Bengal were also discussed, Mamata added. “We want all the states to get vaccines and medicines to fight Covid.… But my point is we have got less if you take the state’s population into account. So, we want more vaccines before the third wave,” said Mamata, explaining the broad contours of her discussion with Modi on vaccines. Unlike in the past, she did not accuse the Centre of mishandling the pandemic or favouring the BJP-ruled states while allotting vaccines. Nor did she highlight how Delhi was depriving Bengal by not releasing funds that the Centre owes on account of GST compensation and relief for Cyclone Yaas. The delay in holding bypolls — Mamata needs to win one by November 5 to continue as chief minister — was also not linked to the BJP government. Mamata said the Covid situation was under control for the Assembly bypolls and local elections. Mamata gave the impression that as chief minister, she focused on governance issues during the interaction with the Prime Minister, and the mood at the meeting between her and Modi, who fought a bitter battle during the Bengal Assembly polls a few months ago, was cordial. Later, she told this correspondent that Modi asked her whether she was still walking 20km a day. “I told him that because of the injury to my leg, I am restricting myself to 18km a day,” said a smiling Mamata, before adding that the two had a healthy “adda” for around 35 minutes. Mamata’s briefing on what transpired between her and Modi — during which only the two were present — may have had the limitations of government-to-government interaction. But the fact that she would continue with her anti-BJP politics was clear in her demand for an all-party meeting on Pegasus. On Monday, the Bengal chief minister had formed a two-member inquiry commission to look into the Pegasus controversy. With the concerted protests in Parliament and Mamata’s Delhi trip — during which she is scheduled to meet non-BJP leaders like Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Arvind Kejriwal and Akhilesh Yadav — coinciding, the capital has been abuzz with speculation that the groundwork for a united fight against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls has begun. Mamata, who met Congress veterans Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma and Abhishek Manu Singhvi on Tuesday, tried to play down expectations of any immediate breakthrough. She said that the discussions with other parties for a front to take on the BJP — a suggestion she had mooted during her July 21 address — would start once the Covid situation was under control. The pandemic-induced restrictions prevented her from visiting Parliament and meeting leaders of the other parties, she rued. Mamata, however, stressed that the planning for a united fight must start now. “The Lok Sabha polls are still some time away, but it’s also true that the planning has to start well in advance. You know that the elections for Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Tripura are approaching,” Mamata said. Sources close to her said that the Bengal chief minister, who held a meeting with Trinamul’s poll consultant Prashant Kishor on Tuesday, was trying to be cautious as she did not want to be seen as projecting herself as the face of a non-BJP front. “I will not lead, the country will lead.… We are all followers,” she said while responding to a question on who would lead such a front. On the issue of leadership and unity among the parties, Mamata said: “I think all these will happen automatically.… I am hopeful. Everyone lives with hope and if there is no hope, how can you live?” Another source said that the chief minister’s balanced response was part of a well-thought-out strategy. “She will be meeting Soniaji tomorrow and then there are other meetings.… Before those discussions, she can’t be seen to be upping the ante against the BJP. Instead of talking tough and raising the pitch, we all need to put our brains together and plan properly,” the source said. Mamata said that although she was scheduled to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday, she was not sure whether the meeting would take place at all. “I have got my double vaccine, but I have been informed that I need a negative RTPCR report.... Where will I get it here in Delhi? But the President’s health is of utmost concern,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||Congress blames Modi of bulldozing the principle of accountability||Parliament is not functioning because the Prime Minister is running away from answering questions and bulldozing the principle of accountability, the Congress said on Tuesday, rebutting Narendra Modi’s charge that the Opposition party was disrupting proceedings. “The Opposition is doing its duty and the Prime Minister is being undemocratic. He is showing raj-hath (arrogance of power),” Congress deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma told The Telegraph. “The Pegasus snooping row is no ordinary issue. It is extremely serious and directly related to national security. It is a joke that the Prime Minister thinks he can get away by making the new IT minister read a statement. Other democracies have initiated probe. India will have to order a probe. The deadlock is created because the government has not responded democratically. The government has acted in a manner that lowers the prestige of Parliament. The Opposition is struggling to prevent India from becoming a surveillance state,” he said. For the sixth day, neither House transacted any substantial business as the Opposition demanded a Supreme Court monitored investigation into the Pegasus spying controversy and the scrapping of the three farm laws against which thousands of farmers have been holding a sit-in at Delhi’s borders for eight months now. While several Opposition parties are protesting in the House, Modi singled out the Congress and asked BJP MPs to tell the “people and the media” that it was not allowing Parliament to function. Arguing that Modi just wanted to stonewall all questions on Pegasus and the farmers’ movement, Congress leader Sharma said: “What the Opposition is demanding is well within the rules of business and tradition of Parliament. Is it the first time a debate and an inquiry are being sought in a major scandal? Should the Congress close its eyes and let the government spy on everybody? And what has been the attitude of the government towards farmers? They are sitting on the road for eight months, isn’t that unprecedented in the history of independent India? Is the Prime Minister telling the nation Parliament is not meant for these vital issues?” Sharma said: “It is unfair and most unfortunate that the Prime Minister blamed us and asked the BJP MPs to expose the Congress for not allowing Parliament to function. It is the Prime Minister who is bulldozing the principle of accountability. He is running away, not answering questions and that’s why Parliament is not functioning.” Leader of the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, who addressed the media earlier along with leaders of several other Opposition parties, said: “It is wrong to say that the government is ready for discussion in Parliament. All the Opposition parties wanted discussion on Pegasus issue and farmers’ agitation even today but the government didn’t agree. We want the truth to come out in Pegasus row. When France, Hungary, Mexico and Israel have instituted probes, what does the Government of India want to hide? If the Government hasn’t done snooping, who allowed any other agency to do that? If snooping was done without permission, that has also to be investigated.” Kharge added: “This is not the way to function in a democracy. This is dictatorial. Modi is not ready to resolve any issue in a democratic spirit. The government says the Opposition parties are not willing for a dialogue. That is untrue. Call all the parties and discuss the way out of this stalemate.” The Trinamul Congress, DMK, Samajwadi Party, NCP, RJD, CPI and the CPM supported the demand for discussion and a Supreme Court-monitored probe. Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav said: “What is tragic is that the government is pressuring us to discuss bills which will write off lakhs of crores of bank loans. The bills that are against the interest of nation are more important for the government, not the issue that has imperilled national security. Not the farmers.” TMC’s Sukhendu Shekhar Roy asked: “Why is the government not interested in finding out who was snooping? Without discussing Pegasus and farmers, we will not allow any business. If these issues will not be debated in Parliament, where will they be discussed, in a coffee shop?” RJD’s Manoj Jha said: “Government is not ready for deliberation, only wants legislation…. What should we do – reduce Parliament to a lifeless concrete structure and Opposition should sign on the dotted line? This doesn’t happen. Democracy doesn’t function that way. Pegasus is not an ordinary development; very important people were kept under illegal surveillance.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram asked: “Based on investigations by an international group of journalists, The Wire has reported that there was ‘an Indian client of the NSO Group.’ Who was the ‘Indian client’? Was it the Government of India? Was it an agency of the Government? Was it a private entity? I am certain the client’s name will be revealed soon. Until then, I suppose the Government will brazen out the allegations of snooping.” Digvijaya Singh also tweeted: “NSO which is under direct control of Israel government and therefore shall have a complete access to whatever information the client collects through Pegasus. Would it not compromise client’s national security? That is why we in opposition want either the Home Minister or the Prime Minister to brief the House and assure the nation that under no circumstances our national security would be compromised by anyone who has Pegasus software.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: India to have 150 million doses during August||India will have about 150 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines during August, a top health official said on Tuesday, indicating a quantum greater than in July but still not enough for the daily jabs needed to fully vaccinate the adult population by the year-end. The anticipated August supply will be around 30 million more than the 120 million doses that the Centre had said would be available during July as part of the 517 million doses to be supplied between January 2021 and July 31, 2021. “We have the visibility of about 15 crore (150 million) doses or so (for August),” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert group guiding Covid-19 vaccination policy and member health at Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex technical think tank. The current pace of India’s vaccination campaign is almost entirely dictated by the availability of supplies, health officials and experts have said. While health officials have said India has the capacity to administer 8 to 10 million doses daily, the current supplies are inadequate to support that pace. The anticipated 150 million doses in August would support an average five million doses daily. This is significantly lower than the 9.4 million daily doses India would need to fully vaccinate its estimated 943 million people by December-end. The health ministry had told Parliament last week that there was “no fixed timeline” for the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, but “it is expected that beneficiaries 18 years or older will be vaccinated by December 2021”. “We produce and we inject,” Paul said on Tuesday. “When we produce, part of the vaccine goes through testing at our central labs and the batches are released. We are visualising to the tune of about 15 crore…. Whatever is being produced is being used.” Under these circumstances marked by limited supplies but potentially large demand, experts say, vaccine shortages will be experienced at any site where the demand from the population rises. Such shortages could continue until the supplies increase. The Union health ministry said on Tuesday that the Centre was on track to supply 517 million doses to states or private hospitals up to July 2021 as planned. The Centre has supplied 457 million doses since January 2021 and an additional 60.3 million doses are expected to be supplied by July 31, the ministry said. The availability of doses until a particular month “does not mean that every dose supplied till that month is going to be consumed or administered” within that month, it added. “There would be supplies in the pipeline that should be available for the next few days until the next supplies of doses materialise to keep the vaccination going.” India had until Tuesday administered nearly 444 million doses. Over 96 million people (or about 10.1 per cent of the eligible population) have received both doses required for full protection. Some health experts have criticised what they view as opacity about monthly vaccine production figures. “We’re still in the dark about production capacities,” said R. Ramakumar at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, who has challenged certain aspects of the vaccination policy in the Supreme Court. The health ministry had said last month that it expected over 1.35 billion doses to be available during the August-December 2021 period, which would be sufficient to fully vaccinate the eligible population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||Union home ministry seeks six more months to frame CAA rules||The Union home ministry told Parliament on Tuesday that it had sought six more months to frame rules for the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and had asked committees on subordinate legislation in the Lok Sabha as well as the Rajya Sabha time till January 9, 2022. This is the fifth extension sought by the Centre for framing the CAA rules, sources in the ministry said. According to the manual on parliamentary work, the rules for any legislation should be framed within six months of presidential assent or an extension should be sought. The controversial citizenship law had come into force from January 10, 2020. Without the rules being notified, the act remains ineffective. The BJP had promoted the CAA as one of its major poll planks in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Replying to a question by Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi, junior home minister Nityanand Rai told the Lok Sabha in a written reply that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, had been notified on December 12, 2019, and came into force from January 10, 2020. “The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, have been requested to grant further extension of time up to 09.01.2022 to frame the rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019,” Rai said. Gaurav had asked: “Whether the government is aware of missing the deadline to frame and notify CAA rules, if, so the steps taken by the government to frame it?” The CAA was passed by the Lok Sabha on December 9, 2019, and was given the assent by the President three days later. Sources said the home ministry had still been deliberating the CAA rules without making any headway. The rules will  clarify the types of documents needed to prove if an applicant came to India before the cut-off date, fixed by the law as December 31, 2014. The CAA proposes to fast-track Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities who came to India before December 31, 2014. Critics feel  the law appears to be aimed at excluding Muslims. The CAA had triggered widespread protests as many feared that coupled with the planned countrywide National Register of Citizens (NRC), it would result in lakhs of Muslims losing their citizenship. Following the passage of the law in Parliament, the country had witnessed widespread protests leading to the death of over 100 people in police firing and related violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||Chennai: Doctor who succumbed to Covid buried after fifteen months||Dr Simon Hercules’s body was placed in a coffin and he was laid to rest at the Kilpauk Christian Cemetery in Chennai this Sunday in the presence of his wife and children — one year and three months after he succumbed to Covid. Dr Hercules had passed away on April 19, 2020. But some residents, fearful of contracting the coronavirus infection, chased away the hearse from multiple burial grounds. Eventually, with the help of police, some of his colleagues had themselves prepared a grave in the dead of night and buried the doctor at a cemetery near the fringes of the city. A year-long legal battle waged by the neurosurgeon’s wife Anandhi Simon, a favourable verdict from Madras High Court and the intervention of new Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin ensured that Dr Hercules’s body was exhumed and was given a formal burial at the Kilpauk Christian Cemetery on July 25 this year in keeping with Anandhi’s wish. This time, there were no protests or angry mobs stalling the last rites — a year of living with the coronavirus had helped jettison many of the unsubstantiated fears that had marked the initial days of the pandemic. “We are relieved that science has prevailed at last…,” Dr G. Leonard Ponraj, a sports medicine specialist and a colleague of Dr Hercules who stood by the bereaved family through the crisis, told The Telegraph. Dr Hercules, the director of New Hope Brain and Spine Centre in Chennai, had breathed his last at a private hospital last year after a two-week battle with Covid, the first case of a medical practitioner dying of the disease in the Tamil Nadu capital. Clearing the way for his re-burial, Madras High Court had said on March 31 this year that Dr Hercules’s case was a “shocking one as the incident had given a go-by to all human values”. Justice Abdul Quddhose wrote in his judgment: “The corpse of Dr Simon Hercules was shunted from one burial ground to another due to objections raised by heartless human beings to the burial of a Covid-19 victim.” On the night of April 19, 2020, the Greater Chennai Municipal Corporation had initially told Dr Hercules’s family and colleagues that he could be laid to rest at the burial ground at T.P. Chatram. But when they reached there, they were gheraoed by an angry crowd that objected to the burial of a Covid patient over fears that it could lead to the spread of the virus. Dr Hercules was then taken to the burial ground at Velangadu, where around 150 people gathered and attacked the ambulance with sticks and stones, forcing those accompanying the body to abandon it briefly. The crowd beat up and injured the ambulance driver and at least two hospital employees and forced the family to leave with the body. Multiple phone calls to the police did not help. Two hours later, when colleague and orthopaedic surgeon Pradeep Kumar heard from the police that the crowd had been controlled, the family and four of Dr Hercules’s colleagues set off for the Velangadu burial ground again in the damaged ambulance with police escorts. Wearing personal protective equipment, they prepared a grave and with the help of a single shovel left behind, they covered it with clay and soil. The treatment meted out to a doctor amid the pandemic had shocked the medical community and sparked outrage on social media. The police later arrested several persons for the violence. A day after Dr Hercules’s death, Anandhi requested the Greater Chennai Municipal Corporation that the body be exhumed and buried again at the Kilpauk Christian Cemetery in line with the family’s faith. The civic body rejected the plea on the ground that the process could lead to the spread of the virus and trigger similar demands from other bereaved families. Anandhi moved Madras High Court, citing her religious beliefs and urging it to direct the authorities to allow the exhumation and re-burial of Dr Hercules’s body. The court quashed the municipal corporation’s order. It cited various Supreme Court and high court rulings, including a recent judgment of Calcutta High Court on disposal of bodies that upheld the right of the “family of a Covid victim to perform the last rites as a right akin to a fundamental right”. Justice Quddhose extensively cited guidelines of the Union health ministry and WHO on the disposal of bodies of pandemic victims that clearly state that “transmission of Covid-19 is only through droplets” and that the possibility of infection spread through handling of bodies was unlikely. The court directed the civic authorities to allow the re-burial of Dr Hercules at the Kilpauk cemetery by observing all safety norms. However, the then commissioner of the municipal corporation appealed to a larger bench of the high court and got Justice Quddhose’s order stayed. “After the new DMK government took over earlier this year, we approached chief minister M.K. Stalin,” said Dr Ponraj, the colleague of Dr Hercules. “We told Stalin that there is a science behind this and that the previous corporation commissioner was ill-informed,” Dr Ponraj said. The chief minister directed the new corporation commissioner to withdraw the civic body’s appeal in the high court on July 20. Early this Sunday, Ananthi, her children, Dr Ponraj and others oversaw the exhumation of Dr Hercules’s body at the Velangadu burial ground. A JCB was pressed into service at 5am and within half an hour, the body was exhumed. The body was more or less intact as it had been packed in the “extra-thick triple layer plastic bags” used for Covid victims. Dr Hercules’s body was then placed in a coffin and taken to the Kilpauk cemetery where the re-burial went off without any hurdles. Dr Hercules’s family has thanked chief minister Stalin for his intervention. “I do not blame the former corporation commissioner, for he had not been adequately sensitised by experts. Today, bodies of Covid victims are even allowed to be taken home because there is greater awareness. We are relieved that science has prevailed at last and there is no politics to this,” Dr Ponraj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
28-07-2021||India||Modi accuses Congress of blocking Parliament||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday singled out the Opposition Congress and accused the party of blocking Parliament as both Houses continued to be stalled for the sixth day over the snooping scandal, farm laws and other issues. Addressing a weekly meeting of BJP MPs, Modi asked them to “expose the Congress before the people and the media”, saying the Opposition party was deliberately not allowing Parliament to function. Modi singled out the Congress and attacked it despite the fact that other Opposition parties like the DMK, Trinamul Congress and the Left were also protesting and stalling Parliament. “Modiji said that the Congress was not only blocking Parliament but it was also not allowing efforts to resolve the deadlock succeed,” said one BJP MP, who attended the closed-door meeting. “He asked us to expose the Congress before the people and the media.” Party MPs said Modi particularly referred to the Congress’s boycott of the all-party meeting called by the government last week to review the Covid situation and added that it influenced others too to keep away. “The Congress prevented other parties also from attending the meet,” Modi was quoted as saying. The Congress, Akali Dal, AAP, RJD and the Left parties had boycotted the Prime Minister’s Covid review meet last week. Modi’s attack on the Congress came as both Houses of Parliament couldn’t transact any substantial business for the sixth day on Tuesday. The Congress despite being short of numbers was leading uproarious protests in both Houses and stalling the proceedings demanding a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the Pegasus phone snooping row and scrapping of the new farm laws. Modi had attacked the Congress at the meeting of party MPs last week too, seeking to paint it as the principal villain. The government appears to have succeeded in dividing the Opposition by managing most regional parties but the Congress continues to act as a spoiler. Though the government has passed some bills even in the din, it may not be able to push other key bills in the two Houses if they are not in order to have a proper discussion. Leader of the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, had on Monday invited Opposition leaders for a meeting to end the stalemate but they kept away saying they were not at the “beck and call” of the government and that the sudden invitation “smacked of arrogance”. Goyal’s invite came after RJD MP Manoj Jha accused the government of not making any substantial outreach to resolve the stalemate. In the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, where the government enjoys a brute majority, repeated appeals were made from the Speaker’s chair to let the House function, stressing the government was ready to discuss all issues. The Lok Sabha saw multiple adjournments, almost every half an hour, as the Congress, Trinamul and some other members waved placards and raised slogans against the government. The government has been trying to show that it was ready for discussions on all issues but it was the Opposition, particularly the Congress, which was bent on only obstructing Parliament proceedings. The monsoon session of Parliament commenced on July 19, a day after the Pegasus hacking row broke out, and is scheduled to continue till Aug 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
