30-07-2021||India||LAC: Twelfth round of China-India military talks on Saturday||After a gap of over three and a half months, India and China will hold next round of high-level military talks on Saturday with a focus on making some forward movement in the disengagement process in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, sources in the military establishment said. India is hopeful of a positive outcome from the 12th round of Corps Commander talks in terms of disengagement in Hot Springs and Gogra, they said. The talks are scheduled to start at 10:30 AM at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. The 11th round of military dialogue had taken place on April 9 at the Chushul border point on the Indian side of the LAC and it lasted for around 13 hours. The fresh round of talks is taking place over two weeks after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar firmly conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a "negative manner". The two foreign ministers had held a one-hour bilateral meeting on the sidelines of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Tajik capital city Dushanbe on July 14. In the meeting, Jaishankar told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was "not acceptable" to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. In the last round of military talks, both sides discussed ways to take forward the disengagement process in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang with a larger aim to bring down tensions in the region. However, there was no forward movement in the disengagement process from the Chinese side. The Indian delegation at Saturday's talks is to be led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted in May last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February in line with an agreement on disengagement. India has been insisting that resolution of outstanding issues including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra is essential for overall ties between the two countries. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Covid: Tamil Nadu CM announces extended lockdown till August 8||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin today announced that the Covid lockdown in the state will be extended by a week, till August 8, and no fresh relaxations will be provided. Appealing to people to avoid stepping out unless necessary so that the third wave of the pandemic can be averted, the Chief Minister has asked local authorities and police to strictly enforce Covid guidelines. Yesterday, Tamil Nadu saw a slight rise in its daily Covid tally after 68 days. Chennai and Coimbatore, too, recorded a rise in cases for the third day in a row. He has also said collectors and commissioners can enforce lockdowns in specific areas if crowds gather. The Chief Minister has said action will be taken against commercial and other establishments that allow more customers than what is permitted in the Covid guidelines. Earlier, on July 16, the state government had extended the lockdown till July 31 while easing some curbs. While schools and colleges in the state continue to remain closed, Industrial Technical Institutes and typewriting schools have been allowed to function at 50 per capacity. Theatres, bars, swimming pools and zoos are still shut and political meetings and cultural events are prohibited. Tamil Nadu yesterday reported 1,859 new Covid cases and 28 deaths over the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 21,207. Over the past 10 days, the state's daily case counts have remained below the 2,000 mark. As per the Union Health Ministry data, over 2.23 crore doses of coronavirus vaccines have been administered in Tamil Nadu so far. More than 40 lakh people in the state have got both doses of the vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Democracy must go on, Mamata says  before leaving capital||"Democracy must go on", were West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's parting words as she left Delhi after a five-day visit on Friday, promising to return to the capital once every two months.  Terming her stay as "successful", Banerjee's first trip to the national capital after her resounding victory in the West Bengal assembly polls was akin to testing the waters before she waded deeper into national politics.  "The visit was successful. Met a lot of my colleagues for political reasons. We met for political purpose. Democracy must go on. Our slogan is 'save democracy, save country'. I will come here every two months, said the chief minister before leaving TMC MP and nephew Abhishek Banerjee's residence.  Banerjee also said that she supports the farmers' issue and is in touch with them.  She was referring to their protest against three agri laws, which were enacted in September last year.  "There cannot be anything better than opposition unity for a political purpose. I couldn't meet every leader that I wanted to because of Covid protocols. However, the outcome of the meetings has been good. Let us work together," the TMC supremo said.  She met some leaders of opposition parties, raising speculations about the possible united opposition before the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.  Banerjee met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Congress leaders like Anand Sharma, Kamal Nath and Abhishek Singhvi.  From the BJP, she met only Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari. She also met DMK leader Kanimozhi.  With her proclaiming, Ab poore desh mein khela hobe" (game will be on all over the country)", Banerjee seems to have blown the poll bugle for the 2024 Lok Sabha election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||CBSE class XII results: College admissions might be an 'uphill task' ||CBSE's feat of achieving the highest-ever pass percentage in class 12 has grabbed eyeballs of education experts who say college admissions might become an "uphill task" due to the high scores despite moderation. Some experts have pointed out that the allegedly "inflated" marks may be detrimental for state board students who will miss out further on chances of college admissions. The CBSE recorded the highest ever pass percentage of 99.37 in this year's class 12 results, declared on Friday, with girls outshining boys by a slender margin of 0.54 per cent. The pass percentage increased by over 10 percentage points against last year's 88.78 per cent. The results announced by the board showed that the number of candidates scoring above 95 per cent has increased from 38,686 last year to 70,004 this time. However, the number of students scoring between 90-95 percent has gone down from 1,57,934 last year to 1,50,152 this time. According to Milind Padalkar, pro chancellor, The NorthCap University, the huge number of students scoring above 95 percent, is going to increase the pressure of getting admission to highly sought-after colleges and students may be left without getting into colleges of their choice. "The colleges that see rush will have to evolve a different mechanism for acceptance. This also means the spike of students scoring high marks will have to be absorbed by various colleges who earlier were not on the consideration list of the students. Such colleges will have to gear up likewise for coming up with acceptance strategies. This might mean rising demands for colleges in general compared to last year," he told PTI. Shishir Jaipuria, Chairman, Seth Anandram Jaipuria Group of Educational Institutions, believes the excellent results indicate that college admissions will be an "uphill" task. "The results have understandably elated many students. About 99.37 percent students have passed the exam and over 70,000 of them have scored more than 95 percentile this year. This is a record high pass percentage and could be a result of the new 30-30-40 formula for academic evaluation of students,” he said. "The excellent results indicate that college admissions will be an uphill task. The college admission process will be tough as the cut-offs may increase," he added. According to Sangeeta Hajela, principal, DPS Indirapuram, to see nearly double the number of students in 95 percent and above bracket is surely noticeable phenomenon and "colleges need to rethink on their seats distribution" Narendra Shyamsukha, chairman ICA Edu SKills, said while it is a matter of rejoice for CBSE students, such inflation in marks has become a concern for students from the state boards. "The college cut-offs are going to be higher than last year as a large number of students have scored above 95 per cent in CBSE class 12 exams this year. So, if the results of the state boards don’t match up with the other boards, then students will miss out on seats in colleges and courses of our choice. Such inflation in marks will only cause unnecessary stress and disparity in the society, he said. "For the last few years, it has been seen that the first two merit lists of colleges are mostly dominated by CBSE students. Also, this will impact the admission criteria in the deemed universities, while earlier grades, extracurricular activities, and sports would have made a student get into a good college, this time colleges might look at extra skills, reasoning and creative thinking, communication skills and other qualities that makes them eligible for admissions," he added. Dheeraj Sanghi, Vice Chancellor-Designate, JK Lakshmipat University, Jaipur, said the marks allotted by the CBSE are "pretty random" and do not reflect the hard work that students put into getting the grades in class 12 like it used to happen usually. "This time college admission interviews should focus more on creative, cognitive thinking and overall aptitude and portfolio of the students," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Over 20,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala for fourth straight day||Kerala for the fourth day running recorded more than 20,000 fresh cases in the state with the test positivity rate (TPR) rising to 13.61 per cent and 116 more people succumbing to COVID-19.  With 20,772 fresh cases, the infection caseload in the state reached 33,70,137 and the 116 deaths pushed the total casualties to 16,701, a state government release said.  As many as 14,651 people have been cured of the infection, taking the total recoveries to 31,92,104 and the number of active cases in the state to 1,60,824.  In the last 24 hours, 1,52,639 samples were tested and the TPR was found to be 13.61 per cent.  So far, 2,70,49,431 samples have been tested, it said.  Some of the worst affected districts in the state are Malappuram (3670), Kozhikode (2470), Ernakulam (2306), Thrissur (2287), Palakkad (2070), Kollam (1415), Alappuzha (1214), Kannur (1123), Thiruvananthapuram (1082) and Kottayam (1030).  Of the new cases, 81 are health workers, 137 had come from outside the state and 19,622 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 932 cases, the release said.  There are currently 4,56,951 people under surveillance in various districts of the state.  Of these, 4,29,118 are in home or institutional quarantine and 27,833 in hospitals.  There are 678 areas in the state with a TPR of above 10 per cent, the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||ED summons Anil Deshmukh, son in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday issued fresh summons to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son to appear before it next week in connection with a money laundering case probe, official sources said. The development comes on a day the Supreme Court adjourned Anil Deshmukh's plea, which sought protection from any coercive action by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the criminal case registered under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), and said it would hear his petition on August 3. The 71-year-old NCP politician and his son, Hrishikesh Deshmukh, have been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case on August 2 at the ED's office in south Mumbai. This is the fourth summons to Anil Deshmukh. The notice has been issued under provisions of the PMLA as the agency wants to further record his statement in this case, sources said. Anil Deshmukh has skipped at least three summonses of the federal probe agency in the past for questioning in the case. His son and wife too were summoned and they also did not appear. He recently issued a video statement stating that he would appear before the ED "after" the apex court's decision on his petition. "I had received ED's summons after which I filed a petition in the Supreme Court. I will go to the ED to record my statement after the SC's decision on my petition," Anil Deshmukh had said. The summonses were issued in connection with the criminal case registered under the PMLA related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Anil Deshmukh's resignation in April. The agency had last month raided his premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from that of his aides and some others. It subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). The ED's case against Anil Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Early this month, the agency had also attached assets worth Rs 4.20 crore of Anil Deshmukh and his family. The ED had claimed its probe found that "Deshmukh, while acting as home minister of Maharashtra, with dishonest intention has received illegal gratification of approximately Rs 4.70 crore in cash from various orchestra bar owners, through (suspended) Sachin Waze, then the assistant police inspector of Mumbai Police." Anil Deshmukh has denied any wrongdoing in these instances and his lawyers have called the ED action against him unjustified. He had said Param Bir Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner. The ED had earlier claimed in court that Waze recorded his statement before the agency stating he "collected" Rs 4.70 crore cash from Mumbai bar owners and "handed it over" to Anil Deshmukh's personal assistant (Shinde). The police officer is lodged in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai in connection with a NIA case related to the recovery of a explosives laden SUV near the residence of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani and a linked death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. The ED said Waze also recorded his statement saying he attended a meeting at the official residence of the then home minister wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and asked "to collect Rs 3 lakh per month from each bar and restaurant" in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Centre asks states to conduct vaccine drive for beggars, vagabonds||The Centre has urged states and union territories to conduct special vaccination sessions for the destitute, beggars and vagabonds who may not have access to self-registration and lack resources for vaccination. In a letter to the chief secretaries of states and the administrators of UTs, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state government may take the help of NGOs, civil society organisations and public spirited citizens/volunteers in this endeavour. Bhushan said more than 45 crore vaccine doses have been administered till date. The vaccination drive is people-centric and provisions have been made to make it accessible to all eligible priority groups irrespective of their socioeconomic status, he said in his letter dated July 29. "There is a need to keep the focus of Covid vaccination on the most vulnerable groups to ensure vaccination is equitable and accessible to all," the letter said. "The vaccination of destitutes and vagabonds who may not have access to self-registration and lack resources for vaccination, needs to be facilitated. States and UTs may adopt a targeted approach to cover this group," said the letter addressed. The ministry has already advised all states and UTs, through a letter on May 6, for providing Covid vaccination to such group of people like beggars, nomads, people residing in rehabilitation camps etc while sharing the SOPs regarding vaccination of persons who do not possess prescribed identity card, he said. "You are, therefore, requested to direct the concerned Departments of Social Justice and Empowerment and Health in your State/UT to work together to facilitate vaccination of the destitutes, beggars and vagabonds. "Concerned Departments of the State Government may take the help of NGOs/CSOs and public spirited citizens/volunteers in this endeavour. Special session may be planned for conducting the vaccination for this group of persons," the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India|| When will the government give up its ostrich-like attitude, Chidamnaram asks on Pegasus row||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday attacked the government over the Pegasus snooping allegations, asking whether it will give up its "ostrich-like attitude" and agree to the Opposition's demand for a full discussion in Parliament on the issue. The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been adjourned repeatedly over Opposition protests demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations since the Monsoon Session commenced on July 19. Attacking the government, Chidambaram said another case of misuse of Pegasus spyware has been revealed now with France's national cybersecurity agency confirming that Pegasus spyware was infiltrated into phones belonging to two journalists of Mediapart, an investigative journal in France. "Mediapart is the media organization that broke the story that the Rafale aircraft deal was being probed in France," the former home minister said. "Will the government give up its ostrich-like attitude and agree to the Opposition's demand for a full discussion in Parliament on misuse of Pegasus spyware in India? How long can the government duck and hide and scoot when all that the Opposition wants is a full debate?" Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw -- businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Maharashtra: Woman banker killed by debt-ridden ex-manager||A woman official of a private bank at Virar in Maharashtra's Palghar district was stabbed to death, while her female colleague was injured in an attack by two persons, including a debt-ridden former manager of the same branch, police said on Friday. The incident occurred at ICICI Bank's Virar east branch around 8.30 pm on Thursday. The two victims were the only persons working in the bank at that time, they said. Anil Dubey, one of the two accused arrested in the case, is a former manager of the same branch of the bank where the incident took place, senior inspector Suresh Varade of Virar police station said. The accused duo entered the bank and threatened its assistant manager Yogita Vartak and cashier Shraddha Devrukhkar - at knifepoint when they were doing some official work, he said. The accused asked them to hand over cash and jewellery and tried to flee with the booty, when the two women raised an alarm and tried to stop the robbers. However, the accused stabbed Vartak and Devrukhkar, he added. Dubey was later caught by the people, who chased him. However, his accomplice escaped from the spot, Varade said. People found Vartak lying motionless in a pool of blood inside the bank, while her colleague was badly injured. They were rushed to a hospital, where the former was declared brought dead, police said. Dubey is a former manager of the same branch of the bank where the drama unfolded. He had taken a loan of Rs 1 crore and in order to repay the amount, he conspired to loot this bank. He currently works with another private bank in Naigaon in the district, Varade said. Devrukhar was admitted to a private hospital, where she was undergoing treatment, while Vartak's body was sent for post-mortem, police said. A case has been registered against the accused under IPC sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) at Virar police station. Police have launched a search for Dubey's accomplice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Bombay HC grants temporary bail to Elgaar-accused Surendra Gadling||The Bombay High Court on Friday granted temporary bail to lawyer Surendra Gadling, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, to enable him to perform certain rituals for his mother who died last year. Gadling, lodged at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, can be out on bail from August 13 to 21, said a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar. Earlier this year, he had moved the HC through his lawyers R Sathyanarayan and senior counsel Indira Jaising against a lower court's denial of emergency bail to him to attend his mother's funeral when she died of Covid-19 in August 2020. His lawyers told the HC last week that as most of his family members were either hospitalized or under home isolation then, the last rites and condolence meeting for his mother were yet to be performed. The family has decided to perform these rites on her first death anniversary on August 15, advocate Jaising told the court, seeking temporary bail for him. The court granted the request on Friday. Gadling was asked to submit his passport before the special National Investigation Agency court and also his "whole itinerary" for the period of bail. The HC also directed Gadling to furnish two sureties for Rs 50,000 each. He will have to attend the local police station at 10 am on August 16 and August 19. He can not leave Nagpur city except for immersing his mother's ashes in the Bina river on August 19, the judges said. Gadling was arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case on June 6, 2018, and has remained in prison awaiting trial since then. He and several other activists have been arrested in the case for alleged links with the Naxals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Searches carried out after suspected drone sighting near IB in Jammu||The Jammu and Kashmir Police carried out searches in Pargwal area near the International Border (IB) here after local residents allegedly spotted a flying object believed to be a drone, officials said on Friday. The operation was launched in several villages of Pargwal late Thursday evening, shortly after a local resident noticed a blinking light in the sky at around 8.30 pm and alerted fellow villagers, they said. However, the search operation was suspended late night and resumed at around 5 am this morning. However, nothing objectionable was recovered during the operation. Three suspected Pakistani drones were also sighted simultaneously over Bari-Brahmana, Chiladya and Gagwal areas in Samba district around the same time on Thursday. A massive combing operation was carried out in the areas where the movement of the suspected drones was picked up throughout the night and in the morning. However, nothing was found on the ground, a police official said. Personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) fired a couple of rounds towards one of the drones in Chiladya before it returned to the Pakistani side, officials said. The other two drones disappeared from the sky shortly after hovering over sensitive security installations at Bari Brahmana and along Jammu-Pathankot highway in Gagwal, they said. The latest sightings were recorded nearly a week after police shot down a Pakistani drone carrying five-kg Improvised Explosive Device (IED) material in the border belt of Kanachak near here. There has been a spurt in drone activities, especially after the bombing of Indian Air Force (IAF) Station in Jammu on June 27, resulting in injuries to two security personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||CBSE: Over 65,000 students await Class 12 results||The wait is not over for nearly 65,000 class 12 students whose results are yet to be declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The board announced the results for class 12 on Friday, however, the scores of 65,184 candidates have been held back. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19 and the results have been prepared on basis of an alternate assessment policy announced by the CBSE. For class 12 scores, the marks of classes 10 and 11, and internal assessment during class 12, have been taken into account. "The result of about 1,060 new schools is still under process as there was no reference year. Hence, the board is looking into the interest of these candidates and their result will be declared latest by August 5," said Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examinations. These students have been placed under the "results later" category in today's announcement of scores. This year, 99.37 per cent of over 14.30 lakh students have cleared the exam. Continuing with the trend, girls have outshone boys but the margin has been reduced to 0.54 per cent from 5.96 per cent last year. The number of candidates scoring above 95 per cent has also increased from 38,686 last year to 70,004 this year. No merit list has been announced this year. "CBSE will be issuing a combined marksheet-cum-certificate to students unlike separate documents issued in previous years," Bhardwaj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Pegasus controversy a 'non-issue', says Pralhad Joshi||As Opposition protests over alleged snooping using Pegasus spyware continue to disrupt Parliamentary proceedings, Union minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday said the controversy was a "non-issue" and that the government was ready for discussions on people-related issues. The Pegasus spyware issue has snowballed into a political controversy, disrupting Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19. IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has given a statement on the issue in both the Houses but the Opposition parties are not satisfied and are demanding specific answers. As yet another day of Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned due to vociferous protests, Joshi, the Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister, urged the protesting members to allow the House to function while speaking during the Question Hour. While describing the Opposition's behaviour as "unfortunate", the minister said in the Lower House that the spyware issue was not a serious one. Noting that the IT Minister has already given a detailed statement on the issue in both the Houses, Joshi said the protests are over a "non-issue, non-serious issue". "There are so many issues directly related to the people of India... government is ready for discussions," he said. This week, the Lower House passed some bills without much discussion amid the din. "We don't want to pass bills without discussions," Joshi asserted. Amid uproar, Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day. Earlier, the House was adjourned for half an hour till noon. As soon as the House met for the day, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury sought to raise certain issues but was not allowed. During Question Hour, Opposition members raised slogans and displayed placards as they protested on Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||70 cases of Delta Plus variant found in genome sequencing in India, Lok Sabha told||Seventy cases of coronavirus Delta Plus variant were found in genome sequencing by INSACOG, a grouping of 28 laboratories involved in the task, Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday. In a written response to a question in the Lok Sabha, he said so far, 58,240 samples of SARS-CoV2 have been sequenced in the country and of these, 46,124 were analysed. A majority of these samples -- 17,169 -- were of Delta variant, Singh said. The Delta variant of SARS-CoV2 was behind the deadly second wave in the country that killed thousands and infected lakhs from March to May. It is also driving the pandemic in different parts of the world. This variant of coronavirus was first detected in India. There were 4,172 cases of the Alpha variant, followed by 217 of Beta and just one of Gamma. "A total of 70 Delta Plus strains have been found as on 23.07.2021," Singh said. In Maharashtra, 23 cases of Delta Plus variant were detected, followed by 11 in Madhya Pradesh, 10 in Tamil Nadu, four in Chandigarh, three each in Kerala and Karnataka, two each in Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and one each in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Jammu, Rajasthan, Odisha and Himachal Pradesh. In a statement on July 19, the INSACOG said there is currently no evidence of any new Delta sub-lineage that is of greater concern than Delta. Singh said INSACOG collects samples through the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) network for public health purpose to assess the impact on transmissibility and disease severity. The 28 laboratories of the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHF&W), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Ministry of Education, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and state governments are located in 13 states and Union Territories. The overall aim of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomics consortium is to monitor the genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2 in the country. Efforts in terms of expansion of INSACOG and onboarding more laboratories have been undertaken. The criteria for recognising the laboratories have been finalised. Laboratories that fulfil the criteria are recognised as INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratory, Singh informed the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Why is Covid the untamed beast in Kerala? ||Two months ago, Kerala Government officials had sounded briskly confident that they had the coronavirus under control. On May 12, daily new infections had peaked at 43,529 and after that, numbers began moving steadily downwards. Over the next two to three weeks, officials insisted, cases would fall further and the second wave would be largely history. That optimism has proved premature. India’s medically best-equipped state is still struggling to wrestle the pandemic to the ground. Since troughing at 8,063 new daily cases in late June, the infection curve has moved steadily upward. The latest figures show Kerala accounting for over half the national caseload -- 22,056 cases out of 43,132 nationally on Wednesday. And that’s despite 35 per cent of the state's population having received their first vaccine and an impressive 16 per cent both jabs (way above the 8 per cent rate nationally). So what’s going on? At one level, there’s the view that the state’s high caseload may just reflect its diligence in detecting new cases. Says virologist Shahid Jameel: “The only answer I can see is Kerala is testing more widely and is reporting honestly -- and trying to keep down mortality.” Some experts, though, say more investigation is needed to see if other factors are at play. Says Sulphi Noohu, president-elect Indian Medical Association, Kerala wing: “We definitely need to study if there’s some other factor. Possibly, more genomic testing is called for” that might detect new variants, for instance. Inevitably, there’s the fear the Kerala cases could spread to neighbouring states or to other parts of the country and trigger a devastating third wave. Alarmingly, seven out of 14 Kerala districts have seen infection levels rising in the last four weeks. The state’s imposing a two-day lockdown over the coming weekend but experts say stricter movement curbs may be needed. Low mortality numbers Puzzlingly, cases have been rising despite the fact the state has done just about everything right with its “war rooms” that collect data on hospital beds and monitor patients. At the peak of the Covid-19 crisis, it was able to keep deaths at a low level and even now its mortality numbers are lower than other states, Kerala has an ageing population and there are a huge number of people who suffer from diabetes and other comorbidities. For example, Kerala on July 29 had 22,056 Covid-19 cases and Maharashtra had only 6,857. But Kerala had 131 deaths compared to Maharashtra’s 286. In fact, the argument widely accepted by even eminent virologists like Gagandeep Kang is Kerala may be a victim of its own success in not letting the pandemic accelerate out of control. This, experts say, is suggested by the latest seropositivity studies which track the number of people who have Covid-19 antibodies. In Kerala, only 44 per cent have antibodies compared to 67 per cent nationwide. The downside is it means a larger chunk of the Kerala population is still vulnerable to the infection and hitherto uninfected people now are catching the virus. Nationally, Madhya Pradesh leads the way with 79 per cent seropositivity. Then, look at Covid-19 case detection. The ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) serosurvey concluded India nationally has detected only one in 33 cases. Kerala, by contrast, has been able to capture one out of six. Maharashtra, the other state with a huge number of cases that are just coming down, is reckoned to have detected one out of 12 cases. While last year it was testing between 50,000 and 70,000 people daily, on one day this week tests touched 199,000. The Kerala government insists its ‘cluster’ testing is way more effective than what’s done in most of India. Cluster testing involves testing everyone who has had contact with a patient. Some slip-ups nevertheless But there have been slip-ups in Kerala’s Covid-19 handling just as in other parts of the country. The state relaxed social-distancing controls, first for local and then state-level elections. Last year, during Onam, the state’s main festival, people who’d stayed inside carefully suddenly got into socialising mode. Worryingly, Onam’s just round the corner now in August and officials are expecting a spike in the weeks following. Still, so far, the state has coped well despite heavy odds, State government officials point out there’s never been a bed shortage in general wards or in ICUs even during the devastating second wave. Also, Kerala, which had the existing advantage of good healthcare infrastructure, had plenty of oxygen and there has never been a risk of a shortage unlike in many other parts of India where people died for lack of oxygen. In fact, the state government drew up elaborate plans for the pandemic soon after it received India’s first patient in January 2020 – a medical student back from Wuhan. The planning included rigorous surveillance. For instance, the “route maps of all persons who tested positive were published and all primary and secondary contacts traced.” The police force was famously pulled in to control borders. Initially, the state’s efforts were so successful it won praise from the world’s press and the-then state health minister K. K. Shailaja made it to Vogue magazine’s Women of the Year list. But the numbers began to climb when people returned to the state from other parts of India. Some state government officials had expected the first wave to end around December but that didn’t happen. What’s the way forward? One proposed answer is for a long lockdown but the state government’s desperate to avoid that option because the economy’s already taken a big beating. There’s no big industry and many Kerala families are dependent on remittances that have slowed sharply due to Covid. Many people have lost Gulf jobs and others have been unable to return there. Dubai, for instance, isn’t taking people. At another level, small shopkeepers have also been hit. Says health policy expert and ex-UNDP senior advisor Pramod Kumar: “Kerala’s a consumer state and the consumption engine is remittances.” One control step Kerala chief minister P. Vijayan’s just announced is that only 50 per cent of government employees will be called into the office on many days. Also, micro-containment zones have been introduced. Lockdown only option? But these are seen as halfway measures. Jameel believes a lockdown may be the only way to bring the virus to heel. “They should consider it, at least for the top districts: Ernakulam, Mallapuram and Kozhikode,” he says. Mallapuram has been showing a 17 per cent test positivity ratio while the average test positivity ratio in the state has risen to 12.1 per cent. (Contrast that with the 0.08 per cent positivity rate of New Delhi which was devastated by the second wave). There’s another risk to not locking down fully, Jameel points out. “The approach of letting people get infected while preventing deaths is risky because 10-to-30 per cent of those infected, even asymptomatically, develop Long Covid,” creating persistent health problems like fatigue, respiratory problems or chronic pain. Initially, it was thought that ‘herd immunity’ would kick in at around 60 per cent to 65 per cent. But says the IMA’s Noohu: “We need to work out the threshold for herd immunity because we have ‘variants of concern’. It was 60 per cent to 70 per cent initially but now it may be 75 per cent to 80 per cent because of the more contagious Delta.” Plea for more vaccines Ultimately, Kerala government officials say vaccination is the only weapon to finally slay the virus and they’re furiously lobbying the Centre for a bigger share of the vaccines available. Kerala Left MPs note that between July 18 and July 24, 1.8 million state residents were jabbed and are asking for 9 million more doses to keep up the pace of delivery. Kerala ran run out of vaccines this week and it has been awaiting a new consignment. Everyone hopes the situation won’t worsen significantly from here. While cases are rising, the curve has risen more gradually than during the second wave. Kumar notes that during the 1918 Spanish Flu, “it burnt through faster in the army barracks while in the general population, it took longer.” So, it could simply be that Kerala’s rising caseload means the state is paying the price of having kept numbers at manageable levels and ensuring the pandemic didn’t, at any point, overwhelm its healthcare system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Remarks against allopathy: HC seeks Ramdev's stand on plea against him||The Delhi High Court Friday sought Yoga guru Ramdev's stand on a lawsuit against him by several doctors' associations for allegedly spreading misinformation by his statements against allopathy amid the COVID-19 pandemic which purportedly amounts to public nuisance. Justice Hari Shankar granted a week's time to Ramdev to file his response and said that he would not grant leave for institution of the proceedings in the absence of a reply. "Public nuisance has some consequences on the defendant. It is open to the defendant (Ramdev) to say that there is no case. Can't say that I won't give him an opportunity," the judge said. Senior advocate Akhil Sibal, appearing for the associations, argued that to grant permission to institute the suit, the court has to only look at the plea before it and need not seek the other party's response. "It is between me and the court unless it (the plea) is evidently vexatious.. merits will come after I'm permitted," Sibal stated. Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Ramdev, said that the plea was a second bite at the cherry and opposed the grant of leave. The court granted time to Nayar to file his response and said, "They (Ramdev) will file a counter for revoking the leave (if) granted. We will put it next Friday. Let them file a reply." The matter would be heard next on August 10. The associations before court are three Resident Doctors' Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Rishikesh, Patna and Bhubaneshwar, Association of Resident Doctors, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, Union of Resident Doctors of Punjab (URDP); Resident Doctors' Association, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, Meerut and Telangana Junior Doctors' Association, Hyderabad. They alleged that Ramdev was misleading and misrepresenting to the public at large that allopathy was responsible for the deaths of several people infected by COVID-19, and insinuating that allopathic doctors were causing deaths of the patients. In their plea filed through advocate Harshavardhan Kotla, the associations have submitted that the yoga guru was sowing doubts in the minds of general public with respect to the safety and efficacy of not only allopathic treatments but also COVID-19 vaccines. "Being a highly influential person, it is apprehended that Ramdev's statements can influence lakhs of people and divert them from allopathic treatment which are prescribed as the standard form of care even by the government," the plea submitted. The associations alleged in the plea that the misinformation campaign was nothing but an advertisement and marketing strategy to further the sales of the product sold by Ramdev, including Coronil which claims to be an alternative treatment for COVID-19. With the third wave of COVID-19 likely to set in August, it is imperative that Ramdev's sustained misinformation campaign be brought to a halt, the association has pleaded. The other defendants in the plea include Acharya Balkrishna and Patanjali Ayurveda. The court had on June 3 issued summons to Ramdev on a plea by the Delhi Medical Association in connection with his alleged statements against allopathic medicines and claims regarding Patanjali's Coronil kit. The court had refused to restrain Ramdev at that stage saying the allopathic profession was not so fragile. It had, however, orally asked Ramdev's counsel to tell him not to make any provocative statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||CBSE class 12 results: Girls outshine boys as over 99 per cent pass||Maintaining the previous trend, girls outshone boys in CBSE class 12 exams this year by a margin of 0.54 percent, while over 70,000 students scored above 95 percent marks. The results were declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday. "Girls have done better than boys by 0.54 percent. The pass percentage this year is 99.37 percent. No merit list has been announced," a senior board official said. The result for over 65,000 candidates is still being prepared and will be declared by August 5. A total of 70,004 students have scored above 95 per cent marks while 1,50,152 students have cored above 90 per cent. As many as "6149 students have been placed in compartment," the official said. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19, and the result will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy by the board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Suspension of scheduled international passenger flights extended till August 31||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till August 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 24 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||My comment on rape victims taken out of context, says Goa CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who has drawn criticism over his remark about the gang-rape of two girls, on Friday said his statement was taken out of context, and added that the safety of minors has to be a shared responsibility . He also said that he was deeply pained by the incident and would ensure that the accused in the case get the most stringent punishment under the law . Four men, one of them a driver with the agriculture department, allegedly posed as policemen and raped two girls after beating up the boys who were with them on Benaulim beach on Sunday. All the accused have been arrested. On Wednesday, Sawant had said in the state Assembly that parents need to introspect on why their children were on the beach late at night. The chief minister, who also holds the home portfolio, had said parents have a responsibility to ensure the safety of their children and hinted that they should not let their children, particularly minors, out at night. But his remarks drew angry reactions. In a statement issued here on Friday, Sawant said, "My statement about the unfortunate incident was taken out of context." "Both - as the head of a responsible government and as a father of a 14 year old daughter, I was deeply pained and disturbed. The pain of this incident is inexplicable," he added. The chief minister said that at no point he had tried to deny the right to security provided by the law. "Goa police have been a truly professional force especially when it comes to security of women and children. They have already acted swiftly and arrested the accused, and let me assure you that I shall ensure that the culprits get the most stringent punishment under the law," he added. "The safety of our citizens is always my government's top priority," he said. "The safety of children especially the minor ones has to be a shared responsibility. Our right to security has to be strengthened further with more cautiousness. Children, especially minors, need guidance of their elders," he said. The chief minister said that there is a curfew imposed in the state, and people are restricted at public places. "So, when I spoke about a shared responsibility for minor children, it was out of concern, care and love for my fellow citizens and our children," he added. "We all love our kids. Being the chief minister, my feeling of concern is extended to all the children of Goa," Sawant said. He added that both as an individual and as the chief minister, he can never ever directly, indirectly or remotely hurt the sentiments of the fellow citizens of Goa. "I put this on record today," he said. Sawant reiterated that there would be no compromise in matters concerning the safety and security of children. "Let there be no place for misunderstanding. Let us stand united. Let us trust each other. Let us stand united as one Goa so that all such evils can be defeated with all our might," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||HC to hear pleas of FB, WhatsApp challenging new IT Rules in August||The Delhi High Court Friday said it will hear on August 27 the pleas by Facebook and WhatsApp challenging the new IT rules for social media intermediaries, requiring the messaging app to trace chats and make provisions to identify the first originator of information, on the ground that they violate the right to privacy and are unconstitutional. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh listed the matter for August 27 after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said he was in some difficulty and urged the court to adjourn the hearing. The request was not opposed by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp and Facebook respectively. The new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 were announced by the government on February 25 and requires large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to comply with the norms by May 25. The Facebook owned WhatsApp in its plea said the requirement of intermediaries enabling the identification of the first originator of information in India upon government or court order puts end-to-end encryption and its benefits "at risk". WhatsApp LLC has urged the high court to declare Rule 4(2) of the Intermediary Rules as unconstitutional, ultra vires to the IT Act and illegal and sought that no criminal liability be imposed on it for any alleged non-compliance with Rule 4(2) which requires to enable the identification of the first originator of information. WhatsApp, which has arrayed the Centre through the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology as a party to the petition, said the traceability provision is unconstitutional and against the fundamental right to privacy. The plea said the traceability requirement forces the company to break end-to-end encryption on its messaging service, as well as the privacy principles underlying it, and infringes upon the fundamental rights to privacy and free speech of the hundreds of millions of citizens using WhatsApp to communicate privately and securely. It said WhatsApp enables government officials, law enforcement, journalists, members of ethnic or religious groups, scholars, teachers, students, and the like to exercise their right to freedom of speech and expression without fear of retaliation. WhatsApp also allows doctors and patients to discuss confidential health information with total privacy, enables clients to confide in their lawyers with the assurance that their communications are protected, and allows financial and government institutions to trust that they can communicate securely without anyone listening to their conversations, it said. "There is no way to predict which message will be the subject of such a tracing order. Therefore, the petitioner would be forced to build the ability to identify the first originator for every message sent in India on its platform upon request by the government forever. This breaks end-to-end encryption and the privacy principles underlying it, and impermissibly infringes upon users' fundamental rights to privacy and freedom of speech," the petition said. It claimed that Rule 4(2) infringes upon the fundamental right to privacy without satisfying the three-part test set forth by the Supreme Court in K S Puttaswamy judgement, that is, legality, necessity and proportionality. It also said that the rule violates the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression as it chills even lawful speech and citizens will not speak freely for fear that their private communications will be traced and used against them, which is antithetical to the very purpose of end-to-end encryption. Rule 4(2) states that a significant social media intermediary which provides services primarily in the nature of messaging shall enable the identification of the first originator of the information on its computer resource as may be required by a judicial or government order. As per data cited by the government, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram users, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. The new rules were introduced to make social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Instagram -- which have seen a phenomenal surge in usage over the past few years in India -- more accountable and responsible for the content hosted on their platform. Social media companies will have to take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint. Notably, the rules require significant social media intermediaries -- providing services primarily in the nature of messaging -- to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. This could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha chairman expresses concern over conduct of MPs||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu voiced strong concern on Friday over the conduct of some MPs in the Upper House of Parliament during their protest over the Pegasus snooping row and other issues, saying such conduct lowered the dignity and prestige of the House. Appealing to the members to maintain decorum and decency in the House, he said some MPs were whistling while some others used placards to block the view of ministers. A few others placed their hands over the shoulders of the marshals when the MPs of opposition parties such as the Congress and the TMC were protesting over different issues in the Well of the House. "All these things are taking the House to a new low. I am very much concerned about this," Naidu said at the start of the day's business. "I only request to all the members to see that the decency and dignity of the House is maintained. That is my earnest appeal. There is a limit to patience and we should not exhaust the patience of the House." He said the two options before him are to either allow such conduct and convert the House into a "bazaar" or take action. "House has a decorum, prestige and practice. That has to be seen," he said. While protesting over issues is fine, the dignity and the prestige of the House should not be compromised, Naidu said. MPs from opposition parties have stalled the proceedings in the Rajya Sabha since the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament on July 19 over issues ranging from the use of Israeli-made, military-grade Pegasus spyware to snoop on political rivals, critics of the government and journalists, to contentious farm laws and the fuel price hike. "It was brought to my notice that some members are whistling in the House. 'Siti baja rahe hai apni purani aadat se' (whistling because of an old habit). This is House," Naidu said. "Secondly, some members are putting their hands on the shoulders of the marshals. I do not know what prompted them." Also, some members carrying placards are standing in front of the ministers, blocking their view, he said. "There are two ways (to deal with this) -- one, ignore this and allow this to become a bazaar (market). 'Har ek apna siti bajata rahe, bajate raho' (everyone can whistle)," Naidu said. "Second, taking action."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||No deaths due to manual scavenging reported, says Centre||No death has been reported due to manual scavenging, the Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has told Parliament, drawing sharp reaction from activists who said that those people were being robbed of dignity even in their deaths. Manual scavenging is banned under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. In response to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale has said 66,692 manual scavengers were identified. However, on how many deaths of manual scavengers have been recorded, he replied, "No such deaths have been reported due to manual scavenging." The government does not identify deaths due to manual scavenging and instead calls them deaths due to hazardous cleaning of septic tanks and sewers. During the last session of Parliament, on March 10, Athawale had said, "No deaths due to manual scavenging has been reported. However, there have been reports of death of persons while cleaning sewers or septic tanks." Activists have described the government's response as a complete lack of apathy. Bezwada Wilson, the national convener of Safai Karmachari Andolan, an organisation working to eradicate manual scavenging, said the minister had himself admitted that 340 people died while cleaning sewers. "Now, he is making a statement technically and thinking manual scavenging as dry latrines. So, he must mention in his statement very clearly that in dry latrines people may not die but here in septic tanks people die. The government is denying everything and in the same manner, he is denying deaths due to manual scavenging," he told PTI. "It is not fair on the part of the government. When we kill these people we must have the courage to say that it is due to some kind of mistake that we are going to prevent. The government is denying the fundamental right of dignity to these people and is not even counting the deaths. It is a modern form of untouchability -- ignoring the life of a Dalit," Wilson added. Sanjeev Kumar, the secretary of Dalit Adivasi Shakti Adhikar Manch, told PTI that the number of deaths is anyway underreported and the government denying it completely is highly condemnable. "In Delhi alone, there have been so many such deaths. It is very sad that the government is not acknowledging their deaths. Those who lost their lives are being robbed of dignity even in their deaths," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||Yamuna water levels rise, Delhi authorities sound alert||The Delhi administration on Friday sounded a flood alert and expedited efforts to evacuate people living in the Yamuna flood plains, as the river in the capital breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres amid heavy rains in the upper catchment areas, officials said. The water level was recorded at 205.34 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 11 am. It was 205.22 metres at 8:30 am, 205.10 metres at 6 am and 205.17 at 7 am, an official said, adding it is likely to rise further. All the departments concerned have been alerted. The irrigation and flood control department has deployed 13 boats in different areas and put 21 others on standby, the official from the irrigation and flood control department said. With Haryana discharging more water into the river from the Hathnikund Barrage, the Delhi Police and the East Delhi district administration have started evacuating people living on the floodplains of the Yamuna in the capital. These people are being shifted to shelter homes of the city government in the Yamuna Pushta area, the official said. A flood alert is declared when the Yamuna crosses the "warning mark" of 204.50 metres. The situation is being monitored round-the-clock, a district administration official said. The river is in spate because of rains in Delhi and the upper catchment areas, a MeT department official said, adding it may swell further as more rains are predicted in northwest India. The weather department has also issued an "orange alert" for moderate rains in Delhi-NCR for the third day on the trot on Friday. According to the Delhi flood control room, the discharge rate at the Hathnikund Barrage peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs on Tuesday afternoon, the highest this year so far. The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. Haryana had been releasing water from the Yumananagr-located barrage at the rate of 19,056 cusecs at 8 am. The flow rate was 25,839 cusecs at 8 pm on Thursday. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. In 2019, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 metres.In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||SC to hear plea of senior journalist N Ram on Pegasus issue next week||The Supreme Court will next week hear a plea by senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar seeking an independent probe by a sitting or a retired judge into the Pegasus snooping matter. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana on Friday took note of senior advocate Kapil Sibal's submissions that the petition, which has been numbered after filing with the apex court registry, needed an urgent hearing in view of its wide ramifications. "The issue affects the freedom of citizens," the lawyer appearing for Ram and Kumar said, and added that opposition leaders, journalists and even court staff have been put under surveillance. "It is creating waves in India and world over," Sibal said while pressing for an urgent hearing on the plea. "We will list it sometime in next week," the chief justice said. The bench agreed to Sibal's submission that the plea be listed next week except on Tuesday and Wednesday when he will be busy in other matter. According to the plea, the alleged snooping represented an attempt by agencies and organisations to muzzle the exercise of free speech and expression of dissent in India. It seeks an investigation into the hacking of phones using the Pegasus spyware. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. The petition also seeks a direction to the Centre to disclose if the government or any of its agencies obtained licence for Pegasus spyware and used it, either directly or indirectly, to conduct surveillance in any manner. The petitioners claimed that investigations involving several leading publications around the world have revealed that several Indians, including journalists, lawyers, ministers, opposition politicians and activists, have been identified as potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus software. "Forensic analysis by the Security Lab of Amnesty International of several mobile phones, belonging to people targeted for surveillance, has confirmed Pegasus-induced security breaches," the petition claimed. The targeted surveillance using military-grade spyware is an unacceptable violation of the right to privacy which has been held to be a fundamental right under Articles 14 (equality before the law), 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) by the Supreme Court, it added. "The hacking of phones belonging to journalists, doctors, lawyers, activists, ministers and opposition politicians seriously compromises the effective exercise of the fundamental right to free speech and expression," the petition said. "Such an act has an obvious chilling effect on expression by threatening invasion into the most core and private aspects of a person's life," it added. According to the petition, hacking of phones using the Pegasus spyware constituted a criminal offence punishable under Sections 66 (computer related offences), 66B (punishment for dishonestly receiving stolen computer resource or communication device), 66E (punishment for violation of privacy) and 66F (punishment for cyberterrorism) of the IT Act, punishable with imprisonment and/or fine. The attack prima facie constitutes an act of cyber-terrorism that has several grave political and security ramifications, especially considering that the devices of government ministers, senior political figures and constitutional functionaries which may contain sensitive information have been targeted, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||India records over 44,000 fresh Covid cases, 555 casualties in a day||With a single-day rise of 44,230 cases, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,15,72,344 on Friday, while the death toll due to the viral disease shot up to 4,23,217 with 555 more people succumbing to it, the Union health ministry said. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country registered an increase for the third consecutive day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has gone up to 4,05,155, accounting for 1.28 per cent of the total caseload, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.38 per cent, the data showed. An increase of 1,315 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 tally in a span of 24 hours. Also, 18,16,277 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Thursday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 46,46,50,723, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.44 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.43 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 3,07,43,972, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data showed. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 45.6 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5 and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 555 fresh fatalities include 190 from Maharashtra and 128 from Kerala. A total of 4,23,217 Covid deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 1,32,335 from Maharashtra, 36,491 from Karnataka, 34,023 from Tamil Nadu, 25,049 from Delhi, 22,755 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,123 from West Bengal and 16,290 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||CBSE to announce class 12 results at 2pm today||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will announce results for class 12 on Friday, according to officials. "The result will be announced at 2 PM today," a senior board official said. According to the evaluation policy decided by a 13-member panel set up by the board for preparing Class 12 results, the theory paper evaluation formula is 30 per cent weightage will be given to Class 10 marks, 30 percentage weightage to Class 11 marks and 40 per cent weightage to Class 12 marks obtained in unit test/mid-term/pre-board exams. CBSE had announced that Classes 10 and 12 exams for private candidates will be conducted from August 16 to September 15. The board ruled out declaring results of the private candidates on the basis of an alternative assessment policy like that for regular candidates, saying neither schools nor CBSE has any previous assessment record for these students. "The exams will be conducted from August 16 to September 15 and their result will also be declared in minimum possible time to avoid any difficulty to them in admission in higher education," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. Earlier in the day, a group of private candidates staged a protest outside the CBSE headquarters alleging disparity between them and regular candidates. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19, and the result will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy by the board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||New Karnataka CM on Delhi visit first time after taking over from Yediyurappa||New Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi here on Friday. This is his first visit to the national capital after taking over as chief minister of the state. Bommai is also planning to meet Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh as well as BJP national president J P Nadda. Bommai, who was elected as the new leader of the BJP legislature party on Tuesday, following B S Yediyurappa's resignation, took oath as chief minister on Wednesday. On Thursday, Bommai had told reporters in Karnataka that he will discuss the issue of cabinet expansion in the state with the central leadership. "When I go to Delhi to meet the party leadership, I will also try to meet our Members of Parliament and central Ministers from Karnataka on the pending projects and issues concerning the state," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||RBI has given us clean chit in FDI violation case: NewsClick to Delhi High Court ||Delhi High Court on Thursday agreed to record findings that NewsClick, a news website that extensively covered the farmers’ protest, said was a clean chit to it from the Reserve Bank of India over allegations of criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy in receiving foreign direct investment. In a related case of money-laundering, another bench of the high court extended till September 2 the protection to NewsClick from coercive action by the Enforcement Directorate, after chiding the agency for “dilly-dallying”. The ED had searched the NewsClick office and homes of its functionaries for five days in February to investigate alleged money-laundering through an FDI deal. The income-tax department recently questioned its 71-year-old editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha for five hours for alleged tax evasion related to the same foreign investment. The investigative news website also faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit from the Adani group. An FIR by Delhi resident Sobhan Singh alleges the company violated FDI rules by receiving Rs 9.59 crore from a defunct US-based firm, Worldwide Media Holdings LLC, in 2018. NewsClick has said that this investment was received before the FDI cap of 26 per cent for digital media was imposed in 2019. At a hearing on Thursday of a writ petition seeking the quashing of last year’s FIR by Delhi police’s economic offences wing against the company, NewsClick’s counsel asked Justice Yogesh Khanna to record the key point in a status report given to the website by the police. Senior advocate Dayan Krishnan’s demand came after the additional standing counsel for the Delhi government, Avinder Singh, had sought a fortnight’s adjournment saying the police needed to file a status report. Realising that the status report had not been filed in court, Krishnan said: “I don’t know what mischief is happening in the department…. I have been served with the status report on email.” Singh responded: “That was done without it being a final report. If it was done, I apologise.” An electronic copy of the status report from assistant commissioner of police Anil Kumar, viewed by The Telegraph, says: “During the course of investigation reply from RBI has been received where in it is mentioned that as per the Form FCGPR (Foreign Currency-Gross Provisional Return) submitted, the foreign inward remittance, was under automatic route and there was no delay in issue of shares as well as reporting, as per the extant FEMA (Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999) regulations in case of M/s PPK New Click Studio Pvt Limited is concerned.” Justice Khanna agreed to Krishnan’s request and ordered: “The learned senior counsel for the petitioner submits they have already been supplied copy of the status report duly signed by ACP Anil Kumar on 26.07.2021 stating inter alia no cognisable offence is made out per reply of the Reserve Bank of India. The status report be filed and placed on record within two weeks from today. Any discrepancy in status report(s) may be pointed out.” The next hearing is on August 23. Another Delhi High Court bench on Thursday heard three pleas by NewsClick, including a demand for a copy of the enforcement case information report (ECIR) from the ED. NewsClick’s counsel Kapil Sibal complained the ED was yet to comply with the high court’s order to give the ECIR to his client. Failing to get a clear reply from ED prosecutor Anil Mahajan on when the ECIR would be given, Justice Mukta Gupta said: “Prosecution can’t take up this dilly-dallying stand.” Justice Gupta then extended the protection against coercive action. Earlier this month, several media outlets had published reports hinting that NewsClick was guilty, and a TV channel had flashed the names of even junior serving and former employees. The BJP had claimed that the foreign funds were meant for propaganda against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The website had said in a statement on July 18: “The selective leaks from ED regarding their investigation, which is already under challenge before the court, reflect the inherent weakness in their own investigations and the course that it will take in the courts. “Since the matter is already in the courts, NewsClick does not believe that it should participate in a media trial. It is unfortunate that the BJP, the ruling party, also sees fit to air such unfounded allegations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||Assembly passes resolution against Rakesh Asthana’s appointment as Delhi police commissioner||The Delhi Legislative Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against Rakesh Asthana’s appointment as Delhi police commissioner on the ground that it violated a Supreme Court judgment. The resolution, backed by the ruling Aam Aadmi Party and opposed by the BJP, expressed “strong disapproval” over the appointment that goes against a 2019 Supreme Court judgment in Prakash Singh vs Union of India that prohibited the appointment of an officer with less than six months of service left as a director-general of police (DGP). The Delhi police commissioner’s rank is equivalent to that of a DGP. Delhi police report to the Centre. Asthana, who was the DG of the Border Security Force before his current appointment, would have retired on July 31 but was given a year’s extension as the commissioner. The resolution says: “…It is beyond any reasonable understanding as to why a controversial officer who was removed by this central government from the post of special director CBI in October 2018 and was not considered fit for the post of CBI director only very recently, is being imposed on Delhi police.” The resolution added: “Given the past track record of this officer, there is reasonable apprehension that the central government will use him for foisting false cases on political rivals to create a reign of terror in the national capital. “Such a controversial individual should NOT be heading the police force in the country’s national capital.” The resolution directs the Delhi government to ask the ministry of home affairs to withdraw the notification and initiate the appointment process afresh. As a Union Territory, the Delhi Assembly has no power over the police but can seek replies and make recommendations to the Centre and the lieutenant governor, which are not binding. Last year, the CBI had given a clean chit to Asthana, a former CBI special director, in connection with a bribery scandal in 2018. The case had triggered an unprecedented public feud between Asthana and then CBI director Alok Verma. The Centre benched both after an unusual midnight raid on Asthana. Asthana was seen as a favourite for appointment as CBI director earlier this year, but got ruled out when Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana cited a Supreme Court guideline that no officer with less than six months of service left could be appointed. AAP MLA B.S. Joon, during the discussion in the Assembly, said: “If the Centre does not consider the post of DGP as equivalent to Delhi police commissioner, then it is a demotion for Asthana as he has already served as DG, BSF. And if the post of police commissioner is equal to that of a DGP, then it is a clear violation of the SC order.” Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri of the BJP said Asthana had investigated the killing of 59 kar sevaks in Godhra in 2002 and sent the accused to jail. “He punished those who killed Ram bhakts and if someone is pained by that then what can one say,” Bidhuri added. Asthana had probed the Godhra train carnage as the deputy inspector-general of police in Gujarat. A trial court acquitted 63 of the 94 accused in 2011, including Maulana Umarji, who was described as the “mastermind” in the chargesheet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Citizens pen open letter to CJI seeking SC intervention||Over 500 citizens from various walks of life on Thursday addressed an open letter to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana seeking the immediate intervention of the Supreme Court to demand answers from the Centre on the Pegasus controversy. The signatories, who include some renowned rights defenders, reposed faith in a recent statement by Justice Ramana that people know that “when things go wrong, the judiciary will stand by them”. The joint letter said the alleged snooping on judges, political leaders, journalists, activists and others with the help of the Israeli spyware was a serious assault on citizens’ fundamental right to privacy, life and liberty. The letter also asked several questions. “The Supreme Court has the power and duty to ask these questions, and it must speak for us — just as you recently assured us while speaking at an event in mid-July, ‘People are confident that they will get relief and justice from the judiciary. They know that when things go wrong, the judiciary will stand by them. The Indian Supreme Court is the guardian of the largest democracy’,” the open letter said. “We hope that your office will lose no time in taking notice of this matter, and seeking time-bound answers to protect our rights and freedoms, its own credibility as an institution and in defence of our Constitution,” the signatories added. “The Pegasus project and information in public domain raises concerns for the integrity of constitutional authorities including the independence of the Supreme Court. “Human rights activists have repeatedly asserted that such hacking as well as other kinds of abuse of office has resulted in malicious prosecution, wrongful imprisonment, custodial torture, and custodial death of political prisoners,” the letter said. The signatories added: “This letter is therefore both an assessment that things have gone very wrong indeed as well as an appeal to the judiciary for meaningful reassurances from the Supreme Court that the promises to citizens of the rule of law, justice, equal rights, and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution still guide Indian democracy.” The letter urged the Supreme Court to declare a moratorium on the export, sale, transfer and use of Pegasus in India and expressed shock that the military-grade spyware, sold only to governments for counter-terrorism measures, had been used to target and carry out surveillance also on women students, academics, human rights defenders, lawyers and victims of sexual violence. The letter expressed anguish at the findings of the Pegasus Project that a Supreme Court employee and her family had allegedly been put on the list of potential targets for surveillance after she had accused the then Chief Justice of India, Ranjan Gogoi, of sexual harassment and victimisation. The signatories requested the Supreme Court to adopt a gender-just sexual harassment policy and a data protection and privacy framework that would shield people from such cyber warfare and safeguard the independence of the judiciary. It was submitted that concerns on gender equality and human rights were inextricably linked to the assurance of the right to privacy and protection from surveillance. “For women, the Pegasus scandal is deeply concerning, for speaking out against the state and men in positions of state power has meant that their lives are wrecked by such surveillance permanently,” the letter said. The signatories include crusaders for democratic freedom Aruna Roy and Anjali Bhardwaj; human rights activists Kavita Srivastava, Teesta Setalvad and Harsh Mander; lawyers Vrinda Grover and Kalpana Kannabiran; scholars Jhuma Sen, Aparna Chandra and Pratiksha Baxi; academics and scientists Zoya Hasan, Niraja Gopal Jayal, Utsa Patnaik, Jayati Ghosh, Rosemary Dzivuchu, Romila Thapar, Sukanta Chaudhuri and Ram Ramaswamy; writers Arundhati Roy, V. Geetha, Githa Hariharan and Amit Chaudhuri; musicians and artistes T.M. Krishna, Pushpamala N, Prem Chandavarkar and Vivian Sundaram; politicians Kavita Krishnan and Manoj Jha; and journalists Anuradha Bhasin, Patricia Mukhim and John Dayal. The signatories also include students and research scholars; retired government officials; retired members of the armed forces; entrepreneurs; RTI, human rights and women’s rights activists; health professionals and members of social organisations. The letter has asked the following questions: ⚫ Did any Indian entity purchase Pegasus, the Israeli spyware that only the government or government-linked agencies can buy? ⚫ If so, which entity bought the software? How was it paid for? ⚫ If it was indeed purchased, how were the targets for hacking chosen and what use was made of the information so gained? ⚫ What were the admissible justifications for such targeting, and before which constitutional authority were they presented? ⚫ Which constitutional authority oversaw or reviewed the criminal violation of the privacy of so many individuals, including journalists, politicians, lawyers, human rights activists and academics (and the SC staffer and her family members), so that they came to be on the list of Pegasus targets?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||Pegasus snooping: Opposition firm on Modi govt’s clarification||The Narendra Modi government’s reluctance to immediately discuss the Pegasus snooping allegations and the Opposition’s insistence on a debate — launching a signature campaign in the Lok Sabha — continued to stymie Parliament proceedings for the eighth day. The Opposition on Thursday upped the ante on Pegasus, demanding discussions on the snooping controversy in both Houses of Parliament, but the government appeared to be fighting shy of such debates despite claiming readiness to “discuss all issues”. At a meeting of the Lok Sabha business advisory committee chaired by Speaker Om Birla, the government said the Covid situation should be discussed first but the Opposition remained firm on Pegasus, sources said. The Rajya Sabha has already discussed the pandemic in the ongoing monsoon session and the government’s wish to take it up in the Lok Sabha as well is being seen as an attempt to divert attention from the snooping row. The Congress members in the Lok Sabha launched a signature drive on Thursday to demand a discussion on Pegasus. “Tomorrow the memorandum with the signatures of Opposition MPs will be submitted to the Lok Sabha Speaker,” Congress MP Kodikunnil Suresh said. “The government is running away from a discussion on Pegasus and accusing us of stalling the House,” Suresh said. Sources in the government said that while the Centre could eventually agree to a discussion on Pegasus, it was of the opinion that the Opposition was trying to score a point by insisting that Prime Minister Modi or home minister Amit Shah address Parliament on the snooping controversy, and not any other minister. In a bid to break the stalemate, Rajya Sabha leader Piyush Goyal and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi reached out to leader of the Opposition in the Upper House, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, on Thursday. Sources claimed that at the meeting, the government showed readiness to discuss Pegasus but said newly appointed minister for electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw would reply in the House. This was not acceptable to the Opposition. Vaishnaw had earlier tried to make a statement in the Rajya Sabha but Opposition members had vehemently protested. “The Pegasus snooping is a very serious issue and none less than the Prime Minister or the home minister should clarify to Parliament,” an Opposition MP said. Government managers said they feared the Opposition was eyeing a washout of the monsoon session to gain political mileage and so the ruling side was treading carefully on accepting the demand for an immediate discussion on Pegasus. “What is the guarantee that the Opposition will let Parliament run if Pegasus is discussed? After Pegasus they can pick up other issues like repeal of farm laws to stall Parliament,” a BJP leader said. Internally, however, the government is wary of getting cornered if Pegasus is discussed in both Houses as the Opposition would press for a clear answer on whether the Centre had purchased the spyware from Israeli firm NSO and used it to snoop on judges, journalists, politicians, activists and others. The government has been evading a direct reply to the specific question on whether it had acquired Pegasus. At the same time the government doesn’t want to be seen as mothballing a discussion on Pegasus and it may deploy senior leader and defence minister Rajnath Singh to talk to the Opposition and break the deadlock, the sources said. “Rajnathji could reach out to Kharge and other Opposition leaders on Friday,” a BJP MP said. However, despite the uproarious protests by the Opposition, the government has been slowly passing bills amid the din without any discussion. On Thursday, the Centre passed two bills in just 23 minutes before the Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India|| Congress asks Centre if Pegasus was bought and used on citizens||The Congress on Thursday expressed outrage at the responses of the Narendra Modi government to the Pegasus snooping controversy at a time when many countries have initiated investigations and the Israeli defence ministry has raided spyware-maker NSO Group in the wake of rising global concern. “India is the largest democracy in the world. When will we wake up? When other countries will have completed investigations and submitted their reports? Can’t we get an answer to the simplest question: Did you buy Pegasus and use it on Indian citizens? Instead of giving answers, the question itself is being described as a conspiracy. We are mystified, amazed by the government’s response,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said. He added: “What are the responses so far — it’s bogus, it’s a hoax, timing is suspect, everything is being done as per law, we can discuss it outside but not in Parliament. But no answer to the question whether the government had purchased Pegasus or not? The government is obviously frightened, doing everything to hide the truth.” The Congress parliamentary strategy committee met on Thursday evening amidst the continuing deadlock and decided not to let the government off the hook, dismissing the propaganda on disruption as a ploy to divert attention from the serious issue of snooping. Rajya Sabha chief whip Jairam Ramesh told The Telegraph after the meeting: “The government is adamantly refusing to have a discussion on the Pegasus issue that has grave national security implications. All Opposition parties are united in demanding a discussion with a reply by the home minister Amit Shah, if not by the Prime Minister.” The Congress sees a link between the raid on NSO by Israel’s defence ministry and the outrage expressed by French President Emmanuel Macron and expects more skeletons to tumble out in the coming days, compelling the Modi government to change its stand. A Congress leader said: “Our assessment is that Modi and Shah are rattled and using all kinds of digressions to minimise the impact of the Pegasus scandal. But there are global ramifications which make things unpredictable.” Singhvi said: “Has it ever happened that ruling party MPs have come to a parliamentary standing committee meeting and refused to mark attendance to ensure lack of quorum? They were present but didn’t sign the attendance register.” On Wednesday, BJP members didn’t mark their attendance at the meeting of the standing committee on information technology to discuss Pegasus. Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Thursday: “The foundation of our democracy is the right of the elected representative to raise people’s concerns in Parliament. Modi government is not allowing the Opposition to do this job. Don’t waste the time of Parliament any more — let us discuss inflation, farmers and Pegasus.” Posting about the French NGO, which said the “Rafale deal has systematic elements of international corruption”, and whose findings led to a judicial probe in that country, Rahul tweeted: “There has been massive corruption in the #Rafale deal. ‘If you are right and you know it, speak your mind. Even if you are a minority of one, the truth is still the truth — Mahatma Gandhi.’”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Govt to implement OBC reservation in all-India pool medical seats ||The Centre on Thursday decided to implement reservation for the Other Backward Classes and the Economically Weaker Sections in the all-India pool seats in state medical colleges from the current academic year. “The present government is committed to providing due reservation both to the backward category as well as the EWS category. The Union government has now taken a historic decision to provide for 27 per cent reservation for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for EWS in the AIQ scheme,” said a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau, the Centre’s publicity wing. The decision came a week after Madras High Court criticised the delay in introducing a quota for OBCs within the 15 per cent undergraduate seats and the 50 per cent postgraduate seats reserved by state medical colleges under the all-India pool, known as the All-India Quota (AIQ) scheme. The decision is expected to every year benefit nearly 1,500 OBC students in MBBS courses and 2,500 OBC students in postgraduate courses, and around 550 EWS students in MBBS programmes and 1,000 EWS students in PG programmes, the release added. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes already have quotas of 15 per cent and 7.5 per cent, respectively, in the all-India pool of medical seats. However, some OBC groups like the All India Federation of Backward Classes Employees Association expressed disappointment at the uniform reservation of 27 per cent seats for the OBCs in the all-India pool seats across states. They demanded that OBCs, SCs and STs get the same percentage of reservation in the 15 per cent all-India pool as they are offered in the remaining 85 per cent seats that are at the disposal of the states. Different states have different quotas for OBCs, SCs and STs within this 85 per cent, based on the population composition. Tamil Nadu reserves 50 per cent of these seats for OBCs, 18 per cent for SCs and 1 per cent for STs. The ruling DMK that had filed a case in Madras High Court had demanded that the state reservation policy apply to the all-India quota seats as well in Tamil Nadu medical colleges. “We want 69 per cent reservation in the all-India pool seats, including 50 per cent for OBCs. The Union health ministry had supported the implementation of a state-specific reservation policy on these seats. Now they have implemented a different formula. This is disappointing,” said G. Karunanidhy, general secretary of the federation. On July 27, 2020, Madras High Court had directed the OBC quota’s implementation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges. It had also ordered the setting up of an expert committee to examine the terms of implementation. The committee had favoured the implementation while leaving it to the government to take a decision on whether to offer a uniform 27 per cent OBC reservation in the all-India pool seats or opt for state-specific reservation. The Centre, however, submitted the report of the committee before the Supreme Court in a case pending since 2015, triggering allegations of deliberate delay. The case had been filed by an aspiring medical student seeking reservation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges. The NEET brochure for this year mentions that the OBC reservation in the all-India pool will depend on the outcome of the case in the Supreme Court. On July 19 this year, Madras High Court had held as “contumacious” the Centre’s earlier decision against implementing its judgment in favour of OBC reservation in the all-India pool in state medical colleges. Sashank Ratnoo, a Supreme Court lawyer and an expert on OBC issues, welcomed the government’s latest decision. “The matter had been lingering for long. Now the government has decided to implement the reservation. It is a welcome decision,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||18-year-old Kerala girl braves cop wrath to stand up for stranger||A teenager who took on the police for fining and berating an elderly man while enforcing the Covid protocol has become the toast of Kerala by standing up for a stranger. Gauri Nanda, 18, had asked the two policemen why they had imposed a Rs 500 fine on Shihabuddin who was in a queue outside an ATM at Chadayamangalam, Kollam, on Monday. His alleged offence was not maintaining physical distance. A video filmed by an unknown bystander has been circulating on social media. Gauri, who cleared her Plus 2 (high secondary) exams on Wednesday, said she and her mother had visited the ATM while returning from a nearby hospital. While coming out of the ATM kiosk, she saw policemen arguing with an elderly man. “I reacted when I saw a poor man being targeted in the name of Covid protocol although everyone in the queue was maintaining adequate distance from one another,” Gauri, the elder of a day labourer’s two children, told The Telegraph on Thursday. “I went up to the officer and asked what it was all about.” The video clip begins by showing Gauri and a policeman apparently arguing about something but the words are inaudible. She is then heard saying: “You (police) too are standing together (violating the protocol).” The cop retorts: “You don’t have to teach me; I know how to responsibly carry out my duties.” Gauri asks the second policeman whether there’s a need to penalise Shihabuddin. He replies: “I cannot touch you since you are a woman, else I would have pushed you away.” After that, the audio becomes unclear again. Gauri and the policemen are seen talking and gesticulating. Gauri alleged that one of the policemen used an abusive word while talking to her. “An officer using such a word enraged me and I decided not to tolerate such behaviour,” she told this newspaper. She said that when she asked why the policeman had used such a word, he told her to check a dictionary and then “come and tell me what it means”. Gauri said she then walked away. An official at the Chadayamangalam police station said Gauri had been booked in an FIR the same day under Section 117E of the Kerala Police Act (threatening, obstructing or assaulting a police officer to prevent them discharging their duties, punishable by up to three years in jail). Gauri said a member of the Kerala Women’s Commission, Shahida Kamal, had called her on Monday and assured help. Kamal told this newspaper: “We cannot stop the police from registering a case, so we only asked them not to include any non-bailable offence. We received a report from the police this afternoon saying only a bailable section had been included.” Gauri said she had not complained to the women’s commission or the police about an officer using an abusive word because her family and friends advised her not to pursue the matter. The teen had a pleasant surprise on Wednesday evening when Shihabuddin traced her address and arrived to thank her. “It was so nice of him to visit me. He promised to support me if I faced any issues over this case,” she said. Gauri said she wanted everyone to know that “we should not allow ourselves to be cowed down by anyone and there is nothing to fear if we haven’t erred”. “Gauri Nanda of Chadayamangalam is our hero. The girl has taught us what a model citizen should be in a democracy,” a man named Faizi S commented on Facebook. Unni Mukundhan, another Facebook user, wrote: “They don’t have any complaints about thousands of people queuing up outside liquor shops.” Vince KJ posted: “There is no point having several sons. We need just one daughter like this to question injustice.” Gauri plans to do a BCom at a local college and eventually become a chartered accountant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||NEP: Students can design half their curricula under new feature||Undergraduate and postgraduate students enrolled in general stream programmes can design half their curricula themselves under a new feature of the education policy that comes into effect from the upcoming academic year, expected to start in October. Students will have to study a minimum 50 per cent of the core subjects of their academic programme, and at the parent institutions where they are enrolled. But for the other half, they can choose any combination of papers in any subject from any university — or set of universities — and pursue it online or offline. For example, a physics student enrolled with one university can map out up to half her curriculum with papers in, say, English, sociology and zoology from multiple institutions. The credits the students earn from the other universities can be deposited in an Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) and redeemed when their parent universities award their degrees. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday announced a host of initiatives, including the ABC architecture, while speaking about the National Education Policy completing a year. The ABC will be an online entity where students can operate their own Academic Bank Account, depositing with it all their academic credits earned from various courses and institutions. To make the system a success, all the Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs) will have to amend their academic rules and register with the ABC. Some academics fear the freedom given to students to decide up to half their curriculum would lead to a dilution in the value of the degrees awarded. “Registered HEIs shall encourage and enable students to customise or design their own degrees utilising courses selected by the student from among courses offered by one or more of the registered HEIs,” the regulations say. “Provided that, the student shall be required to earn at least fifty per cent of the credits from the HEI awarding the degree or diploma or certificate, provided further that, the student shall be required to earn the required number of credits in the core subject area necessary for the award of the degree or diploma or certificate, as specified by the degree-awarding HEI in which the student is enrolled.” Abha Dev Habib, a teacher at Delhi University’s Miranda House College, said the new regulations would also promote online education and reduce the need to hire teachers, thus “jeopardising (their) employment and service conditions”. “Besides, the dilution of coursework will damage the employability of the degree holders further,” she said. Richa Raj, another teacher from a DU college, regretted that the ABC was being “imposed” during a pandemic without enough discussion. She said its use for privatisation of education and the contractualisation of teaching jobs would be resisted. The new regulations are expected to benefit private institutions that lag in the infrastructure required for physical classes and whose degrees are not necessarily coveted by students. They can now teach part of the curriculum offline while the student gets the degree from a reputable government or private university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Army, navy and air force chiefs yet to arrive at consensus on proposed theatre commands||The chiefs of the army, navy and the air force are yet to arrive at a consensus on the proposed theatre commands of the armed forces as the Indian Air Force is said to have apprehensions about the plan, sources in the defence ministry said on Thursday. A defence ministry official said the Narendra Modi government had last week asked the tri-services chiefs to hold threadbare discussions to iron out the differences and arrive at a consensus.“Last week, the Centre asked the three services chiefs to hold discussions with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on the planned integrated theatre commands of the three armed forces and iron out the differences. The tri-services chiefs are not on the same page on the issue,” a defence ministry official said. Earlier this month, Gen. Rawat’s statement that the IAF was a “supporting arm” in the planned integrated theatre commands had triggered a controversy and acrimony at the higher echelons of the military leadership. Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria had disagreed with Gen. Rawat and said “airpower has a huge role”. Sources said as soon as the three chiefs agreed to the Centre’s proposal, a draft note would be sent to the cabinet committee on security for approving the creation of the theatre commands. The Narendra Modi government has formed an expert committee to carry out consultations with the three services to decide the way forward on the theaterisation of the military. Gen. Rawat has been given the task to facilitate restructuring of the military commands for optimal utilisation of resources through the establishment of unified theatre commands. Theaterisation means putting specific numbers of personnel from each of the three services under a common commander for a unified military approach through a rationalisation of manpower and resources. “The air force has reservations about unified commands because of its limited resources compared with the army’s. The IAF does not want to split its assets, which are fewer than the army’s,” said another defence ministry official. The IAF is also believed to have contended that the nature of its operations is so fluid that all of India is one theatre for it. It is also said to have issues over who would lead the theatres. Sources said the plan was to have five theatre commands. Each will have units of the army, navy and the air force, and all of them will work as a single entity, looking after specified geographical territories under an operational commander. Currently, the three armed forces have 19 commands, each assigned exclusively to one among the three forces. Sources in the government said the theatre commands were being set up under the larger mandate of ensuring synergy among the tri-services chiefs to deal with security challenges. There have been differences over the planned theaterisation amid fears that the senior positions would be taken over by the army, the largest among the three services. The army brass, who are in favour of theaterisation, contend that multiple commands lead to confusion. They cite the example of China, which has a single Western Theatre Command for the entire Indian frontier. On the other hand, India’s army alone has four commands on the China frontier — northern, western (which mainly looks after the Pakistan front), central and eastern. The IAF has three commands for the China frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Covid: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to begin home vaccination of bed-ridden people ||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said it will begin home vaccination of bed-ridden people in the city against the coronavirus on an experimental basis from Friday. The initiative will be rolled out first in the K-east administrative ward covering the western suburbs of Andheri East, Marol, Chakala and others, it said. In a statement issued on Thursday afternoon, the BMC said citizens bed-ridden due to various physical or medical reasons would be vaccinated under the drive from July 30. They will be administered Covaxin doses and the vaccination process will be carried out in the presence of experts, wherein all necessary precautions will be undertaken. The civic body said there was a demand for home vaccination of citizens who are bed-ridden and unable to visit the inoculation centres. It added that the medical certificate stating that the person who is to be vaccinated will have to remain bed-ridden for at least the next six months was required to be submitted to the administration along with the consent of that person or a relative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Four members of Nanakmatta Sahib Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee resign||Four members of the Nanakmatta Sahib Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee have resigned after a video surfaced showing schoolgirls raising pro-BJP slogans and performing folk dance on the shrine premises to welcome Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, allegedly hurting religious sentiments. The resignations came after the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, took strong exception to the alleged act of sacrilege and sent a three-member team to Nanakmatta Sahib to look into the matter. Those who resigned on Wednesday include the head of the Nanakmatta Sahib Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee, Seva Singh, and three other members. Dhami had visited the gurdwara in Nanakmatta, around 40km from Rudrapur in Uttarakhand, to pay obeisance during his tour of Udham Singh Nagar district on July 24 to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of development projects. The chief minister’s Assembly constituency Khatima is located in Udham Singh Nagar. Dhami was accorded a warm welcome as he arrived at the shrine for the first time after assuming office along with ministers and MLAs. Schoolgirls performed folk dances of Uttarakhand to welcome him and some raised pro-BJP slogans. The Gurbani, which is supposed to be played constantly at the gurdwara, was stopped for a while. This did not go down well with Sikh devotees, who lodged a complaint with the Akal Takht in Amritsar and gathered in Nanakmatta, demanding action against those responsible for the alleged act of sacrilege. Those who have resigned have been asked to present their side before the Takht within 15 days after which a final call will be taken. A five-member panel has been constituted to look after the management of the gurdwara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Central health team to guide public health responses to Covid in Kerala||A central health team will arrive in Kerala on Friday to guide public health responses to Covid-19 in the state that is reporting a steady rise in daily new infections and accounts for a third of India’s current active cases. The Union health ministry said on Thursday that the six-member team led by Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, will recommend interventions to contain the large number of new infections in the state. Kerala on Thursday had over 154,000 Covid-19 patients, about 37 per cent of India’s 397,000 active cases. Its average daily new cases have increased to about 17,000 on July 28 from 11,000 four weeks ago. The health ministry has underlined that Kerala also has a high positivity rate — the fraction found positive among those tested — of about 12 per cent, more than double the ideal of less than 5 per cent. A high positivity rate is viewed as an indicator of widespread infections. Several districts in Kerala — Palakkad, Thrissur, Wayanad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kasargod, Kannur, Kollam, Ernakulam, and Kottayam — are among the 47 in 10 states across the country where test positivity rates are higher than 10 per cent. But sections of health experts have argued that Kerala’s high test positivity rate could also be an outcome of smart testing which is specifically directed at all close contacts and other individuals likely to test positive. Kerala’s relatively low Covid-19 seropositivity — the proportion of people with antibodies against Covid-19 — of 44 per cent, compared with over 70 per cent in states such as Bihar, Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh, also implies a large proportion of susceptible people. Many public health experts believe the relatively low seropositivity and Kerala’s lower Covid-19 case fatality rate of 1.1 per cent, compared with the national average of 1.3 per cent, reflects an epidemic better managed than in other states. “However, the current exponential growth is a source of concern,” said a senior researcher. “Whenever and wherever the virus spreads and replicates, there is a chance of fresh mutations emerging.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||IAS reshuffle: Odisha govt appoints Vishal Dev as finance secretary||The Odisha government on Thursday effected a minor reshuffle of IAS officers. Vishal Kumar Dev, who was the principal secretary, sports and youth services, was posted as principal secretary, finance. Dev, a 1996-batch IAS officer, will replace Ashok Meena, a 1993-batch IAS officer, who has been posted as principal secretary, panchayati raj and drinking water. Special secretary to chief minister Naveen Patnaik, R. Vineel Krishna (a 2005-batch IAS officer), has been entrusted with the additional responsibility of sports and youth services. Deoranjan Kumar Singh (a 1993-batch IAS officer), who was the principal secretary, panchayati raj and drinking water, will be the principal secretary, steel and mines. Surendra Kumar (a 1993-batch IAS officer), who was the principal secretary, steel and mines, has been posted as principal secretary, general administration and public grievances with additional charge of tourism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Bihar Covid death toll reaches 2 lakh: CPI-ML survey  ||The CPI-ML on Thursday released its provisional survey report on Covid-19 deaths in Bihar and claimed the toll during the second wave of the pandemic was around 2 lakh, about 20 times more than the figures provided by the state government. The Left party presented a copy of the report to Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha and sought a discussion in the House over the issue that has affected the emotional, financial and social well-being of a large number of families. It also demanded a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the Covid-19 victims. It also accused the state government of trying to hide the death figures in a bid to absolve itself of the failure in making basic preparation to tackle the pandemic, especially during the devastating second wave in April and May this year. A CPI-ML team, including its politburo member Kavita Krishnan, had toured 14 out of 38 Bihar districts to ascertain the fatalities during the second wave of the pandemic. However, the report presented data from only nine districts — Bhojpur, Patna (rural areas), Rohtas, Siwan, Darbhanga, West Champaran, Arwal, Kaimur and Aurangabad. “Our report is a provisional one because we have been able to tabulate the data of nine districts only so far. We visited 1,693 villages in 66 blocks in these districts, collecting audio, video and documents as evidence on Covid-19 deaths. What has come up is very alarming,” CPI-ML state secretary Kunal told The Telegraph. “There were 7,200 deaths in these villages in April and May, of whom 6,420 had Covid-19 symptoms. The rest died due to natural causes or other serious illnesses. The state has 534 blocks and over 45,000 villages. If we take the average figure from our survey, the pandemic toll would be around 2 lakh in the state — around 20 times more than the government figures,” Kunal, who goes by one name, added. The report brought to light the situation in villages like Kulharia and Kolharampur in Bhojpur district, which recorded 59 and 45 Covid-19 deaths respectively, during the second wave. Party leaders said they hurried to bring out the provisional report because the monsoon session of the Assembly, which commenced on July 26, will conclude on Friday (July 30). It was important that a move was made to discuss it in the House, they said. The CPI-ML leaders also accused health minister and senior BJP leader Mangal Pandey of lying about the pandemic situation. “The health minister is telling lies about the pandemic without any shame or remorse. He is telling that no deaths occurred in the state due to scarcity of oxygen, but our survey shows otherwise. There was no proper arrangement in most of the hospitals in Bihar to deal with the situation. The government is trying to brush the actual Covid-19 toll under the carpet. It is a crime that people will never forgive,” said CPI-ML legislature party leader Mehboob Alam. According to government data, the state has reported 724,673 Covid-19 cases, including 9,639 deaths, so far. The death toll had been questioned by various individuals and organisations who moved Patna High Court. The high court also noticed inconsistencies in death figures reported by different government agencies and asked the government to conduct an audit. It led to an overnight revision of the toll from 5,478 to 9,429 in June — a 73 per cent jump in the numbers. With the high court still hearing a bunch of cases pertaining to the Covid-19 toll and alleged lack of preparation by the state government, the CPI-ML is now preparing to submit its complete report before the court in the next few days, and request its directions. There are also plans to use the video footage collected during the survey to make a documentary and release it on social media platforms. “However, this survey is not just going to be academic work. We are going to turn it into a movement and force the state government to accept the truth. Hiding the toll figures is like disrespecting the dead,” Kunal told this newspaper. The party is also helping the kin of Covid-19 victims fill up forms and submit them at the block headquarters to claim the Rs 4 lakh compensation announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar for each pandemic death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
