31-07-2021||India||Congress accuses Centre of taking away states' right on listing OBCs||The Congress on Saturday accused the BJP of assaulting the federal structure by taking away the power of the states to identify and list the other backward classes (OBCs).  Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the BJP is now in a self-congratulatory mode and is "befooling" the country by creating a "false narrative".  He said the government through the support of the opposition got a constitutional amendment passed in Parliament for setting up of a backward classes commission at the national level on August 11, 2018.  During the passage of the constitution bill, the BJP government by inadvertence or oversight did not include the provision that enabled states to make their own state list of OBCs, he said  Singhvi said there were clear apprehensions during the debate in Parliament in this regard and the minister concerned assured the house that it is not the intention to take away the states' right.  "Due to your lack of attention to detail, you did not add a two line clarification that the creation of a national Commission does not mean that the states will not have its list of inclusion or exclusion at the state level," he alleged.  "Now, unfortunately your blunder is costing the country dear,," he said.  Singhvi said the creation of a national Commission has been interpreted by the Supreme Court in its recent judgment as that the states will not have their own lists of OBCs and there will be only one list at the national level.  "Is it not a very serious assault on the fundamentals of federalism? It cuts at the root because nobody is disputing that the states always had the power. You should have put that clarification... this adds further insult to injury," the Congress leader alleged.  However, Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Virendra Kumarhad told Rajya Sabha early this week that the Government is in consultation with legal experts and the Ministry of Law and examining ways to protect the power of the states in determining the State list of OBCs.  The Supreme Court court judgement "did not take into account the legislative intent as reflected in the debates in Parliament preceding the enactment of the Amendment, where it was declared unequivocally that the Amendment would not impinge upon States' powers to recognise and declare those classes in the state which were backward," the minister said in a written reply, while noting that a review petition has also been dismissed.  Singhvi's reaction came after the BJP alleged that the Congress did "nothing" for social justice and uplift of weaker sections during its rule, while hailing the Modi government for approving reservation for OBCs and EWS candidates in the all India quota for medical courses.  Underlining that the OBC Commission was given constitutional status by the Modi government, BJP leader and Union Minister Bhupender Yadav said the previous Congress-led UPA government did nothing on this front despite several reports given by various commissions.  Singhvi hit out at the BJP for its "self-congratulatory" stance on the issue.  "You can keep calling the glass one quarter full, but, what about the three quarters are empty? You made a national commission at the constitutional level for Backward Classes with our support and our instance, but, by the absence of clarification, you have taken away the entire states' powers and we are today suffering," he alleged.  Singhvi also accused the BJP of "misleading" the people of this country by giving this a "spin".  "Do not befool the people with self-congratulatory press conferences, which are comic, because they are, actually, hiding a blunder," the Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||PM Modi to launch digital payment solution e-RUPI||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch e-RUPI, a person and purpose specific digital payment solution, on Monday via video conferencing, his office said. Underlining that Modi has always championed digital initiatives, the Prime Minister's Office said over the years, several programmes have been launched to ensure that the benefits reach its intended beneficiaries in a targeted and leak-proof manner, with limited touch points between the government and the beneficiary. The concept of electronic voucher takes forward this vision of good governance, it said. In its statement, the PMO said e-RUPI is a cashless and contactless instrument for digital payment. It is a QR code or SMS string-based e-voucher, which is delivered to the mobile of the beneficiaries, the statement said. The users of this seamless one-time payment mechanism will be able to redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access, at the service provider, it said. It has been developed by the National Payments Corporation of India on its UPI platform, in collaboration with the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and National Health Authority. The statement said e-RUPI connects the sponsors of the services with the beneficiaries and service providers in a digital manner without any physical interface. It also ensures that the payment to the service provider is made only after the transaction is completed. Being pre-paid in nature, it assures timely payment to the service provider without involvement of any intermediary, the statement said. The PMO said it is expected to be a revolutionary initiative in the direction of ensuring a leak-proof delivery of welfare services. It can also be used for delivering services under schemes meant for providing drugs and nutritional support under Mother and Child welfare schemes, TB eradication programmes, drugs and diagnostics under schemes like Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, fertiliser subsidies etc. Even the private sector can leverage these digital vouchers as part of their employee welfare and corporate social responsibility programmes, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Maharashtra reports first-ever Zika virus case from Pune district||The first Zika virus infection case in Maharashtra has been reported from Pune district, officials said on Saturday, while also appealing people not to panic.  The woman patient who was diagnosed with the infection has recovered completely, the state health department said.  "She and her family members do not have any symptoms," it said in a statement.  The 50-year-old woman, a resident of Belsar village in Purandar tehsil, received her test report on Friday. The report said that besides Zika infection, she was also infected by Chickungunya.  A government medical team visited the village on Saturday and met the sarpanch and gram panchayat members and instructed them about preventive measures, the statement said.  Zika virus spreads through the bite of the aedes aegypti mosquito and most patients do not have symptoms.  The typical symptoms include fever, body ache and conjunctivitis, and pregnant women should be more careful, the statement said.  State surveillance officer Dr Pradip Awate told PTI that there was no need to panic.  "Zika is a moderate disease as 80 per cent patients do not get any symptoms and remaining 20 per cent have moderate flu-like symptoms. One can recover by drinking enough water, taking rest and having a simple paracetamol tablet," he said.  Death due to Zika virus infection was unheard of, he added.  Dr Awate also said that when a Zika virus outbreak took place in Brazil in 2019, it was believed that its infection during pregnancy can cause infants to be born with microcephaly (abnormal smallness of the head), but this connection has not been proved so far.  "However, we have still put special emphasis on the need for special care of pregnant women," he added.  Ayush Prasad, Chief Executive Officer, Pune district, appealed people not to panic. "It's due to proactive work of our field teams that the case was detected. We are working very hard to contain the spread and make the best healthcare available to people," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha lost 40 working hours in first 2 weeks of monsoon session||Due to continued disruptions by opposition parties, Rajya Sabha lost 40 of its 50 working hours and the productivity of the house fell to 13.70 per cent in the second week of the ongoing monsoon session, officials said.  The Upper House clocked a productivity of 32.20 per cent during the first week and the overall productivity was 21.60 per cent for the first two weeks.  Of the total 50 working hours available, 39 hours and 52 minutes were lost due to disruptions, the officials said.  The House, however, sat for 1 hour 12 minutes beyond the scheduled time, but for which the productivity would have been much lower, they said.  During the nine sittings of the first two weeks, Rajya Sabha could have only 1 hour 38 minutes of Question Hour which is primarily meant for ensuring the accountability of the executive to Parliament.  It also had only 1 hour 24 minutes for legislative business passing four bills with seven members intervening. The house spent only one minute of Zero Hour and another four minutes on Special Mentions.  Covid-related issues were discussed for 4 hours 37 minutes during the first week and the minister for IT laid a statement on the Pegasus spyware issue during the first week, the officials said.  For the first time, the RS Secretariat has started reporting in the daily bulletins, the business of the House that could not be taken up.  During the first two weeks of the current session, 130 Zero Hour Submissions and 87 Special Mentions through which the members raise issues of public importance could not be taken though they were admitted by the Chairman.  Among the bills passed are The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021; The Juvenile Justice Amendment Bill, 2021; The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill, 2021.  The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 were among the four bills introduced in the Rajya Sabha.  Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, during the all-party meeting ahead of the session and the Business Advisory Committee meeting during the first week, has urged the government and the leaders of various parties to discuss the legislative and other business to be taken up in the House and also has been talking to them separately to enable smooth functioning of the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Assam CM calls on governor, discusses border issue||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma called on Governor Jagdish Mukhi on Saturday and discussed various issues including the border situation between the state and Mizoram and the functioning of state universities. A clash between police forces of the two North-eastern states on July 26 left seven people -- six Assam police personnel and a civilian -- dead and over 50 injured at a place close to the inter-state border. The governor and the chief minister discussed measures for de-escalating tension along the border, an official release said. Sarma also informed Mukhi that the state government has disbursed cheques as one-time financial assistance to the family members of the police personnel killed in the border skirmishes. During the meeting, they also discussed the functioning of the universities and the initiatives that are likely to be introduced to make the varsities more useful and responsive in response to the changing needs of higher education, the release said. It said that the governor and the CM emphasised the need for implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 for transforming the academic environment in the state that will lead to the creation of a talent pool.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Centre failed in handling Assam-Mizoram inter-state border dispute: Congress||The Congress Saturday claimed the Central government has failed in handling the interstate border dispute between Assam and Mizoram that led to fatal clashes earlier this week. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said this is not a new issue and past governments have also handled it, but there has never been a conflagration like this before that central forces needed to be deployed on the interstate border. “How could it reach a stage where people are shooting guns and bullets,” he told a press conference here. Had such a situation arisen in non-BJP-ruled states, the saffron party would have demanded the deployment of Army and the imposition of President's Rule, he claimed, accusing the ruling party of "double-standards". "We want peace and quiet. We are a responsible party which is why, I said in the beginning that we are restraining ourselves. But, it is unthinkable that two states in India, if I may use the word with great respect and I don't want to use the word virtually, at war with each other. "Lives are being lost and homilies and preaching is happening, just because, there are at least one of them is a full BJP government," he said. "I think, these are hypocritical double standards, which need to be exposed and it also reflects the complete failure of the Central government," the Congress leader said. There have been clashes between the police forces of Assam and Mizoram and six Assam cops have died in the conflict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 225 new Covid-19 deaths, 6,959 cases, 7,467 recoveries||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 225 fresh COVID-19 fatalities and 6,959 cases while 7,467 patients recovered, a health official said.  With the new additions, the tally of infections in Maharashtra reached 63,03,715 and the death toll to 1,32,791. The count of recoveries now stands at 60,90,786, leaving the state with 76,755 active cases, he said.  On Saturday, Maharashtra witnessed a marginal rise in fresh coronavirus positive cases compared to Thursday when the state added 6,600 new cases to its tally and 231 fatalities.  According to the official, among the 225 fatalities, the highest number of 61 deaths were reported from Kolhapur and Aurangabad regions, followed by 35 fatalities from the Nashik region. Pune region reported 27 fatalities, Mumbai region 22, Latur and Akola six each while Nagpur region reported seven fatalities, the official said.  A total of 4,76,609 people are in home quarantine and 3,166 in institutional quarantine across Maharashtra, the official added.  Maharashtra's case recovery rate now stands at 96.62 per cent while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent.  Mumbai city witnessed 345 new cases and nine deaths, while Pune city added 297 infections and four fatalities.  With 2,06,747 new tests, the cumulative number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra climbed to 4,79,67,609.  Parbhani municipal corporation did not report a single case during the day, the health department said.  Among the eight regions of Maharashtra, the Pune region reported the highest 2,386 new COVID-19 cases in the day, followed by 1,863 in the Kolhapur region.  Of other divisions, the Nashik region reported 1,130 fresh cases, Mumbai region 982, Latur region 412, Aurangabad region 102, Nagpur region 52 and Akola region 32.  Among 76,755 active patients in Maharashtra, Pune district has the highest 15,674 such cases.  Of the 60,90,786 recovered patients in the state, the highest 10,54,961 are from the Pune district.  Coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases - 63,03,715, new cases 6,959, total deaths 1,32,791, fresh deaths 225, total recoveries 60,90,786, active cases 76,755, new tests conducted 2,06,747.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Govt trying to find excuse to curtail Monsoon Session of Parliament, alleges Cong||The Congress on Saturday alleged that the government was trying to find an "excuse" to curtail the Monsoon session of Parliament after "obstructing" its functioning by not agreeing to a discussion on the Pegasus issue and refusing to answer whether it has bought the Israeli spyware to snoop on people. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi blamed the government for the current deadlock in Parliament and alleged it was trying to avoid answering pertinent questions raised by the opposition. "My straight charge is that the government has stopped the session and the government is now possibly thinking of curtailing a stopped session. So, you can draw your own conclusion," he told reporters. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have failed to transact any significant business, except passage of some bills, amid continued protests by opposition parties over the Pegasus and farmers' issues since the Monsoon session of Parliament commenced on July 19. The session is scheduled to conclude on August 13. Singhvi alleged that the government made sure that parliament does not function for nine or 10 days is now finding "the first fault as an excuse to do the second fault, namely curtail it". "Look at your obstinacy, you mulish, stony obstinacy, that you will not agree to a discussion on the most important issue - Pegasus," he said, adding that the government has been saying that it will discuss it outside Parliament. "You are obstructing and you are now using the existing obstruction for 9-10 days as an excuse to wind up (the session)," Singhvi alleged. The Congress leader said the government has not answered the basic question of whether it has directly or indirectly in any form and manner through a government agency acquired Pegasus. "The answer has to be 'Yes of No'. You are welcome to say, 'No'. Why don't you say it? Everything else you are saying, but not saying 'Yes or No'. "The second question is if you did acquire it? Did you use it against persons and if yes, show their names...but there is no answer," he said. The opposition is demanding that the government agree to a discussion in Parliament on Pegasus snooping row and farmers' protests, besides other issues. It also wants the Prime Minister or the Home Minister to be present during the discussion. The government, however, is terming the snooping controversy as a non-issue and accusing the opposition of unnecessarily raking it up to disrupt proceedings in Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||IMD predicts intense rainfall in north & central India over next four days||Parts of north and central India will witness intense rainfall activity over the next four days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Due to a well-marked low-pressure area and a monsoon trough, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over east Madhya Pradesh on July 31-August 1 and over Chhattisgarh and east Uttar Pradesh on July 31. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely to continue over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh during form July 31 to August 4 with peak activity during July 31 to August 3. Isolated extremely heavy falls likely over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh during July 31-August 2. The IMD has issued a red alert over parts of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over west Uttar Pradesh between August 1-2 The current spell of fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over parts of north India with isolated heavy falls over Jammu and Kashmir on July 31, Punjab on August 1, Himachal Pradesh till August 2 and Uttarakhand and Haryana till August 4, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Think-tank recommends ‘Mumbai Plus’ approach for Covid management ||A think-tank has recommended a 'Mumbai Plus' approach for Covid-19 vaccination planning, opening up of public transportation and planned unlocking of the metropolitan region. The report 'Turning the Tide: Is Mumbai Ready for the Next Wave?', prepared by the Observor and Research Foundation (ORF), looks at the specifics of the first and second waves of the pandemic, detailing lessons learnt from oxygen and medicine supply and vaccination issues. It also considers the hidden groups migrants, crematorium and graveyard staff, and ASHA workers who bore the brunt of the crisis, the ORF said in a statement. The report recommends a 'Mumbai Plus' approach for vaccination planning, opening up public transportation and planned unlocking of the region. The ORF said Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray released the report and stressed the need for an integrated approach for governing the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and other urban clusters in the state. One City, One Administration is the way ahead, the Tourism and Environment Minister said as per the release. Thackeray also said the lessons learnt from tackling the Covid-19 pandemic in large urban areas has made it necessary to look at an integrated approach of governing cities with all authorities working in tandem, the ORF said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad asks all to participate in J&K assembly||Everyone should take part in the Jammu and Kashmir assembly election whenever it is held and the Congress should start preparing for it, senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Saturday. In a brief interaction with reporters outside his residence here, Azad to a question about the possibility of assembly election in the Union Territory said that as of now, the delimitation exercise is on. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister is in the city on a three-day visit and on his arrival at the airport, supporters demanded that Congress leaders, who burnt his effigy during a protest in March, be expelled. When told during the interaction with reporters that the BJP had already started preparing for the assembly polls, Azad said that all parties, including the Congress, should make preparations. "All people should take part in the elections," he said. The Jammu and Kashmir assembly polls are likely to be held after the completion of the delimitation exercise in the Union Territory. PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti had announced that she will not contest elections until both the constitutions of India and the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir are made applicable to J&K. On August 5, 2019, the Centre had abrogated the special status of the erstwhile stated of J&K and bifurcated into Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Personally, it (abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A of the Constitution) is a very emotional for me. I contested the first election taking oath under the constitutions of India and the state. I took both flags in my hands. Until both constitutions will not be (existing) together (in J&K), I have said I will not personally contest elections," Mehbooba had said. On the Pegasus snooping row, Azad said the opposition has already raised the issue in Parliament and are demanding a discussion on it. I am on a three-day tour of Jammu and am available for every one across the Jammu division, including my own party workers and others who want to discuss their problems with me, the Congress leader said. He expressed grief over the loss of the lives and damage to property in the recent cloudbursts in Kishtwar, Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and other hilly areas, and expressed hope that the government will take care of victims and their families. Earlier, a large number of Congress workers assembled outside the Jammu airport to receive Azad and raised slogans in his support. We have assembled here to demand ouster of all those who took part in a protest against Azad and set ablaze his effigy, Congress leader and JMC councillor Gaurav Chopra said. He was referring to the protest staged by a group of Congress workers led by former general secretary and District Development Council (DDC) member Mohammad Shahnawaz Choudhary outside the press club here on March 2. The first-of-its-kind protest against Azad by members of his own party came days after a rally addressed by 'G-23' leaders ostensibly to felicitate Azad on his retirement from Rajya Sabha. The rally was seen as a show of strength to convey a message to the party leadership. The Group of 23 or 'G-23' leaders had demanded an overhaul of the Congress party organisation. Chopra on the same day in March had led a counter-protest against Choudhary and said that a person who fought the recently held DDC elections against the party mandate is not a Congressman and is working on the directions of the BJP and the RSS to weaken the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||NIA conducts raids across Jammu and Kashmir, terrorist arrested||The National Investigation Agency Saturday arrested a Lashker-e-Mustafa (LeM) terrorist as it conducted raids at 15 locations across Jammu and Kashmir in connection with two terror-related cases including the recent recovery of a drone-dropped IED from Pakistan, officials said. A large quantity of incriminating material including digital devices, shells of used bullets, plastic face masks that guard stone-pelting and handwritten jihadi material were also recovered during the raids, they said. The LeM, working at the behest of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) outfit, was declared wiped out in February with the arrest of its self-styled chief Hidayatullah Malik and his associate Nazir Ahmad from Jammu, both residents of Shopian district. They were trying to set up a base to receive Pakistani terrorists and arms and ammunition from across the border. The NIA along with J&K police and CRPF conducted searches at nine locations in Shopian, Anantnag and Jammu districts in connection with the case related to the LeM. Subsequent to searches, one accused person -- Irfan Ahmed Dar of Batingoo (Anantnag) was arrested, a spokesperson of the agency said. The NIA said the preliminary investigation has revealed that he was involved in the conspiracy to carry out terrorist activities in collusion with other arrested accused. The case was initially registered at Gangyal Police Station in Jammu relating to a conspiracy by the LeM to carry out terrorist activities in J&K with an intention to threaten the sovereignty, integrity and security of India, the spokesperson said. The NIA had re-registered the case on March 2 and taken over the investigation, he added. During the searches, the NIA said many digital devices including mobile phones, hard disks, memory cards, pen drives, laptops, besides booklets containing incriminating material were recovered from the premises of the arrested accused and the suspects in the case. About the searches at six other locations, the spokesperson said they were carried out in connection with the recovery of an IED in Bathindi area of Jammu on June 27 -- the day two bombs were dropped on the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu using drones, resulting in injuries to two personnel. The searches were carried out at six locations of the arrested accused and suspected persons in Shopian and Ramban districts, the NIA said. It said the case was initially registered on June 27 at Police Station Bahu Fort in Jammu relating to recovery of 5 kgs IED from a Lashkar-e-Taiba (lET) terrorist. It was a conspiracy by LeT to cause an explosion in Jammu using the IED. The NIA had re-registered the case one July 19 and took over the investigation, the spokesperson said. During the searches, many digital devices including mobile phones, pen drives, shells of used bullets, CDs, plastic face masks that are used as a shield during stone pelting, memory cards, handwritten jehadi material, ID card of Al-aqsa media and other incriminating materials have been recovered, the NIA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Opposition parties seek President's intervention to form JPC on several issues||Some Opposition parties, led by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), met President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday to seek his intervention in asking the government to set up a JPC on farmer deaths and allow a discussion in Parliament on the farmers' issue and the Pegasus snooping controversy. Leaders of SAD, NCP and JKNC met the president and handed over a letter signed by the representatives of various parties for his intervention. The Congress, however, was not a signatory to it. The letter by various parties, including SAD, Shiv Sena, NCP, BSP, JKNC, RLP, CPI and CPI(M), seeks the president's intervention to ensure the formation of a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) to ascertain the details of farmer deaths during their agitation against three agriculture laws of the Centre and allow a discussion on their issues in Parliament. After meeting the president, SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the entire Opposition is demanding from the government for the last two weeks to allow them to speak in Parliament on issues concerning people. Among those who met Kovind included Mohammed Faizal (NCP), Hasnain Masoodi (JKNC), Ritesh Pandey (BSP) and Balwinder Singh Bhundar (SAD). Badal said she herself had approached the Congress and the TMC and wanted these parties to accompany them during the meeting with the president, "but unfortunately, it is before you that no one has reached here. We had sought time from the president". All opposition parties are giving adjournment motions in Parliament on the farmers' issue and the Pegasus snooping row, she said, alleging that it is the government's duty to enable Parliament to function, but it is stonewalling the Opposition. "We have come here to tell the president that democracy and democratic traditions are under threat and the voice of parliamentarians is being crushed inside Parliament too. This is a big loss to democracy. "We have appealed to the president, who is the custodian and conscience keeper of the country, to put pressure on the government and admit the people's issues raised by the opposition parties and allow Parliament to function," the former Union minister told reporters. She said they may belong to small political parties, but represent people from across the country, from Jammu and Kashmir to Lakshadweep. "We have urged the president to put pressure on the government to let Parliament function smoothly so that people's issues are addressed," the Akali leader said. She said farmers are sitting on the roads for the last one year and at Delhi's borders for eight months, and 500 of them have lost their lives. But when the agriculture minister says no farmer has died during the agitation against the three farm laws, it adds to their anger, Badal said. "The government says this is an issue concerning only one state, but MPs have come here from different states, from every nook and corner of the country," she added. "The snooping issue is also an issue of national security. Why is the government not agreeing for a discussion on these issues and running away? "We have also appealed to the president to form a Joint Select Committee comprising MPs from both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to work out a solution for the protesting farmers. How many more farmers does the government want dead? Five hundred farmers have already died during the agitation," Badal said. The Opposition leaders have demanded that tributes be paid in Parliament to the farmers who have died during the agitation. "We hope that the president would surely tell the government to allow Parliament to function and let public money not be wasted. At least, listen to the families of those farmers who have died," Badal said. Masoodi said, "We have also urged the president to restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir." Badal said they had urged the Lok Sabha speaker on Friday to form a JPC to find out how many farmers have died during the agitation. "We have now urged the president to form the JPC. We want that the government should not run away from Parliament as it has a responsibility," she added. Asked about the government accusing the Opposition of stalling Parliament, she said the government just wants to buy time. Every party wants a discussion but the government does not, she alleged. "Simply allow a discussion on both these issues and the House will start functioning and everything will settle down," the SAD leader said. On the absence of the Congress and the TMC from their meeting with Kovind, she said till the time the Opposition is not united, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will continue to benefit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Delhi crosses one-crore jabs mark, 50 per cent of eligible population gets at least one dose||The total number of anti-coronavirus vaccine doses administered in Delhi so far crossed the one-crore mark on Saturday and of the eligible population in the city 50 per cent have received at least one jab, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. He hoped that more jabs will be soon available for the city. The national capital has a population of about two crore and among them, about 1.5 crore are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination, the chief minister said. "Out of the 1.5 crore eligible population, 74 lakh have received vaccine doses. So, about 50 per cent have received at least one dose. Of the 74 lakh, 26 lakh have been administered both the jabs," the chief minister said in an online briefing. "The number of Covid vaccine doses administered in Delhi since the start of the inoculation drive, crossed the one-crore mark today." Congratulating the medical staff for administering over one crore doses in the national capital, Kejriwal said there was an acute shortage of vaccines for which inoculation could not be scaled up. "We have the capacity to vaccinate three lakh people daily. But due to shortage, only 50,000-80,000 people are getting the Covid jabs every day," he said. The chief minister said the Delhi government is in regular contact with the Centre and hoped the city, along with the rest of the country, will soon have adequate vaccine doses. There are two challenges before the government: to vaccinate those who have not yet taken even the first dose and to administer the second dose to those who have got the first jab, Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Punjab schools to reopen from August 2 for all classes||The Punjab government on Saturday allowed the reopening of schools for all classes from August 2 as it further relaxed restrictions in view of declining Covid-19 cases. The state government had allowed the reopening of schools for classes 10 to 12 from July 26. "All schools are allowed to open for all classes from August 2. They shall follow proper protocols to ensure Covid-19-appropriate behaviour," according to fresh guidelines. The department of school education shall issue instructions in this regard, it stated. The district authorities shall continue to ensure strict implementation of all directives on Covid-appropriate behaviour, the guidelines said. On Friday, Punjab reported 49 new Covid-19 cases and no new deaths. The total number of active cases on the day reached 544, as most new cases have been reported from Jalandhar, Ferozepur and Ludhiana. Punjab has so far reported a total of 5,99,053 Covid-19 infections and 16,292 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Covid: Centre warns 10 states as 46 districts see over 10 per cent positivity rate||Districts reporting a Covid-19 positivity rate of over 10 per cent in the last few weeks need to consider strict restrictions to prevent or curtail people's movement and crowding, the Centre told 10 states witnessing an upsurge in infections and positivity. Highlighting that 46 districts are showing more than 10 per cent positivity rate while another 53 are showing positivity between five and 10 per cent, the Centre has urged the states to ramp up their testing for detection of Covid-19. The Health Ministry said it was forcefully underlined that any laxity at this stage will result in the deterioration of the situation in these districts. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting on Saturday to review the Covid-19 situation in Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh and Manipur. The public health measures taken for surveillance, containment and management of Covid-19 by the health authorities in these states were also reviewed. These states are either reporting a rise in daily Covid cases or a rise in positivity. The Health Ministry, in a statement, said, "All districts reporting positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the last few weeks need to consider strict restrictions to prevent/curtail the movement of people, formation of crowds and intermingling of people to prevent the spread of infection." Noting that more than 80 per cent of active cases in these states are reported to be in home isolation, it said there is a need to effectively and strictly monitor these cases so that they do not meet other people and spread the infection. "The people in home isolation should be effectively monitored in such a manner to ensure that those who require hospitalization are seamlessly transferred for timely clinical treatment. "Detailed standard operating procedure covering various facets of effective clinical management of Covid-19 patients in hospitals have been earlier shared with the states for prompt shifting and effective hospital management," the Centre told states. The ministry also asked states to focus on those districts where the positivity rate is less than 10 per cent, so as to protect these districts and the populations by focusing on saturation of vaccination there. "States were again informed that this quantum of vaccine doses indicates the minimum possible allocation by the Centre to the states; quantum more than this is usually delivered by the Union Health Ministry to states based on their consumption," the statement said. The ministry said the states were advised to direct private hospitals to put up hospital-based PSA plants. "States have been earlier advised regarding this in the past two months. Provisions under the Clinical Establishment Act enable states to issue such direction to private hospitals. For states which have already issued such directions, they were advised to review the status and facilitate the private hospitals further," it said. The Health Ministry also asked states to conduct their own serosurveys for district-wise disease prevalence data, as such a survey at the national level was heterogeneous in nature. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr Balram Bhargava advised states to ramp up vaccination in the senior citizens and the 45-60 year categories as evidence show near 80 per cent of the mortalities are from these vulnerable age groups. About enforcement measures, he advised states to avoid all non-essential travel and discourage large gatherings. Granular analysis of the highly affected districts in these states, Covid-19 vaccination coverage, the status of ventilators, PSA plants, oxygen cylinders and concentrators along with some key statistics was presented at the meeting. The Centre also asked states were asked to use the INSACOG laboratory network for genomic surveillance to screen international travellers, monitor ongoing surveillance through sentinel sites (RT-PCR labs or secondary and tertiary care hospitals managing Covidcases) and surge surveillance. States were advised to undertake intensive containment and active surveillance in clusters reporting higher cases, define containment zones based on mapping of cases and contacts traced and undertake regular reviews and follow-up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Centre scared of people-centric discussions in Parliament, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday attacked the government, alleging that it is "scared" of a discussion in Parliament on issues that concern people like price rise. Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been rocked by Opposition protests since the Monsoon session commenced on July 19 over the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and price rise. "They are used to questions like 'how do you eat mangoes', therefore, they are scared of discussion in Parliament on issues that concern people like price rise," Priyanka Gandhi alleged in a tweet in Hindi. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday said the government is ready for discussion on issues "directly related" to the people. The protests are over a "non-issue, non-serious issue", said Joshi, the parliamentary affairs minister. "There are so many issues directly related to the people of India... government is ready for discussions," he said. Meanwhile on Saturday, attacking the government, Congress leader P. Chidambaram said another case of misuse of Pegasus spyware has been revealed now with France's national cybersecurity agency confirming that Pegasus spyware was infiltrated into phones belonging to two journalists of Mediapart, an investigative journal in France. "Will the government give up its ostrich-like attitude and agree to the Opposition's demand for a full discussion in Parliament on misuse of Pegasus spyware in India? How long can the government duck and hide and scoot when all that the Opposition wants is a full debate?" Chidambaram said in a series of tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Amit Shah to visit poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on August 1||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will travel to Uttar Pradesh on Sunday to launch projects. During his visit, Shah will lay the foundation stones of Uttar Pradesh Institute of Forensic Sciences (UPIFS) in Lucknow and the Vindhya Corridor at Mirzapur. According to the official programme received on Saturday, he will arrive at Lucknow airport on Sunday by a special plane at 11:45 am and from there he will proceed via the state government's helicopter to lay the foundation stone of UPIFS, Pipersand. He will also address a function organised after laying the foundation stone of the institute in which intellectual people of the capital have been specially invited, it said. According to a BJP spokesperson, Shah might go to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) to enquire about the health of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and former Rajasthan Governor Kalyan Singh. However, there is no mention of his visit to SGPGI in his moment-to-moment schedule. According to the programme, the Union home minister will leave for Mirzapur by a helicopter from Pipersand's helipad to the Deori helipad site in Mirzapur. Thereafter, he will leave for Vindhyavasini temple. After this, his programme till 4:37 pm has been reserved for laying the foundation stone of Maa Vindhyavasini Corridor project and other development schemes, including ropeway. Shah will leave for Varanasi from helipad at GD Binani College, Mirzapur at 4:40 pm and will leave for Delhi from Varanasi airport at 5:10 pm. BJP MLA from Mirzapur Nagar area Ratnakar Mishra had said on Tuesday that Shah would lay the foundation stone of Vindhya Corridor on August 1 and after that, he would also address a public meeting in the ground of Government Inter College in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Portion of road under Delhi's IIT flyover caves in||A portion of a road under IIT-Delhi flyover caved in due to heavy rains in the last few days, affecting traffic in the area on Saturday, officials said. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police asked commuters to take the alternate route. "Traffic going from Adhchini to IIT has been diverted from Adhchini to Katwaria Sarai after a portion of a road near IIT red light (traffic signal) caved in," the Traffic Police tweeted in Hindi. The city received an average of 43.6 mm rain till 8.30 am on Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Moderate rains are expected later in the day, the weatherman said. The IMD on Friday had issued an orange alert, predicting moderate rain on Saturday and warning of possible waterlogging in low-lying areas of the national capital and major traffic disruptions. The department has issued a yellow alert for Sunday, and orange alert also for Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||India, China hold 12th round of military talks to boost disengagement process along LAC||India and China are holding another round of high-level military talks on Saturday with an aim to move forward on the disengagement process in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh to end an over 14-month standoff, sources in the security establishment said. The 12th round of Corps Commander-level talks are taking place at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, they said. The talks started at 10:30 AM as scheduled, said a source. India is hopeful of a positive outcome on the disengagement process in Hot Springs and Gogra, the sources said about the talks. The latest round of talks is taking place after a gap of more than three and a half months. The 11th round of military dialogue had taken place on April 9 at the Chushul border point on the Indian side of the LAC and it lasted for around 13 hours. The 12th round of military talks is taking place over two weeks after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar firmly conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a "negative manner". The two foreign ministers had held a one-hour bilateral meeting on the sidelines of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Tajik capital city Dushanbe on July 14. In the meeting, Jaishankar told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was "not acceptable" to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. In the last round of military talks, both sides discussed ways to take forward the disengagement process in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang with a larger aim to bring down tensions in the region. However, there was no forward movement in the disengagement process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Laila Ali continues to dominate the digital space through creative content||Multifaceted model, actor Laila Ali is an influencer par excellence who is gaining reputation for her impeccable content creation skills and trailblazing performances. The latter has recently gained limelight for her excellence and groundbreaking performance in music albums and videos. There is no denying the fact that as Indians we are obsessed with films and Bollywood. Not only in just watching the odd 200+ films that get released every year, but in some way, being a part of it, in some vicarious manner. Realising the same, Laila Ali has risen to the top of the entertainment and digital sectors because of her stunning looks and has conquered these lands thanks to her incredible talent, which is uncommon among today's millennials. Her incredible abilities as a social media influencer have earned her a massive fan base that is rising by the day. As a model, Laila has walked the ramp a number of times, all the while appearing in a number of advertisement campaigns for well known Indian fast fashion brands. When asked why she chose this field above all she claims that influencer marketing has grown significantly in recent years. To leverage on the large following that influencers demand, several firms have been investing in influencer partnerships to sell their products and services. As a result, she believed it is the right time, as demand has been on the rise recently. Further adding to her statement she said that she likes the flexibility offered by this career as she can work from anywhere and gets to experience the best, be it food or travel or meeting people while on the job. Due to her constant hard work, her digital popularity has grown to the point that she has been asked to work on many new big new projects on a daily basis, the most recent of which is a music video with Bhalu Rapper that was a chartbuster and had a lot of views on video-sharing platforms. With all her talent, Laila has emerged as one of the top influencers across the digital world and is proving herself each day with the top quality content she produces. She has a very long way ahead and is constantly working on her personality to debut in films. As modern consumers look for user-generated reviews or one-on-one recommendations, influencers like Lila Ali have proved to be a perfect fit because of her ability to establish an authentic connection with her audience as real people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Work towards changing negative perspective about police, Modi tells IPS probationers ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told Indian Police Service probationers that the spirit of 'Nation First, Always First' should be reflected in every action of theirs and they should also work towards changing the negative perception of the force among people. He urged the IPS probationers to keep national interest in mind and have a national perspective while taking decisions when they are in the field. "You have to always remember that you are the flag bearers of 'Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat' too," Modi said. "Therefore, the spirit of Nation First, Always First, should be reflected in your every action," the prime minister said addressing the IPS probationers at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy via video-conferencing. Modi said the negative perception of the police among the people is a big challenge in itself. This perception changed a bit during the beginning of the coronavirus period when people saw police personnel helping out, but the situation has again gone back to the old perception, he said. "Our police personnel even sacrifice their lives for security of the country, maintaining law and order and for fighting terrorism. They are unable to go home for days, they are unable to go home even during festivals but when it comes to the police's image, people's perception is different," he said. It is the responsibility of the new generation coming into the police force that this image changes and this negative perception of the police goes away, Modi said. The prime minister said in the last 75 years, India has tried to build a better police service and police training infrastructure has also improved a lot in recent years. "The way the youth of the country came forward in the country between 1930 and 1947, the whole young generation got united for one goal, today the same sentiment is expected from you," Modi told the IPS probationers. "At that time the people of the country fought for 'swaraj', today you have to move forward for 'surajya' (good governance). You are starting your career at a time when India is going through a phase of transformation in every field, every level," he said. "The coming 25 years of your career are also going to be the most important 25 years of India's development. That's why your preparation, your mental state, should be in line with this big goal," he said. Modi also interacted with the probationers during the event. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also participated in the function. The Hyderabad-based academy is the premier police training institution in the country. It trains officers of the Indian Police Service at induction level and conducts various in-service courses for the serving IPS officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||J&K: Major tragedy averted after security forces detect IED in Rajouri||A major tragedy was averted on Saturday with timely detection of a powerful Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in Jammu and Kashmir's border district of Rajouri, officials said. The IED was found planted by suspected terrorists under a culvert at Bathooni-Dilogra on Jammu-Rajouri national highway and was subsequently defused by the bomb disposal squad of the Army at 9.10 am, the officials said. The traffic on the vital road remained suspended for over three hours after the detection of the IED by the Road Opening Party (ROP) of the security forces, they said. The terrorists are believed to have planted the IED during the intervening night under the cover of darkness, the officials said, adding that a massive search operation is on to arrest the terrorists who were planning to set off the blast. The officials said the experts removed the IED from the road to a secluded place in the nearby forest and later detonated it in a controlled explosion without causing any damage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||India logs over 41,000 fresh Covid cases, 593 casualties in a day||With a single-day rise of 41,649 new cases, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,16,13,993 on Saturday, while the death toll due to the viral disease shot up to 4,23,810 with 593 more people succumbing to it, the Union health ministry said. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has gone up to 408920, accounting for 1.29 per cent of the total number of cases, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the data showed. An increase of 3,765 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 tally in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,76,315 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Friday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 46,64,27,038, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has gone up to 30781263, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data showed. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 46.15 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5 and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 593 fresh fatalities include 231 from Maharashtra and 116 from Kerala. A total of 423810 Covid deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 132566 from Maharashtra, 36525 from Karnataka, 34050 from Tamil Nadu, 25052 from Delhi, 22756 from Uttar Pradesh, 18128 from West Bengal and 16292 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Pulwama||Two top Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists involved in the dastardly Pulwama attack of 2019 were killed Saturday in an encounter in the south Kashmir district, officials said, terming it "probably the biggest strike of the year" for security forces.  They said IED expert Ismal Alvi, who used several aliases including Saifullah, Lamboo and Adnan, was from the family of JeM chief Masood Azhar and had trained the suicide bomber who carried out the Pulwama attack which had left 40 CRPF personnel dead.  They said the second terrorist has been identified as Sameer Dar (an A+ category ultra) from Pulwama. He was also involved in Pulwama attack and figured in an NIA chargesheet in the case, they added.  The February 14, 2019 attack was carried out by suicide bomber Adil Dar who rammed an explosive-laden vehicle in a CRPF convoy at Lethpora in Pulwama district on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway, killing 40 CRPF personnel and injuring several others.  With Saturday's development, out of 19 accused in the Pulwama attack, eight terrorists have been killed so far, said Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar.  "Lamboo was involved in conspiracy and planning of Lethpora Pulwama attack and figured in chargesheet produced by the NIA," Kumar said.  The encounter happened this morning in the forest area of Namibian and Marsar and the general area of Dachigam in Pulwama after security forces launched a cordon and search operation following inputs about the presence of militants there, a police official said.  He said the militants opened fire at a search party leading to an encounter in which the two ultras were killed.  At a joint press conference with the IGP Kashmir and the Victor Force head Maj Gen Rashim Bali, the GoC of the Army's 15 or Chinar Corps, Lt Gen D P Pandey explained the significance of Lamboo's killing.  "Firstly, it brings closure to the Pulwama incident because he was one of the masterminds for having trained a local youth Adil (Dar) who eventually blew himself up in the IED attack. Ever since, he has been responsible to continue to train people in making IED and deployment of IEDs against the security forces," the Army officer said.  The GoC said the second very important facet of Lamboo's neutralisation is that he has also been responsible for recruiting young locals "by brainwashing them".  He was also responsible for carrying out "identification, selective identification, thereafter radicalising them and giving them weapons and putting them as the face of the overall strategy of our inimical agencies which are operating from across (the border)".  "Thus, when these recruits were taken out, neutralised, it brought a face as if the entire movement is indigenised and (it is) a local movement which is not so," he said.  IGP Kumar said Lamboo infiltrated into Kashmir in January 2017 and "since then, he has been active in south Kashmir. There were 14 FIRs registered against him. He is the main accused in one of the biggest attacks that took place on February 14, 2019."  The IGP said Lamboo was also involved in the killing of SPO Fayaz Ahmed, his wife and daughter in Tral last month.  "He used to train youth in IED making. So, with his killing the IED threat has been lessened not only in south Kashmir but in the whole valley," he said.  The IGP said the time is not far when the JeM will be wiped out from Kashmir.  Giving details of the operation, the GoC of the south Kashmir-based Victor Force of the army, Maj Gen Rashim Bali said there was a lot of intelligence from the police as well as the locals "about the movement and the way this gentleman has been ill-treating the locals there".  "For the last 15 days, there were about three reports of his sexual misconduct with a few ladies also generally in the upper reaches of Dachigam forests," he said.  Maj Gen Bali said as the security forces zeroed in on the location the terrorists were "alerted by barking dogs". They tried to escape by using women and children as covers. "They opened automatic fire and started lobbing grenades."  "The idea was that while we try to save the ladies and the children, they will try to make good their escape. There was retaliation and both of them were drop dead within a matter of two-three minutes," he said.  He said the security forces recovered an M-4 rifle with a telescopic sight used by Lamboo.  "We have recovered a Glock pistol -- which is not there with every terrorist here. We have also recovered a Chinese pistol and an AK-47 rifle," he said.  The GoC Victor Force said this has probably been the "biggest strike of the year" for the police and the security forces. "I am sure this will continue."  Asked whether there was any other militant active in the Kashmir valley belonging to the family of JeM chief Masood Azhar, the IGP said "as of now, there is no one from the family".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Government dismisses snooping allegations as 'non-issue' ||The Narendra Modi government on Friday dismissed as a “non-issue” the allegation that the Pegasus spyware was used to snoop on Indians and rejected the Opposition’s demand for an immediate discussion in both Houses of Parliament. “The IT minister (Ashwini Vaishnaw) has already given a detailed statement in both Houses. A non-issue is being used to stall the House. There are many other important people-related issues,” parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi told the Lok Sabha during Question Hour amid Opposition demands for a discussion. “This (Pegasus) is a non-issue and also a non-serious issue,” Joshi stressed. For the ninth day, Parliament was rocked by protests as the Opposition sought an immediate discussion on the revelation by an international consortium of 17 media organisations that the Israeli-made Pegasus spyware had been used to target individuals around the world for surveillance. On the list of potential targets were the names of many prominent Indians, including politicians, journalists, activists and constitutional figures. According to Israel, the spyware is sold only to governments. The Modi government has neither confirmed nor denied that it bought the spyware. As the Lok Sabha assembled on Friday, Congress’s leader of the House Adhir Chowdhury said the Opposition had from the start of the monsoon session been demanding a discussion on Pegasus. “Along with Pegasus, other issues like farm laws, Covid and price rise can also be discussed,” he said. The Speaker cut Adhir short and said he could raise the issue after Question Hour. But a little later, the parliamentary affairs minister rose to describe Pegasus as a “non-issue” and a “non-serious issue” that does not merit a discussion. As the Opposition remained firm on discussing Pegasus first and continued to protest in the Well of the House, the Lok Sabha was adjourned till Monday. On Wednesday, leaders of 14 Opposition parties had met in Parliament to iterate their resolve to press for a discussion in Parliament and a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the snooping allegations. In contrast to the Modi government’s dismissive stance, the government of Israel has said it is “taking the allegations seriously”. The Israel government said in a statement on Wednesday: “Israel grants cyber licences only to nation-states and only to be used for the needs of dealing with terrorism and crime.” Israel has set up a senior inter-ministerial team to look into the spyware allegations. The Modi government’s refusal to even talk about the issue in Parliament has exposed as hollow its repeated claims so far that it is ready to “discuss all issues” and that the Opposition has been deliberately disrupting proceedings. On more than one occasion, the government had accused the Opposition of not being interested in debate and discussion and said it was ready to discuss all issues. Even Speaker Om Birla had appealed to slogan-shouting MPs to give up their protest since the government was ready to discuss all the issues they wanted. Amidst the din, the government on Friday managed to introduce two bills. On Thursday, it had passed two bills without any discussion, blaming the Opposition. “We don’t want to pass bills without discussion but unfortunately the Opposition is not allowing. I appeal to the Opposition to participate in discussions,” Joshi said. The minister told reporters the Opposition can still seek clarifications from Vaishnaw, who in his statement had described the spyware allegations as an attempt to malign India but had not answered the one question being asked: Had India bought the Pegasus spyware? The Opposition has rejected Vaishnaw’s statement and demanded that after a discussion, no less than Union home minister Amit Shah should clarify the government’s position since Pegasus snooping involves privacy and internal security. Pegasus Farm protest Oxygen crisis Unemployment Fuel spike||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Opposition mulls joint petition in SC for investigation||The Opposition parties are discussing jointly petitioning the Supreme Court for an investigation into the Pegasus allegations, with a decision likely after the Congress consults its lawyers. The proposal has been discussed twice at meetings of Opposition leaders, with the dominant view in favour of taking the legal recourse. The only counter-argument, forwarded by some, is that an adverse court judgment can provide relief to the government, as with Rafale in 2019. The Congress had been opposed to moving court over the Rafale deal but lawyer Prashant Bhushan and former BJP politicians Yashwant Sinha and Arun Shourie went to the Supreme Court, which refused to order an inquiry. That judgment came from a bench headed by then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi, who has since retired and been awarded a Rajya Sabha membership. Most Opposition leaders are optimistic about any apex court judgment now. The leaders feel that a joint Opposition petition would also create moral pressure at a time many other countries have initiated investigations into similar allegations of snooping within their borders via Pegasus, a spyware developed by Israel’s NSO group. The Supreme Court has already promised to take up next week the three petitions moved by an advocate, a CPM parliamentarian and two journalists seeking a court-monitored probe into the snooping allegations. Over 500 citizens, including eminent rights defenders, have written an open letter to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana seeking the apex court’s immediate intervention to demand answers from the Centre on the controversy. A senior politician who attended an Opposition meeting where the matter was discussed told The Telegraph: “Many leaders suggested the parties should jointly petition the Supreme Court. The idea is under consideration. The Congress has to make up its mind. They are probably discussing different aspects of this move with their lawyers.” While all sources asserted a unity of purpose within the Opposition, some felt that the Congress needed to put its house in order to ensure a sharper strategy against the government. “Some of us insisted on Rahul Gandhi’s presence at the Opposition meetings. The difference was visible when he attended the meeting one day,” an Opposition politician said. “Mallikarjun Kharge (Congress Rajya Sabha leader) neither commands that kind of respect, nor is he capable of articulating the Opposition’s concerns forcefully. The Congress will have to put its best foot forward at this critical juncture.” The worry about “articulation” owes to the realisation that the Pegasus controversy has lacked a strong appeal for the rural masses, at least till now. “The perspective given by the television channels that have a rural presence has not been favourable to Opposition politics. What is needed is a narrative in which Pegasus is woven together with the price rise and the farmers’ movement,” an Opposition leader said. It has to be hammered home that the government has failed on all fronts, another Opposition leader said. “The economic mess, Covid mismanagement, unemployment and farm distress cannot be pushed aside in the effort to highlight snooping. The messaging should be about the bouquet of issues even while Pegasus remains the engine,” he said, pointing to the coming elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, which have large rural populations. The Opposition expects the government to call an all-party meeting in the next couple of days, where it will attempt to paint an all-round gloomy picture. It will also try to corner the government on its refusal to order a probe into the Pegasus controversy when several countries, including Israel, have initiated inquiries. “When the Israel government had to raid NSO, which has now suspended the use of Pegasus by some clients who are accused of misuse, how can the (Narendra) Modi government say there won’t be any discussion, any inquiry?” Kharge told reporters. “It’s clear from developments in Israel and France that illegal snooping was going on. In November last year, then IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had referred to 121 (people) being spied upon. How can the government change its stance now?” Current IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has denied that illegal surveillance is possible in India while the government has refused to say whether it has bought Pegasus. An Opposition leader said: “Another issue that has agitated the Opposition leaders is the attitude of the Rajya Sabha Chairman, M. Venkaiah Naidu. Some leaders insisted on a no-confidence motion against him. Even that idea hasn’t been rejected so far.” Another Opposition politician explained the unease with Naidu, saying: “There is something called the sense of the House. Both the Lok Sabha Speaker and the (Rajya Sabha) Chairman have behaved like government spokespersons. They have been party to crushing the Opposition. “We are not allowed to speak; even television doesn’t show our activities. Parliament doesn’t belong to the government. We don’t have the numbers in the Lok Sabha but the members are in a mood to send out a strong message by moving a no-confidence motion against Naidu in the Rajya Sabha.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||CBSE class XII results: 80% jump in number of 95-plus scorers ||Shreya Sasmal, a CBSE student from Udhampur in Jammu, has scored 96.2 per cent in her Class XII boards whose results were announced on Friday. She said she was happy with her marks but would still have preferred to take a board exam — cancelled this year because of the pandemic, with students awarded scores on the basis of past exams, practical and project work, and their schools’ past performance. “So many students have scored over 95 per cent this year. This sharp increase in the number of students scoring over 90 or 95 per cent raises many questions,” Shreya said. A record success rate and a huge leap in the number of high scorers this year have not just undermined the credibility of the assessment but also made undergraduate admissions a challenge for the students and colleges, educationists said. The pass rate of 99.37 per cent represents a more than 10 percentage point rise over last year’s 88.78 per cent, while the number of students scoring over 95 per cent has jumped 80 per cent. Shreya wants to be a doctor and will take the NEET-UG in September. But, she said, undergraduate admission processes that are based on Class XII marks can become very complicated. Anushka Gupta, a student from Bangalore, said she would have performed better had board exams been held. “I have scored 95 per cent; I would certainly have scored better in some papers in an exam,” she said. Many other students have voiced similar sentiments, pointing to the huge weightage given to scores obtained in the Class XI and pre-board exams and saying students never prepare as seriously for these tests as for the board exams. To award the theory marks, the Central Board of Secondary Education gave 30 per cent weightage to a student’s best three scores out of five papers in Class X, another 30 per cent to the marks obtained in Class XI, and 40 per cent to his or her performance in the pre-board exams. The overall score was then moderated by taking as reference the school’s overall best performance out of the previous three years’ board exams. The school had to ensure that its average marks in each subject this year fell within a range of plus or minus five marks from its average marks in that subject in the reference year. Also, the average aggregate mark scored by the school’s students this year was not allowed to exceed by more than two marks the school’s average aggregate score from the reference year. Former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said the high pass rate had not surprised him and suggested an inflation of scores by many schools. “The 30 per cent weightage to Class X board scores was all right. The remaining 70 per cent weightage has been given to secondary data generated by the schools themselves. This data is mostly inauthentic and highly inflated. The results have not much credibility,” Ganguly said. Some humanities students have argued that the poor marks they had scored in science and mathematics in Class X had unfairly dragged down their Class XII scores. Ganguly said the results would affect undergraduate admissions in a big way. “Many students with a good aptitude and attitude may not secure admission to a well-known college this year,” he said. C.B. Sharma, educationist and former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling, too faulted the CBSE’s formula. “We agree we are passing through unprecedented times but the CBSE, as a professional body of assessment and certification, cannot award certificates that are not trusted,” Sharma said. “The CBSE will have to justify the more than 10 percentage point increase in the pass rate. Board results are trusted because of a reliable process of assessment. The CBSE’s formula for compiling results does not appear a valid one.” He said most of the state boards had followed the same formula as the CBSE, and their results too would reflect the same pattern. “There will be a significant increase in the number of students scoring over 90 per cent or even 95 per cent. A massive number of students will vie for college seats. Admissions will be erratic and beyond expectations this year,” Sharma said. He said the well-known schools follow a more or less transparent method of internal assessment and exams but the schools located in remoter areas, and even some city schools, do not keep records of their own assessment properly or transparently. “Many schools have generated these data over the last month, and this data is highly problematic,” Sharma said. The board has announced the results of 13.045 lakh students while withholding those of another 65,000 regular students whose scores will be announced by August 5. The board will hold exams for the 60,000 private candidates between August 16 and September 15. Among the 16 regions, Thiruvananthapuram has recorded the highest pass rate of 99.89 per cent, with Patna bringing up the rear with 98.91 per cent. Girls have notched a pass rate of 99.67 per cent compared with 99.13 among the boys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh varsity webinar hit with ABVP ‘disruption tactic’||An ABVP complaint has triggered a police notice to a central university in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh over a webinar on “scientific temper”, threatening a criminal case if any speaker with an “anti-national mindset” said anything to incite any class or community against another. The Dr Harisingh Gour Vishwavidyalaya, Sagar, eventually pulled out as co-organiser of the two-day webinar, which began on Friday with the Montclair State University of the US as the sole organiser. The webinar on “Cultural and linguistic hurdles in the achievement of scientific temper” was originally a joint venture by the central university’s anthropology department and Montclair. On Thursday, Sagar superintendent of police Atul Singh wrote to the university’s vice-chancellor, Janak Dulari Ahi, saying the police had received “representations from certain groups” about the webinar. “The speakers joining the webinar have in the past made anti-national mindset and caste-conflict related statements, and a suspicion has been raised that they may affect caste and social harmony with their comments on Indian culture, traditions, caste system and religious practices of the majority community,” the notice said. “Hence, considering social harmony, a consensus should be arrived at before organising the webinar that the topics  and thoughts that may be expressed in order that no religion, caste, region, community may feel offended by any parable/principle…. Despite this, if the campaign/ publication of any action of any speaker creates a situation whereby any class or community is incited against any other class community, the organisers  will be considered collectively responsible for a punishable offence under Section 505 of the Indian Penal Code.” The section deals with statements conducive to public mischief, including the promotion of enmity between classes and the incitement of an offence against the State, public tranquillity or a community. Singh’s letter came a week after the ABVP, the student arm of the RSS, had complained to the VC that two of the proposed speakers were of an “anti-national mindset”. They were Apoorvanand, who teaches Hindi at Delhi University, and Gauhar Raza, who retired as chief scientist from the National Institute of Science Communication and Information Resources, Delhi. Raza and Apoorvanand spoke as scheduled when the webinar began on Friday with only the American university as the organiser. Raza told The Telegraph: “I am pained not by the ABVP but the police resorting to Section 505 to stop a seminar on the scientific temper…. It feels like the inquisition against Galileo and the burning of Bruno in ancient Rome are being repeated in India today. I spoke on the killings of four rationalists in recent years.” Apoorvanand told this newspaper: “We have seen this happen in Delhi University when discussions are stopped because some (people) object. The whole idea is to disrupt, so heads of departments are scared and don’t hold any programmes for fear of destruction to public property and violence.” Swaraj Bir Singh, editor of the Punjabi Tribune newspaper and a former Meghalaya DGP who is not associated with the Sagar event, said later in response to a question: “Nobody can imagine this section being used for a seminar. It is used when someone incites violence, and is not used for seminars. When I served in Meghalaya, there were difficult situations but we never even thought of using such sections on seminars in a university.” The complaint from ABVP district convener Shriram Richharia — which was sent also to the President, Prime Minister and chief minister — warned of taking legal action against the vice-chancellor and other officials and shutting down the university if the two speakers were allowed to participate. Richharia also complained to Singh on Thursday. Asked about the grounds for the notice, Singh told The Telegraph: “I have cited only objections raised by persons and groups…. The police have various sources of information and intelligence.” On Thursday, the university wrote to the webinar’s convener, anthropology professor Rajesh K. Gautam, that the webinar and the participants needed approval from the Union education ministry under new regulations introduced in January this year and asked him to initiate the process. Gautam was warned that he alone would be liable for the consequences if he went ahead without approval. In another letter to Gautam on Friday, the university asked him to postpone the webinar if permission was not received. Registrar Santosh Shagora added in the letter: “Moreover, as you are the convener of the online webinar, you and your entire team are responsible for the whole event. University platform (Online/ IT/ Offline or any other kind) and University name, logo, etc, shall not be used for the purpose of this Online Webinar.” Ahi and Shagora did not respond to queries from this newspaper. On Friday evening, Gautam and an anthropology colleague, K.K.N. Sharma, filed complaints of assault against each other. Sharma accused Gautam of assaulting him when he tried to enforce the vice-chancellor’s order to prevent the viewing of the webinar from a seminar room at the university. Gautam, a Dalit, accused Sharma of assaulting him with a sharp object in the toilet, and of ill-treating him because of his caste in the past as well. Singh said that preliminary investigations were on. The other speakers included Lucknow University’s Nadeem Hasnain, IIIT Hyderabad professor Harjinder Singh, GLA University (Mathura) professor Panchanan Mohanty, Grazyna Liczbinska from Poland, Aseem Hasnain from Bridgewater State University in the US, and Georgetown University professor Gaurav J. Pathania.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Mamata leaves Delhi,  promises to visit once every two months||Mamata Banerjee has promised to return to New Delhi once every two months, describing her five-day tour of the capital as “successful”. The Bengal chief minister, who reached Calcutta on Friday evening, said she spoke over the phone to NCP chief Sharad Pawar — a key figure in the national Opposition space she did not meet in person this time — and was planning a meeting the next time both were in Delhi. “I think the visit was successful,” Mamata said before leaving the capital. “We met for political purposes, we met for development purposes. Both were very good.” By “development”, she probably was referring to her meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, in the course of which she placed several demands for the state. But the primary focus of her Delhi trip was political, which she said was part of her quest to ensure a better functioning democracy in the country. The chief minister met several Opposition leaders like Sonia Gandhi, AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal and DMK’s Kanimozhi. She spoke to Lalu Prasad, too, over the phone during her stay in Delhi. “Let us believe that democracy must go on. To save democracy, everyone should come together and work as a unit. The nation is the largest space for work. If democracy is in peril, democracy is rendered vulnerable,” she added. The Trinamul Congress chief made it clear again that “saving” India by protecting its democracy was to be prioritised above all else. “Our slogan is ‘save democracy, save the nation’. Let us do the work for farmers, labourers, unemployed youths and others…,” Mamata said, adding that her Delhi visits would now be a regular feature. “I have decided that I will come once every two months… after doing our work there (in Bengal),” Mamata said. On the political side, she suggested that the biggest takeaway was the general willingness in the national Opposition to set aside differences and close ranks against the BJP. Mamata said: “Opposition unity, that everyone will work together, nothing can be better than that.” “I could not meet every single leader (this time). Because it is not allowed in the Central Hall of Parliament now because of Covid-19. But I met a lot of them. I think the outcome is good. Let us work together,” added the Trinamul chief. Asked specifically about the Lok Sabha elections of 2024, she said: “Do not keep saying these things repeatedly. Say just the one thing, that the nation must be saved.” Asked to elaborate on the “success” of the trip, Mamata said she was keen on balancing “both sides” — development and politics — during her visit. “Number one: the country must be developed. We want development for the people,” she said. The chief minister raised the issue of the rise in fuel prices. “Now, because of the diesel, petrol, LPG prices, everybody is concerned. Every person in this nation is worried. Such a lot of money… over Rs 3.74 lakh crore, the Centre took from the pockets of the common people,” she said. The chief minister went on to attack the BJP-led Centre — without taking names — over various aspects of the way the country was being run. “The way every-day prices of diesel, petrol and LPG have been on the rise…. Farmers are on the streets. Unemployment is on the rise. Covid-19 is spreading,” she said, pledging full support to the cause of the agitating farmers. She said although there was no contact with the leadership of the farmers’ movement during this visit, she had spoken to them on several occasions in the past, and Rakesh Tikait had paid her a visit in Calcutta. Mamata said she told Prime Minister Modi, during their meeting on Tuesday, about taking adequate measures so that the third wave of the pandemic does not turn out to be as severe as the second, and to ensure adequate supply of vaccines for mass immunisation. “That is why I told the Prime Minister, that it should be seen to… that the third wave does not become as dire, and that vaccines are properly available, that medicines are properly available,” she said. The chief minister voiced concern over the heavy rainfall across vast swathes of Bengal over the past couple of days, and hoped it would not develop into a flood-like situation. “In our state, there is a lot of rainfall. We don’t know if that would turn into a flood-like situation. I will have to go back and do the needful,” she said. “Many places, in all states… such as Mumbai, saw a lot of rainfall, there were casualties there, for which I am sad,” Mamata added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Double whammy of job loss and Covid care cost in Delhi-Ghaziabad||A survey of almost 2,000 workers by the CPM in Delhi and neighbouring Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh has found that two-thirds of them lost their jobs in April and May this year, and a fifth spent close to Rs 12,000 on Covid-19 treatment. Less than a third of the workers received their full entitlement from the public distribution system and the additional pandemic-time rations promised by the government, the report titled “Results of the Survey on the Impact of Covid-19 Second Wave in Delhi-NCR Region” says. CPM women’s wing Janwadi Mahila Samiti on Friday released the report, which paints a grim picture of the poor facing the brunt of the pandemic this year too. The survey found that the proportion of the completely unemployed among the respondents increased from the pre-April 4.6 per cent to 66.5 per cent in April and to 71.9 per cent in May. Casual workers were the worst hit, with 72 per cent of them unemployed in April and May. “While most casual workers became unemployed, those who were self-employed were unable to work for many days, and therefore saw their incomes falling drastically,” the report says. “Average income of self-employed technical workers (masons, carpenters, plumbers, electricians, etc) fell from about Rs 8,000 per month before the pandemic to only about Rs 4,700 per month. Average income of petty business owners (shopkeepers, street vendors, etc) fell from Rs 7,622 per month to Rs 4,864 per month in April and only Rs 3,748 per month in May.” According to the report, around 18 per cent of the respondents said that either they or their family members had suffered Covid infections or showed Covid-like symptoms in April and May, for which the average cost of treatment was Rs 11,921. Some 78.5 per cent of the respondents said they were not vaccinated at all. Delhi prides itself in having a better public health system than most parts of India, and the ruling Aam Aadmi Party government claims that government facilities did not run out of beds despite a rush of cases the like of which few cities had seen. The households of 54.3 per cent of the respondents did not have ration cards that were usable in Delhi. “This was the biggest cause of their exclusion from the PDS,” the report says. “Secondly, even in case of households that had a ration card, it is not the case that all members of the households are registered on the card. As a result, in April, per capita grain received was less than 5kg for 48 per cent of households that had a valid ration card.” The report adds: “Thirdly, distribution of the extra entitlement of 5kg per person, which was announced by the government, started only in May. Even in May, only 31 per cent of the households with ration cards received a full 10kg per capita grain. On the other hand, despite the additional entitlement announced by the government, 27 per cent households got less than 5kg per person even in May 2021.” Earlier this month, the Delhi government agreed to implement the Centre’s One Nation One Ration Card scheme, which allows the beneficiaries to receive subsidised rations anywhere in India irrespective of which state they are registered in. “These findings underscore the urgent need to provide cash assistance to working class households, the need to urgently expand (the) Covid vaccination programme, to strengthen the public health system, and to provide universal entitlement to subsidised food and employment guarantee through an expansion of the social protection programmes,” the report says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Contempt plea in Supreme Court against PM Modi and Amit Shah  ||An advocate has moved a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and the home ministry, accusing them of “wilful denial” to comply with apex court directives while appointing IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi police commissioner. Advocate Manohar Lal Sharma, who had earlier filed a plea seeking a special investigation team-monitored probe into the Pegasus snooping controversy, alleged that Asthana’s appointment had been in gross violation of Supreme Court rulings that all vacancies must first be notified to the Union Public Service Commission and that no officer who has less than six months’ service left will be appointed as a director-general of police (DGP). Asthana was appointed as the commissioner of Delhi police, which reports to the Union home ministry, four days before his scheduled retirement on July 31, and was granted a year’s extension of service. The Delhi police commissioner’s rank is equivalent to that of a DGP. Sharma’s petition claimed that the Prime Minister and the home minister had lost their moral and constitutional right to continue in office, having violated the Supreme Court’s directions. The PIL appealed that the issue should be examined by a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court comprising a minimum of five judges. Sharma said a constitution bench would have the mandate to settle the law on such appointments, otherwise there could be a constitutional breakdown and people could lose faith in the country Sharma has named Modi as respondent No. 1, Union home minister Shah as respondent No. 2 and the home ministry as Respondent No. 3 for what the advocate called “wilful denial” to comply with the Supreme Court’s ruling of July 3, 2018, that all states shall send their proposals with regard to the appointment of DGP-level officers six months in advance to the UPSC. “Respondent No. 1 (the Prime Minister) is the head of the ACC (appointments committee of the cabinet) and respondent No. 2 (the Union home minister) jointly decided and did the impugned appointment against the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Hence they are party to this for contempt of court,” the petition, which is yet to be listed for formal hearing, stated. The PIL recalled that on July 3, 2018, the Supreme Court had in the Prakash Singh vs Union of India case prohibited the appointment of an officer with less than six months of service left as DGP. Sharma said that on July 27 this year, the appointments committee of the cabinet headed by the Prime Minister appointed Asthana as the Delhi police commissioner for one year. The petitioner contended that the action of the Union government amounted to contempt of court and cited the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, and a number of earlier Supreme Court judgments wherein it had been stated that “civil contempt refers to wilful disobedience to any judgment of the court, while criminal contempt can be invoked if an act tends to scandalise or lower the authority of the court or tends to interfere with or obstruct the administration of justice”. Sharma claimed that the appointment was a case of both civil and criminal contempt. According to Sharma, Asthana’s appointment had also “been done knowingly and deliberately to interfere with or obstruct the administration of justice”. “Therefore this Hon’ble court shall take contempt of court… against the respondents. Because in assessing if an act constitutes contempt, the test is of the effect on the judicial process and the authority of the courts,” the petition said. “The intention of the accused in a contempt case is immaterial. What really matters is the effect or the likely effect of his act on the administration of justice. Any act which causes lack of confidence in the administration of justice, or otherwise interferes or tends to corrupt it, has to be prevented…. Because actual scandalisation or lowering of authority of the court is not necessary. It is sufficient if it tends to scandalise or tends to lower the authority of the court,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Covid: India to evaluate a cocktail of Covaxin with US intranasal shot||India is set to evaluate a combination of the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin with a candidate intranasal vaccine designed by US researchers under the expectation that the two vaccines in sequence might enhance protective efficacy against the infection. An expert panel with India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines has approved a clinical trial that will involve Covaxin as the first dose on day zero and the candidate intranasal vaccine based on a chimpanzee adenovirus as the second dose on day 28. Bharat Biotech, the Hyderabad-based maker of Covaxin, plans to conduct the trial combining Covaxin with the intranasal candidate vaccine developed by Michael Diamond and his colleagues at Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, and procured by the company last year under a licencing pact. The company is hoping that the two vaccines will through different mechanisms increase the protective efficacy against Covid-19. Covaxin, like other intra-muscular injections, stimulates an arm of the immune system called systemic immunity, while the intranasal candidate stimulates mucosal immunity. The intranasal candidate developed at Washington University was last year the first among Covid-19 vaccine candidates to show the promise of what scientists call “sterilising immunity” — a type of immunity that prevents the virus from even establishing an infection. The expert panel with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation approved the trial on Thursday after Bharat Biotech’s representatives made a presentation. Bharat Biotech is already conducting an independent trial to evaluate the safety and immune responses triggered by the intranasal candidate in 175 volunteers to be recruited at four sites — All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, Apollo Hospital, Chennai, St Theresa’s Hospital, Hyderabad, and the Gillurkar Hospital, Nagpur. The trial will evaluate the intranasal candidate as a single dose and a double-dose vaccine. Researchers say the strategy of combining Covaxin and the intranasal candidate is driven by the expectation that the combination of systemic immunity from Covaxin and mucosal immunity from the intranasal candidate might provide superior protection against the infection. The CDSCO expert panel also on Thursday approved a trial that will mix Covaxin and Covishield as the first and second doses. Doctors at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, will conduct the Covaxin-Covishield trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Supreme Court to hear plea for spyware snoop probe ||Chief Justice N.V. Ramana on Friday said the petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations would be heard next week. The bench, which included Justice Surya Kant, did not mention a date but the matter is expected to come up in the first half of next week, most probably on Monday or Tuesday. “We will take it up next week,” Justice Ramana assured senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Abhishek Manu Singhvi. The two lawyers were representing journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, founder of Malayalam TV channel Asianet, who are among the petitioners seeking a court-monitored special investigation team (SIT) probe. An investigation by an international collaboration of media organisations has led to allegations that the Indian government illegally snooped on judges, journalists, politicians, rights activist and other Indian citizens via the Israeli spyware Pegasus. The Centre has denied the possibility of any illegal surveillance while desisting from saying whether it had bought the Pegasus software, sold only to governments and government agencies. On Thursday, over 500 citizens, who included eminent rights defenders, wrote an open letter to Justice Ramana seeking the apex court’s immediate intervention to demand answers from the Centre on the matter. The signatories cited the CJI’s recent address at an Indo-Singapore Mediation summit where he had said that India’s people “know that when things go wrong, the judiciary will stand by them”. Ram and Kumar moved their joint petition — the third on the matter — on July 27. They have argued that the alleged snooping violated citizens’ fundamental right to life, liberty and privacy as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Appearing on behalf of Ram, Sibal on Friday urged Justice Ramana to list the matter for urgent hearing, saying the issue had “huge ramifications” for national security and civil liberties. “Opposition leaders, journalists, members of the judiciary are being snooped (on). This is an urgent matter, making waves not just in India but internationally. Your Lordships may list the matter for urgent hearing,” Sibal said. Singhvi supported Sibal’s submission and complained that the registry was not listing matters even for urgent mentioning. An advocate, Manohar Lal Sharma, had filed the first petition on the matter on July 22, arguing the alleged surveillance not just violated privacy but threatened national security through the use of foreign spyware to snoop on Indians. Sharma also raised the subject of the funding of the alleged purchase of Pegasus, saying Articles 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution state that the government cannot appropriate the country’s consolidated or contingency funds without legislative permission. He further argued that snooping on citizens’ personal data violated Sections 65, 66 and 72 of the Information Technology Act, read with Section 3 of the Official Secrets Act. CPM Rajya Sabha member John Brittas then moved another petition seeking a court-monitored investigation, arguing the alleged surveillance would otherwise have a “chilling effect” on dissenters against the government. He said that though questions had been asked in Parliament about the alleged phone-hacking, the government had neither denied nor admitted to the snooping.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Odisha government to promote 63,303 primary teachers||The Odisha government will give promotion to 63,303 primary teachers to motivate them to impart quality education at the primary level. The state government has also announced plans to reduce their residency period. These decisions were announced by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who is keen to strengthen the primary education system in the state. The announcement came just a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced steps to reform the education system in the country. Making the announcement the chief minister said: “The promotion given to the teachers will enhance the management and education system in  primary schools across the state.” As per the announcement, 29,759 assistant teachers will be promoted from 5 (A) level to 5 (B) level. Besides, 29,759 teachers, who are in 5 B level will be promoted to level-4. Similarly 3785 headmasters in level-4 will be promoted to level-3 by September 2021. Similarly, The residency period (a period for which a candidate must work at the department) for assistant teachers will be reduced to six months from the existing one year. In order to motivate the teachers, the state government has also announced that the period for promotion to level-3 from level-4 will be reduced to one year from the existing two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Raid on aide to member of OSSC bares properties worth over Rs 4cr||Odisha vigilance on Friday raided the house of private secretary to member, Odisha Staff Selection Commission (OSSC), Biranchi Narayan Sahoo, and unearthed documents showing ownership of properties worth over Rs 4 crore, according to preliminary estimates. The total value of his wealth is likely to increase as the raids are still on and the process of computation is also continuing. Vigilance officials suspect that the ill-gotten money amassed by the private secretary came from students who were appearing for different examinations conducted by the Odisha Staff Selection Commission. The raiding team has also seized several admit cards of students appearing for the different examinations conducted by the OSSC. Superintendent of Police (Vigilance-Bhubaneswar Division), R. Prakash told The Telegraph: “Getting reliable information about the official having amassed huge properties disproportionate to his known sources of income, we approached the special judge, vigilance to issue a search warrant. On the strength of the warrant, raids are going on at six places in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. As we have found a number of admit cards of students, we are investigating whether the ill gotten money was collected from students.” Sources said vigilance would also probe whether he is the only beneficiary of this ill-gotten money collected by him or he shared it with anyone else. “We have stumbled upon huge properties and so far seized Rs 12 lakh cash from his possession. Counting is still on. Besides, Rs 13 lakh cash has been seized from his brother-in-law’s house,” the vigilance SP said. In 2021, the OSSC had conducted examinations to the posts of assistant librarian, junior librarian, inspector supplies, primary investigator, revenue inspector, Aminas, data operators and various other examinations, sources revealed. The vigilance constituted three teams comprising four deputy superintendent of police (DSPs), 13 inspectors and other support staff to conduct the searches against the private secretary. “So far, we have found two double storeyed buildings worth more than Rs 3 crore in his possession in Bhubaneswar. Besides, our teams have found nine plots, mostly located in Bhubaneswar,” said the SP. The private secretary visited countries, including Malaysia and Thailand. “We have also seized foreign currency and shares in his name. Huge gold ornaments have been seized from his possession. We are yet to open the bank lockers of Sahoo,” said vigilance officials. Sahoo has been working in the OSSC since 1994 and is about to retire from the job next year, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Bihar: Nitish and Tejashwi unite over caste census||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav appeared to have found common ground on Friday over their demand for a caste census and a common opponent in the BJP. RJD leader Tejashwi and other legislators from the Opposition Grand Alliance met Nitish in his Assembly office on the last day of the monsoon session. At the meeting, Tejashwi demanded that the Bihar government pile pressure on the BJP-led dispensation at the Centre to conduct a caste census along with the general census that is due this year. “The chief minister has expressed support for the caste census. He assured me that he would write to the Prime Minister on August 2 after returning from Delhi and also seek time to meet him over the issue. It is important to enumerate caste-wise data other than those on the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the census,” Tejashwi told reporters. Nitish later left for Delhi to participate in the national executive of his JDU. He will return on August 2. Tejashwi said he had also suggested that Bihar conduct a caste census on its own on the lines of Karnataka. “Nitishji said he had sought documents related to the caste census in Karnataka and would go through them before arriving at any decision. Every citizen has the right to know about the status of his caste. The caste census will help the government formulate better development schemes,” Tejashwi said. Caste census has been a longstanding demand of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and Nitish. Both have asserted that it would help revise the reservation pattern in government jobs and educational institutions on the basis of the strength of the various castes.Earlier this month, Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai had said in the Lok Sabha that there were no plans for caste-wise enumeration of the population, other than the SCs and STs. It prompted Nitish to iterate his support for the caste census and ask the Centre to reconsider its decision. The BJP tried to downplay the emerging unity between its ally Nitish and the RJD-led Opposition over the caste census. “Nobody knows the exact number of the poor in our country. Therefore, they should be counted. Those who want to divide the society on the basis of a caste census should understand that the number of poor is more than any caste,” BJP MLC Sanjay Paswan said on Friday. “We practise nationalism and nationalistic politics. It is not compatible with the divisive casteism and caste-based politics practised by many regional- and family-dominated parties,” a senior BJP leader told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||SC takes up alleged murder case of Jharkhand judge||The Supreme Court on Friday took suo motu cognisance of the alleged murder of Jharkhand judge Uttam Anand while on a morning walk in Dhanbad and said the case “concerns the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, heading a bench that also had Justice V. Surya Kant, directed the Jharkhand chief secretary and director-general of police to submit their reports on the incident within a week, but clarified that Jharkhand High Court, which has already initiated action on Thursday, would continue to monitor the case. The top court noted that it had come across several instances of attacks on judicial officers and lawyers inside and outside court premises in different parts of the country. The CJI, while listing the matter for further hearing next week, said the court might issue notices to all states and Union Territories for framing appropriate guidelines for the safety of judicial officers. Additional district judge Anand, who had denied bail to two alleged gangsters last week, was jogging around 5am on a two-lane road near Dhanbad city’s Magistrate Colony when an auto-rickshaw hit him from behind. He died in hospital. Initially it was thought to be a hit-and-run incident but Anand’s family lodged an FIR for murder after the police showed them the CCTV footage. A video clip on social media, which officials have confirmed as leaked CCTV footage, shows a man jogging by the roadside when an auto swerves sharply from the middle of the lane, knocks him down and speeds away. The Supreme Court said it was deeply concerned over the rising instances of assault on judicial officers and advocates. The independence of the judiciary can be maintained only when judges and lawyers function fearlessly, CJI Ramana said. “An unfortunate incident happened on Wednesday where an ADJ was hit by an autorickshaw. This gruesome incident was rightly reported in newspapers and on social media, the same was taken into cognisance by the chief justice of (Jharkhand) HC,” Justice Ramana said. “Taking into consideration similar incidents all over the places for judges and some places against lawyers as well”, CJI Ramana said “the matter involves the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. “So we have decided to take up the matter suo motu and issue directions. We are aware that Jharkhand High Court has already taken suo motu cognisance of the incident,” Justice Ramana added. On Thursday the Supreme Court Bar Association led by its president Vikas Singh had urged the top court to direct a CBI probe into Judge Anand’s alleged murder, saying it was a “dangerous situation for the judiciary” if judges got killed for rejecting gangsters’ bail pleas.A special investigation team (SIT) constituted under the directive of Jharkhand High Court and led by additional DGP (operations) Sanjay Anand Lathkar on Friday begun its probe into the judge’s death. The SIT team was at the Dhanbad senior superintendent of police’s office till late in the evening and is learnt to have sought mobile call details of the two youths — Lakhan Kumar Verma, 24, and Rahul Verma, 20 — arrested with the stolen auto. “We have been asked to provide call detail records of both the accused dating back to at least 10 days (prior to Judge Anand’s death) and identify all those persons with whom they had spoken and interrogate them separately. We have also been asked to interrogate the liquor shop owner where Lakhan, who was driving the auto, has confessed to have had drinks on Tuesday night. We have been told that the SIT team and forensic experts will visit the site of the incident soon,” said a DSP-rank officer. Police officers said Lathkar and other members of the SIT had studied CCTV footage from all connected roads near the site of the incident. The police are trying to trace the registered owner of the auto, Ramdev Lohar, who is missing since Thursday. Over 30,000 lawyers affiliated to the Dhanbad Bar Association abstained from works on Friday and took out a march protesting against the murder of lawyer Manoj Kumar Jha near Tamar in Ranchi on July 26 and the “killing” of judge Anand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
