01-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Uttar Pradesh caps price of RT-PCR test by private labs at Rs 700 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After Delhi and Gujarat, UP caps price of RT-PCR test by private labsThe Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday capped the price of RT-PCR test to detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by private labs at Rs 700 and said it will cost Rs 900 if done at home, a day after Delhi and Gujarat also revised the rates of the tests. In September, the Uttar Pradesh government had revised the rates for Covid-19 tests conducted by private labs from Rs 2,500 to Rs 1,600. Read more. No agreement between farm unions, govt: Who said what during meetingThe meeting between farm union leaders and the government on Tuesday failed to reach a breakthrough and another round of discussions will be held on Thursday, December 3. Read more ‘I never show off’: Mamata Banerjee on PM Modi reciting Bengali verseIt’s all there on the teleprompter, said Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, making light of PM Modi quoting a Bengali verse during his Mann ki Baat radio address on Sunday, adding she knows a host of languages but does not feel the need to publicise or “show off”. Read more BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat dies of Covid-19 complicationsBJP’s Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat Abhay Bharadwaj died on Tuesday while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 complications. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said Bharadwaj was an “able leader”. Read more Tamil Nadu CM forms committee to look into PMK reservation demandTamil Nadu Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami announced on Tuesday that a commission will be formed to gather caste-wise data for the state after meeting Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) leader and MP Anbumani Ramadoss whose party is demanding 20% reservation in government jobs and education for the Vanniyar community. Read moreWhatsApp gets Sticker Search, new animated sticker pack, wallpapersWhatsApp today rolled out a major update on its platform today. The update not only brings a new animated sticker pack to WhatsApp’s platform, but it also brings a host of new wallpapers to the messaging app. Read moreInside Aditya Narayan-Shweta Agarwal’s wedding: First pics from ceremony are here, Udit Narayan dances in the baraat. See hereSinger and host Aditya Narayan married fiancée, actor Shweta Agarwal, in a private ceremony on Tuesday. Photos of Aditya, dressed in an ivory white sherwani with a turban, have now emerged online. Read moreMumbai Police shares clip from Mirzapur to convey cyber safety messageMumbai Police shared a scene from the new Netflix reality TV show Fabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives yesterday to dispense some important cyber safety information to netizens. Read more India vs Australia: Virat Kohli and Team India need to win 3rd ODI in Canberra to avoid host of unwanted recordsThe losses to Australia in the first two ODIs in Sydney brought back some painful memories for Indian cricket fans. While the batsmen did stand up and showed some fight, the abject capitulation of India’s bowlers was similar to the stick Indian bowlers would get from the Aussies in the 1990s. Read moreWatch | Protesting farmers vs Congress workers: Heated argument over postersA heated argument reportedly broke out between protesting farmers and Congress workers in Delhi. Cadre of the main Opposition party had set up tents at the Nirankari Samagam ground in Delhi’s Burari to serve food to farmers. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uttar-pradesh-caps-price-of-rt-pcr-test-by-private-labs-at-rs-700-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ruF9IK7JvgXkFJ9dweLq6M.html
01-12-2020||India||Meeting between farmers’ leaders, govt inconclusive; next round on Dec 3||The meeting between leaders of farmers agitating against the farm laws and the government on Tuesday remained inconclusive and another round of talks is going to be held on Thursday. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the meeting with representatives of protesting farmers was “good” and that the next round of talks has been scheduled for Thursday. The minister told the media after Tuesday’s talks that the government was keen on a group being formed but farmers’ leaders wanted that the talks should be held with everyone.“The meeting was good and we have decided that the talks will be held on December 3. We wanted a small group to be constituted but farmers’ leaders wanted that the talks should be held with everyone, we do not have a problem with it,” the minister said. Tomar also appealed to farmers to suspend their protest. “We appeal to the farmers to suspend the protests and come for the talks. However, this decision (of suspending the agitation) depends on farmers’ unions and farmers,” he said.Also read | JJP suggests written assurance from Centre on MSPThe government, during the course of the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan, suggested setting up a committee to look into issues raised by farmers protesting against new farm laws, but it was rejected by representatives of 35 agitating organisations during their marathon meeting with three Union ministers that ended without any resolution. The government also gave a detailed presentation to the farmers’ leaders on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act during the meeting.The protesting farmers are apprehensive that the Centre’s farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.At the nearly three-hour-long meeting at Vigyan Bhawan, Tomar was accompanied by railways and commerce and industry Minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, also an MP from Punjab.Also read | Delhi government notifies one farm law, examining the other twoAfter the meeting, Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said it remained inconclusive and the government has called for another meeting on December 3. Ugrahan, the leader of one of the largest blocks of farmers who have been protesting against the new laws, said the government will arrive at a solution after hearing the representatives of the farmer organisations. “The farmer’s organisations rejected the government’s proposal to form a five-member committee to look into the issues related to the new farm laws,” Roopsingh Sanha, member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), told PTI.The government was, however, firm in its stand that a high-level committee must be formed to look into the issues and wanted the farmer representatives to further consider the proposal. PTI reported citing sources that the ministers were of the view that it was difficult to reach a decision while interacting with such large groups and therefore they suggested meeting with a smaller group, but the farmer leaders were firm that they would meet collectively only.Union leaders said they feared the government might be trying to break their unity and the momentum of their protest. “The government asked us to give names of 5-7 members to form a small committee for better discussion, but we rejected it. We said we all will be present,” BKU (Dakaunda) Bathinda District President Baldev Singh said. “The government is insisting for a small group because they want to divide us. We are very well aware of the government’s tricks,” he alleged.Also read | Trudeau expresses concern at farmers’ protest; India says remarks ‘unwarranted’After the meeting held at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan, a member of the farmers’ delegation said that their movement against the three farm laws will continue. “We will definitely take back something from the government, be it bullets or a peaceful solution. We will come back for more discussions with them,” Chanda Singh said according to ANI.News agency PTI reported citing officials that another round of meeting was held later in the evening at the agriculture ministry with representatives of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). BKU leader Naresh Tikait also said another delegation of farmers’ leaders was meeting the government at 7pm. He said issues other than the recently enacted farm laws are also likely to be discussed, and mentioned power tariffs for farmers among the probable talking points.The meeting was expected to be attended by representatives from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Uttarakhand, Tikait told reporters at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border while on his way for the meeting. This meeting began soon after the end of the first one with a much larger group at Vigyan Bhawan, where the farmer representatives were unanimous in seeking repeal of the three laws that they have been terming as being against the interest of the farm community.The opposition parties too have stepped up the pressure, asking the Centre to “respect the democratic struggle” of the farmers and repeal the laws.An earlier meeting on November 13 had failed to reach a breakthrough and the next one was originally scheduled for December 3, but it got advanced due to the ongoing protests on Delhi borders. Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported after Friday’s violence, while the numbers of protestors swelled at the Ghazipur border on Monday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-between-farmers-leaders-govt-inconclusive-next-round-on-dec-3/story-vAJL2ziPSsPsagOM7fvFBI.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Will reach solution’, says Agri Minister as govt holds meeting with farmers||The government on Tuesday expressed confidence that it will reach a solution after discussing issues raised by protesting farmers, as a meeting got underway between union ministers and representatives of over 30 farmer organisations. For the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan here, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was accompanied by Railways and Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, also an MP from Punjab. “We are ready for a discussion to resolve their issues. Let’s see,” Tomar told reporters as he arrived for the meeting.Follow all the live updates of Farmers’ protest against farm laws He further said the government will arrive at a solution after hearing the representatives of the farmer organisations. Hours before the meeting. Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Tomar and Goyal, along with BJP chief J P Nadda, had held marathon discussions over the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new agriculture reform laws. Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported after Friday’s violence, while the numbers of protestors swelled at the Ghazipur border on Monday.Also Read | Union ministers meet at Nadda’s residence over farmers’ protests The opposition parties too stepped up the pressure, asking the Centre to “respect the democratic struggle” of the farmers and repeal the laws. The farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-reach-solution-says-agri-minister-as-govt-holds-meeting-with-farmers/story-ASXT469asYz2eaNWUWHgrL.html
01-12-2020||India||Union ministers meet at Nadda’s residence over farmers’ protests||Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Piyush Goyal attended a meeting over the farmers’ protest at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief J P Nadda‘s residence on Tuesday. The meeting was the latest in a series of meeting of BJP leaders over the issue and lasted for over two hours.The farmers have been seeking repeal of three laws enacted in September to liberalise the farm sector and have been camping at Delhi’s borders. The government has invited the protesting farmers for talks on Tuesday.Also read | ‘Owe great debt to farmers,’ says Rahul Gandhi as he slams CentreA BJP functionary, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on Monday that the laws are beneficial for the farmers is an indication that the government is ready to address their concerns. But a rollback may not be on the cards, the functionary added.“The genuine grievances of the farmers will be addressed. They have concerns over some aspects such as whether the government will continue providing MSP [Minimum Support Price]. We are ready to answer those concerns. The demand for a rollback is based on rumours and fear stoked by the opposition,” the functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-meet-at-nadda-s-residence-over-farmers-protests/story-vEnly2WBGEArYcXHohZU1O.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Owe great debt to farmers,’ says Rahul Gandhi as he slams Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday again hit out at the government for not paying heed to the farmers’ protests while asking it to give them their rights.“Those who provide are protesting in the streets and those who peddle lies are giving speeches on TV,” Gandhi tweeted. “We owe a great debt to our farmers. We can only settle this debt by getting them justice not by insulting them, hitting them with sticks and tear gassing them. Those occupying the seats bolstered by their ego, should come down and restore the farmers rights.”Gandhi’s comments came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said farmers were being misled on three laws enacted in September for liberalising the sector.Also read | Decision should be for farmers of entire country, not Punjab alone: Farm leadersThousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders seeking the repeal of the laws since November 26. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday announced that the government has invited leaders of the agitation for talks on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-owe-great-debt-to-farmers-says-rahul-gandhi-as-he-slams-centre/story-fWqS1xr5NdPy1y6ObSxsLO.html
01-12-2020||World||Canada PM Trudeau expresses concern at farmers’ protest; India says remarks ‘unwarranted’||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Tuesday that Ottawa has conveyed its concerns about the protest by Indian farmers to New Delhi, but the external affairs ministry dismissed his remarks as “unwarranted” as they pertained to the country’s internal affairs. Trudeau made the remarks while participating in a Facebook video interaction organised by Canadian MP Bardish Chagger to mark Guruparb or the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of the Sikh religion. The event was joined by Canadian ministers Navdeep Bains and Harjit Sajjan and members of the Sikh community. In his opening remarks during the interaction, Trudeau said: “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning and we’re all very worried about family and friends. “I know that’s a reality for many of you. Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that’s why we’ve reached out through multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns.” Hours later, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a brief statement: “We have seen some ill-informed comments by Canadian leaders relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country.” Also read | Farmers’ protest: All you need to knowSrivastava added, “It is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes.” People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Trudeau’s comments appeared to be aimed at Canada’s influential Indian-origin diaspora. Trudeau also referred to the Covid-19 pandemic and said this “is a moment for all of us to pull together”. He added, “We’re going to be there to continue to work together as we are there to help each other out.” He also said it was important to remember Guru Nanak’s teachings of compassion, equality and selfless service, which are at the heart of both Sikhism and Canadian values. Trudeau is probably the first world leader to comment on the protest by Indian farmers, which entered its fifth day on Monday. The protest is aimed at against a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets. The Union government has offered talks to the protestors camping at New Delhi’s borders, but they have insisted on the repeal of the laws. The comments weren’t seen favourably in New Delhi, especially at a time when both India and Canada have been taking steps to restore normalcy to bilateral ties that were hit by Trudeau’s perceived softness on pro-Khalistan activists in Canada during his first term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/farmers-protest-canada-pm-trudeau-expresses-concern/story-TIi2M7BnDN9NCqlhUddV1K.html
01-12-2020||India||‘India’s internal issue not fodder for your politics’: Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi on Justin Trudeau||As Canada’s prime minister Justin Trudeau became the first international head of government to comment formally on the ongoing farmers’ protests in India, Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi tweeted that “India’s internal issue is not fodder for another nation’s politics.” Chaturvedi also urged prime minister Narendra Modi to resolve the issue before other countries too “find it okay to opine.”Also Read | Canada PM Trudeau expresses concern over farmers’ protest in India“Dear @JustinTrudeau, touched by your concern but India’s internal issue is not fodder for another nation’s politics. Pls respect the courtesies that we always extend to other nations. Request PM @narendramodi Ji to resolve this impasse before other countries find it okay to opine,” the Sena Rajya Sabha MP tweeted on Tuesday. Dear @JustinTrudeau ,touched by your concern but India’s internal issue is not fodder for another nation’s politics.Pls respect the courtesies that we always extend to other nations.Request PM @narendramodi ji to resolve this impasse before other countries find it okay to opine.Chaturvedi’s tweet came after Trudeau, in a Facebook video interaction on the occasion of Gurpurab or the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, on Tuesday said, “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning and we’re all very worried about family and friends.”“I know that’s a reality for many of you. Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that’s why we’ve reached out through multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns,” he further said.Also Read | ‘Owe great debt to farmers,’ says Rahul Gandhi as he slams CentreCanada is home to a large Indian diaspora, many of whom are Sikhs. Several members of Trudeau’s cabinet, including minister of national defence Harjit Sajjan, are Sikhs as well. In fact, Sajjan himself has commented on the farmers’ stir, calling the reports of protesters being “brutalised” in India as “very troubling.” The reports of peaceful protesters being brutalized in India are very troubling. Many of my constituents have family there and are worried about the safety of their loved ones. Healthy democracies allow peaceful protest. I urge those involved to uphold this fundamental right. https://t.co/myWev8t3uWLakhs of farmers, mostly from Punjab, have been protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against three agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September, for nearly a week now. The protesters, who braved a crackdown by the Haryana police in their journey to the national capital, say they plan to “gherao” the city for months if their demand to revoke the three “black laws” is not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-internal-issue-not-fodder-for-your-politics-shiv-sena-s-priyanka-chaturvedi-on-justin-trudeau/story-gITodfseE75hiQpTMPKCvO.html
