02-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand farmers to join anti-farm laws protests in Delhi, ready for long siege||Farmers from Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district are leaving for Delhi with ration and some other essentials to join the protest against the three contentious farm laws. The farmers say they will camp in Delhi till the laws are withdrawn by the Central government and they are ready for laying a long siege on the capital.“Farmers are heading to Delhi in batches of small groups due to Covid-19 outbreak. Some of them have already arrived in Delhi, some are camping near the Delhi border with ration and other necessary materials, while others are on the way,” said Prem Singh Sahota, district president, Bharat Kisan Union (BKU). A large batch of farmers from US Nagar had proceeded to Delhi on Saturday after UP police allowed them to move ahead from Rampur district, where they had been stopped. They held a sit-in for 48 hours before police gave them permission to go ahead, said a farmer. Another batch of farmers carrying ration and other essential supplies in tractor trolleys left for the national capital on Monday. “Government is playing in the hands of capitalists and its decisions are ruining the agriculture sector. Farmers are being forced to leave agriculture since they can’t bear the brunt of the newly introduced farm laws,” said Malook Singh Khinda, a farmer from Nanakmatta.Also Read: UP, Uttarakhand, MP farmers to hold mahapanchayat at Delhi-UP border on ThursdayBKU of the district unit has planned to send 2,500 farmers from US Nagar to Delhi to join the stir. “Around 1,500 farmers have left for Delhi and 300 more farmers were sent to Delhi on Wednesday,” Sahota claimed. US Nagar is considered the grain bowl of Uttarakhand and farmers here are not happy with the farm laws, prompting their march to Delhi to participate in the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-farmers-to-join-anti-farm-laws-protests-in-delhi-ready-for-long-siege/story-UCICCZ08KaYqjMi1VItwpO.html
02-12-2020||India||Amit Shah, Amarinder Singh to meet tomorrow before talks with farmers||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday ahead of the Centre’s much-awaited meeting with the representatives of the agitating farmers. The Shah-Singh meeting will take place at 9.30am. Wednesday’s meeting between farmers and the Centre is crucial as this is the fourth such meeting — all previous meetings being fruitless — over the grievances against the three farm bills passed recently by Parliament. Reports said Amarinder Singh will hold deliberations with Shah in an effort to work out an amicable solution to the deadlock. Amit Shah, on Wednesday, held deliberations with agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal on ways to dispel concerns over the farm laws.On its 7th day, the farmers’ protests got a shot in the arm as transporters have also come forward calling for a nationwide strike from December 8 onwards. All-India Motor Transport Congress, the body that has called the strike, represents about 10 million truckers, which will massively hit the movement of essential goods across north India.The protesting farmers on Wednesday demanded the central government call a special session of Parliament to repeal new farm laws. With traffic in the Capital being thrown out of gear on Wednesday because of the protest, they have also threatened to block other roads of the national capital if their demands are not met.The ongoing protests led to several divisions and disagreement so far. Brickbats were being exchanged between Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar over the “use of force” by the Haryana Police on the protesting farmers. On the other hand, Khattar demanded that he wanted to talk to Punjab CM over the farmers’ issues as he didn’t want the protest amid Covid-19 pandemic. On Wednesday, Singh and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal got engaged in a verbal face-off over the ongoing protests. Meanwhile, one of the farmers’ organisations — Krantikari Kisan Union — alleged that the Centre was dividing farmers’ organisations by projecting the ongoing protests as Punjab-centric.Thousands of farmers representing over 30 farmers’ organisations have been agitating in the national Capital since Saturday, responding to the “Delhi Chalo” call against the agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre in September.Thursday’s meeting will be the fourth meeting on the issue and the second meeting amid the ongoing protest. Over 35 farmer leaders had held a three-hour meeting on Tuesday at Vigyan Bhavan with the ministerial delegation. Though their first round of talks on Tuesday did not yield a breakthrough but both sides agreed to hold the next round of talks on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-amarinder-singh-to-meet-tomorrow-before-talks-with-farmers/story-KR0ZZrdyf6uJOcTSTFcVmI.html
02-12-2020||India||UP, Uttarakhand, MP farmers to hold mahapanchayat at Delhi-UP border on Thursday||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), led by its president Naresh Tikait, will hold a mahapanchayat at the Ghazipur border of Delhi on Thursday to discuss the strategy for the ongoing agitation against three contentious farm laws.Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and other parts of the country, along with the heads of different khaps, would participate in the mahapanchayat, said Gaurav Tikait, a young farmer leader and son of Naresh Tikait.Another round of talks between the protesting farmers and the government was scheduled on December 3, he said. The mahapanchayat would keep a close watch on the outcome of the talks and a decision on the next course of the agitation would be taken accordingly, he added.Farmers from western UP and Uttarakhand are camping at the Ghazipur border under the leadership of BKU’s Rakesh Tikait.Social activist Medha Patkar, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Jan Adhikar Party’s Paapu Yadav were among the leaders who met the protesting farmers at Ghazipur border. They demanded that the government withdraw the contentious farm laws.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Choudhary visited the protesting farmers at Singhu border on Wednesday. After interacting with them, he served food to the farmers at a langar.“I have come here to earn punya by serving farmers who are protesting for the past seven days in the open, braving the cold and other difficulties. I have no intention to share the farmers’ dais and (I am) getting satisfaction in serving them,” he said.Also Read: Kejriwal accuses Amarinder Singh of ‘low-level’ politics, says he is under pressure from EDThe RLD leader said the farmers’ demands were genuine and the government should withdraw the contentious farm laws without delay, instead of “buying time” in the name of a dialogue.The talks between the Central government and the umbrella body of farmers’ unions was inconclusive on Monday. The farmers had rejected the government’s proposal to set up a panel comprising experts and farmers’ representatives to hold negotiations.Also Read: Withdraw support to Haryana govt: State Congress chief Selja to JJP, IndependentsThe farmers are demanding the repeal of the three farm laws passed by the Parliament earlier this year and have expressed apprehension that they would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.The government has maintained that the new laws will provide farmers with better opportunities. It has also accused the opposition parties of misleading farmers.Ahead of the second round of talks scheduled for tomorrow, Union home minister Amit Shah held deliberations with Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday to find ways to dispel the farmers’ concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-uttarakhand-mp-farmers-to-hold-mahapanchayat-at-delhi-up-border-on-thursday/story-MYJ4muJdfBR1SGvFu2exQO.html
02-12-2020||India||Four key aspects of the farmers’ protest||The ongoing stand-off between the Union government and protesting farmers does not show any signs of a resolution at the moment. Farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three agriculture laws enacted by the central government. The argument is that these reforms will abolish middlemen and enhance farmers’ incomes, but farmers maintain that this is a precursor to the largescale withdrawal of government support from farming, and will only replace existing middlemen with more powerful corporate entities.These bills essentially pave the way for a greater role for market forces and the private sector in agricultural value chains by allowing contract farming, removing restrictions on movement and storage of food items, and allowing trade in food items to take place outside government-controlled markets.The protests have now escalated to a stage where thousands of farmers are threatening to block all road routes to the national capital. Interestingly, some aspects of the debate between the pro-farm bills and anti-farm bills groups merit clarification.1 India is not a food-surplus countryThe roots of state intervention in agriculture, from government procurement to rationing and restrictions on private traders, which is what the current reforms seek to abolish, are to be found in recurring food shortages in the period after Independence. The Green Revolution, which entailed widespread use of high yielding varieties of seeds, became successful because the state gave dual incentives – input subsidies and remunerative prices via Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) – to farmers to adopt this technology.  Many commentators believe that these incentives are not needed today because India is a food-surplus country now. The sharp rise in India’s agriculture exports is often cited as evidence of this fact. However, when read with the fact that average nutritional intakes in India are much lower than not just developed countries but even China and Vietnam, the purported food surplus seems to be the result of inadequate food consumption by the local population.Also Watch l Farmer protest: What happened at meeting with govt? Union minister reveals 2 Most Indians don’t eat enough; they can’t afford toWhy are Indian diets poor when there is no scarcity of food? Most of them cannot afford good diets. A recent paper by Kalyani Raghunathan of the International Food Policy Research Institute and others, the findings of which were reported in these pages, found that 63.3% of people in rural India could not afford what the authors describe as the Cost of a Recommended Diet (CoRD).  This share increases to 76.2% if one were to assume that a third of their spending would go on non-food items. CoRD has been calculated for a food basket which includes broad categories of cereals, proteins (pulses, meat, fish and eggs), dairy, fruits, vegetables, dark green leafy vegetables and oil and fats.3 Farmers in Punjab, Haryana are better off than the restThe farmers who are protesting outside Delhi’s borders are among the richest among their peers in India. Data from a 2013 survey carried out by the National Statistical Office (NSO) shows that farmers from Punjab and Haryana had the highest incomes in the country. A disproportional share in government procurement at MSP plays an important role in this.  In 2019-20, 65% of wheat and 30% of rice was procured from Punjab and Haryana. The share of these two states in wheat and rice production in the country was 28.7% and 15.9% in 2017-18, the latest period for which data is available for all states. States where there are no large-scale MSP operations tend to have lower prices in private markets as well. That incentivises the richer farmers to lobby for the continuation of the status quo.4 Richer farmers inflicted greater environmental damageThe skewed nature of MSP procurement, especially for rice, has not been an unambiguous blessing for Punjab’s agriculture. The state is not in an agro-climatic zone suited for cultivation of rice, which is a water-intensive crop. Large-scale rice cultivation has resulted in farmers sinking private tube wells, which has led to a drastic depletion of ground water levels.  A 2011 Economic and Political Weekly paper by Anindita Sarkar found that richer farmers in Punjab were a bigger reason for depletion of water tables as they sank deeper tube wells everywhere including in villages which were already facing ground water problems. Because resorting to environmentally harmful farming practices promise monetary rewards in the short term, it is difficult to get the farmers to abandon them. Even the roots of the stubble burning in Punjab that chokes Delhi for a few weeks every winter can be traced back to water management.PRESENT STAND-OFF WILL WIDEN TRUST DEFICIT BETWEEN FARMERS AND THE STATEEven though Punjab and Haryana are not as critical to the country’s food security as they were a few decades ago, they are extremely important in India’s farm economy. Decades of high farm earnings also mean that the peasantry in these two states has much more in terms of material wherewithal to fight for its interests. Therefore, the fact that the government’s attempts to undermine their interests by enacting the recent farm laws have triggered a sharp political backlash is hardly surprising. No matter what the outcome of the present conflict, the trust deficit which will result from this confrontation is likely to erode the state’s credibility to persuade the farmers to shift to more environmentally sustainable practices in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-key-aspects-of-the-farmers-protest/story-UKuhPOVY7N3nAs1OZXBU0L.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Protesting farmers occupy one more border point, supplies running short in Capital||The traffic police had to close the Delhi-Noida border at Chilla on Tuesday after more than 300 farmers blocked both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Link Road even as the ongoing agitation stayed peaceful at both Singhu border and UP Gate with the police ramping up security in view of the talks between the farmers and the government. The farmers are demanding the Centre to revoke three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. At Chilla border, the farmers used nearly 15 tractors to block both the carriageways and sat on the road, prompting the Delhi as well as Noida police to place barricades and deploy personnel in large number on both sides to prevent the farmers from entering Delhi. Since the protest began during the evening rush hour, it led to massive traffic jam on the key route connecting Uttar Pradesh with Delhi.Officials, however, said that the traffic in other parts of the city, including DND was normal. “The traffic at the other roads is being managed. We will keep updating the commuters about the situation at the Chilla border,” said Ganesh Saha, DCP Traffic, Noida. The Delhi traffic police also tweeted advisories, alerting commuters about the traffic snarls.This is the fourth border point that has been closed due to the farmers’ agitation. While vehicular traffic has been completely halted at Singhu and Tikri borders, traffic movement is being allowed towards Ghaziabad on one carriageway at Ghazipur-UP Gate.“Between 5pm and 5.30 pm, the protesting farmers assembled at the Chilla border and blocked the two carriageways using tractors. The border has been closed for vehicular traffic movement. We have deployed our personnel in adequate numbers. Also, talks with the farmers in coordination with Noida police are on,” said Alok Kumar, joint commissioner of police (eastern range).Earlier in the day, a group of farmer leaders left Singhu border for Vigyan Bhawan under heavy police escort to hold talks with the Centre. A senior police officer said while the farmers continued with their peaceful protest, number of paramilitary and Delhi police personnel deployed was adequately stepped up just as a precautionary measure. At UP Gate, the police added another layer of barricades to prevent the entry of farmers in Delhi after a group of protesters dismantle barricades by tugging them to a tractor. Heavy police and paramilitary were deployed at the border point, with senior police officers being present at the spot. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Bihar’s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) president Pappu Yadav joined the protesters at UP Gate to extended their support. “Farmers are protesting not only at UP Gate but in every corner of the country. They are agitating today as they are feeling helpless. They have been forced to accept the (farm) laws that they do not want,” Chandrashekhar told reporters. “About 500-700 people had gathered there as Bhim Army supporters had also arrived. However, they returned after meeting farmers. The traffic diversions were already in place and there was no untoward incident. We already have police personnel deployed at the spot,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (City 2).Supplies hitDrop in arrivals of fruits and vegetables in Delhi’s agriculture markets have forced traders to cater only to local supplies for now.Several traders across wholesale mandis in Delhi told HT on Tuesday that they have stopped sending fruits and vegetables to other states for now in the light of the shortage and that they were focussing on local supply which has kept wholesale and retail prices stable in the capital.However, they apprehended that another 4-5 days of short supply due to blockade could lead to shooting up of both wholesale and retail prices.In Azadpur mandi, which accounts for a large share of fruits and vegetable supplies across the city and several other states, 6,062 trucks had arrived on Tuesday, as against an average of 11,000 truck for this time of the year, said Adil Khan, chairperson of the agriculture produce market committee (APMC) in Azadpur, adding: “The central government must engage with farmers at the earliest and resolve the issue.”Green peas, tomatoes, potatoes and several varieties of apples and oranges have been in short supply for the past 3-4 days. “Right now, traders in Azadpur have temporarily stopped sending fruits and vegetables to other states – from Madhya Pradesh to Karnataka. They are only focussing on local supplies and that is the reason why wholesale and retail prices have not witnessed steep increase in Delhi-NCR so far. However, they are running out of stock. If supply continues to be low, there will be a shortage in Delhi-NCR too and prices will go up,” said Anil Malhotra, a wholesale trader based in Azadpur.Green peas from Punjab, the Himachal variety of oranges and apples from Jammu and Kashmir -- which largely arrive from the northern states through the border points that are blocked -- are some of the items that have witnessed the sharpest dip in arrivals, said Rajesh Yadav, a wholesale trader based in Delhi’s Ghazipur mandi.As on Tuesday, in the three agriculture markets, green peas were sold between Rs 30-40 per Kg and Jammu apples at around Rs 750 per crate, which the traders said were stable wholesale rates for this time of the year but things would have been different if they had been exporting to other states.AAP youth wing protestMeanwhile, the youth wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday staged a demonstration in Connaught Place in solidarity with the groups of farmers protesting against the three farm laws.While there were around 100 protesters who had gathered between blocks A and B of Connaught Place around noon, the police briefly detained 15 of them, including the party’s Punjab in charge Jarnail Singh. The others had dispersed when the police arrived, said the police.“We told the protesters to take the demonstration to the designated location in Burari, in the light of legal prohibitions against large gatherings applicable in the concerned area,” said deputy commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/protesting-farmers-occupy-one-more-border-point-supplies-running-short-in-capital/story-nu0yrSYMN9Mlw5PSZSvfWK.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ children protest in the day, study at night||Eleven-year-old Gursimrat Kaur, a resident of Mangat village in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district and a Class 6 student, has her exams later this month. So, while packing essentials for the farmers protest march to Delhi in November, the young girl picked up all her books.“I study whenever I get time,” she said, now camped at Singhu border with her parents and living in a bus. “We had been protesting against the farm bills in Punjab as well. But that doesn’t mean we have to miss out on studies. Like all times, I will score an A+ this term as well.”Kaur, who works with her mother Sukhbir in the fields and identifies herself as a farmer, read the translated version of the three farm bills in Punjabi before coming to the protest and felt the new reform that did away with a network of government-controlled agricultural markets hurt her prospects. “We are all farmers and want to protect our livelihood and that is why we are here,” said Kaur.She gets lessons on WhatsApp. The tests are mostly conducted online.Sukhbir Kaur said the parents didn’t force the children to attend the protests but that younger people got wind of the protests and planning from social media. “They know what’s happening and want to protest on their own. We have been protesting ever since the laws were passed in our village and our daughter has always joined us.”Kaur is among many children who have accompanied their parents from different parts of Punjab to the borders of Delhi. They are spending their nights on highways, in tents and on tracker trolleys, supporting the stir against the three farm bills, but also finding time to revise their lessons, catch up on syllabus and coordinate with teachers on WhatsApp.Like Kaur, Harman Singh has been at Singhu border since Friday. His day begins with sloganeering with the farmers at 7am and ends with his poring on the screen of his smartphone, going through the assignments or notes sent throughout the day.“We can continue our studies and fight for our rights. It is not an either-or situation. I wake up early in the morning, join the protests during the day, and study for a couple of hours at night on our smartphone,” said the 14-year-old from Sangha village in Punjab’s Mansa district.“This is not just a fight for our elders. Our families will be affected by this and so all of us need to agitate while maintaining education as our priority,” said Singh, who has completed two chapters from his Class 9 Punjabi textbook and one from his Science textbook in the past five days.Singh, who is at Singhu with his relatives while his parents are in Hisar, said his classes had moved online earlier this year when the Covid-19 pandemic forced schools to shut down. “Since our learning is mostly happening online, we can be anywhere and continue our studies. Our teachers send study material on WhatsApp that we can revise at any time,” he said.Other children at the protest site also said that they could travel for the protests because there was no stipulation to attend physical classes. Punjab opened government schools for students of classes 9 to 12 last month, but attendance is voluntary and only to seek guidance from teachers.Mehek Preet Khatkar, a Class 7 student from Mangowal village in SBS Nagar district of Punjab, said she decided to join the protests because online classes were anyway not helpful and she wouldn’t be missing out on physical teaching. “Since the Covid-19 crisis struck, we only learnt through the online mode, which did not help us a lot. So, we won’t miss out on studies if we are here to protest. Also, what use will our marksheet be if we lose our livelihood?”Sucha Singh, one of the organisers of the protest and a member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said the children at the protest had grown up aware of their surroundings. “They have seen the hardships that their families face and understand what these farm bills would mean for them. The children want to come to protest because they know that their future will be in crisis if they are not here to protect their lands now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-children-protest-in-the-day-study-at-night/story-Hq07N4q3Fcnz9zBiHlLcgK.html
02-12-2020||India||UP, Uttarakhand, MP farmers to hold mahapanchayat at Delhi-UP border on Thursday||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), led by its president Naresh Tikait, will hold a mahapanchayat at the Ghazipur border of Delhi on Thursday to discuss the strategy for the ongoing agitation against three contentious farm laws.Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and other parts of the country, along with the heads of different khaps, would participate in the mahapanchayat, said Gaurav Tikait, a young farmer leader and son of Naresh Tikait.Another round of talks between the protesting farmers and the government was scheduled on December 3, he said. The mahapanchayat would keep a close watch on the outcome of the talks and a decision on the next course of the agitation would be taken accordingly, he added.Farmers from western UP and Uttarakhand are camping at the Ghazipur border under the leadership of BKU’s Rakesh Tikait.Social activist Medha Patkar, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Jan Adhikar Party’s Paapu Yadav were among the leaders who met the protesting farmers at Ghazipur border. They demanded that the government withdraw the contentious farm laws.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Choudhary visited the protesting farmers at Singhu border on Wednesday. After interacting with them, he served food to the farmers at a langar.“I have come here to earn punya by serving farmers who are protesting for the past seven days in the open, braving the cold and other difficulties. I have no intention to share the farmers’ dais and (I am) getting satisfaction in serving them,” he said.Also Read: Kejriwal accuses Amarinder Singh of ‘low-level’ politics, says he is under pressure from EDThe RLD leader said the farmers’ demands were genuine and the government should withdraw the contentious farm laws without delay, instead of “buying time” in the name of a dialogue.The talks between the Central government and the umbrella body of farmers’ unions was inconclusive on Monday. The farmers had rejected the government’s proposal to set up a panel comprising experts and farmers’ representatives to hold negotiations.Also Read: Withdraw support to Haryana govt: State Congress chief Selja to JJP, IndependentsThe farmers are demanding the repeal of the three farm laws passed by the Parliament earlier this year and have expressed apprehension that they would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.The government has maintained that the new laws will provide farmers with better opportunities. It has also accused the opposition parties of misleading farmers.Ahead of the second round of talks scheduled for tomorrow, Union home minister Amit Shah held deliberations with Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday to find ways to dispel the farmers’ concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-uttarakhand-mp-farmers-to-hold-mahapanchayat-at-delhi-up-border-on-thursday/story-MYJ4muJdfBR1SGvFu2exQO.html
02-12-2020||India||Farmer protest updates: Delhi-Noida border opens||Delhi Traffic Police has opened the Kalindi Kunj border for traffic movement on Wednesday evening.The traffic movement was prohibited at both carriageways of the border in wake of the farmers’ protest. Earlier, this afternoon Noida police had shifted the farmers coming from different areas of Uttar pradesh protesting on the Mahamaya flyover road to the Dr Ambedkar Memorial Park as it was causing long traffic jams. “Since protesters were sitting on road causing traffic jam, we’ve to shift them here,” Noida DCP Rajesh Kumar Singh told ANI.Delhi’s border with Uttar Pradesh in Noida was earlier opened for traffic - though partially - on Wednesday afternoon after remaining shut for most part of the day due to protest by farmers against Centre’s farm laws.The farmers had gathered at UP border on Tuesday demanding that the newly-enacted laws should be scrapped. The police then placed barricades at the border and deployed additional personnel which affected the movement of traffic.On Wednesday afternoon, the carriageway from Delhi to Noida at Chilla border was opened after protesting farmers agreed to shift themselves on the other carriageway going towards Delhi from Noida.Also Read | Farmers reject govt’s offer on panel, talks deadlockedThe Delhi Traffic Police had earlier issued an advisory to commuters travelling to Noida, saying the Chilla route was closed. The police had asked commuters to instead use NH-24 and Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) flyway for commuting.Due to the raging protest, police have also closed Delhi-Haryana border points at Singhu, Tikri, Jharoda and Jhatikra. Commuters are advised to use Badusarai Border, which is open for two-wheelers only.Other open borders for commuting to Haryana, as alerted by the Delhi Traffic Police, include Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.People are facing huge inconvenience due to the protest as it has caused heavy traffic jams, leading to trouble in entering or exiting Delhi. The traffic police said there is very heavy traffic in the capital and has asked commuters to avoid outer ring road from signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu, Auchandi & Lampur borders.Also Read | Four key aspects of the farmers’ protestThe police in a tweet alerted that the traffic movement has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GTK road.One of the senior police officers told PTI, “Cemented barriers and multi-layered barricades have been put up besides heavy security personnel at Ghazipur border near UP gate where many farmers have been protesting since Saturday.”The Centre tried to end the protest by inviting farmer leaders for talks on Tuesday. But, the farmer leaders rejected the offer of the government panel which included agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash.The two sides will be meeting for the talks again on Thursday. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-protest-updates-delhi-noida-border-opens-partially/story-59B16cqksyPWTxRzHsbW9M.html
02-12-2020||India||As ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests enter day 7, Rahul Gandhi fires ‘suit-boot’ jibe at Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been vehemently criticising the central government over the three contentious farm laws passed by it in September, on Wednesday once again fired a ‘suit-boot’ jibe at it as the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests against the legislations entered day seven.Also Read | Farmers’ stir enters Day 7: Here’s all you need to know about the anti-farm law protests“What the government said: farmers’ income will be doubled. What the government did: increased income of its cronies four times and will halve farmers’ income. This is a government of lies and a ‘suit-boot’ government,” Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday.ALSO WATCH | Farmer protest: What happened at meeting with govt? Union minister reveals  कहा- किसान की आय दुगनी होगी।किया- ‘मित्रों’ की आय हुई चौगुनी और किसान की होगी आधी।झूठ की, लूट की, सूट-बूट की सरकार। pic.twitter.com/anSiQ8ZirdIn the last few days, Gandhi has been vocal on the anti-farm law protests which have only intensified despite government’s efforts to stop them. “While the country’s food providers are protesting on the roads, the liars are giving speeches on national television. Farmers’ hard work is a debt on all of us. This debt can only be paid back by giving them justice and not by lathi-charging them or firing tear gas at them. Wake up, put your ego aside and give the farmer what he deserves,” he had tweeted on Tuesday. अन्नदाता सड़कों-मैदानों में धरना दे रहे हैं,और‘झूठ’ टीवी पर भाषण!किसान की मेहनत का हम सब पर क़र्ज़ है।ये क़र्ज़ उन्हें न्याय और हक़ देकर ही उतरेगा, न कि उन्हें दुत्कार कर, लाठियाँ मारकर और आंसू गैस चलाकर।जागिए, अहंकार की कुर्सी से उतरकर सोचिए और किसान का अधिकार दीजिए।Farmers, majority of whom are from Punjab - a state where Gandhi’s Congress is in power - have been protesting, against what they call “black laws,” since these were passed. Initially, they blocked railway tracks in Punjab and later announced the ‘Dilli Chalo’ march towards Delhi. They began their march on November 26 and reached Delhi, despite attempts by the Haryana police to stop them. While a section of farmers is protesting at the capital’s Nirankari grounds in Burari, majority are camping at various borders of the city and have vowed not to leave till the laws are taken back.Also Read | Delhi-Noida border closed due to farmers’ protestA meeting between the government and farm union leaders on Tuesday was inconclusive. The farm leaders rejected the government’s proposal to set up a panel to discuss the laws and said that the protests will continue.The next round of talks between the two sides will take place on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-dilli-chalo-protests-enter-day-7-rahul-gandhi-fires-suit-boot-jibe-at-centre/story-cShugsE44qRbw7jKkDUKAP.html
02-12-2020||India||Delhi-Noida border closed due to farmers’ protest||Farmers protesting against Centre’s farm laws continued their sit-in at the Noida-Delhi border for the second day on Wednesday, leading to closure of a key route that connects Uttar Pradesh with the national capital. The Delhi Traffic Police has advised commuters travelling to the national capital to avoid using the Chilla route and instead take the Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) or Kalindi Kunj road.Also Read: With govt’s pro-farmer image under fire, BJP wants amicable end to farm protests“The Chilla border on Noida-link road is closed for traffic due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida-link road for going to Noida and use NH-24 and DND instead for Noida,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.ALSO WATCH | ‘Those who take commission...’: Union minister VK Singh slams farmer protest Hundreds of farmers affiliated to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and other groups had gathered at UP border on Tuesday evening. Heavy security was deployed to prevent them from proceeding towards Delhi to join farmers of Punjab and Haryana in their protest.Also Read: PM Modi seeks to quell concerns on farm lawsFarmers are protesting against the three agricultural laws passed by Parliament in September. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.However, the government has stuck to its stance that the laws are beneficial for the farmers. On his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “New dimensions are being added to agriculture and its related activities in India. The agriculture reforms in the past few days have also now opened new doors of possibilities for our farmers.”“These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” he added.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-noida-border-closed-due-to-farmers-protest/story-FFWH8lgj0fYR2yWfGoPOTP.html
02-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir enters Day 7: Here’s all you need to know about the anti-farm law protests||Protests against the three contentious agricultural laws have entered day seven as third round of talks between the government and farmers’ unions remained inconclusive on Tuesday. Farmers, who have been calling for a repeal of what they term as “black laws” since these were passed in September, have been camping on the outskirts of Delhi. While majority of the protesters are from Punjab, in recent days small groups of farmers from neighbouring states, including Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, too, have joined them.1. Tuesday’s talks between the government and farmers’ unions were not able to break the impasse as the unions didn’t accept the government’s suggestion of setting up a panel to discuss these legislations. After the meeting, farmers’ leaders told media that the stir would continue and the next round of talks will take place on December 3, as originally suggested by the government.Also Read | Meeting between farmers’ leaders, govt inconclusive; next round on Dec 32. A total of 32 farm unions participated in the talks on Tuesday. The government, which was represented by Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railway minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state, commerce and industry, Som Prakash, also held a separate meeting with leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).Also Read | With govt’s pro-farmer image under fire, BJP wants amicable end to farm protests3. Initially, there were reports that Union defence minister Rajnath Singh would lead government’s talks with the farmers’ unions but instead it were central ministers Tomar, Goyal and Prakash who met the farm leaders.4. India also issued a strong rebuttal to Canada PM Justin Trudeau who became the first international leader to speak up on the ongoing farmers’ protest. “We’ve seen some ill-informed comments by Canadian leaders relating to farmers in India. These are unwarranted especially when pertaining to internal affairs of a democratic country. It’s also best that diplomatic conversations aren’t misrepresented for political purposes,” the ministry said in a statement.5. Trudeau, whose country has a large Indian diaspora, including Sikhs, had on Tuesday, on the occasion of Gurpurab, said, “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning and we’re all very worried about family and friends.”6. 82-year-old Bilkis Bano, popularly known as the “Shaheen Bagh Dadi,” was stopped by the Delhi police on Tuesday while on her way to support the protesting farmers at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, however, joined the protest at the Delhi-Uttar Ghazipur border yesterday.7. Farmers, most of whom are from Punjab, started their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march on November 26 to protest against the three laws. However, on their way to the national capital, they were met with tear gas and water cannons of the Haryana police but were able to cross the state.8. On November 27, upon arrival at the Delhi-Haryana border, they faced resistance from the Delhi Police but were later allowed to protest at the Nirankari grounds in Burari as against their demands of protesting at either Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Grounds.9. While some of the farmers are camping at the Nirankari grounds, others have refused to move. On Sunday, farmers had rejected Union home minister Amit Shah’s offer of talks, calling it “conditional.”10. The protesters say they intend to block all five highways leading to Delhi until their demands are met. They claim to have enough ration and other essential items with them to “lay siege to the national capital for months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-enters-day-7-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-anti-farm-law-protests/story-qB3Ta810YDfEsdhCtaVPJM.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||With farmers blocking Singhu border, many truckers stranded on Kundli highway||It has been five days since Jaan Mohammad, 24, a truck driver, was stranded on the Kundli Highway near the Singhu border (connecting Haryana with Delhi) as thousands of farmers continued to camp on the road demanding the withdrawal of the Centre’s new farm laws.“I am the son of a farmer. I understand why farmers are protesting and I support them. But being stranded on the highway has become an ordeal for drivers like me,” he said, even as at least a dozen others gathered around him nodded in agreement.A resident of Dahej in Gujarat, Mohammad had travelled around 1,153km to his destination -- a plastic factory in the Kundli Industrial Area . He was scheduled to reach by November 27, but then the farmers’ protest started and the Singhu border got blocked; his truck now stands parked merely two kilometres from its destination, unable to move an inch forward for the past five days.Dozens of other drivers are similarly stranded on the Kundli Highway with no place to go as they wait for the road blockade to end. Since they cannot abandon their trucks laden with wares, the truckers are forced to live, eat, and sleep at the spot with the farmers. With nothing to do, groups of them could be spotted playing cards or watching protest videos on their phones on Tuesday.Sadashiv Pandey, 48, who was to deliver thread spools to the Kundli Industrial Area on Friday, said, “While the farmers have been kind enough to feed us langar (community kitchen), it is at a little distance from where we are and so we rely on food from nearby hotels. This is increasing our daily expenses,” he said. The protest area spreads to more than four to five kilometres on the Kundli highway at the SInghu border while the queue of stuck vehicles and trucks stretches far beyond that.Increasing daily expenses are not the only issue, say truckers. Karan Singh, 37, who was driving from Chandigarh to deliver chemicals at a factory in south-east Delhi’s Okhla area, said the transport and logistics business would be hit if these trucks aren’t able to make enough trips.“A lot of truck owners have to pay EMIs. The lockdown had hit their business hard and they are already cash-strapped. How will they pay their loans if the vehicle remains stationary for days and aren’t able to make trips? Although we are salaried employees, it will affect our earning as well. If the boss doesn’t have money, how will he pay us?” he said. “The government should listen to these farmers and solve their problems. Nobody would choose to live on the road unless they were forced to,” he said.Naveen Gupta, general secretary of the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) said the queue of trucks awaiting entry into Delhi at the Singhu border alone is as long as around 5 kilometres now. “Entry of trucks into Delhi has almost come to a complete halt because of the ongoing protest. Though we do not have an exact number of trucks stuck at the borders, but it is safe to say that more than 1,500 trucks are stuck. Per day, the losses being faced by truck owners is around Rs 2,500 per truck, including taxes, cost of the driver and the loss in the number of trips. The problem is that because of the delay the clients are also likely to deduct money from their total payment,” he said. SP Singh of the Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT), an independent research body which tracks the road transport industry along 75 trunk routes across the country, however, said the impact has been minimal so far. “This is because most of the truckers are taking a detour to reach their destinations. Had there been any serious adverse impact on the trucking business so far, there would already have been an outcry by the transporters associations by now. However, if the agitation continues for longer, then fruits and vegetables will soon be costlier in Delhi-NCR,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-farmers-blocking-singhu-border-many-truckers-stranded-on-kundli-highway/story-rCZ4nU9xjCR70GZ4OqyJNP.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ children protest in the day, study at night||Eleven-year-old Gursimrat Kaur, a resident of Mangat village in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district and a Class 6 student, has her exams later this month. So, while packing essentials for the farmers protest march to Delhi in November, the young girl picked up all her books.“I study whenever I get time,” she said, now camped at Singhu border with her parents and living in a bus. “We had been protesting against the farm bills in Punjab as well. But that doesn’t mean we have to miss out on studies. Like all times, I will score an A+ this term as well.”Kaur, who works with her mother Sukhbir in the fields and identifies herself as a farmer, read the translated version of the three farm bills in Punjabi before coming to the protest and felt the new reform that did away with a network of government-controlled agricultural markets hurt her prospects. “We are all farmers and want to protect our livelihood and that is why we are here,” said Kaur.She gets lessons on WhatsApp. The tests are mostly conducted online.Sukhbir Kaur said the parents didn’t force the children to attend the protests but that younger people got wind of the protests and planning from social media. “They know what’s happening and want to protest on their own. We have been protesting ever since the laws were passed in our village and our daughter has always joined us.”Kaur is among many children who have accompanied their parents from different parts of Punjab to the borders of Delhi. They are spending their nights on highways, in tents and on tracker trolleys, supporting the stir against the three farm bills, but also finding time to revise their lessons, catch up on syllabus and coordinate with teachers on WhatsApp.Like Kaur, Harman Singh has been at Singhu border since Friday. His day begins with sloganeering with the farmers at 7am and ends with his poring on the screen of his smartphone, going through the assignments or notes sent throughout the day.“We can continue our studies and fight for our rights. It is not an either-or situation. I wake up early in the morning, join the protests during the day, and study for a couple of hours at night on our smartphone,” said the 14-year-old from Sangha village in Punjab’s Mansa district.“This is not just a fight for our elders. Our families will be affected by this and so all of us need to agitate while maintaining education as our priority,” said Singh, who has completed two chapters from his Class 9 Punjabi textbook and one from his Science textbook in the past five days.Singh, who is at Singhu with his relatives while his parents are in Hisar, said his classes had moved online earlier this year when the Covid-19 pandemic forced schools to shut down. “Since our learning is mostly happening online, we can be anywhere and continue our studies. Our teachers send study material on WhatsApp that we can revise at any time,” he said.Other children at the protest site also said that they could travel for the protests because there was no stipulation to attend physical classes. Punjab opened government schools for students of classes 9 to 12 last month, but attendance is voluntary and only to seek guidance from teachers.Mehek Preet Khatkar, a Class 7 student from Mangowal village in SBS Nagar district of Punjab, said she decided to join the protests because online classes were anyway not helpful and she wouldn’t be missing out on physical teaching. “Since the Covid-19 crisis struck, we only learnt through the online mode, which did not help us a lot. So, we won’t miss out on studies if we are here to protest. Also, what use will our marksheet be if we lose our livelihood?”Sucha Singh, one of the organisers of the protest and a member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said the children at the protest had grown up aware of their surroundings. “They have seen the hardships that their families face and understand what these farm bills would mean for them. The children want to come to protest because they know that their future will be in crisis if they are not here to protect their lands now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-children-protest-in-the-day-study-at-night/story-Hq07N4q3Fcnz9zBiHlLcgK.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||As farmers protest, Good Samaritans at borders open their hearts and homes||For years, Siddharth Rathee has run a local business in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh, but has turned a philanthropist for farmers in the past week. The 26-year-old has been marshalling funds from his father and uncle, both in the United States, and marshaled about two dozen friends with one purpose: feed the thousands of farmers camped on the outer fringes of the Capital for five days to push the Centre to scrap three farm laws. Rathee and his friends have even put up posters announcing their free services or ‘langar seva’ along a 15-km stretch of Bahadurgarh Road. The Hindi posters, stuck on metro pillars, walls and outside shops, promise “farmer brothers” any essential item they need -- from food to water and medicines. “They (farmers) have been feeding us all our lives and now it is our turn, “ said Rathee. “The posters will ensure that farmers anywhere along the stretch are able to reach us for help.” Rathee is not alone. Scores of local residents, organisations and establishments at Delhi’s three borders –Tikri, Singhu and Chilla – have coalesced into an unlikely army of volunteers to help farmers tide over hunger, disease and the chilly weather. They have organised community kitchens, opened their homes, drawn water from their local supply and offered their washrooms to the agitating farmers. Others travelled from Delhi and local markets to supply the protesters with fresh fruit and milk. When the supply of household items such as sugar depleted, many pitched into replenish stocks. Jagtar Singh is one of them. A businessman from Rohini in Delhi, Singh travelled to Singhu border on Monday with battery operated lights to help the farmers celebrate Gurpurab, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. “My work doesn’t allow me to join their protest in person, but this is the least I can do for my farmer brothers,” he said. A pressing problem for the farmers – some of whom are old and ailing – is the chronic lack of toilets. To resolve this, Bharat Sharma, who lives near the Singhu border, opened his homes to farmers, used a motor pump to fill his overhead tank multiple times a day so that the farmers did not lack facilities or water. “If I were protesting for my rights, I would have wanted toilet facility,” Sharma said. Other residents in the locality offered to launder clothes, loan toothbrush and paste, shoes and shared their phone numbers in case of an emergency. Restrooms have also been thrown open by fuel stations and a private hospital. Jarnail Singh, Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Tilak Nagar, said the absence of toilets was felt by his party and they set up portable toilets at the Singhu border, as the site falls within the jurisdiction of the Delhi government. “We have also opened langars at the two borders. But our aim is to ensure that farmers keep receiving their supply of tea leaves, sugar and paper cups as these are fast depleting. Mosquito nets are another essential item urgently needed and we are trying to provide as many as possible,” Jarnail Singh said. Many gurdwaras are also running community kitchens. “We are capable of feeding even one lakh farmers for six whole months. For now, we are organising langars at all three border points,” said Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. Farmers say they are overwhelmed by the response from local residents. “The people here have made us their family so much that we don’t miss our families back home. They have gone to the extent of offering to wash our clothes. One family said that we didn’t even have to bring our own soap while visiting their home for toilet,” said Harjinder Singh, a farmer from Ropar .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-farmers-protest-good-samaritans-at-borders-open-their-hearts-and-homes/story-5D8VYSs3FgsXvC8kOwscwI.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt has notified one farm law, examining the other two||Even before the farmer’s protest began along the city’s borders, the Delhi government had already notified one of the three controversial central farm laws to implement it in the national capital.Senior officials said the Delhi government notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 on November 23. The state development department is currently examining the remaining two farm laws. The law allows intra-state and inter-state trade of farmers’ produce beyond the physical premises of agricultural produce marketing committee (APMC) markets.A senior official in the development department said the sale of vegetables and fruits was deregulated in Delhi in 2014, enabling trading beyond APMC-managed mandis. The latest notified law only adds foodgrains and poultry to the list of produce that can be so traded, he said, requesting anonymity.The notification by the Delhi government drew flak from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which accused the Arvind Kejriwal-led government and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of “doublespeak,” saying it “quietly notified” the “so-called anti-farm laws” for Delhi while supporting the farmers protesting against the laws at the city’s borders. “The notification exposes duplicacy of AAP and the Kejriwal government. They want to share the benefits of the new farm laws while misguiding the farmers,” said Manoj Tiwari, BJP MP and former Delhi unit president of the party. A senior official in the chief minister’s office said that every state government was bound to notify these laws as they are enforced by the central government. “The farm bills have already been passed in the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and have also been signed by the President. These are now laws for the entire country. It is enshrined in the Constitution that no state has the power to independently implement or reject these laws. Even the resolution passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha cannot do anything about these laws. The only way these can be tweaked or revoked is if the Central government does it,” the official said on condition of anonymity. In its response to the BJP, the Delhi government said that the matter was “not an issue at all”.“Selling of fruits and vegetables was already deregulated in Delhi many years ago. With the latest notification now farmers will be able to do the same for grains as well. The mandis have not been dismantled and they are continuing. The demand of the protesting farmers is that they should get MSP (minimum support price) whether inside or outside mandi, which AAP supports,” the party said in a statement. It added that the BJP was clueless about how to handle the protests by farmers and was trying to divert attention of the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-has-notified-one-farm-law-examining-the-other-two/story-rUWEuPbcj0jK2Ft0fgXZyL.html
02-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir enters Day 7: Here’s all you need to know about the anti-farm law protests||Protests against the three contentious agricultural laws have entered day seven as third round of talks between the government and farmers’ unions remained inconclusive on Tuesday. Farmers, who have been calling for a repeal of what they term as “black laws” since these were passed in September, have been camping on the outskirts of Delhi. While majority of the protesters are from Punjab, in recent days small groups of farmers from neighbouring states, including Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, too, have joined them.1. Tuesday’s talks between the government and farmers’ unions were not able to break the impasse as the unions didn’t accept the government’s suggestion of setting up a panel to discuss these legislations. After the meeting, farmers’ leaders told media that the stir would continue and the next round of talks will take place on December 3, as originally suggested by the government.Also Read | Meeting between farmers’ leaders, govt inconclusive; next round on Dec 32. A total of 32 farm unions participated in the talks on Tuesday. The government, which was represented by Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railway minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state, commerce and industry, Som Prakash, also held a separate meeting with leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).Also Read | With govt’s pro-farmer image under fire, BJP wants amicable end to farm protests3. Initially, there were reports that Union defence minister Rajnath Singh would lead government’s talks with the farmers’ unions but instead it were central ministers Tomar, Goyal and Prakash who met the farm leaders.4. India also issued a strong rebuttal to Canada PM Justin Trudeau who became the first international leader to speak up on the ongoing farmers’ protest. “We’ve seen some ill-informed comments by Canadian leaders relating to farmers in India. These are unwarranted especially when pertaining to internal affairs of a democratic country. It’s also best that diplomatic conversations aren’t misrepresented for political purposes,” the ministry said in a statement.5. Trudeau, whose country has a large Indian diaspora, including Sikhs, had on Tuesday, on the occasion of Gurpurab, said, “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning and we’re all very worried about family and friends.”6. 82-year-old Bilkis Bano, popularly known as the “Shaheen Bagh Dadi,” was stopped by the Delhi police on Tuesday while on her way to support the protesting farmers at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, however, joined the protest at the Delhi-Uttar Ghazipur border yesterday.7. Farmers, most of whom are from Punjab, started their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march on November 26 to protest against the three laws. However, on their way to the national capital, they were met with tear gas and water cannons of the Haryana police but were able to cross the state.8. On November 27, upon arrival at the Delhi-Haryana border, they faced resistance from the Delhi Police but were later allowed to protest at the Nirankari grounds in Burari as against their demands of protesting at either Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Grounds.9. While some of the farmers are camping at the Nirankari grounds, others have refused to move. On Sunday, farmers had rejected Union home minister Amit Shah’s offer of talks, calling it “conditional.”10. The protesters say they intend to block all five highways leading to Delhi until their demands are met. They claim to have enough ration and other essential items with them to “lay siege to the national capital for months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-enters-day-7-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-anti-farm-law-protests/story-qB3Ta810YDfEsdhCtaVPJM.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ children protest in the day, study at night||Eleven-year-old Gursimrat Kaur, a resident of Mangat village in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district and a Class 6 student, has her exams later this month. So, while packing essentials for the farmers protest march to Delhi in November, the young girl picked up all her books.“I study whenever I get time,” she said, now camped at Singhu border with her parents and living in a bus. “We had been protesting against the farm bills in Punjab as well. But that doesn’t mean we have to miss out on studies. Like all times, I will score an A+ this term as well.”Kaur, who works with her mother Sukhbir in the fields and identifies herself as a farmer, read the translated version of the three farm bills in Punjabi before coming to the protest and felt the new reform that did away with a network of government-controlled agricultural markets hurt her prospects. “We are all farmers and want to protect our livelihood and that is why we are here,” said Kaur.She gets lessons on WhatsApp. The tests are mostly conducted online.Sukhbir Kaur said the parents didn’t force the children to attend the protests but that younger people got wind of the protests and planning from social media. “They know what’s happening and want to protest on their own. We have been protesting ever since the laws were passed in our village and our daughter has always joined us.”Kaur is among many children who have accompanied their parents from different parts of Punjab to the borders of Delhi. They are spending their nights on highways, in tents and on tracker trolleys, supporting the stir against the three farm bills, but also finding time to revise their lessons, catch up on syllabus and coordinate with teachers on WhatsApp.Like Kaur, Harman Singh has been at Singhu border since Friday. His day begins with sloganeering with the farmers at 7am and ends with his poring on the screen of his smartphone, going through the assignments or notes sent throughout the day.“We can continue our studies and fight for our rights. It is not an either-or situation. I wake up early in the morning, join the protests during the day, and study for a couple of hours at night on our smartphone,” said the 14-year-old from Sangha village in Punjab’s Mansa district.“This is not just a fight for our elders. Our families will be affected by this and so all of us need to agitate while maintaining education as our priority,” said Singh, who has completed two chapters from his Class 9 Punjabi textbook and one from his Science textbook in the past five days.Singh, who is at Singhu with his relatives while his parents are in Hisar, said his classes had moved online earlier this year when the Covid-19 pandemic forced schools to shut down. “Since our learning is mostly happening online, we can be anywhere and continue our studies. Our teachers send study material on WhatsApp that we can revise at any time,” he said.Other children at the protest site also said that they could travel for the protests because there was no stipulation to attend physical classes. Punjab opened government schools for students of classes 9 to 12 last month, but attendance is voluntary and only to seek guidance from teachers.Mehek Preet Khatkar, a Class 7 student from Mangowal village in SBS Nagar district of Punjab, said she decided to join the protests because online classes were anyway not helpful and she wouldn’t be missing out on physical teaching. “Since the Covid-19 crisis struck, we only learnt through the online mode, which did not help us a lot. So, we won’t miss out on studies if we are here to protest. Also, what use will our marksheet be if we lose our livelihood?”Sucha Singh, one of the organisers of the protest and a member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said the children at the protest had grown up aware of their surroundings. “They have seen the hardships that their families face and understand what these farm bills would mean for them. The children want to come to protest because they know that their future will be in crisis if they are not here to protect their lands now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-children-protest-in-the-day-study-at-night/story-Hq07N4q3Fcnz9zBiHlLcgK.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ children protest in the day, study at night||Eleven-year-old Gursimrat Kaur, a resident of Mangat village in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district and a Class 6 student, has her exams later this month. So, while packing essentials for the farmers protest march to Delhi in November, the young girl picked up all her books.“I study whenever I get time,” she said, now camped at Singhu border with her parents and living in a bus. “We had been protesting against the farm bills in Punjab as well. But that doesn’t mean we have to miss out on studies. Like all times, I will score an A+ this term as well.”Kaur, who works with her mother Sukhbir in the fields and identities herself as a farmer, read the translated version of the three farm bills in Punjabi before coming to the protest and felt the new reform that did away with a network of government-controlled agricultural markets hurt her prospects. “We are all farmers and want to protect our livelihood and that is why we are here,” said Kaur.She gets lessons on WhatsApp. The tests are mostly conducted online.Sukhbir Kaur said the parents didn’t force the children to attend the protests but that younger people got wind of the protests and planning from social media. “They know what’s happening and want to protest on their own. We have been protesting ever since the laws were passed in our village and our daughter has always joined us.”Kaur is among many children who have accompanied their parents from different parts of Punjab to the borders of Delhi. They are spending their nights on highways, in tents and on tracker trolleys, supporting the stir against the three farm bills, but also finding time to revise their lessons, catch up on syllabus and coordinate with teachers on WhatsApp.Like Kaur, Harman Singh has been at Singhu border since Friday. His day begins with sloganeering with the farmers at 7am and ends with his poring on the screen of his smartphone, going through the assignments or notes sent throughout the day.“We can continue our studies and fight for our rights. It is not an either-or situation. I wake up early in the morning, join the protests during the day, and study for a couple of hours at night on our smartphone,” said the 14-year-old from Sangha village in Punjab’s Mansa district.“This is not just a fight for our elders. Our families will be affected by this and so all of us need to agitate while maintaining education as our priority,” said Singh, who has completed two chapters from his Class 9 Punjabi textbook and one from his Science textbook in the past five days.Singh, who is at Singhu with his relatives while his parents are in Hisar, said his classes had moved online earlier this year when the Covid-19 pandemic forced schools to shut down. “Since our learning is mostly happening online, we can be anywhere and continue our studies. Our teachers send study material on WhatsApp that we can revise at any time,” he said.Other children at the protest site also said that they could travel for the protests because there was no stipulation to attend physical classes. Punjab opened government schools for students of classes 9 to 12 last month, but attendance is voluntary and only to seek guidance from teachers.Mehek Preet Khatkar, a Class 7 student from Mangowal village in SBS Nagar district of Punjab, said she decided to join the protests because online classes were anyway not helpful and she wouldn’t be missing out on physical teaching. “Since the Covid-19 crisis struck, we only learnt through the online mode, which did not help us a lot. So, we won’t miss out on studies if we are here to protest. Also, what use will our marksheet be if we lose our livelihood?”Sucha Singh, one of the organisers of the protest and a member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said the children at the protest had grown up aware of their surroundings. “They have seen the hardships that their families face and understand what these farm bills would mean for them. The children want to come to protest because they know that their future will be in crisis if they are not here to protect their lands now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protest-in-the-day-study-at-night-farmers-children-pitch-in-at-delhi-s-borders/story-lRSwVh1xVSs5Q10HOFZzmN.html
