03-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive at Vigyan Bhawan meeting and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive: Who said what at Vigyan Bhawan meetingThe meeting between the representatives of the protesting farmers’ organisations and the Union ministers on Thursday remained inconclusive, though both sides found silver lining after the seven-hour deliberation at Vigyan Bhawan. Read moreOld rivalries take back seat as six Jammu & Kashmir parties join hands to contest local pollsSaifuddin Shah, 70, and his family from Kakroosa village in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kupwara district have been staunch loyalists of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference (NC). Read moreMalegaon blast case: Court asks MP Pragya Singh Thakur, other accused to appear on December 19Four of the seven accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, including Bharatiaya Janata Party lawmaker Pragya Singh Thakur, failed to appear before a special court hearing the matter. Read moreCovid-19: Three former US presidents may take vaccine shot on cameraThe US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is scrutinising the data submitted by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE to grant the required approval for emergency use. Read moreCan’t get your hands on Sony PS5 in India yet? This might be the reasonSony announced its next-generation gaming console the Sony PlayStation 5 last month. Shortly after that, that is around November 19, PS5 went on sale in the global markets except India. Read moreNASA shares video of the Sun created using pics captured for over 20 years. It’s mesmerisingA video of the Sun shared on Twitter has now won people over and chances are it’ll leave you mesmerised too. The clip is created using pictures captured for over two decades from ESA and NASA’s Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO). Read moreMouni Roy’s droolworthy look in a Rs 30k red ruffle saree is all you need to add the oomph factor on your next date nightThey say there is a shade of red for every woman and television hottie Mouni Roy proved it rightly so with her latest smoking hot look in an organza red saree. Read moreMulan movie review: A monumental misfire from Disney, the worst of its live-action remakesMulan finds a way to offend just about everyone. Are you a feminist? Prepare to be disappointed by the film’s simplistic idea of empowerment. Read moreFarmers decline food offered by govt at meeting, take their own lunchFarmer leaders, who participated in a meeting with Union ministers on December 3, declined food offered by the government. They were seen distributing and eating food they had taken with themselves on paper plates. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-talks-with-centre-inconclusive-at-vigyan-bhawan-meeting-and-all-the-latest-news/story-70qJLHhb0R7wPIjjVzTdRI.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive: Who said what at Vigyan Bhawan meeting||The meeting between the representatives of the protesting farmers’ organisations and the Union ministers on Thursday remained inconclusive, though both sides found silver lining after the seven-hour deliberation at Vigyan Bhawan. The farmers organisations are hopeful that in the next meeting — which is scheduled on December 5 — the issue will be resolved as the Centre on Thursday agreed to review several provisions of the laws. The Centre too is pinning its hope on the next meeting after today’s discussion. Meanwhile, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has urged the agitating farmers to withdraw their protests so that people in Delhi do not suffer.Here is what happened at the meeting:> The meeting was held at a cordial environment with 40 leaders representing various farmers’ organisations that are currently protesting the agricultural laws which the Centre projects as reforms but the farmers are worried that minimum support price will be withdrawn. > The farmers pitched for the repeal of the three farm laws, which the Centre had earlier refused.> Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government listened to the grievances of the farmers with an open mind. Some of the points have also been raised in previous meetings. “Government has no ego. It was discussing with farmers with an open mind. Farmers are concerned that the new laws will end APMCs,” the agriculture minister said. > In the meeting, the Centre reiterated to the farmers that the MSP system will continue. > The farmers expressed their reservation over the provision where they are supposed to take their grievances to SDM courts. “Farmers’ unions feel that SDM court is a lower court. Govt will consider this demand,” Tomar said.> The farmers raised concerned over trading outside the purview of mandi. The trading is supposed to take place on the basis of PAN card. The farmers, at today’s meeting, pointed that getting hold of a PAN card is very easy. The Centre has assured the farmers that traders will be registered. > The farmers organisations said there was little progress in the meeting as the government has only assured about MSP.> The farmer leaders said the government accepted that there are certain drawbacks which they will amend. “We said we don’t want amendments but withdrawal of laws. We also demanded that MSP be implemented for certain and law should be made for it,” farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-second-meeting-remains-inconclusive-who-said-what/story-1N6UCM226HYXVPuDN2va9O.html
03-12-2020||India||‘We brought our own food,’ say farmer leaders, refuse food or tea offered by government at Vigyan Bhawan meet||Farmer leaders who went to Vigyan Bhawan on Thursday for their crucial meeting with the Centre regarding the new agriculture laws are not accepting food or tea offered by the government, a leader told ANI. A video of farmer leaders sharing food that they brought with them has also surfaced. The video shows the union leaders came prepared for the lunch time — with boxes full of food and paper plate for distribution so that they don’t have to accept government hospitality. #WATCH | Delhi: Farmer leaders have food during the lunch break at Vigyan Bhawan where the talk with the government is underway. A farmer leader says, "We are not accepting food or tea offered by the government. We have brought our own food". pic.twitter.com/wYEibNwDlXA delegation of 40 farmers arrived at Vigyan Bhawan early in the day for their second round deliberation with the Centre amid the ongoing ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests, which entered the eighth day on Thursday. The agitating farmers earlier said they had come to Delhi for the protest with enough foodgrains in stock to sustain them for months, hinting that they won’t yield unless their demands are met.The first meeting to end the present stalemate owing to the ongoing protest of thousands of farmers in Delhi and at the borders of the Capital city was held on Tuesday. It fell through as the farmers’ representatives refused the Centre’s proposal to set up a committee which will address the issue of the farmers. On Wednesday, Union home minister Amit Shah met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, commerce and food minister Piyush Goyal to discuss the issue. Both Tomar and Goyal are present at Vigyan Bhawan meet apart from Som Parkash who is an MP from Punjab and also is the minister of state for commerce.Ahead of the Vigyan Bhawan meeting today, Amit Shah also met Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh who requested Shah to resolve the issue at the earliest. “Discussion is going on between farmers and Centre, there’s nothing for me to resolve. I reiterated my opposition in my meeting with home minister and requested him to resolve the issue as it affects the economy of my state and security of the nation,” Amarinder Sinh said after the meeting.The farmers want a Parliament Session repeal the laws enacted in September, which the government had earlier rejected. It had asked the farmers’ bodies to identify specific issues that are worrying them. The laws have been enacted as major farm reforms removing middlemen but the farmers are worried that minimum support price (MSP) will be rendered ineffective.In a significant development of Thursday, Akali stalwart and former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal returned his Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the Centre’s farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-second-day-meeting-underway-union-leaders-not-accepting-food-or-tea-offered-by-government/story-T4GV5LkLHGgKAj72uGJBGK.html
03-12-2020||India||Maharashtra farmers launch day-long protests against farm laws||Farmers across Maharashtra marched to offices of tehsildars and district collectors to express their solidarity with cultivators camping outside Delhi to demand repeal of farm laws passed in September to liberalise the sector. The All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), an umbrella body of over 500 farmer organisations, organised the marches.Over 80 organisations in Maharashtra are participating in Thursday’s protests. Farm labours, trade unions, bank employees, etc, were also backing their solidarity marches, the AIKS said.Also read | Centre, farmers begin fresh talks; MSP assurance on the tableAjit Navale, AIK’s Maharashtra general secretary, said they will issue a detailed statement at the end of the day.In Mumbai, Trade Unions Joint Action Committee formed to coordinate the protests organised a protest at Parel.Congress leader Sachin Sawant said they are also holding statewide protests at the tehsil and district levels. “The protests started at 11am this [Thursday] morning. ...party workers in large numbers are protesting at tehsildars’ offices. We have left it up to the district level Congress leadership to decide the nature of the protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-farmers-launch-day-long-protests-against-farm-laws/story-dQKsXkveEhpEg3ktl2qHQK.html
03-12-2020||India||Mamata warns of nationwide protest against farm bills, attacks Centre’s disinvestment policy||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has threatened a nationwide agitation if the Centre does not withdraw the three contentious laws enacted in September to allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions.“I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI [government of India] must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills,” Banerjee tweeted on Thursday.Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress will hold a meeting on Friday to discuss their future of course of action.“...We will discuss how the Essential Commodities Act is impacting common people and resulting in skyrocketing prices. The central government must withdraw this anti-people law,” she said in another tweet.Also read | BJP targets 10million Bengal households to counter TMC govt’s biggest outreachFarmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three laws, saying they will hurt their incomes even as the government has maintained they will enhance them. They say the laws are a precursor to the withdrawal of government support for farming and will replace existing middlemen with more powerful corporate entities.Banerjee also sharpened her attack against the Centre’s disinvestment and privatisation policy saying the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is transforming national treasures into its assets“The Government of India is selling everything. You cannot sell Railways, Air India, Coal, BSNL, BHEL, banks, defence etc. Withdraw ill-conceived disinvestment and privatization policy. We must not allow treasures of our nation to be transformed into BJP party’s personal assets,” she said.BJP leader Jay Prakash Majumdar said the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), carried out anti-Centre protests for 34 years and Banerjee talks on the same lines. “Will Bengal leaders always oppose the country’s laws and deprive people of the state of the Centre’s welfare schemes.” CPI(M) leader Md Salim said Banerjee always wakes up late. “The movement has already reached the doorsteps of Delhi. The Left parties have already held a nationwide movement. She is talking of holding a movement when her party is on its way out of power in Bengal.” Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya blamed the Centre for an alarming increase in the prices of essential commodities and added Banerjee is free to lead the protests. “But she must also ensure that prices of vegetables produced in the state are kept under check.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-warns-of-nationwide-protest-against-farm-bills-attacks-centre-s-disinvestment-policy/story-VqXHtymIKKZiKQ0qQFzLLL.html
03-12-2020||India||Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan to protest ‘betrayal of farmers’||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and five-time former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday returned the Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the “betrayal of the farmers by the government of India and the shocking indifference and contempt with which it is treating the ongoing peaceful and democratic agitation” of the farmers against the three farm Acts. “I am who I am because of the people, especially the common farmer. Today, when he (farmer) has lost more than his honour, I see no point in holding on to the Padma Vibhushan honour,” the veteran Akali leader wrote in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind. He described the betrayal of the farmers by the government as “bolts from the blue on the already beleaguered peasantry of the country”, adding that the farmer finds himself waging bitter struggles in severe cold just to secure his fundamental right to live. Also read | Centre, farmers begin fresh round of talksSAD, one of the oldest constituents of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), had snapped ties with the BJP in September 2020 and pulled out of the alliance to protest against the agriculture marketing laws enacted by the Central government. In a letter e-mailed to the President, Badal listed his reasons for feeling “hurt and betrayed” by the government’s attitude and actions against the farmers. “When the Government of India had brought the ordinances, assurances were given that the farmers’ apprehensions would be addressed to their satisfaction while bringing the relevant Bills and subsequently the Acts. Trusting these assurances, I even appealed to the farmers to believe the Government’s word. But I was shocked when the Government simply went back on its word,” he wrote. The former chief minister described that period as the most painful and embarrassing moment in his long political career. “I just cannot put in words the pain and emotional stress which I have been going through since then. I have truly begun to wonder why has the Government of the country become so heartless, so cynical and so ungrateful towards the farmers,” he said. Badal also said he had been deeply pained by the communal insinuations being thrown at the peacefully and democratically protesting farmers. Badal regretted that the government remains indifferent to the sufferings of the farmers. “The spectacle of hundreds of thousands of farmers crying out for justice in one voice in the national capital would have moved any other nation or its government,” he said. No such sensitivity towards the farmers’ pain and anger is visible here, he said, hoping that as the first citizen of the country and a conscientious public figure, the President too would be fully aware and perhaps as deeply concerned about these developments. Badal felt apologetic that the pleas of farmer friendly parties like the Shiromani Akali Dal were mocked. “It was cynically suggested that farmers take loans just for ostentatious lifestyle. This cruel cynicism and malice against the farmers did not stop even when thousands of farmers in this country were and are being driven to take their own lives in a phenomenon called farmer suicides,” he said. He also came down heavily on the government, saying that while “corporate loans worth lakhs of crores are waived off with just a single thoughtless stroke of the governmental pen, no one has ever thought of even subsiding the farm debts, forget a complete waiver”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badal-returns-padma-vibushan-in-protest-against-farm-laws/story-x89lL0NPAh8Zq7H8FB87eM.html
03-12-2020||India||Dilli Chalo protest: Centre, farmers begin fresh talks; MSP assurance on the table||Three Union ministers are currently meeting leaders from 40 farm organisations for the fourth round of make-or-mar talks at the Capital’s Vigyan Bhawan, as protests by thousands of farmers against a set of farm laws continued for the seventh straight day. Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash are leading the government side, while representatives of some of the biggest farmers unions in the country, mainly from Punjab, are speaking for the farmers. While the farmers want the three farm laws approved by Parliament in September to be revoked, the government has leaned on its new reform agenda for better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector. Opposition to the reforms has set off some of the biggest farmers’ protests in decades, posing a political challenge for the Narendra Modi government. “It is possible that the government may offer some sort of undertaking or assurance that the reforms will not impact minimum support prices (MSP), although the reforms are not meant to have any impact on MSP,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Farmers also want rollback of an ordinance invoked in October by the government to crack down on pollution in New Delhi, of which crop-residue burning is a major cause. The ordinance has riled farmers because it provides for steep penalties for polluters, including farmers who burn crop stubble, with a jail term of 1 year and fines of up to Rs1 crore. “Higher subsidies that will enable farmers to adopt environment-friendly technologies as an alternative to crop-residue burning is another option before the government,” a second official said. The recent reforms in the antiquated farm sector allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. In the last round of talks on December 1, which was inconclusive, the government had asked the farm unions to identify specific provisions in the three farm laws which they were opposed to. The three ministers had assured of appropriate responses to their objections in today’s meeting. “The issue is not about one particular clause, but about the direction in which the Centre is pushing farming in India,” stated Avik Saha, the secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, in a letter to the farm minister ahead of Thursday talks. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed MSP, erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers. The government has insisted it will still buy staples at MSP, but farmers have demanded a law to guarantee that no sale of farm produce below MSP will be permitted. Indian farmers receive lower-than-international prices for their produce because of increasing costs of cultivation, inadequate markets and the government’s obsession with keeping food prices low. This has worsened agriculture’s terms of trade, measured as a ratio of prices of agri-products to prices of manufactured items. The crisis, therefore, is not one of low production, but of low prices. Economists say an MSP mechanism that ignores dynamics, such as demand and global prices, creates market distortions. If it is not profitable for traders to buy at federally-fixed MSP, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the markets. In such a scenario, the government simply cannot be a monopoly buyer of all produce, said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. The assumption behind the new reforms is that free competition in agricultural markets will result in a market-clearing price, at which quantity supplied equals quantity demanded, resulting in an equilibrium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dilli-chalo-protest-centre-farmers-begin-fresh-round-of-talks/story-vRYvUsKi5hKSoGkMjdMxjO.html
03-12-2020||India||Ahead of talks with government, protesting farmers block Ghaziabad-Delhi side of NH-9||Supporters of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) intensified the farmer’s stir and blocked the National Highway-9 near the UP Gate on Thursday morning. The move has led to blockade and disruption of traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi. The BKU has been part of the ongoing protest against the farm bills that seek to liberalise farm trade in the country. The protesters had been camping under the UP Gate flyover since Saturday but did not block any roads or highways till this morning. On Wednesday, they had announced they would hold a mahapanchayat this afternoon and said they will be joined by thousands more who are likely to arrive with their leader Naresh Tikait. “The farmers who were staging protest under the UP Gate flyover till now have come on highway and blocked the traffic going from Ghaziabad to Delhi. Our officers are holding talks with them to vacate the highway area. The traffic from Delhi to Ghaziabad is running normal,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. NH-9 is also used by long distance travellers to travel to cities like Hapur, Moradabad and Lucknow, among others. The UP Gate flyover on NH-9 is used by thousands of commuters each day from Ghaziabad and Noida to move to Delhi. The area under the flyover is already blocked for traffic since Saturday last in wake of the protest. Also read | Closed border points affect vehicular traffic in outer, east Delhi“There has been movement of hundreds of farmers who have come for the mahapanchayat at the UP Gate. Some have blocked the highway and we are trying that there is no inconvenience to the commuters. On the other hand, farmers have their demands which have been put forward before the government but there is no resolution as yet,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the BKU. Ghaziabad Traffic Police officials said that in wake of blockade of one side the UP Gate flyover, they have asked commuters to divert to internal roads of Ghaziabad and Noida. “The protesters have blocked the highway from Ghaziabad to Delhi while the other side traffic is continuing. Officials are trying to convince farmers to vacate the highway. In the meantime, we have asked our officers to divert the traffic to the major roads of Ghaziabad and Noida so that there is no jam at the UP Gate,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-talks-with-government-protesting-farmers-block-ghaziabad-delhi-side-of-nh-9/story-rVfb7pMCvtdvHbE4AOqnFN.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Closed border points affect vehicular traffic in outer, east Delhi||Vehicular traffic movement remained affected on Thursday morning and motorists faced traffic jams in several parts of the city, especially in outer and east Delhi areas, because of the closure of several border points connecting Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh due to the ongoing farmers’ protest.In order to alert commuters about the closure of borders and alternate routes, Delhi Traffic Police took to Twitter to post a list of borders that have been closed and the alternate routes that the motorists can take to travel between Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh. As per the advisory, the Chilla border on Delhi-Noida link road has been closed for vehicular movement near Gautam Budh Dwar. Also read | Punjab CM Amarinder Singh leaves for Delhi, to meet Amit Shah ahead of talks with farmers“The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic due to farmers’ protest near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida link road for going to Noida and use NH 24 and DND instead for Noida,” the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. The local police, however, said that one carriageway going towards Noida from Delhi through Chilla border is open since Wednesday afternoon, after the protesting farmers shifted their protest to the Noida to Delhi carriageway.“Noida to Delhi carriageway is closed. Only one carriageway was opened by farmers yesterday, which is Delhi to Noida,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh.The traffic police also posted an alert regarding obstruction in traffic in the carriageway from Akshardham towards Noida-Chilla Border due to overturning of a light goods vehicle near Mayur Vihar Phase-1 flyover. Commuters have been advised to avoid the stretch. About the other borders, the traffic police alerted that Tikri border, Jharoda border, and Jhatikra border are closed for any traffic movement. The alert says that Badusarai border is open but that too, only for two-wheeler traffic.“Available open borders to Haryana are Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders,” the traffic police tweeted.They said that Singhu border is still closed from both sides while Lampur , Auchandi and other small borders are also closed. They have advised the motorists to take alternate routes and that traffic has been diverted from Mundka Chowk and GTK Road.“Traffic is very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from Signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu, Auchandi & Lampur borders,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-closed-border-points-affect-vehicular-traffic-in-outer-east-delhi/story-HlmePzJYjuFDWfdt0jTHTI.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Ministers in huddle, all eyes on key meet today||A day before the resumption of crucial talks, top Union ministers went into a huddle on Wednesday, brainstorming ways to end a protest by farmers who have massed at Delhi’s borders to demand the repeal of three contentious laws aimed at opening up farm trade, as the city’s authorities scrambled to smoothen traffic disrupted by the massive show of strength by cultivators from northern India. Union home minister Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal met at Shah’s residence on the day a blockade triggered by the farmers’ protest at two key border points connecting Delhi to Haryana entered its sixth day, and the gathering of protesters at the Noida border led to the closure of an arterial road link to Uttar Pradesh. “(In the previous round of talks) the farmers were confrontational and party leaders are relying on Shah to bring them around,” a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary aware of the discussion among the central ministers said, referring to a dialogue between farm leaders and the government on Tuesday. That meeting could not reach a consensus but the stakeholders agreed to carry forward the dialogue. Shah was expected to meet Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday morning, ahead of the Centre’s talks with farm leaders, according to PTI . Thousands of farmers from Punjab have joined the protests. As focus shifted to Thursday’s meeting, farm leaders appeared to have hardened their stand, demanding the Centre call a special session of Parliament to repeal the newly enacted farms laws, which they say will adversely impact the minimum support price system (MSP) that offers cultivators assured prices from the government, and eventually help corporate entities.At Singhu border, which opens into Sonepat and is one of the two points blocked on the Haryana border, farmers’ leader Darshan Pal accused the Centre of dividing agricultural groups. “The Centre should call a special session of Parliament to repeal the three farm laws,” he said, adding that protesters will continue their agitation till the laws were repealed. Apart from Singhu, the farmers have also been camping at the border point in Tikri -- it opens into Bahadurgarh — since November 27.The blockade has hit supply of fruits and vegetables to Delhi from Haryana, Punjab and states further north. Opening another front, transport unions threatened on Wednesday to halt the movement of essential goods across north Indian states from next week, and then subsequently to the entire country if the government did not meet the farmers’ demands.A large section of farmers has demanded the repeal of the three laws enacted by Parliament in September, which, together, allow agribusinesses to trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and weaken the government’s MSP system. At Tuesday’s talks, protesters rejected a proposal from the Centre for a five-member committee of officials, economists and farmers’ representatives to hold future negotiations after union leaders from 35 farm organisations based in Punjab and Haryana met Tomar, Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash for over three hours. Farmers say they also want a legal guarantee for MSP, stressing that they have marched to Delhi for a “decisive battle”. “The party high command has already issued statements to assure farmers about the continuation of MSP,” said the BJP functionary quoted above.He was referring to the Centre’s outreach attempts led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has said the reforms will not hurt the MSP system, will add “new dimensions” to agriculture and break decades-old “shackles” on farm trade.That the government is pulling out all the stops to reach a consensus is evident from separate negotiations it held with farmers’ group Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Tikait faction, which holds sway over western Uttar Pradesh. As the impasse continued, protests at Mayur Vihar, bordering UP, led to the closure of a crucial route connecting the national capital with the state for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. “The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic... People are advised to avoid Noida link road... and use NH 24 and DND instead,” the traffic police tweeted.One of the carriageways on the route was opened in the afternoon, allowing commuters coming from Delhi to enter Noida, as protesters continued to sit on the other side of the road amid heavy police deployment.The Kalandi Kunj border connecting Noida with south Delhi was briefly closed around 4:30pm after about 100 farmers on tractors arrived there and tried to enter Delhi. Police placed barricades and deployed extra personnel at the site, and convinced them to return to Noida.Meanwhile, several traders from three prominent agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) in Delhi – Azadpur, Ghazipur and Okhla – said a large number of them had stopped sending fruits and vegetables to other states temporarily and were focusing only on local supplies to keep prices stable in Delhi. Arrivals of fruits and vegetables in Azadpur have dropped significantly from around 11,500 trucks per day on an average for this time of the year to around 6,000 trucks a day, said Adil Khan, Azadpur APMC chairperson.Anil Malhotra, a wholesale trader based in Azadpur, said: “...traders are running out of stock. And the arrivals are very low. So a demand and supply gap will surface soon — probably in another three to four days — if the borders remain blocked. With that, prices will go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-ministers-in-huddle-all-eyes-on-key-meet-today/story-RzU4ke4jcnQPKPXWXmR3OO.html
03-12-2020||India||Law on MSP may not benefit farm sectors||A new deal to reshape the country’s antiquated agriculture sector has hit a dead-end as protests simmer over three new laws that farmers say will hurt their incomes. The reforms allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called mandi system controlled by the government, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) and would leave them at the mercy of private buyers. The government has insisted it will still buy staples at MSPs, but farmers have demanded a law guaranteeing minimum state-set prices for all major farm produce. The aim is to prohibit sale of any farm produce below the MSP threshold. MSPs, which began with the Green Revolution, mainly benefit paddy and wheat growers because the government procures only these two commodities in sufficiently large quantities. Indian farmers receive lower-than-international prices for their produce because of increasing costs of cultivation, inadequate markets and the government’s obsession with keeping food prices low. This has worsened agriculture’s terms of trade, measured as a ratio of prices of agri-products to prices of manufactured items. The crisis, therefore, is not one of low production, but of low prices. “An MSP is an important policy tool that helped achieve food self-sufficiency because it gave farmers assured prices. It is an important price signal. It is an administrative exercise that does not have statutory backing,” said Abhijit Sen, a farm economist. While the government announces MSP for 23 major crops, setting them at 1.5 times the cost of cultivation to account for inflation, analysts say a blanket law mandating that no trader can buy any farm commodity below this threshold price makes little economic sense. The most immediate impact of such a law will be a higher inflation. Higher MSPs prima facie lead to higher overall prices. “Every 1 percentage point increase in MSPs leads to a 15-basis point increase in inflation,” said economist Sonal Varma. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. Economists say an MSP mechanism that ignores dynamics, such as demand and global prices, creates distortions. If it is not profitable for private traders to buy at federally fixed MSP, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the markets. In such a scenario, the government simply cannot be a monopoly buyer of all produce. The government already procures staggering quantities of surplus rice and wheat, which have become unmanageable. As of September 2020, the government held 70 million tonnes of rice and wheat in federal stocks, whereas food-security norms require reserves of 41.1 million tonnes as of July and 30.7 million tonnes as of October each year. If MSP is made mandatory, then India’s agricultural exports could become non-competitive because the government’s assured prices are way higher than both domestic and international market prices. No trader would want to buy at a higher price and export at a lower rate. So, the assumption behind the new changes is that free competition in agricultural markets will ultimately result in a market-clearing price, at which quantity supplied equals quantity demanded, resulting in equilibrium. According to economist Ashok Gulati, the cost of procuring, storing and distributing rice to the poor comes to about Rs 37 a kg. For wheat, it is around Rs 27 a kg. The cost to company (CTC) of labour of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) is six-eight times higher than private labour. Therefore, market prices of rice and wheat are much lower than what it costs the FCI to buy the staples. On the other hand, the MSP policy benefits farmers only in a handful of states. The 70th round of the National Sample Survey showed only 13.5% of paddy growers and 16.2% of wheat growers actually received MSPs. While MSPs have incentivised foodgrains over other crops, they have given rise to serious imbalances of water and land resources and shifted land away from crops such as pulses and oilseeds, necessitating costly imports. Also, MSPs, as administered prices, tend to distort market prices. They often ignore the demand side, international prices, export competitiveness and ecological impacts of crops such as paddy. This also means surplus stocks can’t be exported without a subsidy, which invites the World Trade Organisation’s objections. WTO rules cap government procurement for subsidized food programmes by developing countries at 10% of the total value of agricultural production based on 1986-88 prices in dollar terms. “Support to farmers can never be in question. But support in the form of MSP, which is market-distorting, raises questions such as whether can we move to other ways of supporting farmers that cause less collateral damage,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-on-msp-may-not-benefit-farm-sectors/story-azRb8gE6LDAW5noqc5TQEP.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Won’t budge even an inch, too much at stake for us: Farmers||A day ahead of the next round of talks with the government, farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders said they will not budge an inch till the three new farm laws are not revoked. The farmers said they are under huge debt and that the new laws will make their condition even worse. “I am under huge debt. My family will be on the streets if the government does not revoke the new farming bills,” said Jasdeep Singh from Bahadurpur village in Sungrur district of Punjab, one of the thousands of farmers protesting at the Singhu and Tikri borders for the last six days.Explaining his situation, Singh said his family of six is completely dependent on the five acres land they own and use to produce wheat. “We produce around eight quintals of wheat and sell it at the mandis at a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs1,835 per quintal. Now, with no assurance of MSP in the new farm law, the corporates will not give us more than Rs 900 to Rs 1,000. Our income will be reduced to half. How will we survive and pay our debts in that situation?” he said.Sitting next to him at Singhu border on Wednesday, Singh’s mother Amarjeet Kaur said, “Just four days before we left to participate in the protest, a family committed suicide in our neighbourhood after they failed to pay back their debt to the bank. These incidents will become frequent now.” She says her family has to repay a debt of Rs 8 lakh. The farmers fear the new laws will do away with a guaranteed MSP, enabling private players to procure the produce at much lower rates. The government has been saying the MSP system will not be done away with.Raising similar concerns, Karanweer Singh, a farmer from Charuni Jattan village of Kurukshetra in Haryana, said his family of 12 are dependent on the produce they harvest from their 15-acre land. “A major portion of our produce is consumed at home and the remaining is sold at the mandis on the MSP. What will we earn if there is no MSP? I will have to withdraw my children from schools because I won’t be able to pay their fees,” he said, adding his family has to repay a loan of Rs 4 lakh before the next harvesting season.Balwinder Singh Rana, president of Majja Kisan Sangarsh Committee Punjab, said farmer associations across the country have decided not to accept anything but complete revocation of the three laws. “More than two lakh farmers from Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab will soon join us in our protest. We won’t accept any amendment in the laws. The government cannot do away with the mandi system and abolish the MSP.”Kunwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha (Punjab), said, “We will go for the meeting called by the Centre on Thursday but we will not accept anything other than complete revocation of the three laws.”Several small farmers feared they will not be able to sell their produce outside the current mandi system. Kulwinder Singh, a farmer from Moga, said he cultivates wheat and rice on a two-acre land for his family of six. “The new laws have opened up the market for corporates. Now, the rich farmers, who have the resources and can sell their produce directly in cities like Delhi or Mumbai, will benefit. Small farmers like me will be in a disadvantaged position,” he said.Pranjeet Singh, 65, a female farmer from Fatehabad in Haryana, said, “We are not sitting on the streets leaving our houses by choice. We are here so that the future generations don’t question us on how we let the government ruin their lives? The government can see smoke coming out of our farms from 500 kms, but they can’t listen to us when we are sitting at their doorstep.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/won-t-budge-an-inch-s-ay-protesting-farmers-on-new-farm-laws/story-zeL7FBQQ0GzqDG0tUZFfLL.html
03-12-2020||India||Kejriwal, Amarinder Singh slug it out over new farm laws||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday criticised his Punjab counterpart Captain Amarinder Singh for “falsely” accusing him of passing the farm laws in the national Capital and questioned if he is acting at the behest of the BJP-led Central government. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said all the three farm laws were brought in and implemented by the Central government and that the state governments have no role to play in it. He also appealed to the Centre to accept all demands of the farmers and amend the farm laws to include guarantee of MSP. “Yesterday, the Punjab CM alleged that I passed these black farm laws in Delhi. How can Captain Singh play such low-level politics in this fragile situation? The day the President signed the black farm laws, they became effective across the entire country from that day itself,” he said.The Punjab CM rejected Kejriwal’s assertion, and said it was clear that the AAP leader did not even want to try to fight the “draconian legislations”. “Why did you not stand against the Centre by passing your own state legislations like we did in Punjab?”, Singh asked.Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which is in the opposition in Punjab — a state where elections are scheduled in 2022, asked if the Punjab chief minister is acting under pressure from the BJP-led Central government.“You are speaking BJP’s language. Are you forging a friendship with the BJP or is there some kind of pressure on you because the enforcement directorate (ED) has filed a case against your family members and sent notices to them?” Kejriwal said. The Punjab CM hit back at his Delhi counterpart, accusing him of stooping to low level politics and indulging in brazen double-speak.On Tuesday, Singh hit out at the AAP saying they had exhibited “shocking double standards on the farmers’ protests” by “shamelessly implementing the draconian farm law in the middle of the crisis while pretending to be standing with he farmers. Kejriwal said it is no longer up to the states now to choose whether they want to implement these laws or not. “Had the onus lied on the states then why would farmers from across the country come to Delhi to protest? They would demand withdrawal of these laws from their respective state governments. No state government can stop these laws,” he said.“Captain Singh is aware of these facts and he still levelled these false allegations on me. Ever since the Delhi government denied to grant permission to turn the city’s 9 stadiums into temporary jails for the protesting farmers, the BJP-led Central government has been very angry with me,” Kejriwal said. “But the Delhi government did not give permission for this. There was a lot of pressure on me to approve the proposal of the Delhi Police to make these temporary jails. But many a times life throws such situations on us when we listen to our conscience without fearing the consequences,” Kejriwal said.The Punjab CM trashed the claim by Kejriwal and said that it the AAP leader, “whose survival depended on the central government”, was more worried about angering the central government than about the plight of the farmers. The Punjab CM also lambasted Kejriwal for allegedly misleading the people on the committee formed by the central government last year on agricultural reforms. “Not once were these black laws discussed or even mentioned in the committee,” said Amarinder. ”It is evident that Kejriwal is only playing to the sentiments of the farmers now because his party has completely lost the political narrative in Punjab, where AAP has its eyes on the 2022 assembly elections,” Amarinder said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-amarinder-singh-slug-it-out-over-new-farm-bills/story-p3exBUMI2MnzJoBxGZenzL.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Traffic hit as Kalindi Kunj is briefly shut to stop farmers from Noida entering Delhi||Wednesday saw attempts by farmers to block another border point to Delhi -- the Kalindi Kunj border that connects Noida with south Delhi -- even as the Singhu and Tikri borders remained completely blocked to traffic for the sixth consecutive day. The police, however, managed to convince farmers at the Chilla border (also between Delhi and Noida) to clear one carriageway for traffic by Wednesday afternoon. This borer point had remained shut since Tuesday.With all the closures and standoffs, traffic and commuting between NCR cities were a nightmare of humongous proportions on Wednesday. The Kalandi Kunj border -- connecting Noida with south Delhi -- had to be briefly shut on Wednesday evening after about a 100 farmers on tractors arrived there from Noida and tried to enter Delhi. The police quickly placed iron barricades and deployed extra personnel to prevent more such attempts. The sudden closure of the Kalandi Kunj border, that too during the evening rush hour, caused heavy jams on both carriageways. The problem was compounded as the Chilla border had remained shut since Tuesday evening and motorists had not alternative but to choose the Kalindi Kunj route. But, by 4.30pm even that was not an option. Kalindi Kunj remained closed only briefly but by then, the tailbacks were long. When the border was reopened, police started stringent checking, which made matter worse as the vehicle queues got longer. While RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said the road was blocked for only five minutes and the farmers were convinced to return to Noida by then, the Delhi traffic police’s Twitter account took over an hour to update that the road was reopened.“We initially closed only the carriageway from Noida to Delhi. But then people started driving on the wrong side, and that caused a jam, so we closed the other carriageway as well. The border was opened and traffic restored after the farmers returned to Noida,” Meena said.As far as the Chilla border was concerned, motorists had a harrowing time till Wednesday afternoon since both carriageways between Noida and Akshardham were closed. Police had opened alternative routes, but even those were congested due to the diverted traffic volume.Around 2pm, the Delhi to Noida carriageway on Chilla border was opened after senior police officers met farmers and apprised them about the jams and the inconvenience to people.“The police officers told us that ambulances as well as private vehicles carrying patients were stuck in jams. Although it was the police who had blocked it, and not us, we shifted ourselves to the carriageway from Noida to Delhi on the instructions of the police. We are here for a peaceful protest and not to cause problems to the public,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).The traffic situation at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border, on the other hand, remain the same as over the past few days -- the traffic flow was normal on the elevated Delhi-Meerut expressway and one carriageway going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi.The Singhu and Tikri borders remained out of bounds to motorists for the sixth consecutive day. After a few hundred farmers managed to sneak into Delhi through internal roads near the Singhu border, the police on Tuesday confined them to a segregated area at the Singhu crossing. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-hit-as-kalindi-kunj-is-briefly-shut-to-stop-farmers-from-noida-entering-delhi/story-rWVnqsBIo3smW1MxnZVjMK.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt not egoistic, holding discussions with farmers with an open mind: Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said that the government is holding discussions with farmers with an open mind and holds no ego after the second round of discussions ended between the farmer groups and the union ministers.Tomar also said that farmers are mainly concerned with the impact the laws would have on the Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis. He said that the government is considering strengthening the APMC and contemplating levying an equal amount of tax for private mandis outside the purview of APMC as well as for APMC currently operating under the ambit of the APMC Act.Tomar told ANI, “Some points have been raised in previous meetings & today’s meet. Farmer unions are mainly concerned about these. The Government has no ego, it was discussing with farmers with an open mind. Farmers are concerned that the new laws will end APMCs.”He further said, “The government will contemplate seeing that APMC is further strengthened and its usage increases. New laws lay down provision for pvt mandis outside purview of APMC. So, we’ll also contemplate having an equal tax for pvt as well as mandis under APMC Act.”Tomar also said that farmers can raise their issues with courts in case of disputes arising from the passage of these new farm laws. He said, “In the new Act, it has been provided that farmers can take their grievances to SDM court. Farmers’ Unions feel that SDM court is a lower court and they should be allowed to go to court. Government will consider this demand.”Farmers’ groups, however, did not relent and said that emphasis still lies on repealing the new laws and the farmers will continue to raise their voices until the Centre decides to completely roll back the recently passed farm laws.Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa told ANI that farmers do not want amendments and remain firm on the demand that the new laws be repealed. Sirsa also said that the government had to admit that there are drawbacks in the recently passed laws.He said, “We listed all drawbacks before the government, they had to admit that there are drawbacks & they’ll make amendments. We said we don’t want amendments but withdrawal of laws. We also demanded that MSP be implemented for certain and law should be made for it.”Harjinder Singh Tanda of the Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee said that the farmers are hopeful that the government will take action. Tanda said that farmers’ groups will continue to pressurise the government and ask them to repeal the laws.Tanda told ANI, “We are hopeful. The laws are wrong. In the next meeting, we will put pressure on the government. They will have to say that they will take back the laws. In my opinion, it will be finalised during the meeting day after tomorrow.”The farmers’ group and the government will again hold another round of discussions on December 5. Farmers are protesting for more than a week against the three bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. They fear their incomes will be in danger as private players can enter the market. They also fear that as APMCs will be impacted affecting the procurement of yields under the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-not-egoistic-holding-discussions-with-farmers-with-an-open-mind-tomar/story-PKoZJ1CIPozbFUzbkcUjfL.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive: Who said what at Vigyan Bhawan meeting||The meeting between the representatives of the protesting farmers’ organisations and the Union ministers on Thursday remained inconclusive, though both sides found silver lining after the seven-hour deliberation at Vigyan Bhawan. The farmers organisations are hopeful that in the next meeting — which is scheduled on December 5 — the issue will be resolved as the Centre on Thursday agreed to review several provisions of the laws. The Centre too is pinning its hope on the next meeting after today’s discussion. Meanwhile, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has urged the agitating farmers to withdraw their protests so that people in Delhi do not suffer.Here is what happened at the meeting:> The meeting was held at a cordial environment with 40 leaders representing various farmers’ organisations that are currently protesting the agricultural laws which the Centre projects as reforms but the farmers are worried that minimum support price will be withdrawn. > The farmers pitched for the repeal of the three farm laws, which the Centre had earlier refused.> Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government listened to the grievances of the farmers with an open mind. Some of the points have also been raised in previous meetings. “Government has no ego. It was discussing with farmers with an open mind. Farmers are concerned that the new laws will end APMCs,” the agriculture minister said. > In the meeting, the Centre reiterated to the farmers that the MSP system will continue. > The farmers expressed their reservation over the provision where they are supposed to take their grievances to SDM courts. “Farmers’ unions feel that SDM court is a lower court. Govt will consider this demand,” Tomar said.> The farmers raised concerned over trading outside the purview of mandi. The trading is supposed to take place on the basis of PAN card. The farmers, at today’s meeting, pointed that getting hold of a PAN card is very easy. The Centre has assured the farmers that traders will be registered. > The farmers organisations said there was little progress in the meeting as the government has only assured about MSP.> The farmer leaders said the government accepted that there are certain drawbacks which they will amend. “We said we don’t want amendments but withdrawal of laws. We also demanded that MSP be implemented for certain and law should be made for it,” farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-second-meeting-remains-inconclusive-who-said-what/story-1N6UCM226HYXVPuDN2va9O.html
03-12-2020||India||Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan in protest against farm laws||In the latest development over the ongoing anti-farm law protests, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and former 5-term Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday returned the Padma Vibhushan, the country’s second-highest civilian award, which was conferred upon him in 2015. Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan to protest "the betrayal of the farmers by govt of India" pic.twitter.com/mzdsoAZSlCIn a statement, Badal described the laws as “the betrayal of farmers” by the government of India. In September, the month these laws were passed, then central minister and Badal’s daughter-in-law, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was the only SAD representative in the central government, had resigned from office in protest against the legislations. Days later, the SAD, too, formally announced it was no longer a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Also Read | SAD-NDA: Farm bill was final nail in the coffin. Here’s a look at other reasons for splitThe SAD was the BJP’s oldest ally, with the two parties’ ties being more than two decades old.In recent days, a number of sportspersons from Punjab, too, have threatened to return their awards if the farmers’ demands were not met. Though the farmers have been protesting against the laws since September, including blocking railway tracks in Punjab, last week they started marching towards the national capital and have been camping on its outskirts for eight days now. They have threatened to block Delhi “from all sides” if the laws are not repealed.Three rounds of talks have taken place between the farmers’ unions and the government thus far, including the latest one on Tuesday. Fourth round of talks are scheduled to take place on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-punjab-cm-parkash-singh-badal-returns-padma-vibhushan-in-protest-against-farm-laws/story-bIAlkJjQrZvwPuL76Ab4pJ.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Nothing for me to resolve’: Punjab CM after meeting home minister Shah over farmers’ stir||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday met Union home minister Amit Shah over the ongoing farmers’ protests on the outskirts of the national capital against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre in September. Speaking to media after the meeting, Singh said talks were going on between the Centre and the farmers and there was nothing for him to resolve.“Discussion is going on between farmers and Centre, there’s nothing for me to resolve. I reiterated my opposition in my meeting with home minister and requested him to resolve the issue as it affects the economy of my state and security of the nation,” news agency ANI quoted the Punjab chief minister as saying. Discussion is going on between farmers & Centre, there's nothing for me to resolve. I reiterated my opposition in my meeting with Home Minister & requested him to resolve the issue as it affects the economy of my state & security of the nation: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh https://t.co/OPfQWdyPCL pic.twitter.com/6T4gxMuydoAdditionally, Singh also announced compensation of Rs five lakh each to the families of two farmers, from the districts of Mansa and Moga respectively, who lost their lives during the ongoing protests, the Punjab chief minister’s office (CMO) said in a statement. Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh has announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the two farmers, hailing from districts Mansa and Moga respectively, who died during ongoing Farm law protests: Chief Minister's Office, PunjabThe meeting between Shah and Singh took place on a day fourth round of talks are scheduled to take place between the government and the protesting farmers. The third round of talks, which took place on Tuesday, had ended in a stalemate, with the farmers’ representatives turning down the government’s proposal to form a panel to discuss the three laws.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said he is hoping for a positive outcome of talks with farmers.“The government is constantly discussing issues with farmers. Today is the fourth round of talks And I’m hoping for a positive outcome,” Tomar said after meeting home minister Shah.The Centre is trying very hard to end the protest against the newly-enacted farm laws, which the farmer leaders are opposed to. Just hours ahead of talks with protesting farmers, Som Prakash, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry on Thursday stated that farmers are coming for talks because there is hope for a solution that will be acceptable to both government and farmers and reiterated that the Centre is clear that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) will stay and is willing to give it in writing as well.Of the three ministers who held hour-long discussions with farmers, Prakash hails from Punjab and will be engaging with farmers today along with agriculture minister Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal.The farm unions, which are spearheading the protests, said that 40 leaders are present at Vigyan Bhawan for talks with the government.“We are hopeful that the talks will be productive. If our demands are not met then the farmers will take part in the Republic Day parade held in Delhi,” farmer leader Rakesh Tikat said.The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-captain-amarinder-singh-arrives-to-meet-home-minister-amit-shah-over-farmers-stir/story-ZFZukeqzuWaT77kdZD7DVN.html
