04-12-2020||HTLS||‘Farm law not passed in a jiffy’: Nirmala Sitharaman on HTLS 2020||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Friday that the Centre has given a lot of thought to the farm laws which were passed by Parliament in September. She also expressed happiness that the government has taken steps to resolve the impasse over these laws, which has led to protest by farmers near Delhi. Speaking on Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS), Sitharaman said she is hopeful that a solution will be found soon.“Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a lot of homework happens before a final call is taken on anything. Consultations take place at various levels. These are things that have been in the discussion for a very long time. Every party has spoken about it, in fact these reforms were part of their manifestos. It was not something done in a jiffy,” Sitharaman said while speaking about the passage of farm laws.“If there are farmers who have doubts and want to speak about it, I am glad that the agriculture minister is sitting and engaging in meaningful conversation with them with an open mind. I hope soemthing will come out of it,” she added.She also said that between 2014 and 2020, the central government has proven that it takes the Minimum Supprot price (MSP) seriously. “We have allotted and also directly given the farmers a lot more money under MSP than what was done before. In the speech which PM Modi gave in Varanasi, he elaborated on how MSP has been used by this government to the benefit of the farmers,” the finance minister said.Sitharaman further said that the MSP is not decided on whims and facies of some people. “There is a committee on agriculture costs and prices. It takes feedback from the ground, then decides on the costing and then figures are arrived at,” she added.The farmers have been protesting near Delhi for more than a week, demanding that the three farm laws be withdrawn. The government has so far held four rounds of talks with them - the latest one moved a step forward on Thursday with the government agreeing to review the recently enacted legislation and “bring amendments” if required to address demands of farm unions.Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash, a lawmaker from Punjab, led the government side, while representatives of some of the biggest farmers unions in the country, mainly from Punjab, spoke for the farmers.“The government has no ego issues. The talks were with an open heart. Farmers’ leaders raised several issues and gave us their views on them. We have assured them that each of the points raised by them will be reviewed by the government,” Tomar said after the discussions.The next round of talks is scheduled for December 5.The farmers have, meanwhile, given a Bharat Bandh call on December 8 if their demands are not met and the three farm laws - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - are not withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/htls/farm-law-not-passed-in-jiffy-nirmala-sitharaman-on-htls-2020/story-fDNBBp47MFXR4kZ0xBB3BL.html
04-12-2020||India||As farmers continue protest, help arrives in form of volunteers, doctors and mechanics||While farmers continue their protest at the Tikri border, what’s sustaining them is continued support from volunteers from states like Haryana, Delhi, Punjab and UP who are supplying vegetables, milk, and ration to them.Among the 150-odd volunteers who have come together under the banner of Jamidar Chattar Sabha is Meet Mann. A resident of Charkhi Dadri, Mann, and the other volunteers unload 7,800 litres of lassi and 2,000 litres of milk from a pick-up vehicle and go on to distribute them among the farmers.Talking to HT, Mann said they have been providing essential commodities to protesting farmers for seven days now. “Our volunteers have been providing langar, tea, halwa, kheer, milk and lassi to the farmers during the day. In the evening, we send some of our volunteers to villages to organise milk, vegetables, lassi and other commodities for the next morning. For their dinner, farmers take vegetables and ration from us,” he added. Helping them in their endeavour are farmers, students, social organisations and khaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-farmers-continue-protest-help-arrives-in-form-of-volunteers-doctors-even-mechanics/story-vnBMTGp9sil0oslqVUsUVM.html
04-12-2020||India||Farmers blocking essential services, increasing Covid-19 threat: Petition filed in Supreme Court||A petition seeking immediate removal or dispersal of the mass gathering of farmers at Delhi borders has been submitted to the Supreme Court on Friday as the farmers’ ongoing protest entered its 9th day. The petitioner said the gathering leading to closure of many routes is blocking essential supply to the city, apart from apprehending the it can lead to community transmission of Covid-19.“It is pertinent to note that in view of the prevention of the community spread of the pandemic disease Coronavirus, it is very necessary to remove the gathering,” the plea said. “This protest is further blocking the roads for all emergency/medical services which are very much required to be supplied with the territory of Delhi in order to stop the spread of coronavirus as the cases of coronavirus patients are increasing rapidly in Delhi and many people were frequently travelling to Delhi from different states to get treatment in big government hospitals situated in Delhi,” the petition further added.As another round of talks between farmer representatives and Union ministers are scheduled to be held on December 5, the protest is going on, though agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday urged the farmers to withdraw their protests. The public interest litigation, filed by advocate Om Prakash Parihar, said the protesters should be shifted to some other place and they should be made to abide by Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.“Though the Police has allotted a dedicated place for the protestors to protest peacefully, the protesters are not shifting/moving to the allotted place and in order to create trouble for the commuters they have blocked the borders. Furthermore, owing to their large number of protestors, the police is not able to control such a large gathering,” the PIL said.Security personnel at border points - Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur - stand guard, as the ongoing protests entered their ninth day on Friday.Meanwhile, the Delhi Police suggested alternative routes to commuters entering or exiting the city.Security personnel remained deployed at Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur border points as farmers continued their protests on Friday. Several routes in and around the Capital are closed on Friday and vehicles are allowed in some other routes under restrictions.The Delhi Traffic Police on Twitter informed commuters about the closure of Singhu, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli borders. National Highway-44 is also closed on both sides. Chilla border on Noida link road and Ghazipur border on National Highway-24 too are shut. Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed for any traffic movement while Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeking-removal-of-protesting-farmers-from-delhi-because-of-covid-19-situation/story-xBruHEMTaBikJQ10muFalK.html
04-12-2020||India||Gehlot asks Centre to withdraw farm laws, apologise to farmers||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday asked the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws passed in September without any delay and apologise to the farmers protesting against them.In a series of tweets, he said, “The central government enacted the three farms bills without consulting the state governments, farmer organisations, and agricultural experts. All these bills were passed unconstitutionally on the basis of majority without any discussion in Parliament even when the Opposition was demanding to send the bills to the select committee.”He added, “The central government did not discuss these bills with anyone and because of which the farmers of the entire country are on the roads today. Chief Minister of Punjab Captain Amarinder Singh sought time to meet the President, but was not given time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-asks-centre-to-withdraw-farm-laws-apologise-to-farmers/story-T5ZEflws4ag45bmql9FzwN.html
04-12-2020||India||MEA summons Canadian envoy over PM Trudeau’s remarks on farmers’ protest||India on Friday summoned Canada’s envoy Nadir Patel and told him that remarks by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Canadian lawmakers on the farmers’ protest had the potential to “seriously” damage bilateral ties. The move signalled India’s ire over remarks by the Canadian leadership that have been perceived in New Delhi as interference in the country’s internal affairs. Trudeau triggered a diplomatic row on Tuesday when he told a Facebook video interaction organised to mark the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of the Sikh religion, that his government had conveyed its concerns over the farmers’ protest to New Delhi. In a swift reaction hours after Trudeau’s comments, the external affairs ministry had dismissed them as “unwarranted”. Also Watch Guru Nanak Jayanati: Joe Biden, Kamala Harris, Justin Trudeau extend wishes On Friday, the Canadian high commissioner was summoned to the external affairs ministry and served a demarche or formal diplomatic representation that said the “comments by the Canadian Prime Minister, some Cabinet Ministers and Members of Parliament on issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs”, according to an official statement. “Such actions, if continued, would have a seriously damaging impact on ties between India and Canada,” the statement said. The statement further said the comments by the Canadian leadership had “encouraged gatherings of extremist activities in front of our high commission and consulates in Canada that raise issues of safety and security”. “We expect the Canadian government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimise extremist activism,” it added. During the Facebook interaction organised by Canadian MP Bardish Chagger, Trudeau had said, “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning and we’re all very worried about family and friends. “I know that’s a reality for many of you. Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that’s why we’ve reached out through multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns.” The virtual interaction was joined by Canadian ministers Navdeep Bains and Harjit Sajjan, lawmakers and prominent members of the Sikh community. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Trudeau’s comments were apparently aimed at Canada’s influential Indian-origin diaspora, particularly the Sikh community. Canada currently has 18 Sikh MPs, including 13 from Trudeau’s Liberal Party. Trudeau was the first world leader to comment on the protest by Indian farmers, which the government is trying to end through talks with farmers’ leaders. The protest is aimed against a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets. The comments weren’t viewed favourably in New Delhi because they came at a time when both India and Canada have been making efforts to restore normalcy to bilateral ties hit by Ottawa’s perceived softness on pro-Khalistan activists during Trudeau’s first term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-summons-canadian-envoy-over-pm-trudeau-s-remarks-on-farmers-protest/story-HrRuvW65KrzGUYduVJ918J.html
04-12-2020||India||India, Canada ties might suffer, MEA says objecting to Justin Trudeau’s comment of farmers’ protest||The ministry of external affairs on Friday summoned the Canadian high commissioner and said that the comments made by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and some other Cabinet ministers and Parliament members on the issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in India’s internal matters. In the press release that the ministry issued on its demarche to the Canadian envoy, it specifically mentioned the name of Justin Trudeau.“Such actions, if continued, would have a seriously damaging impact on ties between India and Canada,” the MEA said.“The comments have encouraged gatherings of extremist activities in front of our High Commission and Consulates in Canada that raise issues of safety and security,” the ministry said. The ministry also said it expected the Canadian government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders. It also expects Canadian political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimise extremist activism.As farmers are protesting the three recently passed agricultural laws which they fear will harm their interests in more than one way, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Tuesday expressed his concerns, a move many believe was aimed at Canada’s Indian-origin diaspora. Participating in a Facebook video interaction organised by Canadian MP Bardish Chagger to mark Guruparb or the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, Trudeau said he must recognise the “news coming out of India about the protest by farmers”. “The situation is concerning and we are all very worries about family and friends,” Trudeau said.The external affairs ministry termed Trudeau’s comments as “unwarranted”. “It is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justin-trudeau-s-comment-on-farmers-protest-unacceptable-mea-tells-canada-high-commissioner/story-znqPSKbUBlVBDEBv3AHj8H.html
04-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest brought Centre to its knees, tweets Mehbooba Mufti||Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said on Friday that farmers have brought the Centre to its knees and disruption of peaceful protests shows the nervousness and failure of the government.Mufti, who was arrested on August 5, 2019 after the Centre revoked Article 370 from J&K and was released only a couple of months ago, came out in support of the protesting farmers and tweeted, “Farmers protests have brought GOI to its knees. BJP is scared of peoples power & its why a reign of repression has been unleashed in J&K since illegal abrogation of Article 370. Not allowing any peaceful medium for dissent shows their nervousness & failure on all fronts.” Since her release, Mufti had called for protests in J&K against various laws and government orders, calling them anti-people. Recently, she was not allowed to travel to south Kashmir’s Pulwama to meet the family of PDP youth president Waheed Parra who was arrested by NIA. Parra is contesting DDC polls from Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-brought-centre-to-its-knees-tweets-mehbooba-mufti/story-5O4JwM5Hh2Z7oYMJhGzXcM.html
04-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Singhu, Tikri borders remain closed; several arterial roads blocked||Several arterial roads -- some very busy and others sparsely used -- continued to be blocked for traffic on Friday as farmers’ protests at Delhi borders entered the ninth day. While the Singhu and Tikri borders have been closed for the ninth and the eighth consecutive day respectively, several other roads were closed more recently as farmers either landed at those points or used them to make inroads into the city. Apart from the roads connecting with Haryana, the Ghazipur border on the NH-24 has been fully closed for traffic and the Chilla border on the Noida Link Road is closed for motorists from Noida to Delhi, the traffic police updated on its Twitter handle. For motorists that side of the city, the Delhi Traffic Police advised the use of Apsara, Bhopra and DND borders for entering Delhi.Also read | Security deployment increased as number of protesters swell at Delhi bordersThe Haryana side of the border, meanwhile, was even more affected as the police have closed eight big and small border points. These include the Singhu and Tikri borders, and the border points at Jharoda, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari and Sabori. In addition, at the Jhatikara border, only motorcyclists are being allowed. And at Badusarai border, police are allowing only motorcycles and cars.For motorists wanting to enter Haryana from Delhi, traffic police said the following borders remain open: Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar, Dundahera and Badarpur-Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-singhu-tikri-borders-remain-closed-several-arterial-roads-blocked-for-traffic/story-T1dJSmqJLCk1G9mSmdDJaO.html
04-12-2020||India||CPIM’s All India Kisan Sabha plays key role in building solidarity for farmers’ protest||The CPIM in India had long mastered the art of issue-based support. It’s farmer arm, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), increasingly widened the scope of such pacts to stage big-ticket protests such as the ongoing farmers’ agitation in the National Capital Region. For the AIKS, a key participant along with Punjab Kisan organisations’ coordination committee and several other organisations, in the ongoing protests, the experience of 2014 movement against the land bill and the 2018 long march in Maharashtra came handy this time. When the NDA government brought the land bill in 2014, the AIKS tried to form a broad-based movement joining hands with more than 300 organisations representing tribals, activits, forest right movement, Dalits and even fishermen. And after the Mandsaur incident, where farmers died during protests, the AIKS reached out to other organisers for an issue-based pact and formed All India Kisan Sangharsh coordination committee (AIKSCC). “AIKSCC brought together more than 250 organisations who might not agree with each other on all issues. But we formed an issue-based unity around two common agenda to fight together: assured remunerative price and freedom from debt. In the course of United struggles consensus on broader issues developed,” said Vijoo Krishnan, joint secretary of Kisan Sabha. It is the AIKSCC that held long negotiations with farm bodies in Punjab and Haryana and other solidarity groups to launch a massive protest against the new farm laws of the NDA government. The kisan long march in Maharashtra had proved the organising power of the AIKS but this time, in the rice bowl of India, they found the new laws as the perfect cause to expand their issue-based support and join hands with more farmer bodies. “The solidarity between farmers and workers, students, women, activists and even professionals such as lawyers and doctors is unprecedented,” adds Vijoo, “we also have plans to intensify and broaden the protests across the country. Efforts to portray it as a Punjab specific movement is far from the reality of consistent protests across India. Our organisations are focused on building solidarity for the ongoing farm agitation in Delhi.” The farm wing’s tactical line of issue-based help also comes when the CPIM and the Left parties have taken a fresh approach to issue-based pacts with outfits and parties outside the leftist periphery. The Left parties joined hands with the RJD and Congress after a long time in Bihar, clinching impressive results. It has already announced seat pacts—not alliances—with the Congress in Assam and West Bengal and with DMK in Tamil Nadu. When asked why it took such a long time to organise protests as the farm bills were cleared in August, Vijoo said, “You have to consider that there are partial lockdowns and Covid-19 pandemic is far from over. Our leaders had to negotiate with many organisations and held several online meetings as well as in villages. It was a meticulously built unity. I don’t think we are late.We had numerous protests across the country from June 5.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-s-all-india-kisan-sabha-plays-key-role-in-building-solidarity-for-farmers-protest/story-tqJdSAzEvrILDpm0OveiGP.html
04-12-2020||India||Govt agrees to review farmers’ key demands||A make-or-mar round of talks between the Union government and farmers protesting three farm laws moved a step forward on Thursday after being repeatedly deadlocked, with the government agreeing to review the recently enacted legislation and “bring amendments” if required to address demands of farm unions. The farmers, however, stuck to their stand that the government should roll back all three laws. The negotiations on Thursday were the fourth round of meeting between three Union ministers and farmers’ representatives, as protests by thousands of agriculturalists on Delhi’s borders simmered for the seventh straight day. Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash, a lawmaker from Punjab, led the government side, while representatives of some of the biggest farmers unions in the country, mainly from Punjab, spoke for the farmers. “The government has no ego issues. The talks were with an open heart. Farmers’ leaders raised several issues and gave us their views on them. We have assured them that each of the points raised by them will be reviewed by the government and we will meet again on December 5,” Tomar said after the discussions. While the farmers want the three farm laws approved by Parliament in September to be revoked, the government has leaned on its new reform agenda to raise farm incomes and spur investments in the sector. The recent laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers.The government enlarged the group of farmers’ representatives from 35 to 40 for Thursday’s meeting in response to the farmers’ demand. The farmers’ side for the first time included a women’s representative, Kavitha Kuruganti of the Forum for Women Farmers’ Rights. “The farm minister said the government may bring amendments. We pointed out that if a law goes wrong on its very objective, then its various provisions are bound to go wrong. That is what happened here. That farmers have been left to fend for themselves in their market interfaces,” said Kuruganti. In the last meeting on December 1, which was inconclusive, the agriculture minister had suggested that farm leaders identify specific issues related to the farm-reform Acts. The farmers’ delegation spoke at length about what they saw as threats to their interests because of the reforms. These included the danger of existing notified government-controlled markets collapsing because a proposal to set up free markets in competition with traditional ones that give farmers assured prices for staples. A new contract-farming law could imperil the landholding rights of farmers, the farmers said. They also demanded the government reverse all penalties on farmers for crop-residue burning under a new anti-pollution ordinance promulgated in October. The farmers also sought a review of a bill that provides for direct cash payments to farmers to offset costs of electricity for farming in lieu of the existing practice of providing subsidised power supply. “We will go back review each of these provisions. We will see how we can bring parity between existing Agricultural Produce Market Committees (regulated markets) and free markets. We may bring new measures to strengthen APMC markets,” Tomar said. The farm minister also said the government would review the impact of a power supply amendment bill pending in Parliament on farmers and review a recent law, which provides for settlement of disputes between farmers and traders at the magistrate level. Farmers have demanded that they be free to approach civil courts to settle such disputes. The farmers also sought a legal guarantee to federally fixed MSPs so that no private buyer can purchase any major farm produce below state-set threshold prices. The government assured the farmers that the MSP system, under which it buys staples at profitable rates, will continue but did not commit to a law prohibiting sale of any major farm produce below state-set support prices, as sought by farmers. The farmers concluded by saying that the issue is not about “any one particular clause”, but about the “direction in which the government is pushing farming in India”, said Avik Saha, secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKCC). Jagmohan Singh, a farm leader who was part of the talks, said farmers unanimously demanded a repeal of the “three black laws”. “All our objections and fear will go if the three laws are taken back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-agrees-to-review-farmers-key-demands/story-VxKFdGZDsIKiab2SbEzb8I.html
04-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee speaks to protesting farmers; sends emissary to meet them at Singhu border||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee spoke to the representatives of the farmers protesting against contentious farm laws and sent an emissary to meet them at the Delhi-Haryana border on Friday. This comes a day after she threatened a nationwide protest if the Centre did not scrap the laws that allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions.“The CM [chief minister] made at least four calls to different farmers’ groups from Haryana and Punjab. They shared their demands with the chief minister and thanked her for her solidarity. They also expressed their gratitude for all her support to farmers and the land movement in the past,” Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, a lawmaker of Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) said. “[Derek] O’Brien, TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader, spent four hours meeting various groups of farmers who have parked their tractors and other vehicles on the highway at the [Delhi-Haryana] Sighu border.”The TMC’s top leadership was expected to meet later on Friday to chalk out their future course of action against the farm laws including the Essential Commodities Act. “...We will discuss how the Essential Commodities Act is impacting common people and resulting in skyrocketing prices. The central government must withdraw this anti-people law,” Banerjee tweeted on Thursday.Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three laws, saying they will hurt their incomes even as the government has maintained they will enhance them. They say the laws are a precursor to the withdrawal of government support for farming and will replace existing middlemen with more powerful corporate entities.Fourteen years ago, on this day (December 4), Banerjee started her 26-day hunger strike while intensifying the Singur movement in West Bengal against forcible land acquisition.“14 years ago on 4 Dec 2006, I began my 26 day hunger strike in Kolkata demanding that agricultural land cannot be forcefully acquired. I express my solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by Centre. #StandWithFarmers,” Banerjee tweeted on Friday.The BJP responded to the CM’s move later. “Kisan mandis in West Bengal exist only on paper while farmers in the state are not getting the minimum price and selling their produce at distress rates. Potatoes are selling at double the normal rates. But what rates are the farmers getting? The TMC is merely trying to divert the attention away from the state,” said BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-speaks-to-protesting-farmers-sends-emissary-to-meet-them-at-singhu-border/story-Js94pYm5hVZGKMelWzxuHM.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: On road but right at home inside their trucks, tractors||A set of wooden planks have been tied together to form a two floor structure inside a large truck parked at the farmers’ protest site at Delhi’s Singhu Border. At night, at least 40 people sleep on the two decks and half a dozen under the vehicle. Some distance away, three sofas made of hay and placed strategically outside a truck are occupied by farmers discussing the ongoing situation. “We were being criticised for burning hay and causing pollution. So, I purchased a machine to turn them into sofa sets,” said Navtesh Singh, a farmer from Moga in Punjab. Most of these trucks are equipped with large batteries and charging points to keep the mobile phones of farmers active. Solar-powered lights are put out on the roads for charging. By evening, they’ll be ready to light up an entire truck. These are only some of the arrangements the protesting farmers have made to turn their trucks, tractors and trolleys into “homes”.“The trucks are our bedrooms. The road outside is our kitchen. We have also managed to set up temporary washrooms. The only facility we lack is air-conditioning,” said Navtesh.The farmers have insisted that they are in for a long haul and have food stocks to last them months. While their food stocks and kitchen are there for everyone to see, a lot more preparations are visible when you peep a little deeper. At both, Singhu and Tikri borders, there are tractors with two trolleys attached to them. Usually, one of these trolleys serve as a bedroom and the other as a storeroom for groceries. And every now and then, there are trolleys stuffed with wood and even cow dung cakes. “If we exhaust our cooking gas, the wood and cow dung cakes will come into use,” said Jasveer Singh, a farmer from Sangrur protesting at Singhu Border. The tractors and trucks have been specially designed by the farmers to ensure they provide as much comfort as is possible on the road. Two farmer friends, Ramandeep Singh and Gurpreet Singh covered dozens of trucks in and around their village in Patiala with tarpaulin sheets to ensure they were water and wind-resistant. Some vehicles were also covered with iron mesh for “extra safety”.“The floors of the trucks are first covered by hay. Then mattresses and bedsheets are laid atop them to ensure warmth. We have brought ample blankets and quilts to ensure no one is cold,” said Ramandeep.Since bathing and washing clothes is being done in the open, the farmers have fixed strings on their trucks or between two vehicles to serve as clothes hangers. The same mechanism of using two vehicles has also been used to set up tents outside by many farmers. Some have gone as far as having a separate section for storing footwear, stools for sitting and almost all trucks have wooden or metallic staircases for the elderly to hop into the vehicles with ease. Exclusive cabins have been made for women which have curtains hanging from strings to ensure privacy. “The hay below and mattresses above them in the truck ensures the sleep is as comfortable as in our bedrooms,” said Amarjeet Kaur, a 52-year-old farmer. While the farmers have brought in portable and battery-operated speakers to listen to music and hookahs to keep them busy, their day begins with Punjabi newspapers. “These newspapers land in our trucks by 7am every day,” said Ajeet Singh, a farmer from Moga who is protesting at Tikri Border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-protesters-their-trucks-tractors-are-their-new-homes/story-rQGv5EZ0XMsvfMvKCcKqcM.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Security deployment increased as number of protesters swell at Delhi borders||The number of protesters at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana swelled up on Thursday as hundreds of other farmers and support groups joined the agitation against the farm laws even as their representatives held talks with the central government, prompting the police to almost double the deployment of security personnel.Around 10 am on Thursday, nearly 500 farmers, mostly from Uddam Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand, sat on one carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut expressway towards Ghaziabad, forcing the police to close one side for vehicular traffic and divert vehicles to alternative routes. The farmers had food, held meetings and protests, and delivered speeches through loudspeakers on the carriageway throughout the day. UP police officials were seen requesting the protesters to shift to the NH-9 (formerly NH-24) service road where other farmers have been stationed since last Friday. Multiple negotiations failed and the protesters did not move from the carriageway, following which UP Police increased their deployment and stationed personnel armed with anti-riot gear.Brijender Singh, a farmer from Udham Singh Nagar, said, “Our leaders had been sitting in Burari to cooperate with the government but they weren’t called for talks on Thursday. This indicates the government isn’t taking us seriously. To make our presence visible, we have blocked the highway.”Nirdesh Singh, a female leader who had come from Moradabad with a group of 70-80 farmers, including 30-35 women, said they have come to express their solidarity and will stay here till their demands are met.Around 4 pm, another group of at least 500 farmers joined the agitation from Hapur and Bulandshahar in UP. The group carrying sticks and mounted on vehicles fitted with loudspeakers went past the barricades on the elevated Delhi-Meerut expressway but had to return as the carriageway was barricaded by Delhi Police.Around 4.30 pm, the group marched to the service lane, dismantled barricades placed by Delhi Police and tried to cross over. As armed paramilitary personnel and policemen took positions to stop them, farmer leaders intervened and calmed down the groups. The barricades were rearranged by the police and the farmers retreated.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said the situation remained peaceful but as the number of protesters increased, they had to almost double the number of security personnel. Singh said till Wednesday, only the service lane was blocked but on Thursday the protesters took over one carriageway on the elevated expressway. “This required more barricading and additional forces were called to ensure adequate arrangements,” he said.The Uttar Pradesh police also stepped up their arrangements at the Ghazipur border. Drones were used for surveillance as the gathering continued to swell and fire tenders were stationed.The farmers’ gathering at the Chilla border with Noida also doubled since Wednesday but was peaceful. One carriageway from Noida to Delhi remained blocked.At the Singhu border, which was relaxed for the last three-four days, police and paramilitary personnel geared up to handle any eventuality. Many of them were seen putting on anti-riot gear and taking positions near the two protest sites.While Gaurav Sharma, DCP (outer-north), said deployment remained as before, another senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified said additional companies of paramilitary personnel were reaching Delhi in the next couple of days in view of the swelling crowd and to prevent any possible deterioration of the situation in case the talks did not end up well.“Between Mukarba Chowk and Singhu Border, we have set up three points, which are blocked with mud-laden trucks to ensure there are multiple layers of barricades in case the protesters try to force their way into Delhi,” the officer said.Sharma said the three layers were set up due to inputs that farmers could use alternative routes to get to NH-44 to enter the city. “We’ll remove them soon,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-deployment-increased-as-number-of-protesters-swell-at-delhi-borders/story-P6AZFzop3sWTdFwmkAxpyO.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Despite huge crowd at protest sites, no Covid-19 testing||It has been a week since farmers from across the country launched their protests against the Centre’s farm bills along Delhi’s borders, but none of these protest sites had a single Covid-19 testing camp as on Thursday.The lone Covid-19 testing camp that was set up by the Delhi government at the Burari site on Saturday was also wrapped up in a day, farmers protesting at the site said. The sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, on the other hand, haven’t seen any Covid-19 testing camps or medical vans for swab collection from day one.Officials of the north district administration said the temporary camp at Burari’s designated protest site at the Sant Nirankari Samagam Ground had a medical team equipped with rapid antigen kits on Saturday.“But the antigen kits were not replenished at the site the next day. The facility was a voluntary one and found very few takers. Only around 40 tests were conducted on Day One at the Burari site using the antigen kits, but no farmer was found to be positive,” said a senior official of the north district administration, which is overseeing all the arrangements at Burari.While the Delhi government has built a mega tent covering around 4 lakh square feet of the ground with the capacity of sheltering over 50,000 protesters, only around 200 farmers were seen using the shelter on Thursday. The city administration has provided toilet and water facilities as well. Binder Singh, one of the many leaders of the ongoing protests and who was present at the Burari site, said that they have been demanding that the city administration administers Covid-19 tests for the agitators.“A wrong perception is being built that farmers do not want to get tested. But, what does one do when there is no access to Covid tests at all,” he said.At the protest site along the Singhu border, at least 4-5 health camps set up by private organisations — including those by NGOs, doctors’ association, religious committees and sometimes even political parties — could be spotted. But none of them had Covid-19 testing facility in them.“We are getting 2-3 farmers almost every day who have flu-like symptoms. Still, all we can do is suggest that they get tested for Covid at a government facility or at a private laboratory. But, most of them never leave the site. We can only hope that no one turns out to be a super spreader and that too will remain unknown because there is absolutely no Covid-19 testing happening here,” said Dr Harjit Singh Bhatti of the Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, which has set up a health kiosk at Singhu border.He said the health camps set up privately at the protest sites cannot offer Covid-19 testing because of the national guidelines. “One has to be formally registered with the ICMR and the city administration to offer Covid-19 testing. We have been urging the government to set up Covid-19 testing camps at Singhu border and Ghazipur, but nothing has happened yet,” Bhatti said.When asked, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said he had discussed the matter with the district administration (north) and asked them to make the necessary arrangements.“The directions, including setting up of tents at Singhu border, were issued two days ago. We shall follow-up if it has not been done yet,” he said.At the protest sites, however, there are scores of farmers who are not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour - be it wearing masks, maintaining social distancing or frequently sanitising their hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/despite-huge-crowd-at-protest-sites-no-covid-testing/story-nolpodX8pM2fkxJu6c3ptJ.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers say hopeful of resolution but won’t settle for amendments||Asserting that they will not settle for anything but complete revocation of new laws that seek to open up farm trade, protesting farmers on Thursday said that they were hopeful of a resolution after talks with the Centre. Kulwant Singh Sandhu, 65, general secretary of Janmuri Kisan Sabha, who attended the meeting said, “Our movement has made a huge difference in the way the government used to treat us earlier. The government wants amendments in the three new laws, but we want complete repeal. The government has also offered us a few more things, including power subsidy, but our demand is different. We will hold a meeting with our fellow farmers on Friday before the next round of talks scheduled on Saturday.” Harjinder Singh Tanda of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said, “Thursday’s talks made little progress. We are hopeful. In the next meeting, we will now put more pressure on the government to revoke the new farm laws.”At Singhu border, as their leaders left for the meeting with the Centre at Vigyan Bhavan, farmers were seen sitting in groups and discussing about the outcome of the meeting and the future course for their agitation. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders to protest against the three contentious laws. Several farmers said that they will try to move towards the Parliament in case their talks fail to reach a conclusion on Saturday. Karanweer Singh, a farmer from Kurushetra, who is protesting at Singhu border, said, “We will intensify the movement after December 5, and try to march towards the Parliament to make our voice heard. Thousands more from Punjab and Haryana are coming to support us.”Balwinder Singh Rana, president of Majja Kisan Sangarsh Committee, Punjab, said the government should consider their demand for conducting a special session of the Parliament to revoke the three laws. “We are not sitting on the roads leaving our homes for some amendments. We will not end the protest before the government revokes these new laws. Thursday’s meeting has inspired some hope, as the government had shown interest in solving the issue,” he said.Earlier in the day, farmers protesting at the Ghazipur border said the protests will only go up after Saturday, if the issue remains unresolved. “More farmers will join us if required. We will not give up unless the demands are met. Our further course of action will be decided soon after holding a meeting with other leaders,” said Natasha Tikait, a leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union. At Singhu border, groups of farmers from neighbouring Sonipat and Faridabad also visited the protest site to extend their solidarity. The youngsters were seen drawing graffiti on the walls with messages in support of the ongoing agitation.Bhim Army chief Chandrashekar Azad also visited the Singhu border on Thursday. “The government has so far tried to mislead the farmers. But now, the government knows that the farmers have decided to fight their own battles and that’s why it has initiated a dialogue. I have come here on my birthday today to extend my solidarity with my farmer brothers,” he said. Azad had also visited the protest site at Ghazipur border on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-say-hopeful-of-resolution-but-won-t-settle-for-amendments/story-xLqmnE0RmobQqZrDDfrnBN.html
04-12-2020||India||Farm laws unconstitutional, illegal: SC Bar association president||Senior lawyer and president of Supreme Court Bar Association Dushyant Dave on Friday said that the recently passed farm laws by the union government are “unconstitutional” and “illegal” and will eventually promote profiteering and legalise the exploitative money lending system in the villages. A meeting took place today between the president of Supreme Court Bar Association, Dushyant Dave, Sangharsh Committee member and farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa and senior lawyer Harvinder Singh Phoolka on the ongoing farmers’ protest in the national capital.After the meeting, Dave told ANI: “It is a matter of pride that Sangharsh Committee members met me regarding the farmers’ protest. I have told them that the recently passed farm laws are unconstitutional and illegal. These laws will legalise the exploitative money-lending system in the villages.“This will promote profiteering. There is no protection to the farmers as most of them are small and marginal. How will they enter into agreements with traders and understand the terms? The situation will become such that traders will destroy the farmers,” he added.Dave further said: “The government should think about these laws as it is their responsibility to hear the farmers, address the legal issues and bring an amendment to the law. The most important amendment should be that the trader should give in writing that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) will be ensured to the farmers.”“The government has also mentioned that they want to keep the judicial system outside of the purview of this law. The joint secretaries and district magistrates will not be able to dispense justice to the farmers. Our judiciary is capable to dispense justice to the farmers. The government should include the judiciary system. But it is also true that cases will increase in the courts and hence this law is not required,” he added.Dave further said: “This law also impacts the ‘democracy at the grassroots’. The farmers till now could do collective bargaining at Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). It is true that all APMCs were not working fine. But that does not mean that the government should bring in an even more exploitative law.”“I am hopeful that the Prime Minister will address these issues and think about the welfare of the farmers, I will assist the farmers in their struggle in my personal capacity,” he added.HS Phoolka said that the government should reconsider these farm laws as a senior advocate like Dave is also not on its side. “We are thankful that Dushyant Dave will assist the farmers in their struggle. The government is saying that it has examined the law but it should think that if a senior lawyer like Dushyant Dave is also saying that these laws are not in the interest of the farmers then it must be considered by them,” Phoolka said.“The government’s legal advisors may be differing on this issue but they should contemplate on it. Delhi Bar Council also announced that they examined these laws and declared that they are not in the interest of the farmers or advocates. The government should not make it an ego issue,” he added.Phoolka further said, “India is a country of farmers. If all the farmers are uncomfortable, then how is our country a democracy? The government should sit with the farmers and advocates and then implement the amendments to these laws.”Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa said: “We are very happy that Supreme Court lawyer Dushyant Dave is with us. The government should roll back these laws and make laws after consulting farmers. Dushyant Dave said that he will fight the cases for farmers free of cost. We are grateful to HS Phoolka who facilitated our meeting with Dave ji.”Thousands of farmers have gathered in and around Delhi to protest against the three farm laws.On Thursday, the farmers held the fourth round of talks with the Centre and said the government had talked of some amendments to farm laws.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said after the talks that the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind.“The government will discuss points that emerged at the meeting on Friday and hopes that talks will move towards finality when the next round of discussions are held on Saturday,” the minister had said.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-unconstitutional-illegal-sc-bar-association-president/story-xGwYf5eND2jCDq6vwiErsL.html
04-12-2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party’s Kisan Yatras from December 7 to protest ‘anti-farmer’ policies||The Samajwadi Party (SP) will launch state-wide Kisan Yatras or Farmers’ marches beginning December 7 to protest against alleged anti-farmer policies of the Central government.The farmers’ protest march was announced by SP national president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday, said a press statement issued by SP’s state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.Akhilesh said the Kisan Yatras will be taken out by party workers and leaders across the state on foot, bicycles and motorcycles etc.“The rallies will be against BJP’s anti-farmer policy and will be taken out in each and every district,” the statement quoted Akhilesh as saying.The rallies would make people aware of the issues that farmers were facing, it added. As per the statement, Akhilesh also said that the farmers were currently distressed. Also Read: Shivpal Yadav calls Akhilesh’s 1 seat offer a joke, seeks socialist front against BJPThe agitation has been announced at a time when the Central government is locked into talks with farmers unions, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, over the three farm laws passed by the Parliament earlier this year.Farmers allege that these laws will take away their income security and make them vulnerable to corporates. However, the Centre maintains that the laws are reformative in nature and meant to free the farmers from the shackles of the old Mandi-Agent system, giving them greater freedom and opportunity to increase their incomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samajwadi-party-s-kisan-yatras-from-december-7-to-protest-anti-farmer-policies/story-J8PJVdxMWUhhE1vWj4ObTN.html
