05-12-2020||India||‘People have right to demonstrate peacefully, let them’: UN chief’s spokesman on farmers’ protest||Authorities should allow people to exercise their right to demonstrate peacefully, UN Secretary-General António Guterres’ spokesman has said regarding the farmers’ protest in India.The remarks came close on the heels of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau saying his government had conveyed its concerns about the farmers’ protest to India, and Indian-origin British MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi sending a letter on behalf of a group of lawmakers to foreign secretary Dominic Raab on the issue.India dismissed Trudeau’s remarks as interference in the country’s internal affairs and summoned the Canadian envoy on Friday and told him the comments have the potential to damage bilateral ties. There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the UN spokesman’s comments or the British MP’s letter.When Stéphane Dujarric, spokesman for the UN Secretary-General, was asked about the farmers’ protest at a daily news briefing on Friday, he replied, “As to the question of India, what I would say to you is what I’ve said to others when raising these issues is that people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so.”Also read: Maun vrat, food from langar - Key takeaways from farmers’ protestThe reporter who asked the question also contended the farmers involved in the protest were being met with “repressive measures” and this had a bearing on India’s democracy. Dujarric responded by saying, “We want to see people have a voice in their lives.”Thousands of farmers have been protesting for more than a week at the borders of Delhi against a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets. The government is trying to end the protest through talks with the farmers’ leaders. Trudeau was the first world leader to comment on the farmers’ protest, telling a Facebook video interaction on Tuesday that the situation in India was “concerning”. He added, “Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that’s why we’ve reached out through multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns.” On Friday, the external affairs ministry summoned Canada’s envoy Nadir Patel and told him the remarks by Trudeau and Canadian lawmakers had the potential to “seriously” damage bilateral ties. The ministry also said the comments by Trudeau, some cabinet ministers and MPs amounted to an “unacceptable interference in our internal affairs”.Also read: Farm leaders hopeful govt will repeal laws but will continue with Bharat BandhIn a separate development, British MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi sent a letter on behalf of 35 MPs to foreign secretary Dominic Raab seeking “an urgent meeting... to discuss the deteriorating situation in Punjab and its relationship with the Centre”. Dhesi also asked Raab to make a representation to his Indian counterpart about “the impact on British Sikhs and Punjabis with longstanding links to land and farming in India”.Dhesi wrote in the letter that several British MPs had written to both Raab and the Indian high commission in London about “the impact of three new Indian laws on exploiting farmers and those dependent on farming in India”. “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikhs in the UK and those linked to Punjab, although it heavily impacts other Indian states,” Dhesi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-have-right-to-demonstrate-peacefully-let-them-un-chief-s-spokesman-on-farmers-protest/story-9fd1RmPzzvLATcHcmAGExH.html
05-12-2020||India||Maun vrat, food from langar, returning awards: Key takeaways from farmers' protest||Thousands of farmers initially from Punjab and Haryana and later from other states started a protest on November 26 against three farm laws that they fear will corporatise farming. Braving police resistance and freezing weather, they have now reached Delhi — with several groups laying siege to various borders of the national capital — engaged in talks with the Centre. The protest as it is going on has established several hallmarks.No politician allowed to speak at farmers gatheringAmid allegations that the protest is politically motivated, the farmers’ organizations had said in the beginning that no political leaders will be allowed to give a speech from the protest platform. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Jan Adhikar party chief Pappu Yadav visited the protest site at Ghazipur border and pledged their support. On Saturday, singer, actor Diljit Dosanjh visited Singhu border and addressed the farmers. “Farmers have created a new history. This history would be narrated to future generations. Farmers’ issues should not be diverted by anyone,” Diljit said. Several Punjabi singers, including Gurshabad Singh Kular and Harf Cheema, performed at Singhu border on Saturday.Also Watch | Farmers in ‘maun vrat’, demand for proposal before next meeting Also Read: Farm leaders hopeful govt will repeal laws but will continue with Bharat BandhRefusing government hospitality at meetingsThe protesters have opened a community kitchen at Singhu border which supplied the lunch of the union leaders who went to Vigyan Bhawan for the meeting with the Centre. This happened both on Thursday and Saturday as the leaders refused to accept government hospitality.Maun vrat During Saturday’s meeting, the union leaders went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes’ or ‘no’ reply on whether the laws will be withdrawn or not. Some of the leaders also showed the ‘yes’ or ‘no’ placard refusing to take part in the consultation.Returning awardsAfter Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal (Padma Vibhushan) and Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) chief and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Dhindsa (Padma Bhusan) returned their awards, several sportspersons are also ready to return their awards in support of the protest. “We have left for Delhi today and will join the farmers’’ protest,” said former wrestler Kartar Singh, who is a Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee. Other former sportspersons who are headed to the national capital are Dhyan Chand awardee hockey Olympian Gurmail Singh, Arjuna awardee Kabaddi player Hardeep Singh, and Arjuna awardee weightlifter Tara Singh. On Friday, former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India won its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, Padma Shri boxer Kaur Singh and Arjuna awardee boxer Jaipal Singh had announced that they would return their awards.Farmers have been protesting since the bills were passed in September. The first round of talks with the Centre had taken place in October, but the farmer leaders had walked out from that meeting as no minister was present. This was followed by the second round on November 13. The last three rounds have taken place after ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest began.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maun-vrat-food-from-langar-returning-awards-key-takeaways-from-farmers-protest/story-1FKKMkFWZlhaXQ98oMRlSP.html
05-12-2020||India||Seeing their families’ plight, farmers’ children don’t wish to get into agriculture||As thousands of farmers dig their heels in at Delhi’s borders bracing chilly winter winds and preparing for a long fight to press for their demands, some rue that seeing their plight, their children no longer wish to get into agriculture.Hasseb Ahmed, who has been on a sit-in against the Centre’s new farm laws here at the Ghazipur border since last Saturday, says he has two school going children, who are busy with their online classes back in his village in Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh, want a better standard of living.His elder son is in Class 12, while the younger is in class 9. “Neither of them wished to get into farming. They have their ambitions and want to land a good job. They say they don’t want to be farmers,” Ahmed said.Also Read |  Farmers’ group hold silent protests at government meeting; want ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer to their demands“With the price that we are offered for our crops, all we can afford to give them is food and basic education. Nothing beyond that. They get disappointed to see that despite all the handwork that goes in it, we don’t receive appropriate returns,” he added.Another farmer, Sita Arya, who is from Amroha district in Uttar Pradesh, said her children too were slowly trying to detach themselves from farming. “They are even ready to sit in a bidi, tabocco or a paan shop to earn a living.” “We work day and night on the fields but don’t get the required profit. Getting into farming is like falling into a pit. Unless there is profit, our children don’t wish to get into it. If only the government had focused on turning farming into an employment opportunity and set a standard price for our crops, our children would not have been so against this profession, which is in every sense the backbone of this country,” she added.Agitating farmers have stressed that unless their demands are met and the new farm laws repelled, they will not move anywhere from the borders of the national capital and their protest will continue.Daryal Singh, a 65-year-old farmer from UP, pointed out that the young people in his village were ready to work even under a trader for Rs 2,000 but they do not wish to become farmers.“For ages they have seen their families struggle to get farm loans. Whatever money they make out of farming, a good portion of it goes into repaying the loan, and they are left with a meagre sum. How do we change their perceptive? Has any government ever acted for the farmers till date,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seeing-their-families-plight-the-farmers-progeny-don-t-wish-to-get-into-agriculture/story-bQ6775EDo50XXVWGTVi5UN.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Leave path of agitation,’ agriculture minister urges farmers ahead of December 8 Bharat Bandh||As the protesting farmers on Saturday made it clear that there will be no change in their protest schedule, including the proposed Bharat Bandh on December 8, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar urged the farmers to leave the path of agitation and come to the path of discussion. The next round of discussion is scheduled to be held on December 9 after the Centre sends the farmers’ organisations a new draft.“I’d not like to comment on program of Unions. But I’d like to urge farmers & Unions to leave path of agitation and come to path of discussion. Govt has had several rounds of talks with them and is ready for further discussion for a solution,” the minister said.Though talks are going on, the agitating farmers have not softened their ground. They have maintained that the protest will never become violent, but will continue unless the Centre fulfils their demands. On Friday, the unions announced a Bharat Bandh for December 8 and threatened to block more roads leading to Delhi. All toll plazas will be occupied on that day, the unions have announced.As farmers have occupied Delhi borders, traffic in and around the city has been hit. Borders closedSinghu, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli borders. National Highway-44 is closed on both sides.Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed for all traffic. Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers.Chilla border on Noida link road and Ghazipur border on National Highway 24 are also closed.Alternative routes to go to HaryanaDhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri National Highway-8,Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leave-path-of-agitation-agriculture-minister-urges-farmers-ahead-of-december-8-bharat-bandh/story-D6z9Dz8095n2tmx5UIooaL.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: No headway yet, next meeting to be held on December 9||Even after four hours of consultation for the third time after the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests began, the farmers and the Centre could not reach a common ground on Saturday and the next meeting will be held on December 9, ANI reported. The proposed Bharat Bandh on December 8 will go on as announced, Bharatiya Kisan Union president Rakesh Tikait said. It has been learnt that the government side sought some more time to come up with some concrete proposals to which the farmers’ leaders agreed. Click here for live updates farmers’ protestsBefore the protests began on November 26, both the sides met twice to deliberate over the concerns. However, the meetings have recorded some developments as the farmers have accepted the government’s standpoint on minimum support price that MSPs won’t be done away with. The government has also agreed to proper registration of traders. But the discussion is hitting the wall as the farmers are now stern in their demand of a complete withdrawal of all the three laws. All eyes were on Saturday’s meeting as the farmers earlier said that this was the last chance and the government, on the other hand, assured that a solution will come out after Saturday’s meeting. The meeting assumed much importance as ahead of the meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi was briefed about the current situation. Earlier, Union home minister Amit Shah, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh discussed farmers’ issues. Coming out of the meeting, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the government will prepare a new draft and the future course of action will be decided on that. Meanwhile, the Bharat Bandh that the unions have called will be on track, he said. “Government will prepare a draft and give us. They said that they will consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws and talk about their roll-back. Bharat Bandh (on 8th Dec) will go on as announced,” Tikait said.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal, who is also in-charge of the food ministry, addressed Saturday’s meeting. Tomar requested senior citizens and children who are at various protesting sites to go home, as the talks between the two sides will be going on. The farmers maintained their stand throughout that they don’t want amendment as the laws, they said, have been designed to make government and corporates benefit, not the farmers. The leaders also said that they are well-equipped to go on with their protest. They will not indulge in any violence. “Intelligence Bureau will inform you what we are doing at the protest site. If the government wants us to stay on road, we have no problem,” a leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-no-breakthrough-yet-next-meeting-to-be-held-on-december-9/story-vey13iUMtYj22PWWxb9sUK.html
05-12-2020||Bollywood||Chitrangda Singh, accused of ‘copying opinions’ on farmers’ protest, gives a classy reply||Actor Chitrangda Singh, who has been vocal in her support of farmers and their massive protest against the contentious farm laws, gave a classy reply to a Twitter user who accused her of ‘copying opinions’ without knowing anything about the issue. She refuted the allegation and said that she has her own stand on the farmers’ protest. She also asked him to refrain from being sarcastic just because their opinions differ.On Friday, Chitrangda had written on Twitter, “We need to keep them feeling protected...might sound selfish but for our own needs. They feed us and work tirelessly with their sweat and blood. #respectfarmers.” She had added a hashtag - ‘farmers are lifeline’ - along with the tweet.“Having opinions us a great thing and copying opiinions without knowing for the sake of showing media solidarity is other,” a Twitter user with the handle @HighbrowNish wrote to Chitrangda. She replied, “Believe me sir for something so basic so obvious I don’t need to copy opinions I do happen to have one of my own .. n u don’t need to use sarcasm just cuz my opinion is different than yours #FarmersFeedUs #FarmersAreNotTerrorists #FarmersAreLifeLine.”Also read | ‘Ignore Kangana Ranaut, she is crazy’: Mika Singh slams her for picking on ‘soft targets’ like Karan Johar, warns ‘puttar iss taraf mat aao’Chitrangda was recently in Kolkata, shooting for her upcoming film, Bob Biswas. The film stars Abhishek Bachchan as a contract killer and is a spin-off of Sujoy Ghosh’s hit Kahaani.Talking about returning to the set after eight months, Chitrangda had said, “It really felt good to be back on the sets after a gap of eight months. I’m glad to be back. We’ve been following all the necessary precautions and maintaining social distancing because the virus is still there and we all need to be careful. It does feel a bit different with only limited people allowed on sets now, but that is how the new normal is and slowly everyone will get used to it.”Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/chitrangda-singh-accused-of-copying-opinions-on-farmers-protest-gives-a-classy-reply/story-38fLURzyZl5eOigoeHHmmI.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||As farmers’ agitation continues, here are the routes to avoid to and from Delhi||Several roads and borders in and around Delhi continued to be choked on Saturday as farmers protesting the three agricultural laws enacted by the government refused to budge and demanded the legislation be withdrawn.As the farmers continue their protests, Delhi Traffic Police, in a series of tweets, informed commuters about the routes that have been closed due to the demonstrations and also about the ones that can be taken instead.Here are the routes you must avoid or take according to Delhi traffic police in the past one hour:1. Traffic movement is closed on Chilla Border (both carriageway) due to farmers’ protest. Traffic has been diverted from Crown Plaza Chowk and Akshardham.2. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. Avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road, NH 44.3. Singhu, Auchandi, Lemuria Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed on both sides. People can opt to take alternate routes via Safiabad, Saboli, NH8/Bhopra /Apsara borders /Peripheral expressway.4. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic. Other borders which are open from Delhi towards Haryana are Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.5. Tikri, Jharoda Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Badusarai Border is open only for Light Motor Vehicle like Cars and two-wheelers.6. The Ghazipur border on NH 24 is closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to avoid NH 24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/DND for coming to Delhi.7. The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers’ protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida Link Road for coming to Delhi and use DND.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-farmers-agitation-continues-here-are-the-routes-to-avoid-to-and-from-delhi/story-hZJjUHgLat3uEobOsh9bjK.html
05-12-2020||World||36 British MPs back farmers’ protest, want UK to raise issue with India||Thirty-six British MPs from various parties - including some of Indian origin and others representing many constituents with links in Punjab – have written to British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, asking him to raise the issue of farmers’ agitation with the Narendra Modi government.Coordinated by Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, the letter seeks an urgent meeting with Raab and an update on representations the foreign office may have made with India on the issue, including during the recent London visit by foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla.Signatories to the letter include MPs from Labour, Conservative and Scottish National Party, including former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, Virendra Sharma, Seema Malhotra, Valerie Vaz, Nadia Whittome, Peter Bottomley, John McDonnell, Martin Docherty-Hughes and Alison Thewliss.The letter says: “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikhs in the UK and those linked to the Punjab, although it also heavily impacts on other Indian states. Many British Sikhs and Punjabis have taken this matter up with their MPs, as they (are) directly affected with family members and ancestral land in the Punjab”.Stating that several MPs had recently written to the Indian high commission about the impact of India’s three farm laws, the letter alleges that they fail “to protect farmers from exploitation and to ensure fair prices for their produce”.British MPs have also been commenting on the farmers’ agitation on the social media in recent days. Also Read: ‘Canada has scarce interest in the well-being of Indian farmers’, opposes MSP at WTO: BJPPreet Kaur Gill, Labour MP from Birmingham Edgbaston and chair of the All Party Parliamentary Party for British Sikhs, reacted to images of protests from Delhi: “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial Farmers Bill in India”.Also Read: ‘Last day of discussion’: Farmers ahead of talks with Centre on farm laws“Shocking scenes from Delhi. Farmers are peacefully protesting over controversial bills that will impact their livelihoods. Water cannons, and tear gas, are being used to silence them”, she added on Twitter.Dhesi posted images from the protests and said: “It takes a special kind of people to feed those ordered to beat and suppress them. I stand with farmers of the #Punjab and other parts of #India, including our family and friends, who are peacefully protesting against the encroaching privatization of #FarmersBill2020”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/36-british-mps-back-farmers-protest-want-uk-to-raise-issue-with-india/story-tyXApoXTtKJyIkXEcDdUVP.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers protest Live Updates: Doubts on MSP baseless, ready to resolve every suspicion, says Centre||The fifth round of talks between the protesting farm union leaders and government to bring a solution to the deadlock over the new farm laws is going on at Vigyan Bhawan.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence in New Delhi hours ahead of the talks between the government and protesting farmers over the contentious farm laws.Four rounds of negotiations, conducted between three Union ministers and farmers’ representatives, have so far failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.The Centre has agreed to review the recently enacted legislation and bring amendments if required to address the farmers’ demands. The farmers, however, said that they did not want amendments to the new laws but want them rolled back entirely.Follow live updates here:Tomar requests farmers to stop protesting in cold weatherI want to request protesting farmers to give up their movement so that they don't face inconvenience in this cold weather & citizens of Delhi can also live a life of convenience: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar after 5th round of talks at Vigyan Bhawan today https://t.co/nn1gRw7joB pic.twitter.com/sXBb1d83olUnion minister Tomar urges farmers’ union to have faith in Modi govt’s decisionUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar after the fifth round of talks with the farmers’ union leaders asked them to have faith in the Modi govt. He thanked the farmers’ union for maintaining discipline and said whatever the govt will do, it will be in the interest of the farmers. Farmers’ leader hopeful govt will repeal lawsWe said at the beginning of meeting that our demand is withdrawal of laws, don't want amendment. We took a firm stand. Finally we were told that next meeting will be held on Dec 9. It seems govt will definitely roll back the laws: Hannan Mollah, General Secy,All India Kisan Sabha pic.twitter.com/vNCJCagTJjUnion minister Tomar urges farmers to leave agitation, join discussionI’d not like to comment on program of Unions. But I’d like to urge farmers & Unions to leave path of agitation and come to path of discussion. Government has had several rounds of talks with them and is ready for further discussion for a solution, said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Bharat Bandh scheduled for Dec 8, reports ANI.Doubts on MSP baseless, ready to resolve every suspicion, says CentreWe have said that the MSP will continue, there is no threat to it. It is baseless to doubt this. Still, if someone is suspicious then the government is ready to resolve it, said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, reports ANI. Bharat Bandh on Dec 8 to go on as announced, says farmers’ union leaderGovt will prepare a draft and give us. They said that they’ll consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws & talk about their roll back. Bharat Bandh (on 8th Dec) will go on as announced, said Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union, reports ANI.Farmers’ leaders say will hold internal discussion on govt proposal before Dec 9Central Government has said that they will send us a proposal on December 9th. We will discuss it amongst ourselves after which a meeting with them will be held that day: Farmer leaders say after the fifth round of meeting with Central Government concludes#FarmLaws2020 pic.twitter.com/GidiFmEDYXNext talk of rounds between centre, farmers’ leaders on Dec 9It was decided at the meeting that the next round of talks between farmer leaders and central government to be held on December 9th, on the request of all stakeholders reports ANI. We do not want corporate farming, law to benefit only govt: Farmers’ leadersFarmers’ leaders during the fifth round of talks said, “We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer.”  We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer: Farmers to the centre, at the fifth round of talks over farm laws https://t.co/P412cKXOXeUnion minister Tomar appeals farmers’ leaders to send children,senior citizens homeAgriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar requests the farmer leaders during the fifth round of talks to send senior citizens and children home. He said, “Iappeal to all of you to kindly ask senior citizens and children, at the protest site, to go home.”, reports ANI.Farmers from Bilaspur, Uttarakhand reach Delhi borders to join protestFarmers from Bilaspur, Uttarakhand reach Ghazipur border (UP-Delhi border) & join protesting farmers stationed at Delhi-Meerut Expressway, reports ANI.Farmers’ leaders threaten to walk out of meeting if Centre fails to decide on demands raised‘The government should make a decision on our demands, otherwise, we are walking out of the meeting’, say farmer leaders participating in the fifth round of talks with the Central Government, at Vigyan Bhavan in Delhi, reports ANI. Why can’t our parliament discuss issue if Canada’s parliament can: farmers’ representativeIf Canada’s parliament can discuss the issue, why can’t our parliament do it, asks Kulwant Singh Sandhu, General Secy, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Punjab on Canadian MPs raising the issue relating to the farmers protest in the Parliament post which the Canadian PM wrote a letter to the government of India. Farmers’ leaders have lunch carried by them to the fifth round of talks venue#WATCH Delhi: Farmer leaders, present at the fifth round of talks with Central Government, have food that they had carried to the venue. A Kar Sewa vehicle that carried food for them arrived here earlier today. They'd got their own food even during 4th round of talks on Dec 3. https://t.co/hDP8cwzSGJ pic.twitter.com/XSR6m2lljSGovt gives written reply of minutes of meeting to farmers’ leadersThe government has given written response of the minutes of the meeting to the farmers’ leaders. The fifth round of talks has been paused for a 15-minute break, reports ANI. Farmers’ leaders ask centre its decision over farmers’ demandsFarmers’ union leaders during the fifth round of talks with the centre at the Vigyan Bhawan said they don’t want further discussion and instead just need a solution or commitment. They want to know what the government has decided on the demands of the farmers.Union minister Tomar tells farmers’ unions Centre committed to talksUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar tells farmers’ unions Centre committed to talks, welcomes feedback on farm bills, reports PTI.Farmers’ representatives bring their own food to fifth round of talks at Vigyan Bhawan Delhi: A Kar Sewa vehicle carrying food for Farmers' representatives arrives at Vigyan Bhawan during 5th round of talks between Farmers Unions & Centre.Farmers are carrying their own food at the venue today. They'd got their own food even during the 4th round of talks on Dec 3. https://t.co/EzZgHcoHTr pic.twitter.com/dKDreXetkyGovt agrees to give written reply of last talks on farm laws as per farmers’ leaders demand Farmers’ representatives during the fifth round of talks regarding the farm laws asked the centre to provide a pointwise comprehensive written reply of the last meeting, the government has agreed to do so. Fifth round of meeting at Vigyan Bhawan between farmers’ leaders, Centre begins New Delhi: Fifth round of meeting between farmers' representatives and the Central government begins at Vigyan Bhawan. pic.twitter.com/L4u2LaTi1rProtest to continue until laws rolled back, says farmers’ leaderWe want to complete rollback of the laws. If the government doesn’t accept our demand, we will continue our agitation, said Harjinder Singh Tanda, state chief of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, reports ANI. Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with agitating farmersUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with agitating farmers.Farmers’ representatives reach Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talks Farmers’ representatives reach Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talks with the Central government on the farm laws.AAP workers in Mumbai protest against Centre’s farm billAam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers in Mumbai protest against Union government over farm bill and in solidarity with farmers protesting in Delhi.Rashtriya Janata Dal holds protest at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan against the Centre’s farm lawsRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) holds protest at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan against the Centre’s farm laws.RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav says, “We demand that the Centre repeals the black laws.”Farmers’ leaders leave from Singhu border for Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talksFarmers’ leaders leave from Singhu border for Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talks with the Central government on the farm laws.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh leaves from the Prime Minister’s residenceDefence Minister Rajnath Singh leaves from the Prime Minister’s residence.Farmers’ doubts will be cleared in today’s meeting with Centre: Kailash ChoudharyFarmers’ doubts will be cleared in today’s meeting with Centre. In recent meetings, some issues were clarified. It’s Opposition’s politics, they’re instigating the protest. The meeting will be fruitful & we expect farmers will roll back protest: MoS Agriculture, Kailash ChoudharyWe are hoping today’s meeting with central leadership will be positive: Protestor Farmers protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground against recent farm laws enters 10th day.“We’re hoping today’s meeting with central leadership will be positive. We won’t stop until govt agrees to our demands. We’ll make the movement bigger,” says a protestor.Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Narendra Singh Tomar reach PM Modi’s residence in New DelhiAhead of the fifth round of meeting with agitating farmers, Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Narendra Singh Tomar reach PM Narendra Modi’s residence in New Delhi. Union Minister Piyush Goyal also reaches the Prime Minister’s residence.Government should announce to withdraw the three black laws: Kisan Mahapanchayat presidentThe government should announce to withdraw the three black laws and give in writing that MSP will continue. If any positive result doesn’t come out of today’s talks, farmers from Rajasthan will march along NH-8 towards Delhi and camp at Jantar Mantar: Rampal Jat, president, Kisan Mahapanchayat.Hopeful that farmers will think positively and end their agitation: Narendra Singh TomarA meeting is scheduled with farmers at 2 pm today. I am very hopeful that farmers will think positively and end their agitation: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee prepares food for protesting farmersDelhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) prepares food for the farmers protesting at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana). A volunteer says, “We are providing meals three times a day.”Delhi: Farmers continue to hold a sit-in protest at Chilla border Farmers continue to hold a sit-in protest at Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) against the Centre’s farm laws.A farmer says, “If anything concrete doesn’t happen in today’s meeting with the Central government then we will gherao the Parliament.”Gazipur border (UP-Delhi border) on NH-24 is closed for traffic Gazipur border (UP-Delhi border) on NH-24 is closed for traffic from Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests: Delhi Traffic Police5th round of talks between farmers, Centre to be held todayThe fifth round of talks between the central government and farmers is scheduled to be held today.A large number of farmers have gathered in and around Delhi to protest against the three farm laws.Delegation of JJP leaders met Anil Vij and sought withdrawal of cases against farmers during protest A delegation of Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leaders met Home Minister Anil Vij seeking withdrawal of cases against farmers during protest.Digvijay Chautala said, “Home Minister has assured us that he will look into the matter and discuss the issue with Chief Minister”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-ltkccHCImhMfOKRuFSt9BO.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Will bring a no-trust motion against govt for failing farmers’, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda spoke to Hindustan Times about the ongoing farm agitation and his demand of bringing a no-confidence motion against the state government in the assembly. Edited excerpts: Before this, there were just the Agricultural Produce Market Committe (APMC) markets. Now there are two -- APMC market committee yards, and open market. The government may insist it will continue to give minimum support prices (MSP), but outside APMC, there is no MSP. This is the main concern of farmers. In August 2007, my government made rules under the APMC Act that no one could purchase less than the MSP prices. For crops which are outside MSP, it could be at prevailing market rate. This is the main concern of farmers.The government should just agree. It is a genuine demand and apprehension that they (farmers) may be exploited by corporates. When the crops come, the rates will be cheap, as there may be hoarding. There is no limit for hoarding now, even for essential commodities. If they are free to hoard, prices will rise according to demand and supply. I think it needs a fourth law that anyone who purchases less than MSP should be punished by law. That is not true. Even in other states, farmers are protesting as they are worried about MSP. They are coming to protest from Rajasthan, from western UP, and no political parties are participating in it. Farmers are leading the protests, but we support their demand. That’s why the Congress is asking the Governor to call an urgent assembly session. We will be bringing in a no-confidence motion against this government as this government has totally failed to handle this situation. They are not even supporting people coming to Delhi. They have no right to stop them from coming to the Capital of the country. During this corona period, for them to use water cannons or tear gas on farmers, that isn’t correct. One of the Haryana ministers said the protests are foreign funded. This is an insult to farmers and the country. That’s why we are planning to bring no-confidence vote. We want to expose their double talk - on one hand supporting the government and on the other, they are issuing statements for farmers. The two independent MLAs have already withdrawn support from the government, so the government has lost the confidence of the assembly.No. There are other MLAs also feeling upset, and they talk, but no conversation with Mr Chautala. When this government was formed in Haryana, I said ‘vote kisi ko, support kisi ko (that means vote for someone, support to someone else)’. That has come true now.That was a type of referendum against the state government. That’s why I say that the government has lost credibility.I don’t discuss internal matters of the party in public or the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-bring-a-no-trust-motion-against-govt-for-failing-farmers-says-bhupinder-singh-hooda/story-jydgjjZedVuTSrdtUxxvAO.html
05-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers call for Bharat Bandh; key talks today||Farmers agitating against three farm laws on Friday announced a nationwide strike, or Bharat Bandh, on December 8 where they said they will block all toll plazas and roads leading to Delhi as they hardened their position ahead of the fifth round of talks with the central government scheduled for Saturday.Four rounds of negotiations, conducted between three Union ministers and farmers’ representatives, have so far failed to break the deadlock between the two sides as thousands of cultivators continued their stir just outside Delhi’s borders for the eight straight day. On Thursday, the Centre had agreed to review the recently enacted legislation and “bring amendments” if required to address the farmers’ demands. The farmers, however, have stuck to their stand and said that they did not want amendments to the new laws but want them rolled back entirely.Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chadoni said on Friday that if the Centre does not accept their demands during fifth meeting on Saturday, they will further intensify their agitation.“In our meeting today, we have decided to give a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on December 8 during which we will also occupy all toll plazas,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union, one of the groups involved in the talks. “We have planned to block all roads leading to Delhi in the coming days if new farm laws are not scrapped,” he said, addressing a press conference at Singhu border that connects Delhi and Haryana.“Yesterday (Thursday), we told the government that the farm laws should be withdrawn,” he told reporters, adding that the farmers will burn effigies of the government and corporate houses on December 5, and that sportspersons will return their medals in solidarity with the farmers on December 7. However, he did not divulge the details of sportspersons who would be returning their medals. The call for the Bharat Bandh was supported by various other farmers’ organisations. Hannan Mollah, general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “We need to take this protest forward.”The government, meanwhile, insisted that it was approaching the issue with an “open mind”. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said after the talks that the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind. “The government will discuss points that emerged at the meeting on Friday and hopes that talks will move towards finality when the next round of discussions is held on Saturday,” Tomar had said.Thursday’s talks were led by Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash, a lawmaker from Punjab, while representatives of some of the biggest farmers unions in the country, mainly from Punjab, spoke for the farmers.Tens of thousands of farmers were out on the streets around Delhi again on Friday, forcing police to shut a majority of roads connecting the Capital from neighbouring satellite towns such as Gurugram and Noida.While the farmers want the three farm laws approved by Parliament in September to be revoked, the government has leaned on its new reform agenda to raise farm incomes and spur investments in the sector. The recent laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming.Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-key-talks-today/story-dz93LBwHY3yeskYiZnSgJO.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Will stay put, join R-Day in tractors, say protesting farmers||Reiterating their stance that they will not settle for anything but a complete rollback of the three new laws that seek to open up farm trade, farmers protesting on the Ghazipur border said they will stay put and participate in the Republic Day parade on their tractors in Delhi, if their demands are not met. Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said, “Since talks with the government have not yielded any results so far, we are going to camp at the border at least till January 26.” “We have enough ration to camp here till January end. If the situation remains the same, we have planned to march up to the India Gate in our tractors to participate in the [Republic Day] parade. We want the country to see the real farmers,” said Tikait.He added, they will cross the border and March towards Delhi on the night of January 25. “We will respond if the government tries to stop by force.”Thousands of farmers are sitting in protest against the new farm laws on four borders of Delhi --- Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur. Their representatives have held two rounds of talks with the Centre so far, with the third round scheduled for Saturday. On Thursday, farmer leaders had said that they were hopeful of a resolution but will not settle for anything less than the complete revocation of the new laws enacted by the Parliament in September. Mangeram Tyagi, chief secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (NCR Unit), said the ball is in the Centre’s court. “It depends on the government for how long we will stay here”. “We are not going to move an inch unless our demands are met. We have been staying here for the past one week, we are strong enough to spend months,” Tyagi said.At Ghazipur, farmers have deployed a volunteer group of 50-60, who are going around the protest venue and registering the names, addresses and contact numbers of the protesters to keep an eye on what they claim were “anti-social elements, who were coming to the protests to disrupt the movement”. A senior police officer deployed at Ghazipur said the security forces are ready to handle any situation. Even as some groups of farmers who had joined the protest in Ghaziabad from Hapur, Bulandshahr, Meerut and Moradabad returned on Friday, a large group of protesters were still camping at the site. Meanwhile, traffic towards Delhi from Haryana and UP continued to be diverted, causing jams on the border points and on the nearby roads. However, the situation was relatively better on Friday as the motorists were aware about the closure of the borders and diversions.Like the last three days, when at least two more borders connecting Delhi to Noida and Ghaziabad, were partially closed, no new blockage was reported on Friday at any border. Gagan Chawla, 41, an IT professional who travelled from Noida to Delhi and back, said due to closure of Chila border the available routes witnessed heavy traffic. “I heard it was even worse on Thursday. However, on the way back to Noida, traffic is relatively smoother,” he said.Vipul Garg, who was travelling from Ghaziabad to Delhi also said traffic on Friday was relatively better than Thursday. “Yesterday, I had to take alternative routes to reach Delhi via Apsara border but today since I was aware I avoided traffic jams,” said Garg, a businessman. The Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road), which was closed completely for at least 22 hours between Tuesday and Wednesday, was partially opened on Thursday. Even on Friday, one carriageway connecting Noida from Delhi remained open while the opposite carriageway towards Delhi was closed. The police diverted the traffic towards DND, Kalindi Kunj, Dallupura, Khoda, New Ashok Nagar, and Kondli. Although heavy traffic was witnessed in the morning and evening hours on Friday, the situation was slightly better than what it was on Thursday.Delhi police issued advisories regarding diversions and road blockages. Anil Mittal, additional spokesperson, Delhi police, said in an advisory, the Chilla border on Noida Link Road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. “People are advised to avoid Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use DND,” Mittal said.He added, due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, Ghazipur Border on NH 24 and NH 9 are also closed for traffic from UP to Delhi. “People are advised to avoid NH 24 and use Apsara/Bhopura/DND flyover to enter Delhi,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-say-ready-to-wait-till-january-join-r-day-parade-in-tractors/story-vjjKJW3qmwPP3SIVwD7eTO.html
05-12-2020||India||Farm leaders hopeful govt will repeal laws but will continue with Bharat Bandh||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the Bharat Bandh announced on December 8 will go as planned despite repeated assurances from the Centre regarding resolving issues concerning the farm bills.“The government will prepare a draft and give (it to) us. They said that they’ll consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws and talk about their roll back. Bharat Bandh will go on as announced,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmer leaders earlier on Saturday said that they do not have any qualms when it comes to staying put on roads and said that they will continue to hold agitations if the government does not listen to their demands. A farm leader told ANI, “We’ve material with us to last a year, we’ve been on (the) road for the past several days. If the government wants us to stay on the road, we’ve no problem.”Farmer leaders are hopeful that the government will repeal the newly introduced farm laws and are firm that they do not seek any amendments. Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said, “We said at the beginning of the meeting that our demand is the withdrawal of laws, don’t want amendment. We took a firm stand. Finally, we were told that the next meeting will be held on December 9. It seems govt will definitely roll back the laws.”The fifth round of talks over the three bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill - between farmers and the union government remained inconclusive. Farmers fear that these will pave the way for private players to enter the market and affect MSP procurement.Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar who along with Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash attended the meet tried to alleviate the concerns raised regarding MSP and said that the system will not be affected and called the doubts baseless. The Centre has said that it will resolve every query and strengthen APMCs if needed in order to address the concerns raised by farm leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-leaders-hopeful-govt-will-repeal-laws-but-will-continue-with-bharat-bandh/story-TyvOoZLRf4LCfOdew1ZJYP.html
05-12-2020||India||Traders down shutters, feel the heat as Delhi border blockade continues||As thousands of farmers continued to camp on Delhi’s borders demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws passed in September, traders and shopkeepers around the protest sites have expressed concerns over the mounting losses and said the government should intervene to resolve the impasse at the earliest. Rampal, a motor mechanic whose workshop is located next to the protest site at the Singhu border, said he has been working on machines he got before the protests began and his new customers are only the farmers. “I have decided not to take any money from them. In fact, I leave my shop open through the night and go home so that if any farmer needs to use the tools, they do not have to return disappointed,” he said. Ajeet, who sells snacks and soft drinks at the Singhu border, said his daily business has shrunk to Rs 2,000-3,000 from Rs 10-15,000. “If this continues for long, how will we pay the rent this month? The farmers are protesting for their cause and we should not bear the brunt. The government should immediately break this deadlock,” he said. Most businesses around Rampal’s workshop and Ajeet’s shop have remained closed for days. These include banks, alcohol shops, offices of property dealers, restaurants and outlets that do not cater to the farmers. Shyam Singh, the chief caretaker of Cost To Cost, an outlet selling branded clothes and electronic goods, said that most employees have been sent on leave. The outlet has placed a large hoarding outside its gates to ensure outsiders do not get a view of the premises. “We live in constant fear of the protests turning violent, but fortunately nothing has happened after the first day,” he said. Among businesses that have remained open are primarily small eateries and those catering to farmers’ needs. The scene is quite similar at the Tikri border. There are six fuel stations around the protest site and though they have remained open, there are hardly any sales. Neeraj Verma, an employee at a petrol pump in Tikri, said the only customers he receives are farmers themselves or local motorcyclists managing to find their way to the station. A showroom of Maruti Suzuki has remained closed since day one of the protests. “Cars have been promised to customers but they are not able to take delivery,” said Bhupender Negi, a cashier at the showroom. Near the Tikri protest site is the busy Hira Market. Shops in one row are in Delhi and those on the opposite side are in Haryana. Businesses on both sides have suffered. Tarun Gupta, a grocery wholesaler, said he had just begun recovering from the losses incurred during the Covid-19 lockdown when his business was jolted again. “We hear that farmers intend to stay here for months. We will be destroyed. My business is just 10% of what it was before the protests,” said Gupta. Right across his shop, a garments store is getting customers—mostly farmers. “Earlier we would get customers travelling on the highway. Now, only those on motorcycles or on foot are able to access our shop. People are worried about venturing into this market,” said Rahul Mishra, an employee at the store. “When we fell short of essential items, these shopkeepers stood for us. We wish our protest did not harm these businesses, but the government would not agree to our demands otherwise,” said Hardeep Singh, a farmer. He said he would take back some clothes home as “mementos”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traders-down-shutters-feel-the-heat-as-delhi-border-blockade-continues/story-N8wmLH4FjrE1nu8P5RsaHI.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Will stay put, join R-Day in tractors, say protesting farmers||Reiterating their stance that they will not settle for anything but a complete rollback of the three new laws that seek to open up farm trade, farmers protesting on the Ghazipur border said they will stay put and participate in the Republic Day parade on their tractors in Delhi, if their demands are not met. Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said, “Since talks with the government have not yielded any results so far, we are going to camp at the border at least till January 26.” “We have enough ration to camp here till January end. If the situation remains the same, we have planned to march up to the India Gate in our tractors to participate in the [Republic Day] parade. We want the country to see the real farmers,” said Tikait.He added, they will cross the border and March towards Delhi on the night of January 25. “We will respond if the government tries to stop by force.”Thousands of farmers are sitting in protest against the new farm laws on four borders of Delhi --- Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur. Their representatives have held two rounds of talks with the Centre so far, with the third round scheduled for Saturday. On Thursday, farmer leaders had said that they were hopeful of a resolution but will not settle for anything less than the complete revocation of the new laws enacted by the Parliament in September. Mangeram Tyagi, chief secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (NCR Unit), said the ball is in the Centre’s court. “It depends on the government for how long we will stay here”. “We are not going to move an inch unless our demands are met. We have been staying here for the past one week, we are strong enough to spend months,” Tyagi said.At Ghazipur, farmers have deployed a volunteer group of 50-60, who are going around the protest venue and registering the names, addresses and contact numbers of the protesters to keep an eye on what they claim were “anti-social elements, who were coming to the protests to disrupt the movement”. A senior police officer deployed at Ghazipur said the security forces are ready to handle any situation. Even as some groups of farmers who had joined the protest in Ghaziabad from Hapur, Bulandshahr, Meerut and Moradabad returned on Friday, a large group of protesters were still camping at the site. Meanwhile, traffic towards Delhi from Haryana and UP continued to be diverted, causing jams on the border points and on the nearby roads. However, the situation was relatively better on Friday as the motorists were aware about the closure of the borders and diversions.Like the last three days, when at least two more borders connecting Delhi to Noida and Ghaziabad, were partially closed, no new blockage was reported on Friday at any border. Gagan Chawla, 41, an IT professional who travelled from Noida to Delhi and back, said due to closure of Chila border the available routes witnessed heavy traffic. “I heard it was even worse on Thursday. However, on the way back to Noida, traffic is relatively smoother,” he said.Vipul Garg, who was travelling from Ghaziabad to Delhi also said traffic on Friday was relatively better than Thursday. “Yesterday, I had to take alternative routes to reach Delhi via Apsara border but today since I was aware I avoided traffic jams,” said Garg, a businessman. The Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road), which was closed completely for at least 22 hours between Tuesday and Wednesday, was partially opened on Thursday. Even on Friday, one carriageway connecting Noida from Delhi remained open while the opposite carriageway towards Delhi was closed. The police diverted the traffic towards DND, Kalindi Kunj, Dallupura, Khoda, New Ashok Nagar, and Kondli. Although heavy traffic was witnessed in the morning and evening hours on Friday, the situation was slightly better than what it was on Thursday.Delhi police issued advisories regarding diversions and road blockages. Anil Mittal, additional spokesperson, Delhi police, said in an advisory, the Chilla border on Noida Link Road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. “People are advised to avoid Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use DND,” Mittal said.He added, due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, Ghazipur Border on NH 24 and NH 9 are also closed for traffic from UP to Delhi. “People are advised to avoid NH 24 and use Apsara/Bhopura/DND flyover to enter Delhi,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-say-ready-to-wait-till-january-join-r-day-parade-in-tractors/story-vjjKJW3qmwPP3SIVwD7eTO.html
05-12-2020||World||Farmers’ protest in India: UK refuses to take stand on 36 MPs seeking intervention||The UK government on Saturday refused to be drawn into the farmers’ protest in India, hours after 36 British MPs asked foreign secretary Dominic Raab in a letter to raise the issue with the Indian government.A foreign office spokesperson said, “The police handling of protests are a matter for the government of India.”The 36 MPs from various parties - including some of Indian origin and others representing many constituents with links in Punjab - sought an urgent meeting with Raab and an update on representations the foreign office may have made on the issue, including during the recent visit to London of foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla.UK foreign office officials said on condition of anonymity that Raab’s office had not yet received the letter, which has been coordinated by Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi and circulated on social media. Signatories to the letter include MPs from Labour, Conservative, Liberal Democrats and Scottish National Party, including former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, Virendra Sharma, Seema Malhotra, Valerie Vaz, Nadia Whittome, Peter Bottomley, John McDonnell, Martin Docherty-Hughes and Alison Thewliss.The letter says, “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikhs in the UK and those linked to Punjab, although it also heavily impacts other Indian states. Many British Sikhs and Punjabis have taken this matter up with their MPs, as they are directly affected, with family members and ancestral land in Punjab.”Stating that several MPs had recently written to the Indian high commission about the impact of India’s three farm laws, the letter alleges that they fail “to protect farmers from exploitation and to ensure fair prices for their produce”.British MPs have also been commenting on the farmers agitation on social media in recent days.Preet Kaur Gill, Labour MP from Birmingham Edgbaston and chair of the All Party Parliamentary Party for British Sikhs, reacted to images of protests from New Delhi, saying, “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial farmers’ bills in India.”“Shocking scenes from Delhi. Farmers are peacefully protesting over controversial bills that will impact their livelihoods. Water cannons and tear gas, are being used to silence them,” she tweeted.Dhesi posted images from the protests and said, “It takes a special kind of people to feed those ordered to beat and suppress them. I stand with farmers of #Punjab and other parts of #India, including our family and friends, who are peacefully protesting against the encroaching privatisation of #FarmersBill2020.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/farmers-protest-in-india-uk-refuses-to-take-stand-on-36-mps-seeking-intervention/story-FJyuJKDfgxAlYgyACkb8xL.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Last day of discussion’: Farmers ahead of talks with Centre on farm laws||Farm union leaders and the government will meet for the fifth round of talks on Saturday to resolve the deadlock over the three new legislation enacted earlier this year. Delhi’s border points remained choked as thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and other states are holding demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal are meeting at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence in New Delhi Hours ahead of the talks between the government and protesting farmers over the contentious farm laws. The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Here’s what farmers and their leaders have said so far on the issue:1. “The government has just been issuing dates. All the organisations have unanimously decided that today is the last day for discussion,” a protesting farmer said.2. Farmer leader Rampal Jat, president of Kisan Mahapanchayat, said that if Saturday’s talks are not concluded on a positive note, farmers from Rajasthan will march along National Highway-8 towards Delhi and camp at Jantar Mantar. “The government should announce to withdraw the three black laws and give in writing that minimum support price will continue. If any positive result doesn’t come out of today’s talks, farmers from Rajasthan will march along NH-8 towards Delhi and camp at Jantar Mantar,” said Jat.3. A protester said they are hoping Saturday’s meeting with the government will be positive. “We won’t stop until the government agrees to our demands. We will make the movement bigger,” he added.4. “If anything concrete doesn’t happen in today’s meeting with the central government then we will gherao Parliament,” another farmer said.5. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) general secretary Harvinder Singh Lakhwal has called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 if the government does not withdraw contentious farm laws, enacted in September. “We have planned to block all roads leading to Delhi in the coming days if new farm laws are not scrapped,” said Lakhwal. “Yesterday (Thursday), we told the Government that the farm laws should be withdrawn. On December 5, effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be burnt across the country,” news agency ANI quoted Ladkhwal as saying. “We have given a call for Bharat Bandh on December 8,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-day-of-discussion-farmers-ahead-of-talks-with-centre-on-farm-laws/story-DeF5H2eOP5Ow1iDdP0z4JL.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers blocking essential services, increasing Covid-19 threat, says petition before SC||A public interest petition before the Supreme Court on Friday has sought the immediate removal or dispersal of farmers gathered at Delhi borders in order to ease the movement of traffic and prevent a possible spread of Covid-19 among protesters, as the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws entered its ninth day on Friday.The petition, filed by law student Rishabh Sharma, also cited the October 7 judgment of the Supreme Court, on the months-long protest at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh against the amended citizenship rules, in which the apex court had said that while the right to protest and dissent against governments is a fundamental right, it is not an absolute one and public places cannot be occupied indefinitely to stage protests. The court had also held that such protests ought to take place in designated areas and not on public roads.Sharma pointed out that despite farmers being allotted the Nirankari grounds in central Delhi’s Burari to peacefully protest, lakhs of farmers were still gathered at the borders of the capital city, blocking traffic along arterial roads connecting the city with the National Capital Region.“This protest is causing lot of trouble to the citizens of India,” the petition stated and demanded the opening of the borders and a direction to protesters to move to the designated place.Sharma also said such massive gatherings have the potential to become Covid-19 hot spots besides blocking essential medical and emergency services. “The protest is blocking the roads for all the emergency/medical services which are very much required to be supplied within the territory of Delhi in order to stop the spread of coronavirus as the cases of coronavirus are increasing rapidly in Delhi,” stated the petition filed through advocate Om Prakash Parihar.The petition also expressed concern over the health of elderly farmers protesting at the border points. “The coronavirus is affecting mainly elderly people and the protest at Delhi border is mostly consisting of elderly men and women. The petitioner is seeking urgent direction to shift them (protesting farmers) to the place already allotted by the Delhi police in view of immediate threat of coronavirus infection and spread.”Security personnel continued to remain deployed at Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur border points. Several routes in and around the capital are closed on Friday and vehicles are re-routed wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-blocking-essential-services-increasing-covid-19-threat-says-petition-before-sc/story-LsYvCDHGBlgOWoJfepUbMN.html
