06-12-2020||India||Opposition parties back Bharat Bandh, Sharad Pawar to meet President on December 9 | 10 points||The ongoing protest by the farmers against the three farm bills went from strength to strength on Sunday as several political parties, including the Congress, Shiv Sena, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, extended support to the nationwide strike on December 8, a day before the next round of talks are held between the two parties. The protest, which entered its 11th day on Sunday, has so far been limited within Punjab, Haryana, Delhi. But with more farmers marching towards Delhi, and farmers’ unions of other states, trade, transport, bank unions extending their support to the protest, the impact of the nationwide strike will be felt far and wide.Here are the top 10 updates of the protest:1. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK chief M K Stalin and PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah also issued a joint statement backing the proposed day-long strike. The Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena, TRS, DMK, SP, AAP, Trinamool Congress, RJD, JJM and the Left parties have supported the strike. देश के आन-बान-शान हैं हमारे मेहनती किसान।देश के मालिक को मजदूर बनाने के केंद्र सरकार के षड्यंत्र के खिलाफ़ झारखण्ड में भी होगा उलगुलान।किसान अन्नदाताओं के पक्ष में झारखण्ड मुक्ति मोर्चा परिवार 8 दिसंबर को भारत बंद का पूर्ण समर्थन करता है।2. Not only opposition parties, NDA allies also came forward to support the farmers. The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) supported the bandh call. Another BJP ally that has supported the protest is Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) which however refrianed from joining hands for the nationwide shutdown.3. NCP chief and former union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9.  Meanwhile, a letter written by Pawar in 2010 to then Dekhi CM Shiela Dikshit surfaced on social media in which Pawar, as the agriculture minister, had urged the CMs to amend the APMC Act in their states to allow private sector. 2010:@PawarSpeaks Ji,in UPA wrote to CMs in Aug'10 to undertake APMC reforms to encourage participation of pvt sector2011:Pawar Ji writes again to all CMs in Nov'11 about need for APMC reforms2020:Pawar Ji says his party will oppose farm laws #किसान_नहीं_कांग्रेस_परेशान_है pic.twitter.com/NR3nIC8Qxu4. BJP general secretary BL Santosh shared an old newspaper article on Twitter which claimed farmers wanted coporators to procure wheat. Hitting out at the protesting farmers, he wrote, “This was in 2008 . Farmers of Punjab & Haryana demanding allowing of corporates in agri marketing . Just understand the duplicity of the same unions now.” This was in 2008 . Farmers of Punjab & Haryana demanding allowing of corporates in agri marketing . Just understand the duplicity of the same unions now . #FarmersWithModi pic.twitter.com/J8axVbOkba5. India’s first Olympic medallist in boxing and party leader Vijender Singh threatened to return his Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award if the central government does not withdraw the farm laws. 6. Actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) also extended support to the protest by farmers. A 10-member team will reach Delhi on Monday to meet the farmers.7. Minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhury said on Sunday that the laws will not be repealed. Amendments can be made if necessary, he said. 8. With protests being intensified, Delhi’s Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh borders remained closed o Sunday. 9. Sunny Deol, BJP MP from Punjab’s Gurdaspur, on Sunday said he stands both with the party and with the farmers. The government always thinks of farmers’ betterment, the actor-turned-politician tweeted. pic.twitter.com/a9imr724lg10. Services that are likley to be disrupted on Tuesday include the supply of milk, vegetables and grocery, transport and banking.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — the acts that they apprehend will corporatise farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-back-bharat-bandh-sharad-pawar-to-meet-president-on-dec-9-10-points/story-VmhrQKhGFbSXXEsNNN9eKK.html
06-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mehbooba Mufti seeks votes for Pulwama nominee Waheed Parra in DDC polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DDC polls: Mehbooba Mufti seeks votes for Pulwama nominee Waheed ParraPeoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday sought votes for Waheed Parra who is contesting the district development council (DDC) polls from Pulwama. Read moreCBI files fresh case against Unitech’s Sanjay Chandra, family in alleged multi-crore fraudThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Unitech Ltd. former managing director, Sanjay Chandra, his father Ramesh Chandra and elder brother Ajay Chandra for allegedly cheating Canara Bank of Rs 198 crore, people familiar with the development said. Read moreChetan Bhagat shares encounter with street vendor selling his books, netizens have mixed reactionsAuthor Chetan Bhagat shared a video of his interaction with a street vendor who tried to sell him his own books. The encounter received many reactions from netizens ranging from people calling the meeting wholesome to branding it as unnecessary. Read morePriyanka Chopra and Sonam Kapoor lend support to farmers’ protest: ‘Their fears need to be allayed’Actors Priyanka Chopra and Sonam Kapoor have come out in support of protesting farmers. Farmers across the country have been staging a massive protest against the government’s new agriculture laws, which they fear will leave them at the mercy of big corporations. Read moreShehnaaz Gill looks stunning in white and gold saree, photos go viral. Get the lookShehnaaz Gill has her hands full with Tony Kakkar’s latest music video Shona Shona, which has already racked up to 40 million views, with alleged beau Siddharth Shukla. Read moreIndia vs Australia, 2nd T20I: Hardik Pandya heroic seals T20I series for IndiaIndia have taken an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match T20I series against Australia with a thrilling six-wicket win in the second match at the Sydney Cricket Ground. Read moreFarmers’ protest: AAP supports Bharat Bandh call; Delhi border traffic divertedFarmers’ protest at Delhi border entered 9th day on Sunday. Farmers have been protesting against Centre’s farm laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar to meet MoS Kailash Choudhury and MoS Parshottam Rupala. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mehbooba-mufti-seeks-votes-for-pulwama-nominee-waheed-parra-in-ddc-polls-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FDXEENCUF8pOwfCFScWQEN.html
06-12-2020||Bollywood||With Corona and people suffering, one doesn’t feel happy or wish to celebrate birthday: Dharmendra||“I am full of life, am a dreamer and want to keep doing something,” says veteran actor Dharmendra, who will turn 85 on December 8. “Earlier, I used to celebrate my birthday but later, I felt it was too artificial, kyun industry mein dikhawa zyaada hota hai. Log janamdin ko promotion ke liye use karte hain. Moreover, this year has been quite sad with the farmers suffering and the ongoing pandemic – it doesn’t make one feel happy. You can’t enjoy. Also, since losing my mum years ago, I don’t really enjoy celebrating birthdays. She would be so excited about it,” says the senior actor, who is in Mumbai to be with his family this week, before returning to his farmhouse in Lonavala. Recalling a time when the late Ashok Kumar attended his birthday party, he says, “Once dada moni met me on my birthday and I remember taking his autograph on a R100 note. I would dream to be in the industry and my dreams came true.” He is excited to start work on two movies including Apne 2 with his sons Sunny and Bobby Deol. “I know how to use my time otherwise waqt aapko istamal karta hain. At my farm, I keep experimenting with produce as I am a dehati. I practice Yoga which gives me some positive energy. I remember God and thank him for his blessing us. I try to be good with everyone, even ones who hurt me. Yeh mera nature hain and I was born with this quality,” he shares.  Friends, let the child in you be a child...🧑‍⚖️ pic.twitter.com/g9jLT3IiTlWith his son Sunny testing positive, senior Deol reveals there is nothing to worry about. “Covid can happen to anyone. I urge people to take precautions. He is in isolation and following medical advice. We are strong people and fighters and he will be fine in no time. I saw some of his photos roaming around Rohtang Pass without a shirt, maybe he got corona due to that (laughs),” he says. He has been feeling strongly about the farmer’s protest in Delhi. He hopes it gets resolved with a good resolution. “Government jo kar sake, please karen. I have never heard that farmers are happy as they always suffer due to heavy rains or no rains or any other environmental reason. They have many hardships and it is painful. They should be heard and I hope they come to a mutual decision soon. It is so cold up north and then there is corona too, so I hope this protest gets settled soon,” he concludes.Interact with author on Twitter/@iamkav||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/with-corona-and-people-suffering-one-doesn-t-feel-happy-or-wish-to-celebrate-birthday-dharmendra/story-JD0mILP3pYs4fBxnhVT6SJ.html
06-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Fuel stations to remain shut in Haryana on December 8||Extending support to Bharat Bandh call given by several farmer organizations, Haryana Petroleum Dealer Welfare Association (HPDWA) has decided to shut all the fuel stations in the state on December 8.The decision was taken at a state-level meeting of members of HPDWA at Panipat on Sunday.“As our Anndata’s (farmers) are on the roads for more than a week, we have decided to support their agitation and all the fuel stations in Haryana to remain shut during Bharat Bandh on December 8,” said Sanjeev Chaudhary, state president of HPDWA.“We appeal the government to end this impasse and resolve the issue so that the farmers, their children and women, who are sitting on the roads braving the biting cold, could return to their homes,” he added.Also read: West Bengal govt distancing itself from rule of law - DhankarHe said that the ongoing agitation has affected every sector and section of society as thousands of people were not able to go to their jobs and the fuel sector is worst-affected as 40 per cent of the total fuel is purchased by farmers.The members of the association alleged that the government does not seem serious to resolve the issue even after several rounds of meetings.“The government should accept all the demands of farmers and end this agitation,” he added.Even, a three members committee of HPDWA has been formed to extend support to the farmers by opening their fuel stations for farmers at Singhu and Tikari borders of Haryana and Delhi and providing free fuel to farmers who were going to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-fuel-stations-to-remain-shut-in-haryana-on-december-8/story-RhXtYq8RblYLgbG7VYmctN.html
06-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: West Bengal governor says state government distancing itself from rule of law and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.West Bengal govt distancing itself from rule of law: DhankarWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has distanced itself from rule of law and the soul of BR Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, is getting deeply hurt. Read morePune hospital starts Sputnik V phase two trials, volunteers under observationCity’s Noble Hospital administered Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine to combat Covid-19 disease to 17 volunteers over the past three days. Volunteers are currently under observation for any medical symptoms, according to hospital authorities. Read moreNetflix’s ‘who did it better’ post has scenes from Brooklyn Nine-Nine and Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na. Here’s whyIs the coming of age Bollywood romantic comedy Jaane Tu... Ya Jaane Na one of your favourite throwback films? Do you also have the American sitcom Brooklyn Nine-Nine on top of your watch-list? Read moreSaif Ali Khan retracts ‘humane’ Raavan comments after backlash, says Adipurush will present story ‘without any distortions’Actor Saif Ali Khan has retracted his comment about portraying the demon king Raavan in a ‘humane’ manner in the upcoming epic, Adipurush. Many, including the BJP’s Ram Kadam, had objected to the comment. Read moreBe cautious in and after a relationshipSending intimate pictures used to be such a taboo thing to do—no one talked about it but everyone did it. Then people started realising sexting was a given, which led to more and more intimate pictures being sent, which led to women getting their pictures leaked on the internet. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Virat Kohli drops another sitter, still manages to run-out Matthew Wade Virat Kohli is going through a rough patch in his cricketing career. He hasn’t looked at his fluent best this year while India have also lost a lot of ODIs in 2020. On top of that, Kohli has dropped two catches in two games for India. Read moreWatch: Delhi University students join protesting farmers at Singhu borderStudents from Delhi University joined protesting farmers at Singhu border on December 5. Students have been providing help to the protesting farmers at Delhi-Haryana border. They engage in various tasks such as serving food, making posters and providing medical aid. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-west-bengal-governor-says-state-government-distancing-itself-from-rule-of-law-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HEvcyXibnEb7t0V5KJmTuO.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal pledges AAP’s support to Bharat Bandh call against farm laws||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would support the strike on Tuesday by farmer groups which are protesting against the three contentious farm laws passed in the Parliament in September.“The AAP would support the Bharat Bandh called by farmer groups on December 8. AAP volunteers too would join hands with farmers in peaceful protests across the country on that day. It’s an appeal to citizens of India to support the farmers,” said Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the AAP, in a tweet.Kejriwal’s declaration of support to the agitation comes on a day when Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary reiterated that the three laws were in favour of the farmers and were unlikely to be repealed as has been the demand by the farmers.He added that if necessary, the government will make some amendments to the laws to take into account agitating farmers’ wishes.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Also Read: Case against 150 protesting sugarcane farmers for ‘unlawful assembly’ in MaharashtraChoudhary alleged that the Congress party in particular and the opposition in general was responsible for allegedly misleading and instigating the farmers, according to ANI.“I think the Congress government in different states and also the party in opposition is trying to instigate farmers. Nation’s farmers are in favour of these laws but some political people are trying to add fuel to the fire,” Choudhary was quoted as saying by the news agency.Several opposition parties have extended support to the farmers’ agitation, which continues in absence of any breakthrough in talks between the Centre and the farmer representatives.Also Read: Congress, Left, TRS, Trinamool: List of parties which are supporting December 8 Bharat BandhAAP leader and Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that all party volunteers and workers will participate in the strike to support the farmers, reported news agency PTI.“This is not just the farmers’ fight but the fight for all countrymen. India is an agricultural country and if farmers are unhappy then the country is affected. I appeal to all to join the protest,” Rai said, in a video message.Farmers have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands for repealing the agri-marketing laws are not met.They are demanding that a special session of parliament is called to repeal the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-pledges-aap-s-support-to-bharat-bandh-call-against-farm-laws/story-9lIsJ0RvqxsKKLLIGLFnPP.html
06-12-2020||India||Congress, AAP, TRS, Trinamool: List of parties which are supporting December 8 Bharat Bandh||The proposed Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions on December 8 is gathering strength as several political parties have now extended support to the cause of the farmers and the call for a nationwide strike. Though the union leaders are engaged in talks with the Centre on the three agriculture bills that they are opposing, the farmers have announced that their proposed plan of the nationwide strike, a day ahead of the next round of talks with the Centre, will be on track. Normal life is likely to be hit on December 8 as the farmers now have support of several trade unions and political parties that are in power in many states. Banking and transport services are likely to be affected on December 8 as unions have already backed the strike. CongressIn support of the bandh on December 8, there will be demonstrations at all party offices, district and state headquarters. The decision to support the bandh stems from Congress’s long-maintained stance on the farm laws. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had earlier addressed kisan rallies in Punjab after the laws were enacted.Aam Aadmi PartyDelhi Chief Minister and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal has extended support to the bandh call. Delhi government supported the farmers when Delhi Police was mulling to detain the protesting farmers as they reached Delhi borders a few days ago. The AAP government offered Burari ground as protest site to which some groups have moved. Telangana Rashtra SamithiTelangana Chief Minister and TRS chief K Chandrashekhar Rao on Sunday extended total support to the Bharat Bandh. Rao has appealed to party workers to make the bandh successful. He said TRS rank and file would actively participate in the bandh. Rashtriya Janata DalThe Rashtriya Janata Dal has voiced support to the farmers’ protest and is supporting the call for the nationwide strike. On Saturday, Tejashwi along with a few opposition leaders of Bihar have been booked for staging demonstration in prohibited area without permission.Left partiesThe Left parties, including Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party and All India Forward Bloc, are supporting the farmers. In a joint statement released by them, the Left parties appealed to all other political parties and forces who stand with the farmers’ cause and have demanded the repeal of these laws to extend their support and cooperation to the December 8 bandh call.Trinamool Trinamool has announced “moral support” to the nationwide strike. The party has said sit-in protests will take place on December 8 in solidarity with the farmers’ cause.Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, Shiromani Akali Dal too backed the bandh.Apart from the political parties, a joint forum of trade unions including Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) and Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), is supporting the bandh.Among the bank unions, Officer unions All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Officers’ Association (AIBOA) and Indian National Bank Officers’ Congress (INBOC) have supported the farmers. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-left-trs-trinamool-list-of-parties-which-are-supporting-december-8-bharat-bandh/story-tjHfH3dXZ2RdmCORBka4GN.html
06-12-2020||India||Boxer Vijender Singh joins protesting farmers, says will return Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna||Boxer Vijender Singh on Sunday expressed his solidarity with the farmers protesting against legislation enacted by the Centre earlier this year and said he will return his Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award if the government fails to repeal the “black laws”. “If the government does not withdraw the black laws, I will return my Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award,” Singh, who had joined Congress and contested the Lok Sabha elections last year, said according to news agency ANI.Five former sportspersons from Punjab also joined the protest at Singhu border on Sunday. Arjuna awardees Rajbir Kaur and Gurmail Singh, who played hockey, former wrestler Kartar Singh, ex-boxer Jaipal Singh and Dhyan Chand Award winner Ajit Singh were among them.Watch | ‘Will return Khel Ratna’: Boxer Vijender Singh visits farmers at Singhu border Follow latest updates on farmers protests here“Many former players like Sajjan Singh Cheema who could not join us because of health or other issues have given their sports awards to us,” Kartar Singh, who is a Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Saturday. “If are not allotted a time to meet the president, we will place our awards outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Sunday,” Rajbir Kaur had said on Saturday.Other former sportspersons who have also supported the agitating farmers are Dhyan Chand awardee and Olympian Gurmail Singh, Arjuna winner kabaddi player Hardeep Singh, and Arjuna awardee weightlifter Tara Singh. On Friday, former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India won its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, Padma Shri boxer Kaur Singh and Arjuna awardee boxer Jaipal Singh too had announced that they would return their awards.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been agitating at five Delhi borders for the past 11 days. They want the Centre to repeal three laws it cleared during Parliament’s monsoon session, saying they would allow big corporations to exploit them. The government, however, maintains that the new reform agenda will lead to better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector.The farmers have called for a nationwide strike on December 8 against the legislation. The move has been backed by several political parties, including the Congress. Also, the leaders of farmers’ unions and Union ministers will meet for the sixth time on December 10 to come to a conclusion for the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boxer-vijender-singh-joins-protesting-farmers-says-will-return-rajiv-gandhi-khel-ratna/story-D23uIM9MxjI9IMYpTH3a4H.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi Traffic Police suggests alternate routes for commuters||With farmers protesting against the new farm laws staying put at the national capital’s borders, Delhi Traffic Police on Sunday advised people to take alternative routes for entering and exiting the city. The traffic police took to Twitter to inform commuters about alternative routes open for travelling to the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.It advised those commuting to Delhi to come via the Delhi–Noida Direct or DND Flyway instead of Noida Link road. Chilla border on Noida Link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to the farmers’ protest near Gautam Budh Dwar. “The Ghazipur border on NH 24 is closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers’ protests. People are advised to avoid NH 24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/Bhopra/DND for coming to Delhi,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed for traffic movement but Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers, it added. “Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides,” the police said.It advised commuters to take alternate routes via Safiabad, Saboli, NH8, Bhopra, Apsara borders, and Peripheral expressway. People travelling to Haryana can take Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan, Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders, the police said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country have been camping at Delhi’s borders for the past 10 days to demand a repeal of the agriculture reform laws. They continued their sit-in demonstrations on Sunday against the three farm laws enacted by the government after the fifth round of talks between their leaders and Union ministers failed to break the impasse.Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 and threatened to occupy toll plazas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-police-suggests-alternate-routes-for-commuters/story-TrkrIYzNI7oxd5fZpLlMAM.html
06-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests at Delhi borders enter Day 11; city traffic diverted||Farmers continued their sit-in demonstrations on Sunday against the three farm laws enacted by the government after the fifth round of talks between their leaders and Union ministers failed to break the impasse.Marking the 11th day of their protest, farmers were seen at the Delhi’s Singhu border with Haryana and at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the national capital’s Burari area. Delhi Traffic Police have closed as many as seven borders, including Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri, Jharoda, for any traffic movement in view of the protest against the farm laws.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protests here On Saturday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, offered to make four major amendments to the set of farm laws during the talks, although they presented no written material, an official said. The farmers, however, did not accept any changes and demanded that the laws be repealed.The protesting farmers, who have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday, will meet the central leadership again on Wednesday to arrive at a consensus. While the government leans on its new reform agenda for better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector, farmers say changes approved by Parliament in September would allow big corporations to exploit them.Kavitha Kuruganti of the Women Farmers’ Rights Forum, a participant, Saturday’s talks were stalled at one point as farmers carried out a silent protest on their seats during the discussions. “We rejected the proposal for amendments. All members of the delegation have decided to keep silent. The government side was trying to draw us out. There was utter silence from our side,” Kuruganti said.Also Read: Farmer langars treat the poor, homeless on Delhi border points to a full plateFarmers showed placards, asking the government to say ‘yes or no’ on the demand for the complete withdrawal of the laws, said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of the influential Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait faction).Agriculture minister Tomar said the government has sought more time to come up with a “concrete proposal” and “written suggestions” from the farmers, which would help take the talks forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-at-delhi-borders-enter-day-11-no-breakthrough-in-talks-with-govt/story-ZBX2cUkrWmj18JnjlMLyVO.html
06-12-2020||India||Farm talks deadlocked, another round on December 9||The fifth round of talks between protesting farmers and the Centre showed no signs of progress, dealing a blow to the government’s offer to bring a set of amendments to the three new farm laws that agriculturists say will hurt their interests. Farm unions stuck to their demand for a full withdrawal of the legislation, but agreed to another meeting on December 9. With the stalemate persisting, farmers’ representatives said they would intensify their agitation, as thousands laid siege to the Capital’s entry points for the tenth straight day. They have called for a nationwide blockade on December 8. The government team, led by agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash, offered to make four major amendments to the set of farm laws during the talks, although they presented no written material, an official said, requesting anonymity. While the government has leaned on its new reform agenda for better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector, farmers say changes approved by Parliament in September would allow big corporations to exploit them. The government on Saturday proposed new rules for free markets provided for by The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, one of the laws being opposed by the farmers. Before the meeting, home minister Amit Shah, Tomar, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Goyal met Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an hour to discuss the four amendments they had offered to make. During the talks, the government made four verbal offers. One, it offered to amend the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, to levy trade fees in new free markets to create a level playing field between these and traditional, government-controlled notified markets. Farmers say free markets, where traders don’t have to pay any trade fee, will wipe out traditional markets which they depend on for assured prices of staples. Two, the government said it was open to bringing a system of registration for traders in free markets to help bring transparency in farm trade, price levels and traceability of traders. Three, the government said it would bring new clauses to its new contract-farming legislation – the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 – to strengthen farmers’ land-holding rights. Lastly, officials said it would allow farmers to approach any civil court to settle disputes with traders. Under the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, such disputes were to be settled at the level of a sub-divisional magistrate within 30 days. Farmers feel they should be free to approach higher courts, but the government has maintained that restricting dispute settlement to the local level was done for speedier resolution.The talks stalled at one point, as farmers carried out a silent protest on their seats during the discussions, according to Kavitha Kuruganti of the Women Farmers’ Rights Forum, a participant. “We rejected the proposal for amendments. All members of delegation have decided to keep silent. The government side was trying to draw us out. There was utter silence from our side,” Kuruganti said. Farmers showed placards, asking the government to say ‘yes or no’ on the demand for complete withdrawal of the laws, said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of the influential Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait faction). The government sought more time to come up with a “concrete proposal” and “written suggestions” from the farmers would help take the talks forward, Tomar said. He appealed to the farmer leaders to send elderly protesters and children home.Kuruganti said the agriculture minister concluded by complimenting the farmers for holding a “disciplined and peaceful protests, which were free from party political”. “That’s quite a distance from the initial view of the government that the farmers were misled and were being instigated.” The recent reforms in the antiquated farm sector allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSP), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers. “The issue is not about one particular clause, but about the direction in which the Govt of India is pushing farming in India,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-talks-deadlocked-another-round-on-december-9/story-LyTx1DrdohD6tQt36nACaJ.html
06-12-2020||India||People have a right to protest peacefully: UN spokesperson||Authorities should allow people to exercise their right to demonstrate peacefully, UN Secretary-General António Guterres’ spokesperson has said regarding the farmers’ protest in India. When Stéphane Dujarric, the spokesman for the UN Secretary-General, was asked about the farmers’ protest at a daily news briefing on Friday, he replied: “As to the question of India, what I would say to you is what I’ve said to others when raising these issues is that people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so.” The reporter who asked the question also contended the farmers involved in the protest were being met with “repressive measures” and this had a bearing on India’s democracy. Dujarric responded by saying: “We want to see people have a voice in their lives.” Trudeau was the first world leader to comment on the farmers’ protest, telling a Facebook video interaction on Tuesday that the situation in India was “concerning”. On Friday, the external affairs ministry summoned Canada’s envoy Nadir Patel and told him the remarks by Trudeau and Canadian lawmakers had the potential to “seriously” damage bilateral ties||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/people-have-a-right-to-protest-peacefully-un-spokesperson/story-55X6f8dJ68kIABuUWZcX8N.html
06-12-2020||India||Odisha farmers block roads to protest against centralised paddy procurement system||Hundreds of farmers stacked their paddy produce on major roads in various parts of Western Odisha on Saturday, demanding the withdrawal of the centralised token system for procurement of the crop in the state-run market yards.Farmers, under the banner of the Paschim Odisha Krushak Sangathan Samanway Samiti (POKSSS), demanded the procurement of paddy from across the region on the basis of the harvest report, submitted by the agriculture department of the districts concerned.POKSSS convenor Lingaraj said the paddy procurement system should be decentralised.The government has decided to procure 19 quintals of paddy per acre of irrigated land and 13 quintals of rain-fed fields. But the decision has been taken in Bhubaneswar.“This should be taken at the district level. In a decentralised procurement system, the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS) play a pivotal role and generate tokens for selling of the crop in the market yard. But the tokens are being generated from Bhubaneswar,” he alleged.Bargarh sub-divisional police officer Deepak Kumar Gochhayat said the paddy growers blocked the National Highway- 53 at Attabira for more than five hours. “As the people faced severe difficulties, we were forced to take around 40 farmers into custody to clear the road,” he said.In Sambalpur, the farmers parked their paddy-laden vehicles at Sindurpankh on NH-53, protesting against the “faulty” procurement system and refused to discuss with the district officials.However, police detained at least 15 farmers there to clear the road in the evening.Farmers in Deogarh, Jharsuguda, Sonepur and Balangir districts also took out rallies and held sit-ins to protest against the centralised procurement system.Food supplies and consumer welfare minister R P Swain said that some groups with vested interests have been agitating in the name of farmers to disturb the procurement process. He said senior officers of the department have been posted in each district to oversee the process and ensure transparency in the system.“Had the farmers raised the issue at the district level procurement committee (DLPC), the government would have considered their demand. More than 56 per cent paddy has already been procured in 16 districts. It is not possible to revise the decision now,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-farmers-block-roads-to-protest-against-centralised-paddy-procurement-system/story-LldyjlkQn99ddCuX44cdqM.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Chilla border completely shut as farmers block Delhi to Noida carriageway as well||Chila border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) was completely blocked by farmers on Saturday morning, bringing traffic to a standstill and forcing the police to increase the deployment in the area. Senior police officers said as the road leads to multiple hospitals in east Delhi as well as Noida, they have requested protesters to open a passage for emergency vehicles. Other borders points that are completely shut, as on Saturday, are Singhu and Tikri borders, where farmers have been camping since November 27 to protest the Centre’s new farm laws.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said until Friday, only one carriageway (from Noida to Delhi) was blocked by protesters while the other one (from Delhi to Noida) was open to traffic. “On Saturday morning, farmer groups blocked that carriageway as well, leaving no scope for traffic movement,” he said.Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar said they are negotiating with farmer leaders at Chilla border to open one carriageway or at least give a passage for emergency vehicles. “Once before, too, they had shut the Chilla border completely, but we had convinced them to open one carriageway. Our talks are in progress,” he said.The DCP also said since the number of farmers have also increased at Chila border from Saturday, the police have accordingly stepped up deployment. “Adequate presence of paramilitary and police personnel along with teams of the rapid action force in riot gear was maintained at the border point throughout the day,” he said.Satish Tomar, IT in-charge of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, who is camping at Chilla border, said more farmers were on their way to Chilla border on Saturday when they were detained by police in Jewar. “In protest, we blocked the other carriageway also at Chilla border. The farmers were released by evening and they have reached Chilla. But we are continuing with the blockade of the Chilla border completely. If they try to remove us forcefully, we will march to Jantar Mantar,” Tomar said.Apart from Chilla border, the traffic situation at the other Delhi border points remained the same as on Friday. A senior police officer said that on Thursday, the situation was bad as the closure of the border had happened suddenly and during office hours. “On Friday, people got used to the diversions and on Saturday, because the traffic volume was low, the situation was much better. However, because main routes at the Gazipur border (on NH-24) also remained closed to traffic from Gaziabad to Delhi, people were advised to avoid NH-24 and use Apsara, Bhopra or DND Flyway instead to reach Delhi. Since these alternative routes are narrow as compared to the main roads, they witnessed slow-moving traffic,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.Delhi Police kept making regular updates on social media to keep commuters informed about the diversions and closures.The movement of the vehicles on Anand Vihar-Ghazipur road and other routes by which motorists were entering Delhi from Ghaziabad also saw slow-moving traffic on Saturday. The traffic remained diverted on other routes such as the DND Flyway, Kalindi Kunj, Dallupura, Khoda, New Ashok Nagar, and Kondli borders.The other border points fully closed since Wednesday are Jharoda, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli. Badusarai border remained open only to light motor vehicles such as cars and two-wheelers, while Jhatikara border was open only to two-wheelers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chilla-border-completely-shut-as-farmers-block-delhi-to-noida-carriageway-as-well/story-hlRraLqIQ6J2XLbM7oEGhO.html
06-12-2020||India||To ensure peace, Khalsa Fauj forms ring of security at Singhu||Nihang Sikhs or the “Khalsa Fauj” took over the security of farmers at the Singhu border late Friday night, saying they had not come to fight but to ensure peace.Occupying one side of the Sonepat-Delhi highway right next to the police barricades, the men donning blue tunics and large turbans with a chakra (round sharp weapon) around them, and armed with swords, said they had taken positions at the barricades forming a wall between security personnel and farmers protesting peacefully.Camping with 50-60 horses, brought to the Singhu border in trucks from Kudhiana, Ropar and other areas of Punjab, and a northern goshawk — the bird known as baaj in Punjabi associated with the tenth Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh as a symbol of strength and tenacity — the Nihang Sikhs said their presence symbolised safety and security.“We have now camped right at the barricades across which the police force is deployed. If they need to reach out to the peaceful protesters, they will have to go through us. Nihangs mean safety and security. We are here to provide our people safety and we do not mean any harm. We do not endorse violence in any way,” said Gurdeep Singh, a member of the group, from Ludhiana.Condemning the violence that left many protesters injured on the first day of the agitation when police stopped them from marching into the city, he said Nihang groups were spread over the country and assembled whenever required. “We do not want the violence to be repeated. We have our men from Delhi, Haryana and many parts of Punjab joining us. At present, there are about 500 of us,” he said.The horses are tethered next to the concrete barriers placed by police. On a pole, in between, rested the bird, around which the Nihangs were busy preparing their meal of the day. The area where they cook is considered sacred and no one other than a Nihang is allowed near the spot.Another Khalsa fauji (warrior) Aman Singh, from Ropar, said their fight was not a religious one. “We are here to fight for our people’s rights. We have weapons but we will never resort to violence. The weapons symbolise safety. Our presence means that no one will be oppressed or ill-treated.”Another Nihang, Satnam Singh Baaghi, who joined the group from Maharashtra, said there are more of them coming. “Our number will only swell. We will only move forward,” he said.Singh said they were keeping an eye on any anti-social elements who may try to malign the peaceful protest. “Our men are vigilant and we are keeping an eye on anyone who looks like an outsider. They are intercepted and only let in after their credentials are verified,” he added.While Nihangs were spotted only at the Singhu border in a noticeable number, at the Ghazipur protest site too participants sounded concerned about anti-social elements.Digambar Singh, 40, a farmer from Bijnor and president of the UP unit of the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s youth wing, said, “People are trying to politicise the protests. We’ve had political cadres come in and sport caps from farmers’ bodies to mislead public and get their agenda across. Our volunteers keep a strict eye on who is doing what at the protest sites.” While addressing the gathering on the highway, Singh told the farmers that they must be alert and not allow anyone to harm the legitimacy of the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-ensure-peace-khalsa-fauj-forms-ring-of-security-at-singhu/story-dir6elcChHMugCndToUN7M.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers camping at Burari move to join protests at Ghazipur||Davinder Singh, 27, a farmer from Pooranpur in Uttar Pradesh, has been keeping a track of protests that erupted in Punjab after the Centre passed the new farm laws two months ago. Active on social media platforms, Singh received numerous messages that farmers from different parts of the country were marching to Delhi to demand a repeal of the laws. On November 27, Singh, and four other farmers, finally joined the protests.“We packed some woollen wear, a few essentials, clothes, and drove from Pooranpur to Burari. Our friends from the village later brought in the ration, mattresses, tarpaulin sheets, bamboo sticks, gas cylinders, stove, utensils, and other items in trucks and tractors. The supplies are enough for us to last at least six months,” Singh said.However, nearly a week after setting things up at the Nirankari ground at Burari – the government’s designated spot for farmer protests -- Singh and his friends had to move again. “We thought our issues would be addressed here. We waited for the government to come to meet us and listen to our concerns, but no one came. This is why we decided to pack all our essentials and drive to Ghazipur to participate in the road blockade,” he said.Every evening, he draws a yellow tarpaulin sheet from his truck over the red cycle track on Ghazipur flyover and ties it to the railing on the road. Singh and his friends then sleep below this canopy on some mattresses, with blankets being their only protection against Delhi’s harsh winters. Every morning, the tarpaulin sheet is folded back and the poles used to erect them go back to resting against the railing. Singh, a first-time protester, said it is challenging to live on the road and to deal with the possibility of moving from one place to another with all their belongings. “If the talks with the government are inconclusive today, we will move further inside the city. We are aware that it means moving with our belongings once again. But there is no other option,” said Rambir Singh, 63, another farmer from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh who reached Delhi on November 30. He too was among those who had camped at Burari Ground. (QUOTE WILL BE UPDATED) Several protesters, who have travelled from different states, said that apart from the bigger issues of non availability of toilets, water, and having to sleep in the open, there are smaller problems that people fail to notice. “For instance, if we have to cook something or make tea, we have to take out food portions from our polythene packets and then put them back in the vehicles,” said Davinder. “This is no way to live.”Although Singh was not stopped on his journey from Pooranpur to Burari, others weren’t that lucky. Tajinder Singh, a member of the Trai Kisan Sangathan, said that they had left with all the protest paraphernalia including banners and poles, food, clothes, blankets, and other essentials on November 26 from Uddham Singh Nagar in tractors and vehicles. But were stopped at Rampur. The group had to camp there for two days before moving on again.“After continuing our journey from Rampur on November 28, we learnt midway that protesters had gathered at Burari so we went there. We waited there for the government to address the issues of farmers but nothing happened. So, three days later, around 500 farmers from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh left the grounds and came here to Ghazipur,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-camping-at-burari-move-to-join-protests-at-ghazipur/story-1WxTwEda0v7FTN8cSD1kFO.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farm bills: Ludhiana passengers left in the lurch as Punjab Roadways staff stage strike||Passengers at the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Inter-State Bus terminal (ISBT) were left a harried lot after the Punjab Roadways and PRTC employees’ unions observed a one-hour strike on Saturday to extend their support to the farmers’ agitation against the farm bills. They protested from 12am to 1pm and raised slogans against the central government. They demanded that the Centre roll back the decision to introduce the farm laws and continue with the old system. The bus stand wore a deserted look as the gates were closed by the members of the unions. Chaos was also witnessed outside as private operators parked the buses on the road which led to traffic snarls. The one-hour protest affected the movement of over 80 buses and passengers had a hard time finding buses for their desired route. Due to the farmers’ agitation in Delhi, over nine Volvo buses (three of Punbus and six of PRTC) operating from Ludhiana to Delhi ISBT and Ludhiana to Gurgaon have been suspended. Basant Singh, 65, said, “I have been trying to find a bus for Malerkotla for the last half an hour. But, due to the protest, we are stuck at the bus stand. My wife has knee problems and cannot stand for long hours. It is sheer harassment for the public and protests must be held outside central government offices.”Another passenger, Sunita Rani, who wanted to take a bus to Chandigarh with her two-year-old son, said, “I was not aware of the strike and reached the bus stand at noon. There was a chaos outside and took 10 minutes to cross the road. After inquiring, I found out that the service will resume after 1pm. I thought about taking a bus from outside, but private operators were charging double.” District president of Punbus Contractual Employees’ Union, Shamsher Singh, said, “If the central government does not accept the farmers’ plea in the next meeting, then the joint action committee of Punjab Roadways and Punbus will launch an agitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-bills-ludhiana-passengers-left-in-the-lurch-as-punjab-roadways-staff-stage-strike/story-LRdTJR2pP1J9C8JdkJ5AaP.html
06-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests at Delhi borders enter Day 11; city traffic diverted||Farmers continued their sit-in demonstrations on Sunday against the three farm laws enacted by the government after the fifth round of talks between their leaders and Union ministers failed to break the impasse.Marking the 11th day of their protest, farmers were seen at the Delhi’s Singhu border with Haryana and at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the national capital’s Burari area. Delhi Traffic Police have closed as many as seven borders, including Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri, Jharoda, for any traffic movement in view of the protest against the farm laws.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protests here On Saturday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, offered to make four major amendments to the set of farm laws during the talks, although they presented no written material, an official said. The farmers, however, did not accept any changes and demanded that the laws be repealed.The protesting farmers, who have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday, will meet the central leadership again on Wednesday to arrive at a consensus. While the government leans on its new reform agenda for better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector, farmers say changes approved by Parliament in September would allow big corporations to exploit them.Kavitha Kuruganti of the Women Farmers’ Rights Forum, a participant, Saturday’s talks were stalled at one point as farmers carried out a silent protest on their seats during the discussions. “We rejected the proposal for amendments. All members of the delegation have decided to keep silent. The government side was trying to draw us out. There was utter silence from our side,” Kuruganti said.Also Read: Farmer langars treat the poor, homeless on Delhi border points to a full plateFarmers showed placards, asking the government to say ‘yes or no’ on the demand for the complete withdrawal of the laws, said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of the influential Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait faction).Agriculture minister Tomar said the government has sought more time to come up with a “concrete proposal” and “written suggestions” from the farmers, which would help take the talks forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-at-delhi-borders-enter-day-11-no-breakthrough-in-talks-with-govt/story-ZBX2cUkrWmj18JnjlMLyVO.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi Traffic Police suggests alternate routes for commuters||With farmers protesting against the new farm laws staying put at the national capital’s borders, Delhi Traffic Police on Sunday advised people to take alternative routes for entering and exiting the city. The traffic police took to Twitter to inform commuters about alternative routes open for travelling to the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.It advised those commuting to Delhi to come via the Delhi–Noida Direct or DND Flyway instead of Noida Link road. Chilla border on Noida Link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to the farmers’ protest near Gautam Budh Dwar. “The Ghazipur border on NH 24 is closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers’ protests. People are advised to avoid NH 24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/Bhopra/DND for coming to Delhi,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed for traffic movement but Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers, it added. “Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides,” the police said.It advised commuters to take alternate routes via Safiabad, Saboli, NH8, Bhopra, Apsara borders, and Peripheral expressway. People travelling to Haryana can take Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan, Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders, the police said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country have been camping at Delhi’s borders for the past 10 days to demand a repeal of the agriculture reform laws. They continued their sit-in demonstrations on Sunday against the three farm laws enacted by the government after the fifth round of talks between their leaders and Union ministers failed to break the impasse.Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 and threatened to occupy toll plazas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-police-suggests-alternate-routes-for-commuters/story-TrkrIYzNI7oxd5fZpLlMAM.html
06-12-2020||India||Congress backs protesting farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh on December 8||Congress leaders will support the farmers’ call for a Bharat Bandh, or a nationwide strike, on December 8 to show their dissent against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre earlier this year, the party’s spokesperson Pawan Khera has said.“Congress has decided to support the Bharat Bandh on December 8. We will be demonstrating the same at our party offices,” Khera said, according to news agency ANI, adding the move will be a step towards strengthening Rahul Gandhi’s support to the farmers and that they will ensure that the demonstration is successful.Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, through tractor rallies, signature campaigns and farmers’ rallies has been raising the party’s voice in support of the farmers, he added.Also Read: Farmers’ protests at Delhi borders enter Day 11; city traffic divertedWhile speaking to the media at the party headquarters, the Congress spokesperson asked the government why the laws were enacted in a hurry. “In the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government in June surreptitiously brings ordinances. What was the hurry, the entire country was focussed on the fallout of Covid-19, the economic, social, health fallout? But the government was busy surreptitiously bringing ordinances to help its industrialist-corporate friends,” Khera said.“Where was the need to bring these legislations so fast, you suspended the opposition parties from Parliament, you did not follow parliamentary procedure and hurried through the passing of the bills, why was the hurry,” he added.Khera said the government would have sought suggestions from the farmers before introducing the legislation if it was really bothered about them. The Congress leader said that the entire nation was witnessing the plight of protesting farmers, who are camping outside at national capital borders during winter nights waiting for the government to listen to them.“What we are seeing today is the result of a conspiracy between the government and its corporate friends, wherein the victim would be the farmer, and the farmer knows this,” Khera claimed.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are sitting on various borders of the national capital since November 26 to protest against three farm laws - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020- cleared by the government during the monsoon session of the Parliament.Leaders of farmers’ unions met the central leadership on Saturday to resolve the deadlock. However, no progress could be made and they will now meet for the sixth round of talks on December 10.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-backs-protesting-farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-december-8/story-3QTMW1sgaVjM1lErc9UW1J.html
06-12-2020||India||Farmers Protest Updates: Shiv Sena extends support to Bharat Bandh call by agitating farmers||The protesting farmers opposing the centre’s new farm laws have agreed to a sixth round of talks - scheduled for Wednesday - after yesterday’s meeting yielded no breakthrough on the repeal of the three laws. After the meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said a new proposal would be placed before the farmers after discussions within the government. The government on Saturday proposed new rules for free markets provided for by The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, one of the laws being opposed by the farmers.The farmers’ representatives said they would intensify their agitation. They have called for a nationwide blockade on December 8.Follow live updates here:Shiv Sena supports Bharat Bandh call on December 8Shiv Sena has extended its support to the countrywide strike called by agitating farmers’ unions against the recently passed farm laws. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in a tweet extended his support to the agitating farmers’ groups. देश के किसानों द्वारा पुकारे गए राष्ट्रव्यापी बंद को शिवसेना का समर्थन!किसान अन्नदाता हैं,इसलिए उनके प्रति हमारी नैतिक जिम्मेदारी के नाते देश की जनता को भी किसानों के बंद में स्वेच्छा से हिस्सा लेना चाहिए।शिवसेना किसानों की मांगों और 8 दिसंबर के भारत बंद में उनके साथ हैजय हिंद! pic.twitter.com/lcgVcLEIqJProminent opposition leaders support Bharat Bandh, issue joint statementSeveral opposition leaders including Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK chief MK Stalin and People’s Alliance of Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) chief Farooq Abdullah issued a joint statement supporting the Bharat Bandh call issued by the farmers’ unions. Prominent opposition leaders including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK chief M K Stalin and PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah issue joint statement supporting call for Bharat Bandh on Dec 8 by farmer groupsBJP-ally, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, extends support to farmers’ call for Bharat BandhRLP leader Hanuman Beniwal posted a video on Twitter, announcing his support for the farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh on December 8. 8 दिसम्बर को देश के किसानों की आवाज पर @RLPINDIAorg भारत बंद का समर्थन करती है ! कृषि बिलो व किसान आंदोलन को लेकर मीडिया के साथ आज हुई चर्चा के अंश आपके साथ साझा कर रहा हुं !#भारत_बंद #किसान_आंदोलन_दिल्ली pic.twitter.com/lCLRCcrPU5RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav assures full support to farmers’ call for Bharat BandhRJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday announced that the Rashtriya Janata Dal fully supports the countrywide strikes called by farmers’ groups. In a tweet Yadav said, “You have our full support or cooperation.”भारत बंद को हमारा पूर्ण समर्थन और सक्रिय सहयोग है। #8दिसंबर_भारत_बंद https://t.co/uJKIyESzHtराष्ट्रीय जनता दल 8 दिसम्बर को आहूत भारत बंद का समर्थन करता है। श्री तेजस्वी यादव जी के निर्देश अनुसार सभी पार्टी पदाधिकारी अपने क्षेत्र के किसान संगठनों एवं किसानों के सहयोग से भारत बंद को सफल बनाने में अपनी सक्रिय भागीदारी देकर राजद के संकल्प को मजबूत करने में अपना योगदान दें। pic.twitter.com/4a5el9U8RHUnion minister Tomar to meet with MoSs Kailash Choudhary and Parshottam RupalaUnion minister Narendra S Tomar will hold a meeting later tonight with his two ministers of state, news agency ANI reported. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar (in file photo) to hold a meeting with MoS Kailash Choudhary and MoS Parshottam Rupala today pic.twitter.com/bCkHrDMmVqNCP chief Sharad Pawar to meet President KovindThe Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar will meet President Kovind on December 9 to hold discussions regarding the ongoing protests, ANI reported. NCP chief Sharad Pawar to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9, over farmers’ protests: NCP Maharashtra office(File photo) pic.twitter.com/4OAJJ5mcFHBharatiya Kisan Union’s Lokshakti faction start marching towards DelhiMembers of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lokshakti) have started their protest against the farm laws and were seen marching towards Delhi on their tractors. Several members of the faction were seen shirtless in a video shared by news agency ANI. #WATCH | नोएडा: भारतीय किसान यूनियन (लोकशक्ति) के सदस्यों ने अर्धनग्न अवस्था में दिल्ली कूच करना शुरू किया। #FarmersProtest https://t.co/wi4WeoL3JY pic.twitter.com/GfJXer9ACFDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal supports farmers’ groups call for Bharat BandhThe chief minister urged party workers to support the bandh in a peaceful manner. Earlier, Kejriwal’s cabinet minister Gopal Rai had also urged party workers across the nation to support the farmers’ call for nationwide bandh. 8 दिसंबर को किसानों द्वारा किए गए भारत बंद के आह्वान का आम आदमी पार्टी पूरी तरह से समर्थन करती है। देश भर में आम आदमी पार्टी के कार्यकर्ता शांतिपूर्ण तरीक़े से इसका समर्थन करेंगे। सभी देशवासियों से अपील है की सब लोग किसानो का साथ दें और इसमें हिस्सा लें https://t.co/xNseuxjtFODelhi goods transport body and Indian Tourists Transport association support Bharat Bandh callThe Indian Tourists Transport association and the Delhi Goods Transport Association said that the farmers are the essential to their business and have decided to support their cause. AAP minister Gopal Rai says Delhi CM has asked party workers to support call for Bharat BandhAAP minister Gopal Rai told news agency ANI that Delhi CM has asked party officials and workers to support the farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh. He said that he himself has urged party workers to support the farmers’ unions. If government doesn’t withdraw black laws, will return my Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award: Boxer Vijendra SinghIf the government doesn’t withdraw the black laws, I will return my Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award - the highest sporting honour of the nation: Boxer Vijender Singh.He also joined protest with the other Punjab’s sportspersons at Singhu border.We had opposed the Bills in Parliament, we continue to do so.: TRS MLC K KavithaWe had opposed the Bills in Parliament, we continue to do so. MSP hasn’t been assured in any of these Bills. Also, if mandi structure is dismantled there’s no alternative structure in this country, so farmer is insecure. TRS will support the farmer’ Bandh call: K Kavitha, TRS MLCA Shiromani Akali Dal delegation met Maharashtra CM todayA Shiromani Akali Dal delegation met Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray today. “He said that he’ll support all programs of farmers during agitation. He’ll also come to the meeting in Delhi two weeks later. He said that he’ll support farmers’ agitation,” says the delegation.Congress has decided to support Bharat Bandh on December 8: Pawan KheraCongress has decided to support the Bharat Bandh on December 8. We will be demonstrating the same at our party offices. It will be a step strengthening Rahul Gandhi’s support to the farmers. We will ensure that the demonstration is successful: Congress Spokesperson Pawan Khera.JJP’s Julana MLA Amarjeet Singh come in support of agitating farmersJJP’s Julana MLA Amarjeet Singh come in support of the agitating farmers. He is the fourth JJP MLA to express solidarity with the farmers. Singh, said he is first a farmer than an MLA and the government should clear farmers’ doubt over three laws. “ The elderly farmers are sitting for their demands amid such cold weather conditons. These farmers are producing food for us and they are protecting for the valid reasons,” he added.Telangana CM extends support to Bharat bandh call on December 8Telangana CM and TRS chief K Chandrashekhar Rao has extended TRS’ total support to Bharat bandh called on December 8 by farmers. He said that the TRS rank and file would participate actively in the proposed bandh: Chief Minister’s Office.JJP rebel MLA Ram Kumar Gautam extends his support to protesting farmersExtending his support to the protesting farmers’ across the country, Jannayak Janata party (JJP) rebel Narnaunda MLA Ram Kumar Gautam on Sunday urged the union government to withdraw three farm laws.I think farmers should think how this is being politicised: Kailash ChoudharyI think farmers should think how this is being politicised and not get lured by the ones who are trying to score political benefits. I have faith in PM Modi’s leadership and farmers. I’m sure farmers will never make a decision that will cause unrest anywhere in the country. These laws have provided freedom to them. I don’t think the real farmers, working in their farms, are bothered about it: Kailash Choudhary.Nation’s farmers are in favour of these laws but some political people are trying to add fuel to the fire: MoS Agriculture Kailash ChoudharyGovernment has said that MSP will continue. We can give it in writing too. I think Congress government (in states) and Opposition are trying to instigate farmers. Nation’s farmers are in favour of these laws but some political people are trying to add fuel to the fire: MoS Agriculture Kailash ChoudharyRepresentatives of several farmer unions hold meeting near Singhu borderRepresentatives of several farmer unions hold a meeting near Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) as their protest against the farm laws enters Day 11. Farmers protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam GroundFarmers protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground against recent farm laws enters 11th day.Farmers continue to hold sit-in protest at Haryana-Delhi borderFarmers continue to hold a sit-in protest at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi border) against the Centre’s farm laws.DU students join farmers’ protest at Singhu border, express solidarityScores of students from Delhi University (DU) came to Singhu border on Saturday to express solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting against three recently enacted farm laws.Seven Delhi borders closed in view of farmers’ protestThe Delhi traffic police have closed seven borders, including Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri, Jharoda, for any traffic movement in view of the farmers’ protest against the farm laws.Rai Singh Dhaliwal announced to return his President’s Medal in solidarity with protesting farmersRai Singh Dhaliwal, a retired commandant from Punjab Home Guards, announced to return his President’s Medal in solidarity with the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-pSg4p7qxE2eVonz3LrHuLK.html
