07-12-2020||India||Bharat bandh: Major impact likely to be felt in Punjab||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Tuesday asked all states and union territories to strictly enforce Covid-19 protocol and make adequate security arrangements for Bharat bandh on Tuesday, called by various farmer bodies protesting against the three farm bills passed in the monsoon session of Parliament.All opposition parties except Biju Janata Dal and YSR Congress, and major labour and worker unions have extended support to the bandh call which is likely to have impact in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, western Uttar Pradesh, and parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana. In an advisory, the home ministry has also asked the police departments and state governments to ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines issued are strictly adhered to by the protestors, officials familiar with the matter said. “Peace and tranquillity should be maintained during Bharat bandh and security arrangements should be in place to avoid any untoward incident,” the advisory said.After the MHA advisory, several state governments such as Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh issued instructions to district officers to take “stern action” for those resorting to violence and violating Covid-19 guidelines.Also read: Bharat Bandh - All you need to know about services that may be affectedThe bandh, which will start in the morning and will continue till 3 pm, is expected to have a major impact in Punjab, where all political parties, traders bodies, truck union and mandi associations have extended support. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, on Tuesday said the strike will be complete. In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmer bodies planning blockades along major highways. Haryana’s Additional Director General of Police (ADGP-law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the public may have to face traffic blockages while travelling on various roads and highways of the state on December 8. “The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm, the officer said. In Uttar Pradesh, opposition party leaders Akhilesh Yadav of Samajwadi Party and Mayawati of Bahujan Samaj Party asked its workers to participate in the bandh. Police officials expect the bandh to have impact in western UP, where Bharatiya Kisan Union has sizeable influence. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, however, accused the opposition parties of making a ‘nasty bid’ to create a situation of anarchy and disorder in the country by using innocent farmers as a cover. “The opposition parties are trying to mislead innocent farmers on the Centre’s revolutionary and historic laws to further their selfish political ends,” Adityanath said. Also read: Besides Bharat Biotech,who else has applied for emergency use authorisationIn Rajasthan, various farmer bodies have announced to block all highways in the state till 3 pm even as chief minister Ashok Gehlot exhorted protestors to maintain peace. President, Rajasthan Kissan Mahapanchat, Rampal Jat said, “Over 50 farmer organisations of the state are supporting the bandh and there will be complete closedown tomorrow.” In Maharashtra, Shiv Sena along with alliance partners, the Congress and Nationalist Congress party, supported the bandh. In Madhya Pradesh, over 50 farmer bodies have decided to block traffic at various highways on Tuesday. Gujarat has invoked prohibitory orders across the state to prevent any major protests, officials said.There would be no strike in Kerala, where local body polls are to be held on Tuesday, even though the state government on Monday decided to approach the Supreme Court against three farmer bills. “Agriculture falls into the state list as per the seventh schedule of the constitution. States were not consulted before bringing such legislation and farmers’ bodies were also kept in the dark. We feel this legislation will only benefit big corporate houses engaged in the sector,” said state agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar, adding that they support the farmer protests.In Tamil Nadu, DMK chief M K Stalin will lead the protests whereas in Telangana, chief minister K Chandrashekhar Roa has asked all party workers to ensure complete bandh. The opposition Congress, Janata Dal (Secular) and pro-Kannada bodies have supported the bandh in Karnataka. However, in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha the ruling parties, YSR Congress and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) have decided not to support the bandh.In West Bengal and Jharkhand, the bandh is expected to have an impact as all main parties and trade unions have given a call for complete strike. “Our government does not support strikes but the TMC fully supports farmers struggle,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. In Bihar, although RJD has given a call for strike, the impact may not be much as the government has invoked prohibitory orders on assembly of four people or more across the state. Additional Director General of Police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said all district officers have been instructed to ensure law and order and deal sternly with those trying to resort to violence.Thousands of farmers at Delhi’s borders under the aegis of 32 farmer bodies from Punjab are protesting against the Centre’s new law agricultural laws for past 11 days demanding that they be repealed. Five rounds of talks with the government have not yielded any results and the next round of talks is on December 9.“The response is overwhelming, not only Punjab or the neighbouring state, it would be a total bandh in the entire country,” said BS Rajewal president of a faction of Bharatiya Kisan union who is camping at Singhu border since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-major-impact-likely-to-be-felt-in-punjab/story-BK4R4MuuvEI3VxUNftSjFO.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Petrol pumps, hotels, restaurants in Punjab to remain shut on Tuesday||Petrol pumps, hotels, restaurants, bars and resorts all across Punjab will remain shut on December 8 in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations to protest against the Centre’s farm laws.The Petrol Pump Dealers Association of Punjab has extended its support to the nationwide strike and its president, Paramjit Singh Doaba, said that pumps would only open in case of an emergency.Meanwhile, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Punjab released a statement on Monday which said, “Barring pre-existing marriage and banquet bookings already confirmed, all hotels, restaurants, resorts and bars will remain closed to show support to Bharat Bandh on December 8.”Scores of farmers have been out on the roads leading up to the national capital for days in protest against the central government’s farm laws, demanding their withdrawals. Kisan unions have called for a nationwide strike on December 8 after talks with the Centre failed to materialise into anything conclusive.The protesting farmers have threatened more intense agitation if their demand of complete rollback of the laws are not met.They have garnered the support of millions across the country and outside, including political parties like Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party (SP), DMK, INLD, Bahujan Samaj Party and CPI(M).The farmers’ organisations have called for people to join their cause in large numbers but are against any form of violence or coercion to observe the strike.In the national capital, the Delhi Police have ramped up security along the borders of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. These border areas are the epicentre of protests which have been going on for 11 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-petrol-pumps-hotels-restaurants-in-punjab-to-remain-shut-on-tuesday/story-RTcyNqIYYTejdlfzIr2uKJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Don’t force anyone to join Bharat Bandh, says farmers’ union||Farmers’ union on Monday urged farmers not to force anyone to join the call for Bharat Bandh on December 8. “We appeal to farmers no to force anyone to observe Bharat Bandh. People are supporting our movement willingly. Even railway people will support the bandh. Four states business people are with us. We don’t have to go and tell that tomorrow is Bharat bandh,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Rajewal), president Balbir Singh Rajewal said at a press conference at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. Rajewal said that emergency services will be allowed during the complete Bharat Bandh. The farmer union also stated that no political party will be allowed on the stage.“The bandh will be observed the whole day tomorrow. Chakka jam till 3 PM. It will be a peaceful bandh. We are firm on not allowing any political leaders on our stage,” said farmer leader Dr Darshan Pal while addressing the press conference. Rajewal reiterated that government will have to accept the demands of the farmers and said, “We want nothing less than withdrawal of new farm laws.”Opposition parties have lent their support to the Bharat Bandh demonstration on December 8 called by farmers’ unions in protest against the new farm laws enacted by the central government.Thousands of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws--Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-force-anyone-to-join-bharat-bandh-says-farmers-union/story-nVtTYcZZhKztDUrnZwOpIO.html
07-12-2020||India||Air India allows for a free date change on tickets if passengers miss flights due to Bharat Bandh||Passengers who are unable to reach the airport in time for their flights on Tuesday due to the nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh called by farmers protesting against the farm laws will not have to pay no-show charges and will be eligible for a free date change on confirmed tickets for flights from all Indian airports, Air India said on Monday.“For passengers who are unable to reach the Airport due to possible disturbance on 8th Dec, no-show charges will be waived and one free date change allowed for those with confirmed tickets for travel on 8th Dec, 2020 from any Indian Airport,” a statement issued by Air India read.Also Read | Bharat Bandh: All you need to know about parties supporting it and services that may be affectedMeanwhile, the Delhi Traffic Police shut some routes in view of the strike. Tikri, Jharoda, Dhansa, Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh borders of the national Capital with Haryana were closed. National Highway-44 was also shut and commuters were suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 was also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Thousands of farmers protesting near the national Capital against the three farm laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have demanded that these laws be repealed.Also Read: Bharat Bandh will begin at 11am. Here’s whyParties like the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have supported the Bandh call. As many as five rounds of talks between the government and the protesting farmers have been inconclusive as the agitating farmers seek complete withdrawal of the laws. The Centre, on the other hand, has agreed to ‘as many amendments’ as demanded by the farmers. “The farmers seemed like a divided lot with few convinced of laws and government’s intention to make amendments on their suggestions whereas there was a handful of those who remained adamant on the repeal of farm laws,” an official familiar with the developments told news agency ANI. The next round of talks is set to take place on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-allows-for-a-free-date-change-on-tickets-if-passengers-miss-flights-due-to-bharat-bandh/story-rnofgmHOlqLpjQNPvv4QqK.html
07-12-2020||India||Delhi-Haryana borders shut ahead of Bharat Bandh on Tuesday||In view of the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws passed by Parliament, the Delhi Police on Monday shut Tikri, Jharoda, Dhansa, Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh borders of the national Capital with its neighbouring state Haryana. The borders were shut a day before the countrywide strike or Bharat Bandh called by the agitating farmers on Tuesday. Update : Tikri, Jharoda Borders, Dhansa are closed for any Traffic Movement.Badusarai Border is open only for Light Motor Vehicle like Cars and two wheelers.Jhatikara Border is open only for two wheeler traffic @dtptraffic @DelhiPoliceThe National Highway-44 was also shut on both sides and commuters were suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. The traffic police advised those travelling towards Noida to take the DND as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too was closed for traffic. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 was also shut for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders were among the few open borders with Haryana, the official twitter handle of the Delhi Traffic Police said. Update: Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders *Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders* @dtptraffic @DelhiPoliceThe three laws that the farmers are protesting against - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have been hailed as reforms needed to remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.Meanwhile, the farmers say these laws will leave them at the mercy of big farmers.“We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-haryana-borders-shut-ahead-of-bharat-bandh-on-tuesday/story-fDr845fzIOYel88ZIDaWJN.html
07-12-2020||India||Railway union AIRF extends support for Bharat Bandh||The All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting on Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new agri-marketing laws.Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, AIRF met the agitating farmers at Singhu border and assured them that members of the railway union are with them in their fight against the new agriculture laws.“We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands, on December 8, 2020 during ‘Bharat Bandh’. I have already advised AIRF affiliates to organise agitation programmes, dharna, demonstrations and rallies during lunch hour against anti-farmer policies of the Government of India.“I hope that the government will give cognizance to the genuine demands of the farmers and redress the same at the earliest,” he said.The railway union, which has around 9 lakh members, is the latest to show solidarity with the agitating farmers, who have found support from transport unions and the joint forum of trade unions like the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).Opposition parties like the Congress, NCP, SP, INLD and the Left parties have also come out in support of the stir.After five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions failed to end the impasse, the two sides are again set to meet on December 9, a day after the countrywide strike.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-union-airf-extends-support-for-bharat-bandh/story-FmGxxYpGOs2tQmk3QJONpJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Railway unions AIRF and NFIR extend support to protesting farmers, a day before Bharat Bandh||The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to the farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws, demanding their repeal. The farmer unions have called for Bharat Bandh (nationwide strike), in a signal that the stir has intensified. Many political parties and unions have backed Bharat Bandh, which will begin at 11 am on Tuesday.Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) on Monday announced that the Indian Railways will be extending its support to the farmers in their struggle to repeal the new agri laws passed by the Parliament recently.Mishra, on Monday, met the agitating farmers protesting at Singhu border of the national capital and assured them that the AIRF will completely back them in their peaceful protest against the laws and for the demand of Minimum Support Price in agriculture.Also Read | BSNL employees come out in support of farmers’ demands“We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands on 8th December, 2020 during “Bharat Bandh”,” Mishra in a statement. He also said that the railway body has already advised AIRF affiliates all over the Indian Railways “to organise agitation programmes, like dharna, demonstration and rallies” against anti-farmer policies of the government.The general secretary also expressed hope that the government will consider the genuine demands of the farmers and address the issue at the earliest.The railway union with over 9 lakh members is the latest party extending support to the farmers in their fight against the new laws. Before them, the farmers’ union proposed Bharat Bandh had garnered support from transport unions and the joint forum of trade unions like the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).Another railway body, the National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR), also came out in support of the farmers and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to concede to the demands of the protesters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-unions-extend-support-to-farmers-protest-and-call-for-bharat-bandh/story-d5yZXKkgvHow4bElhrF73L.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||INLD extends support to farmers’ organisations for ‘Bharat Bandh’||The Indian National Lok Dal on Monday extended its support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting at the Delhi borders against the new central agri-marketing laws.Abhay Singh Chautala said his party had announced its support to the protesting farmers the day the agitation started, adding that “each and every worker of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) will fight this battle shoulder-to-shoulder to strengthen this movement so that the Centre is forced to abolish the three black laws imposed on the peasants”.“Our party has decided to extend full support to the Bharat Bandh,” he said.Chautala, younger son of INLD president and former chief minister OP Chautala, said he will visit the Tikri border on December 9 and meet the farmers and leaders leading the stir.In a statement here, the INLD leader said no farmer organisation of the country had demanded the new agricultural laws, but the central government enacted the “black farm legislations to benefit the corporates”.He reiterated his demand that the Centre withdraw these laws and guarantee minimum support price (MSP) of crops to farmers, and also make provisions of punishment for whoever buys the crop below the MSP.Chautala also appealed to all political parties that they should rise above party politics and stand with farmers to lend strength to the agitation.At a press conference here last week, Chautala had asked the Centre to immediately accept farmers demand to repeal the three farm laws, and asserted that the party was “solidly behind the farmers fighting against the three laws”.Claiming that their agitation has spread across the nation, farmer leaders, who have maintained that their protest is apolitical, have welcomed the support and urged all to come forward to make Bharat Bandh a success.After five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions failed to end the impasse, the two sides are again set to meet on December 9, a day after the countrywide strike.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre, however, has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inld-extends-support-to-farmers-organisations-for-bharat-bandh/story-pwyxnzMUdShfGWjiZIgdcM.html
07-12-2020||India||BSNL employees come out in support of farmers’ demands||BSNL Employees Union on Monday said it fully supports the demand of farmers’ organisations for repealing the farm laws.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws enacted in the Monsoon Session of Parliament.“BSNL Employees Union (BSNLEU) is fully supporting the demands of the farmers’ organisations calling for the repealing of the Farm Acts, undemocratically passed in the last session of the Parliament,” the union said in a statement.“BSNL Employees Union fully shares the apprehensions of the farmers’ organisations, that the recently passed Farm Acts will take away the minimum support price being offered by the government,” it added.The union has called upon its circle and district branches throughout the country to organise lunch hour demonstrations on Tuesday, it said.“BSNLEU is also fully supporting the demand of the farmers’ Organisations, calling for total withdrawal of the Electricity Bill-2020,” BSNL Employees Union said.Major political parties, such as the Congress, NCP, DMK, SP, TRS and Left, on Sunday came out in strong support of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called on December 8 by farmers protesting against the three recently enacted agri-marketing laws.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes or no’ reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsnl-employees-come-out-in-support-of-farmers-demands/story-jVMMpYsHKWE6IjZe54H2ZP.html
07-12-2020||India||Opposition has double standards on farm sector reforms: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday slammed the Opposition parties for politicising concerns about the recently passed farm laws and misleading the farmers, saying they are opposing the Narendra Modi government for the sake of doing so. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the political parties that have lent support to the ongoing protest by farmers shows the “double standards” as far as reforms in the farming sector is concerned. A bunch of political parties like the Congress, the NCP, the TMC, the SAD, the Samajwadi Party are supporting the farmers from Punjab and Haryana who have been camping in protest at the Delhi border seeking the repeal of the recently passed farm laws. Accusing them of “duplicity”, Prasad said parties like the Congress and the NCP had in the past tried to undertake similar reforms in the agriculture sector, but are opposing the Modi government for trying to do what they had tried to do. Watch l ‘Shameless double standards’: BJP attacks opposition over farmers’ protest “The Congress, in their 2019 manifesto, had promised to repeal the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act and make trade of agricultural produce including export free from all restrictions. In 2013, Rahul Gandhi had called a meeting of all Congress chief ministers and said Congress-ruled states should give farmers the right to sell directly. He said they will delist fruits and vegetables from the APMC and give free choice to farmers,” Prasad said.He went on to say that Sharad Pawar who was a former agriculture minister and is currently opposing the new farm laws had also written to chief ministers for private sector participation in market infrastructure. “He had written to then Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit and MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that agricultural sector needs improvement and the market requires huge investment in marketing infrastructure including cold chain and private sector participation is essential...There was a standing committee that had Mulayam Singh Yadav as a member, which said it was necessary that farmers have to be set free from the bindings of the Mandis,” Prasad said.Blaming the Opposition for using the farmers’ protest as a platform to “retain their political relevance”, Prasad said between 2007-12 the Manmohan Singh government had recommended contract farming. He said in states such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, MP, Mizoram, Nagaland, Orissa and Rajasthan contract farming was enabled to allow more opportunities for farmers and to increase their income. “Yogendra Yadav had wanted the Modi government to make improvements in the APMC act. Arvind Kejriwal on November 23 notified the new laws that have been drafted ...The political parties are misleading the farmers and their entire approach is double faced,” he said.He also assured farmers that their land will not be sold or leased under the new contract farming laws. “I want to assure them that the land will not be sold, leased or mortgaged under the new contract farming laws,” he said. Referring to the digital mandis, the national agriculture market portal that has given farmers access to markets outside their states the minister said one thousand mandis of 21 states are functioning on the portal and business worth Rs1.15 crore has been carried out. He said if the government’s intent was to close down mandis it would not have carried out buying of crops. Till November end, 31.8 million tonne of paddy has been bought of which 64% is from Punjab, he said.Meanwhile, the Congress blamed the Centre for the ongoing farmers’ agitation, saying the NDA government was responsible for the protests as it had not held discussions with the farmers before enacting the new laws. Addressing a news conference, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said the Centre had also attacked the opposition for its critique of the farm bills in the monsoon session of Parliament. He claimed the Centre would be responsible for any inconvenience faced by the people during Bharat bandh on Tuesday. “The only solution is to call a session of Parliament and repeal the laws,” Jakhar told reporters. “The Centre is being rigid. It is responsible for the farmers agitating in bitter cold,” he added. The Congress leader also attacked the government over the construction of new Parliament building. “The government is spending money on constructing a new Parliament building. They should realise that Parliament runs on emotions not buildings,” he added. Congress leaders from Punjab and Haryana staged a protest at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar, demanding immediate convening of winter session of Parliament to discuss the farmers’ issues. Party MPs from Punjab and Haryana Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewari, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Amar Singh, Mohammad Sadique and Deepender Hooda held a sit-in at Jantar Mantar to press upon the government to withdraw the contentious laws and discuss the issue in Parliament. (With input from Aurangzeb Naqshbandi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravi-shankar-prasad-slams-opposition-for-double-standards-on-reforms-in-farm-sector/story-l8lfpUJjNzvbPYt1KKrASL.html
07-12-2020||India||Congress unit in Uttarakhand says BJP rubbing salt on farmers’ wounds||The Congress unit in Uttarakhand on Monday accused the BJP government in the state and the ruling party of being insensitive to the farmers’ protest while hosting a “grand welcome for its national president JP Nadda”.“Today the farmers are braving the cold in the winter while agitating for their rights against the three black farm laws, outside Delhi. Ignoring all their struggles, Nadda is being offered a grand welcome by the state government and BJP here which is absolutely shocking,” Uttarakhand’s Congress president Pritam Singh said at a press conference. Singh said, “Instead of listening to the farmers, the BJP have labelled them as terrorists which is like rubbing salt on their wounds. Ignoring all these, Nadda is asking the BJP state unit to focus on the 2022 assembly elections.” The Congress chief also attacked chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat accusing him of “not coming out of his house during the pandemic but to welcome Nadda.” “During the peak of the pandemic and complete lockdown, when the people of the state were suffering, Rawat didn’t step out of his house. But now when his party national president has come, he happily comes out and holds all party events. Is this how a CM should be?” said Singh. Singh also attacked the state government on several issues including corruption and price rise and demanded answers from Nadda on them. “A few weeks ago, the Uttarakhand High Court in its order had directed a case against CM and a probe by CBI on corruption allegations against him. It happened for the first time in constitutional history. But CM had no morality or ethics left in him or else he would have resigned after that,” said Singh. “Apart from this, several ministers of their own government including Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had raised the issue of corruption in some government projects. Is Nadda going to say anything in this or just focus on elections?” he asked. He accused the government of doing nothing to control rising prices. “From vegetables to cooking gas, the price of everything is skyrocketing. But the government is doing nothing to control them. Nadda spoke nothing of it in his visit. Instead, he asked the party to prepare for the 2022 elections. It just shows that the government has no intention of fighting these serious issues related to the public.” He claimed that the Congress would win the next assembly elections as people of the state have now understood that the BJP government has done nothing for them but made only hollow promises. “We are fully prepared for the elections and will come to power with a thumping majority. The people will teach BJP a lesson for their misdeeds. It is the BJP which is not prepared for the polls or else Nadda wouldn’t have come here,” said Singh. He also declared that Congress would support the Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers on Tuesday. “Our farmers are on road fighting for their rights and our party has decided to stand with them till the three agricultural laws are repealed by the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-unit-in-uttarakhand-says-bjp-rubbing-salt-on-farmers-wounds/story-HeOl2NwKHZwRgP1JWj7oCM.html
07-12-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav was on Monday detained after he launched a sit-in protest outside his residence in Lucknow before being stopped from going to Kannauj to lead a protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. Over hundreds of workers of the party, who continued with their protest against the farm laws enacted earlier this year, were also arrested in Kannauj.Yadav also wrote to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla over the protests asking him to step in. “Apart from being a Lok Sabha member and Samajwadi Party national president, I had fulfilled my constitutional duty as UP chief minister. There was a pre-announced programme of mine in Kannauj in support of farmers. All preparations were in place. But on the instructions of the UP government, I was prevented from going to Kannauj,” he said.Follow latest updates on farmers protests hereHe added that a heavy police force has been deployed at his house on Vikramaditya Marg. “The police even took my vehicle under their control. This undemocratic behaviour of the state government is not only an infringement of my rights as a citizen but also of special privileges as an LS member. Kindly interfere so that my right to my democratic duties is restored,” Yadav wrote.The Samajwadi Party president had announced statewide Kisaan Yatra - on foot, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, etc - to protest the new agricultural reforms and lend support to the farmers’ cause. Earlier in the day, the SP president had tweeted asking people to join the protest rally. “Step by step, bow your head. Yeh jung hai zameen ki. Join the ‘Kisan Yatra’!” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi. The police have cordoned off Vikramaditya Marg where Yadav’s house is and also deployed anti-riot vehicles. They already took two SP legislative council members - Ashu Malik and Rajpal Kashyap - and sent them to the police lines.After Yadav was prevented from going to Kannauj, Rajendra Chaudhary, SP state spokesperson and former UP minister said, “This government is so scared of Akhilesh ji taking to streets. He has to go there to participate in the farmers’ protest and drive a tractor along with the farmers to raise their issue. First, the central government introduced draconian kind of farm laws and now the state government is preventing our party from protesting. This all is so anti-democratic,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-sits-on-dharna-outside-his-house-over-hundred-sp-workers-protesting-against-farm-laws-arrested/story-tEkCkPfrVg1jH780LzFpFO.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: ‘Came here as sevadar,’ says CM Kejriwal as he visits Singhu border||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited Singhu border on Monday where he briefly interacted with some of the protesting farmers and also inspected the arrangements made by the city administration for them.Even as Kejriwal did not visit the main protest site, he was surrounded by scores of agitating farmers as he reached Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border).“I have not come here as a chief minister. I have come here as a sevadar (one who does service). We support all demands of the farmers. Their issue and demands are valid. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and I have stood in support of the farmers right from the start,” Kejriwal told reporters during his visit.Also read | 7 borders connecting Delhi with UP, Haryana remain completely closedThe chief minister repeated that the Central government was “very upset” with him for not allowing the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums in the city into jails to detain the protesting farmers. He reiterated that he was pressured into giving the approval, but he still did not.“Our party, MLAs and leaders have been serving farmers as sevadars ever since. Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them. AAP supports December 8 Bharat Bandh. Our party workers will participate in it across the nation,” he said. Talking about the arrangements made by the Delhi government, Kejriwal, who is the national convener of AAP, said that at least 300 mobile toilets and 350 water tankers have been deployed at Singhu border. “I surveyed the arrangements here. The toilets are clean. But, water is not reaching all points so a motor and a pipeline will be placed soon. During my interaction with the farmers, they said they are satisfied with the arrangements. We will be in touch with them,” the chief minister said before leaving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-came-here-as-sevadar-says-cm-kejriwal-as-he-visits-singhu-border/story-zhgJxZ97VSeOlP4fiCRY8K.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ demands valid, will back Bharat Bandh: Kejriwal at Delhi’s Singhu border||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has always stood by farmers as he reiterated the support to their call for the Bharat Bandh or nationwide strike on Tuesday. Kejriwal made the comments at the Capital’s Singhu border, where he has gone to extend support and check arrangements for farmers who have been protesting for the past 12 days against three farm laws enacted by the central government in September.“We support all the demands of farmers. Their issues and demands are valid. My party and I have stood with them from the very beginning. At the beginning of their protests, Delhi Police had sought permission to convert nine stadiums into jails. I was pressurised but didn’t permit,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on farmers protest hereHe was referring to the Delhi government denying police permission to convert nine stadiums in the city into temporary detention centres in light of the farmers’ agitation on November 27, a day after the ‘Dilli Chalo’ march began. “The farmers’ demands are valid. The central government should agree to their demands immediately. Detaining farmers is not the solution. Peaceful protest is the constitutional right of every Indian. They cannot be jailed for that. That’s why Delhi government is rejecting the permission sought by Delhi Police to convert stadiums into jails,” Delhi’s home minister Satyendar Jain had then said then in a letter to the Delhi Police.At the protest venue, Kejriwal said members of the AAP have been serving the farmers as ‘sevadars’ since the protests began. “I haven’t come here as a CM but as a ‘sevadar’. Farmers are in trouble today and we should stand with them. The AAP supports Dec 8 Bharat Bandh and party workers will participate in it across the nation,” he said.Several other political parties, including the Congress party, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Left parties, Trinamool Congress (TMC), and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), have also decided to stand in solidarity with the protesting farmers by supporting the general strike on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-demands-valid-will-back-bharat-bandh-kejriwal-at-delhi-singhu-border/story-xWaz5N8a8Ud5iovNVXeg9N.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: 7 borders connecting Delhi with Haryana, UP remain closed||As many as seven borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained completely closed on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, causing traffic snarls and inconvenience to motorists in many parts of the city. The borders that are completely shut are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Jharoda and Chilla. While the first six borders connect Delhi with Haryana, the Chilla border is used by people travelling between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh’s Noida, Greater Noida, Jewar, Mathura, Agra and Lucknow. No new border was blocked by the protesting farmers who have been camping at the Haryana-Delhi and Uttar Pradesh-Delhi borders for the past 11 days.On Monday, the Delhi Traffic Police also issued alerts and advisories on social media, informing commuters about the closure of the borders and the alternate routes they should be taking to avoid traffic jams. Also read | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal likely to visit Singhu border to inspect arrangements for protesting farmers“Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides. Take alternate routes via Lampur,Safiabad,Saboli borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road, NH44,” the traffic police tweeted.The traffic police also updated that Tikri, Jharoda borders are closed for any traffic movement. It said that Badusarai border is open only for cars and two wheelers while Jhatikara border is open only for two wheeler traffic.“Available open borders to Haryana are Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders,” the traffic police tweeted. About the two borders in east Delhi, the traffic police said that the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border on Delhi-Meerut expressway is closed for traffic coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad. The service road of NH-24 connecting Delhi from Ghaziabad has also been closed since the protest started. Those coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad side have been advised to avoid the expressway and NH-24 service lane. The traffic police have asked them to take Anand Vihar, Apsara, Bhopra borders for entering Delhi. As far as the Chilla border on Delhi-Noida link road is concerned, the traffic police alert on Twitter seemed confusing. While the vehicular movement on both the carriageways (between Delhi and Noida) is shut due the farmers’ protest, the traffic police is only updating about the carriageway connecting Delhi from Noida. “The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use DND,” the traffic police tweeted.Since the Chilla border is completely blocked, the motorists are taking alternate borders such as Kalindi Kunj, DND, New Ashok Nagar, Kondli and Dallupura to travel between Delhi and Noida. Since these borders are narrow, bottlenecks have been reported with many office-goers stuck in the jams for several minutes. A senior Delhi Traffic Police officer said, “We have increased the presence of traffic personnel at the congestion points, mostly on the borders to regulate the traffic movement manually.” The officer said that the traffic chaos would get over by noon but it is expected to worsen during the evening peak hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-7-borders-connecting-delhi-with-up-haryana-completely-closed/story-DhM3qc6QH5YoPTc6Gt6PVO.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border to inspect arrangements for protesting farmers||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is on his way to visit the national capital’s Singhu border on Monday to inspect arrangements made by the Union Territory government for farmers at the spot protesting against the three central laws enacted by the Centre earlier this year, according to news agency ANI. The visit by the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) national convenor to the Singhu border comes a day after he extended support to the agitating farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh or nationwide strike on Tuesday. “The AAP would support the Bharat Bandh called by farmer groups on December 8. AAP volunteers too would join hands with farmers in peaceful protests across the country on that day. It’s an appeal to citizens of India to support the farmers,” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest hereThousands of farmers, mainly from the northern states of Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders for the 12th day now against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, enacted by Parliament in September. The AAP had voted against the three laws in both Houses of Parliament.AAP leader and Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said all party volunteers and workers will participate in the strike to support the farmers. “This is not just the farmers’ fight but the fight for all countrymen. India is an agricultural country and if farmers are unhappy then the country is affected. I appeal to all to join the protest,” said Rai.Also Read: Farmers across nation break language barriers, join protestAAP Lok Sabha MP from Punjab, Bhagwant Mann said, “We will do our best to support farmers in the nationwide strike on December 8. This strike is not political. It is about farmers, their land, and their livelihood. It concerns the entire nation. I urge everyone to support farmers. The central government has been doing one meeting after another for the past several days with top ministers but they have not been able to resolve the issue. Resolving the issue needs political will and good intent.”Farmers, who are demanding that three farm laws be withdrawn, have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands are not met. They want a special session of Parliament to be called to repeal the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-singhu-border-to-inspect-arrangements-for-protesting-farmers/story-bAI6V9CjE03KFAw6b82FgO.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi traffic police ask commuters to take alternate routes to enter city||Delhi Traffic Police on Monday issued traffic alerts and advised people to take alternative routes for entering the national capital as the ongoing farmers’ protest at Burari, Singhu and Tikri borders against the new central farm laws entered the twelfth day. The traffic police took to Twitter to inform commuters about the roads that are closed and borders to Haryana that are open.At the Chilla border on Noida link road and Ghazipur border on National Highway 24 has been closed for traffic due to farmers protests. Delhi Traffic Police has advised people to avoid Noida link road and NH 24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/DND.Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders are open while Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 has been closed on both sides and the police have advised people to take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Traffic has also been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road and people have been advised to avoid Outer Ring road and GTK road.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country have been camping at Delhi’s borders for the past 12 days to demand a repeal of the agriculture reform laws. They continued their sit-in demonstrations on Monday against the three farm laws enacted by the government after the fifth round of talks between their leaders and Union ministers failed to break the impasse.Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 and threatened to occupy toll plazas. The sixth round of talks will take place on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-police-ask-commuters-to-take-alternate-routes-to-enter-city/story-zFoKeWpIHh6LAf7Xo0WbYO.html
07-12-2020||India||Farmers’ Protest Updates: They are ‘misguided,’ says farmers in support of farm laws||As many as seven borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained completely closed on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, causing traffic snarls and inconvenience to motorists in many parts of the city.The opposition parties, including Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Samajwadi Party (SP), All India Forward Bloc (AIFB), National Congress Party (NCP) and Congress and Shiv Sena have extended their support for December 8 ‘Bharat Bandh’ call by farmers who are protesting against the farm laws. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three laws seek to open up farm trade.Farmers have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands for repealing the farm laws are not met. They are demanding that a special session of Parliament is called to repeal the laws. The next talks are scheduled to be held on December 9.Follow live updates here:Farmers who are protesting are misguided: Progressive farmers club“Farmers who are protesting are misguided. Prime Minister has assured that MSP and mandi system will remain,” Kanwal Singh Chauhan, president of progressive farmers club after meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi to remain closed tomorrow“Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi and all other mandis in the city to remain closed tomorrow, in support of ‘Bharat Bandh’ call made by farmers,” news agency ANI quoted Adil Ahmed Khan, Chairman, Azadpur Mand, as saying. Harayana chief minister ML Khattar hit out at oppositionSlamming opposition parties for supporting protests by farmers, Harayana chief minister ML Khattar said, “Opposition parties are doing petty politics in the name of farmers, it’s condemnable. Public and farmers should understand that there is no harm in implementing the laws that have been enacted for the progress of farmers. PM has assured that MSP will continue.”Railway unions extend support to call for Bharat Bandh The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8. “We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands, on December 8, 2020 during ‘Bharat Bandh’. I have already advised AIRF affiliates to organise agitation programmes, dharna, demonstrations and rallies during lunch hour against anti-farmer policies of the Government of India,” said Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF).AAP to hold demonstration on TuesdayAam Aadmi Party will hold peaceful demonstration in the city on Tuesday in support of ‘Bharat Bandh’, Delhi minister Gopal Rai said on Monday.Government will have to accept our demands, says farmer leader“Government will have to accept our demands, we want nothing less than withdrawal of new farm laws,” PTI quoted farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, as saying.We appeal to farmers to not force anyone to observe ‘Bharat bandh, farmer leaders also said.Farmers to observe ‘Bharat bandh’ whole day; road blockade till 3pm The nationwide strike in the country will be observed the whole day on Tuesday, farmer leader Dr Darshan Pal informed media at Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. However, chaka jam (road blockade) will only be in effect till 3pm due to the office hours.”It will be a peaceful bandh. We are firm on not allowing any political leaders on our stage,” Pal also said.Emergency services will also be allowed.Tamil Nadu minister D Jayakumar warns protesters“For those holding protest without permission, law will take its own course,” says Tamil Nadu Minister D Jayakumar on Bharat Bandh tomorrow.Transport services, essential supplies likely to be affected in Delhi on TuesdayAs various unions and associations of cab drivers and mandi traders decide to join the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on Tuesday, transport facilitates and supplies of essentials like vegetables and fruits are likely to be affected in Delhi, PTI reported.‘We want Centre to repeal the farm laws,’ says Akhilesh Yadav“We want the Centre to repeal the farm laws. They should tell the farmers, when will they bring the MSP (Minimum Support Price) that will double the farmers’ income?” asks Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav.Centre issues advisory to states, UTs for Bharat BandhA day before the nationwide strike, the Centre asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security during ‘Bharat Bandh. In a countrywide advisory, the Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed. It also asked the state and UT government to take required precautionary measurers maintain peace and tranquillity.Karanataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar extends support “We would like to extend our support to the farmers who are great support to the economy. Entire country would like to support them. We would like to thank leaders from various parts of the world who’ve expressed solidarity with our farmers,” said Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar.Sportsperson march towards Rashtrapati BhavanSeveral sportsperson including wrestler Kartar Singh marched towards Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi to return they awards as sign of protest against the farm laws. However they were stopped midway by the Delhi police. “30 sportspersons from Punjab and some others want to return their award,” ANI quoted Singh as saying.BJP’s Ravi Shankar Prasad slams opposition parties“The leaders of the Kisan movement have categorically stated that political people do not come to our forum. We respect these sentiments. But they are all jumping, as they are getting another chance to oppose BJP and Narendra Modi,” news agency quoted Ravi Shankar Prasad as saying.“Today, when they are losing their political existence, they join any conflicting movement to save their existence,“ he also said.Punjabi writer, poet Surjit Patar decides to return Padma Shri over farm laws rowI'm deeply hurt with the behaviour of the Centre with the farmers protesting at Delhi borders. Despite making repeated attempts, nothing conclusive done to satisfy them. I have decided to return Padma Shri in support of farmers: Surjit Patar, Punjabi writer & poet #FarmLawsI would call Congress leaders, workers and right-minded people to fully support the farmers : Punjab Congress Chief Sunil JakharI would call Congress leaders, workers and right-minded people to fully support the farmers in Bharat Bandh so that the self-conceit government could open their eyes and ears: Punjab Congress Chief Sunil Jakhar.We don’t want to cause problems for common man: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonWe don’t want to cause problems for common man. Therefore, we will begin at 11 am, so that they could leave for office on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3 pm. Services such as ambulance, even weddings, can go on as usual. People can show their card & leave: Rakesh TikaitOur protest is peaceful and we will continue that way: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonOur protest is peaceful and we will continue that way. Tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh is from 11 am to 3 pm. It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav detainedSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has been detained. He was staging a sit-in protest near his house.BJP govt at Centre must withdraw farm bills or step down: Mamata BanerjeeBJP governmentt at Centre must withdraw farm bills or step down, said Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee at rally in West Midnapore.Delhi Police has made proper arrangements ahead of tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police PRODelhi Police has made proper arrangements ahead of tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh. We are trying to ensure that the lives of the common people are not affected. If someone tries to shut down shops forcefully or block roads, legal action will be taken: Eish Singhal, Delhi Police PROSamajwadi Party Sadar MLA Anil Dohre and many leaders arrested by police in KannaujSamajwadi Party Sadar MLA Anil Dohre and many leaders arrested by the police in Kannauj.Akhilesh Yadav sits on dharna as he was stopped from joining farmer’s protestSamajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav came out and sat on a dharna near his house. Farmers who participated in the protest (in the state) were arrested: MK StalinFarmers who participated in the protest (in the state) were arrested. I had also participated in a protest (in Salem). Edappadi Palaniswami government is against protesters: DMK president MK Stalin.We will support Bharat Bandh and participate in it: DMK president MK StalinThe Opposition has already said that we will support the bandh (December 8th Bharat Bandh) and participate in it: DMK president MK Stalin.Police has stopped our vehicles, we will walk: Akhilesh YadavOur workers have protested at several locations. They (Police) can put us in jail if they want. They have stopped our vehicles. We will walk: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav.He is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of farmers agitating against Centre’s farm laws.Cong MPs from Punjab protest demanding winter session of Parliament to discuss farmers issueCongress MPs from Punjab protest at Jantar Mantar, demanding winter session of Parliament to discuss farmers issue.“Session should be called, anti-farmer laws should be reconsidered and withdrawn. Government is avoiding the session. It’s against democracy,” says MP Manish Tewari.Akhilesh Yadav urges people to take part in ‘KisanYatra’Former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Akhilesh Yadav urged people to take part in ‘Kisan yatra’. क़दम-क़दम बढ़ाए जा, दंभ का सर झुकाए जाये जंग है ज़मीन की, अपनी जान भी लगाए जा‘किसान-यात्रा’ में शामिल हों! #नहीं_चाहिए_भाजपाNew farm bill has raised several doubts and insecurity in minds of farmers regarding MSP : NCPThe new farm bill has raised several doubts and insecurity in minds of farmers regarding MSP and other issues which the government has failed to address. Modi government couldn’t form broader consensus and has failed to satisfy legitimate apprehensions of the farmers and entire opposition, said NCP.Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them: Arvind KejriwalOur party, MLAs and leaders have been serving farmers as ‘sevadars’ ever since. I haven’t come here as CM but as a ‘sevadar’. Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them. AAP supports December 8th Bharat Bandh, party workers will participate in it across the nation, said Arvind Kejriwal.We support all demands of farmers: Arvind KejriwalWe support all demands of farmers. Their issue and demands are valid. My party and I have stood with them from the very beginning. At the beginning of their protests, Delhi Police had sought permission to convert 9 stadiums into jails. I was pressurised but didn’t permit, said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Akhilesh Yadav is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of f protesting armersPolice force deployed outside Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s residence at Vikramaditya Marg. Yadav is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of farmers protesting against the farm laws.Arvind Kejriwal reaches s Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal reaches Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border); meets protesting farmers, inspects arrangements made for them.Arvind Kejriwal leaves for Singhu borderDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal leaves from his residence. He will visit Singhu border today.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) today where farmers’ protest, against Centre’s farm laws, entered 12th day. Other ministers of Delhi government to also accompany the CM. They will inspect arrangements made by the UT government for farmers at the spot.BSP supports Bharat Bandh call by farmersBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supports the Bharat Bandh called by farmer Unions on December 8 over farm laws, tweets party chief Mayawati.Farmers continue to camp at Singhu borderFarmers continue to camp at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) to protest against the farm laws.The farmers’ protest at Singhu border, against Central Government’s Farm laws, entered 12th day today.Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed: Delhi Traffic PoliceSinghu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road: Delhi Traffic PoliceShiv Sena supports ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers on December 8Shiv Sena supports ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers on December 8, tweets party leader Sanjay Raut||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-Jinx0sUitsir01Nm7emP3J.html
07-12-2020||World||India questions Scotland Yard security after protest over farmers’ issue||The Indian high commission on Sunday questioned the security provided by Scotland Yard after nearly 4,000 protestors were allowed to gather to protest against farm laws in a demonstration that it said included anti-India elements.Scotland Yard arrested 13 people and advised motorists to avoid the area around the Indian mission in central London after thousands converged from various parts of the UK, leading to traffic jams in the area for some hours. Four of the arrested were later de-arrested after they provided details to the police and were fined.Indian quarters expressed strong disappointment over the security arrangements after the protestors were allowed despite restrictions in place over Covid-19 and the police stating that a “robust policing plan” was in place.Indian diplomat Vishwesh Negi said, “The high commission had been informed that as per normal practice permission had been sought... for a drive-past protest involving about 40 vehicles. We were also aware that the police had given specific warning against the gathering of more than 30 people”.“The developing situation was brought to the attention of the UK Foreign Office and Home Office. The London Metropolitan Police managed, controlled and eventually disposed the crowds. We could see that a few violent were arrested”.Also read: Satellite imagery shows China setting up border villages between India, Bhutan“Our high commission has been coordinating closely with the authorities concerned and we will, together with them, address the issues that have come up: for example, how this gathering of thousands could take place without specific permission, etc,” he added.The teenagers were arrested after they were seen setting off “firework towards a large crowd. They were also found to be in possession of a number of other fireworks,” the police said, adding that officers are in attendance at the protest in the Aldwych area.Motorists were advised to avoid Strand, Waterloo Bridge and Fleet Street near the Indian mission, which was cordoned off by a line of police officers, while a large crowd shouted slogans and held placards against the Narendra Modi government on the other side of the road, demanding scrapping of the controversial farm laws.There were also some demonstrations at Trafalgar Square. Reports from various parts of London and some approach roads into the capital also witnessed traffic jams as cars bearing flags and placards were driven by protestors arriving from various places.Negi added, “As expected, it soon became clear that the gathering was led by anti-India separatists who had taken the opportunity of the farm protests ostensibly not to back the farmers in India but use the opportunity to pursue their own agenda”.“As many are aware, the protest against agriculture reform bills in India is part of a democratic process. It is work in progress in our functioning democracy. Government of India is in talks with the protesters which are still ongoing. Needless to say, it is an internal issue of India”.Indian officials have been briefing interlocutors in the British government and parliament in recent days on the fundamental features of farm sector reforms.The protestors had gathered in central London even after the police issued a reminder that strict regulations remain in place to help prevent the spread of coronavirus disease. The reminder meant that anyone gathering for the protest risks enforcement action by officers, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-questions-scotland-yard-security-after-protest-over-farmers-issue/story-zyjRX0IlUmtEc2x4EpdVfI.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat bandh: Major impact likely to be felt in Punjab||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Tuesday asked all states and union territories to strictly enforce Covid-19 protocol and make adequate security arrangements for Bharat bandh on Tuesday, called by various farmer bodies protesting against the three farm bills passed in the monsoon session of Parliament.All opposition parties except Biju Janata Dal and YSR Congress, and major labour and worker unions have extended support to the bandh call which is likely to have impact in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, western Uttar Pradesh, and parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana. In an advisory, the home ministry has also asked the police departments and state governments to ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines issued are strictly adhered to by the protestors, officials familiar with the matter said. “Peace and tranquillity should be maintained during Bharat bandh and security arrangements should be in place to avoid any untoward incident,” the advisory said.After the MHA advisory, several state governments such as Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh issued instructions to district officers to take “stern action” for those resorting to violence and violating Covid-19 guidelines.Also read: Bharat Bandh - All you need to know about services that may be affectedThe bandh, which will start in the morning and will continue till 3 pm, is expected to have a major impact in Punjab, where all political parties, traders bodies, truck union and mandi associations have extended support. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, on Tuesday said the strike will be complete. In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmer bodies planning blockades along major highways. Haryana’s Additional Director General of Police (ADGP-law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the public may have to face traffic blockages while travelling on various roads and highways of the state on December 8. “The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm, the officer said. In Uttar Pradesh, opposition party leaders Akhilesh Yadav of Samajwadi Party and Mayawati of Bahujan Samaj Party asked its workers to participate in the bandh. Police officials expect the bandh to have impact in western UP, where Bharatiya Kisan Union has sizeable influence. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, however, accused the opposition parties of making a ‘nasty bid’ to create a situation of anarchy and disorder in the country by using innocent farmers as a cover. “The opposition parties are trying to mislead innocent farmers on the Centre’s revolutionary and historic laws to further their selfish political ends,” Adityanath said. Also read: Besides Bharat Biotech,who else has applied for emergency use authorisationIn Rajasthan, various farmer bodies have announced to block all highways in the state till 3 pm even as chief minister Ashok Gehlot exhorted protestors to maintain peace. President, Rajasthan Kissan Mahapanchat, Rampal Jat said, “Over 50 farmer organisations of the state are supporting the bandh and there will be complete closedown tomorrow.” In Maharashtra, Shiv Sena along with alliance partners, the Congress and Nationalist Congress party, supported the bandh. In Madhya Pradesh, over 50 farmer bodies have decided to block traffic at various highways on Tuesday. Gujarat has invoked prohibitory orders across the state to prevent any major protests, officials said.There would be no strike in Kerala, where local body polls are to be held on Tuesday, even though the state government on Monday decided to approach the Supreme Court against three farmer bills. “Agriculture falls into the state list as per the seventh schedule of the constitution. States were not consulted before bringing such legislation and farmers’ bodies were also kept in the dark. We feel this legislation will only benefit big corporate houses engaged in the sector,” said state agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar, adding that they support the farmer protests.In Tamil Nadu, DMK chief M K Stalin will lead the protests whereas in Telangana, chief minister K Chandrashekhar Roa has asked all party workers to ensure complete bandh. The opposition Congress, Janata Dal (Secular) and pro-Kannada bodies have supported the bandh in Karnataka. However, in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha the ruling parties, YSR Congress and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) have decided not to support the bandh.In West Bengal and Jharkhand, the bandh is expected to have an impact as all main parties and trade unions have given a call for complete strike. “Our government does not support strikes but the TMC fully supports farmers struggle,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. In Bihar, although RJD has given a call for strike, the impact may not be much as the government has invoked prohibitory orders on assembly of four people or more across the state. Additional Director General of Police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said all district officers have been instructed to ensure law and order and deal sternly with those trying to resort to violence.Thousands of farmers at Delhi’s borders under the aegis of 32 farmer bodies from Punjab are protesting against the Centre’s new law agricultural laws for past 11 days demanding that they be repealed. Five rounds of talks with the government have not yielded any results and the next round of talks is on December 9.“The response is overwhelming, not only Punjab or the neighbouring state, it would be a total bandh in the entire country,” said BS Rajewal president of a faction of Bharatiya Kisan union who is camping at Singhu border since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-major-impact-likely-to-be-felt-in-punjab/story-BK4R4MuuvEI3VxUNftSjFO.html
07-12-2020||India||Who gave Bharat Bandh call and the parties supporting it: All you need to know||As many as 35 farmer unions have called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ or a nationwide strike on Tuesday against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in September. The unions include the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and its different factions, Krantikari Kisan Union and Kisan Sangharsh Committee. Some other Left Front backed groups are also part of this.Also Read: ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’, says PM ModiNumerous opposition and Left parties including the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have supported the call for the bandh.A joint platform of 10 central trade unions has also extended its support to the call. The platform comprises of the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC).Also Read: Centre issues ‘Bharat Bandh’ advisory for statesThe controversial farm laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-gave-bharat-bandh-call-and-the-parties-supporting-it-all-you-need-to-know/story-5SkcowkjdPxTKOFuhbkdiO.html
07-12-2020||India||Farmers’ group in support of new laws meet Agri Minister, seek amendments||As thousands of farmers continue to protest on various borders of the national capital seeking repeal of three new farm laws, a delegation of 20 from Haryana met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to extend their support for the new legislations.Calling it a delegation of ‘progressive farmers’, a member of the team said the group led by Padmashree awardee Kamal Singh Chavan met Tomar in support of the farm laws enacted in September and demanded the government may amend some provisions but it should not repeal them.The delegation members said they were individual farmers and representatives of farmer producer organisations (FPOs).The delegation included Bharatiya Kisan Union (Attar) National President Attar Singh Sandhu.The meeting took place a day before a “Bharat Bandh” to be observed by protesting farmers’ organisations on Tuesday, while a meeting is already scheduled for the day after on December 9 between a representative group of agitating farmers and the government for their sixth round of talks.No breakthrough has been possible in the five rounds so far, as the protesting farmers have stuck to their demand for the repeal of the laws despite the government’s assurance to look into specific issues without abolishing the legislations.The three farm laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has maintained the MSP and mandi systems would continue and would be rather further improved and strengthened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-in-support-of-new-laws-meet-agri-minister-seek-amendments/story-bQqp0MQWqGHVa5TZeuMtII.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Petrol pumps, hotels, restaurants in Punjab to remain shut on Tuesday||Petrol pumps, hotels, restaurants, bars and resorts all across Punjab will remain shut on December 8 in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations to protest against the Centre’s farm laws.The Petrol Pump Dealers Association of Punjab has extended its support to the nationwide strike and its president, Paramjit Singh Doaba, said that pumps would only open in case of an emergency.Meanwhile, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Punjab released a statement on Monday which said, “Barring pre-existing marriage and banquet bookings already confirmed, all hotels, restaurants, resorts and bars will remain closed to show support to Bharat Bandh on December 8.”Scores of farmers have been out on the roads leading up to the national capital for days in protest against the central government’s farm laws, demanding their withdrawals. Kisan unions have called for a nationwide strike on December 8 after talks with the Centre failed to materialise into anything conclusive.The protesting farmers have threatened more intense agitation if their demand of complete rollback of the laws are not met.They have garnered the support of millions across the country and outside, including political parties like Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party (SP), DMK, INLD, Bahujan Samaj Party and CPI(M).The farmers’ organisations have called for people to join their cause in large numbers but are against any form of violence or coercion to observe the strike.In the national capital, the Delhi Police have ramped up security along the borders of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. These border areas are the epicentre of protests which have been going on for 11 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-petrol-pumps-hotels-restaurants-in-punjab-to-remain-shut-on-tuesday/story-RTcyNqIYYTejdlfzIr2uKJ.html
07-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi records 1,674 new coronavirus cases, daily positivity rate drops 3.15% and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records 1,674 new coronavirus infections, daily positivity rate drops 3.15%After experiencing a severe third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi is now witnessing a steady dip in the number of new cases of the infection. On Monday, the national capital recorded 1,674 fresh Covid-19 cases and 63 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the official health bulletin. Read moreKerala to move Supreme Court over farm law this weekKerala will move the Supreme Court against the new farm law in a couple of days, said state agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar. He said since agriculture falls in the concurrent list, new law encroaches upon the rights of states and it was against the federal structure of the country. Read moreIndia, Nepal discuss creation of cross-border economic zonesIndia and Nepal on Monday reviewed the development of cross-border trade infrastructure and discussed ways to boost trade and investment, including the creation of cross-border economic zones. Read moreIndia vs Australia, 3rd T20I Preview: Stats, form indicate a whitewashConsidering India’s record against Australia in the shortest format of the game especially in Australia, it really shouldn’t be a surprise if Virat Kohli’s men go on to win the third and final T20I at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Tuesday to blank the hosts 3-0. Who would have thought this was possible when India ended November with a bag full of questions and little hopes of finding the answers. But strange things happen in cricket, especially with the change of formats. Read moreAK vs AK trailer: Anil Kapoor has to find kidnapped Sonam Kapoor in a clash of ego with ‘sasta Tarantino’ Anurag KashyapThe first trailer for Vikramaditya Motwane’s AK vs AK is out and it promises a lot of chaos. The film pits filmmaker Anurag Kashyap against Anil Kapoor in a clash of egos. Read more CEO of fashion company resigns to focus on family, prioritize wife’s careerThe chief executive of online fashion retailer Zalando is stepping down to focus on his family, saying his wife’s career should “take priority” in the coming years. Read more Watch: ‘Shameless double standards’: BJP attacks opposition over farmers’ protestUnion Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad lashed out at the opposition parties over the protest by farmers. Prasad said that the UPA government had done the same when it was in power and added that they are opposing only for the sake of it. ‘The Congress, in their 2019 manifesto, had promised to repeal the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act and make trade of agricultural produce including export free from all restrictions,’ Prasad said. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-records-1-674-new-coronavirus-infections-daily-positivity-rate-drops-3-15-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FFWPitA1VnjUkGSNBJBkIJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Railway unions AIRF and NFIR extend support to protesting farmers, a day before Bharat Bandh||The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to the farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws, demanding their repeal. The farmer unions have called for Bharat Bandh (nationwide strike), in a signal that the stir has intensified. Many political parties and unions have backed Bharat Bandh, which will begin at 11 am on Tuesday.Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) on Monday announced that the Indian Railways will be extending its support to the farmers in their struggle to repeal the new agri laws passed by the Parliament recently.Mishra, on Monday, met the agitating farmers protesting at Singhu border of the national capital and assured them that the AIRF will completely back them in their peaceful protest against the laws and for the demand of Minimum Support Price in agriculture.Also Read | BSNL employees come out in support of farmers’ demands“We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands on 8th December, 2020 during “Bharat Bandh”,” Mishra in a statement. He also said that the railway body has already advised AIRF affiliates all over the Indian Railways “to organise agitation programmes, like dharna, demonstration and rallies” against anti-farmer policies of the government.The general secretary also expressed hope that the government will consider the genuine demands of the farmers and address the issue at the earliest.The railway union with over 9 lakh members is the latest party extending support to the farmers in their fight against the new laws. Before them, the farmers’ union proposed Bharat Bandh had garnered support from transport unions and the joint forum of trade unions like the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).Another railway body, the National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR), also came out in support of the farmers and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to concede to the demands of the protesters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-unions-extend-support-to-farmers-protest-and-call-for-bharat-bandh/story-d5yZXKkgvHow4bElhrF73L.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: All you need to know about parties supporting it and services that may be affected||The farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament have given a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call in a signal that they are intensifying their stir. The nationwide strike will begin at 11 am and go on till 3 pm, as the protesters said they don’t want to cause problems for the common man. The Centre has tried to find a solution to end the stir, but five rounds of talks so far have not been able to placate the farmers.In Delhi, the police have made elaborate security arrangements and warned that strict action will be taken against those trying to disrupt movement of people or “forcefully” shut shops. The farmers have been protesting near the national capital since November 26.Also Read: Centre issues ‘Bharat Bandh’ advisory for statesThe Delhi Traffic Police have said that Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri and Jharoda borders (on the Haryana side) are closed. The National Highway-44 has also been closed on both sides. So those travelling are suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Those travelling towards Noida have been advised to take DND as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too is closed for traffic, it said. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Also Watch l Bharat Bandh: TMC says no strike in Bengal; Delhi Police warns l Key details Here’s everything you need to know about the Bharat Bandh tomorrow:• The farmers’ stand: The farmers from Punjab and Haryana, who have been protesting for the past 11 days, are adamant that the three farm laws should be repealed. They have called these laws “anti-farmer”, saying they would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price (MSP) and do away with mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.• What the government has said: The Centre has projected these three laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. The government has said that it won’t rollback the laws, but has agreed to amend them as demanded by the farmers. Another round of meeting is scheduled on December 9.Also Read: ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’, says PM Modi• The parties backing Bharat Bandh: Political parties like the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have supported the Bandh call. The AAP will hold a peaceful demonstration at 11 am at the ITO crossing in the national capital on Tuesday in support of the nationwide strike.• What about banking and trade unions? A joint platform of 10 central trade unions has extended its support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call. These trade unions are - Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC). A number of bank unions have expressed their solidarity with protesting farmers and requested the government to resolve their issues at the earliest. However, bank unions - like All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) and All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) - have said that they will not participate in the ‘Bharat Bandh’. • Transporters and traders: Transporters’ union AIMTC on Monday said it will suspend operations in the entire country on Tuesday to support the Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) is the apex body of transporters, representing about 95 lakh truckers and other entities. Some auto and taxi unions in New Delhi, including those associated with app-based aggregators, have also decided to join the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday. However, many other auto and taxi unions have decided to continue normal services despite their support to demands raised by the agitating farmers. Traders’ body CAIT and All India Transporters Welfare Association on Monday said markets across the country including in Delhi will remain open on Tuesday and the transport sector will function as usual. In Mumbai, BEST buses and taxis will ply as normal.• Railway union AIRF extends support: The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting on Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new farm laws. Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) met the agitating farmers at Singhu border and assured them that members of the railway union are with them in their fight against the new agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-all-you-need-to-know-about-parties-supporting-it-and-services-to-be-affected/story-jROC1L15J5sIiVPUb8PKhK.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||INLD extends support to farmers’ organisations for ‘Bharat Bandh’||The Indian National Lok Dal on Monday extended its support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting at the Delhi borders against the new central agri-marketing laws.Abhay Singh Chautala said his party had announced its support to the protesting farmers the day the agitation started, adding that “each and every worker of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) will fight this battle shoulder-to-shoulder to strengthen this movement so that the Centre is forced to abolish the three black laws imposed on the peasants”.“Our party has decided to extend full support to the Bharat Bandh,” he said.Chautala, younger son of INLD president and former chief minister OP Chautala, said he will visit the Tikri border on December 9 and meet the farmers and leaders leading the stir.In a statement here, the INLD leader said no farmer organisation of the country had demanded the new agricultural laws, but the central government enacted the “black farm legislations to benefit the corporates”.He reiterated his demand that the Centre withdraw these laws and guarantee minimum support price (MSP) of crops to farmers, and also make provisions of punishment for whoever buys the crop below the MSP.Chautala also appealed to all political parties that they should rise above party politics and stand with farmers to lend strength to the agitation.At a press conference here last week, Chautala had asked the Centre to immediately accept farmers demand to repeal the three farm laws, and asserted that the party was “solidly behind the farmers fighting against the three laws”.Claiming that their agitation has spread across the nation, farmer leaders, who have maintained that their protest is apolitical, have welcomed the support and urged all to come forward to make Bharat Bandh a success.After five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions failed to end the impasse, the two sides are again set to meet on December 9, a day after the countrywide strike.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre, however, has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inld-extends-support-to-farmers-organisations-for-bharat-bandh/story-pwyxnzMUdShfGWjiZIgdcM.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Bharat Bandh: BEST buses, cabs, autos to ply as usual on Mumbai roads||Mumbai’s Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses will operate as usual on Tuesday and will not take part in the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the farmers protesting near Delhi against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre in September.“BEST buses will be operational tomorrow and will not be part of ‘Bharat Bandh’. Protective iron grills and other protective gears will be used while plying the buses tomorrow,” BEST public relations officer told news agency ANI.Taxi and autos will also not take part in the countrywide strike that is being supported by the Left parties, Trinamool Congress (TMC), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) along with a joint platform of 10 central trade unions.Farmers have been protesting against the three laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - since November 26 and demanding that they be repealed.“We don’t want to cause problems for the common man. Therefore, we will begin at 11 am, so that they could leave for their offices on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3 pm,” ANI quoted BKU’s Rakesh Tikait. “People can show their card and leave,” Tikait said. “It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India,” Tikait added.Meanwhile, the Centre on Monday issued advisory for the strike and asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security. The Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bharat-bandh-best-buses-cabs-autos-to-ply-as-usual-on-mumbai-roads/story-d6tzidslTUdY2cpYcHTm6M.html
07-12-2020||India||BSNL employees come out in support of farmers’ demands||BSNL Employees Union on Monday said it fully supports the demand of farmers’ organisations for repealing the farm laws.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws enacted in the Monsoon Session of Parliament.“BSNL Employees Union (BSNLEU) is fully supporting the demands of the farmers’ organisations calling for the repealing of the Farm Acts, undemocratically passed in the last session of the Parliament,” the union said in a statement.“BSNL Employees Union fully shares the apprehensions of the farmers’ organisations, that the recently passed Farm Acts will take away the minimum support price being offered by the government,” it added.The union has called upon its circle and district branches throughout the country to organise lunch hour demonstrations on Tuesday, it said.“BSNLEU is also fully supporting the demand of the farmers’ Organisations, calling for total withdrawal of the Electricity Bill-2020,” BSNL Employees Union said.Major political parties, such as the Congress, NCP, DMK, SP, TRS and Left, on Sunday came out in strong support of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called on December 8 by farmers protesting against the three recently enacted agri-marketing laws.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes or no’ reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsnl-employees-come-out-in-support-of-farmers-demands/story-jVMMpYsHKWE6IjZe54H2ZP.html
07-12-2020||India||Centre sends advisory for ‘Bharat Bandh’; asks states to tighten security, ensure peace||The Centre has asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security during Tuesday’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by the farmers unions and supported by opposition parties, while asserting that peace and tranquillity must be maintained on that day, officials said.In a countrywide advisory, the Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed.The states and UTs were told that peace and tranquillity must be maintained during the ‘Bharat Bandh’ and precautionary measures taken so that no untoward incident takes place anywhere in the country, a home ministry official said on Monday.Also Read | Bharat Bandh tomorrow: Will begin from 11am, don’t want to trouble common man, say farmersThe ‘Bharat Bandh’ has been called by the farmers unions who have been protesting the three farm laws enacted in the Monsoon Session of Parliament. Major political parties, such as the Congress, NCP, DMK, SP, TRS and Left, on Sunday came out in strong support of the bandh.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes or no’ reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sends-advisory-for-bharat-bandh-asks-states-to-tighten-security-ensure-peace/story-REZl2VXzsWfgoj0YI8O92O.html
07-12-2020||Kolkata||‘BJP govt should withdraw farm laws or quit’: Mamata Banerjee at West Midnapore rally||Sharpening her attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the contentious farm laws passed in Parliament in September, West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee said the party should either immediately withdraw the “anti-people” laws or quit.Speaking at a rally in West Midnapore, the TMC chief asserted that she would rather stay in jail than “remain silent or put up with BJP’s misrule”, according to news agency PTI.“The BJP government (at the Centre) should immediately withdraw the farm laws or step down (quit). It should not continue to remain in power after sacrificing the rights of the farmers,” she said.The West Bengal CM further called the BJP a party of “outsiders” and said that people of the state would not allow them to take control. “Will never allow outsiders to take control of Bengal, people will resist such attempts,” she said.The rally was Banerjee’s first in the district after party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the Cabinet in November-end. Though TMC leaders have said that the Adhikari issue is a closed chapter, the politician is still seen taking potshots at the leadership. Earlier, Banerjee had directed district and block level leaders from the adjacent district of East Midnapore, Adhikari’s hometown, to remain present in her West Midnapore rally. According to the people familiar with the developments, the CM had held meeting with some of the leaders in both the districts before addressing the rally.“Banerjee sent out a strong signal to party rebels last week in a virtual organisational meeting with party leaders. We are all looking forward to Monday’s rally and what she has to say,” said a senior party leader on Sunday.Adhikari was credited for the gains TMC made in the assembly constituencies of Kaliaganj in Uttar Dinajpur and Kharagpur in West Midnapore in the 2019 bypolls. Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May next year and Banerjee is planning to hold rallies with booth level leaders and workers of North Bengal next week.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-govt-should-withdraw-farm-laws-or-quit-mamata-banerjee-at-west-midnapore-rally/story-b72bwHjoPuh6wkfJr2etHO.html
07-12-2020||India||Take a decision soon to address farmers’ issues: Delhi environment minister Rai to Centre||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday appealed to the central government to take a decision soon to address the issues of farmers. Rai, who also raised the issue in a meeting of ICAR called by the Centre on Monday, said if the income of farmers has to be increased, the minimum support price (MSP) will have to be implemented. “The farmers are shivering in cold since the last 11 days. If the income of farmers has to be increased, then as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan committee, MSP will have to be implemented,” Rai told reporters.Also Read |  Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house “As the farmers are demanding, the central government must deliberate on their demands and take a decision soon to address the issue of farmers,” he added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws. The Centre’s offer to amend the contentious laws failed to cut ice with farmer groups during the fifth round of talks on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-a-decision-soon-to-address-farmers-issues-delhi-environment-minister-rai-to-centre/story-Tom0W8QxxaAwwBjqGFnwJK.html
07-12-2020||India||Centre unlikely to share draft amendments to farm laws with protestors before talks, hopes to resolve agitation through dialogue: Report||The Union government’s unrelenting attempts to resolve the farmers’ agitation through dialogue is making little headway with few of the farmer unions remaining adamant on their demand to repeal the new agriculture laws.While farmers expect the government to send the new draft with amendments to them before they come for the next round of meeting on December 9, sources in the government said that the draft will be discussed only at the discussion table. “It doesn’t make any sense to send in draft before they come for discussion. They are most welcome to come and discuss and debate the amendments they want in the laws,” added the source. The farmers had claimed that once the government sends the draft to them, they will first discuss it among themselves before coming for the meeting. The government, in a bid to make headway in the discussions, agreed to ‘as many amendments’ as demanded by the farmers. “The farmers seemed like a divided lot with few convinced of laws and government’s intention to make amendments on their suggestions whereas there was a handful of those who remained adamant on the repeal of farm laws,” added a source. Also Read |  Farmers’ demands valid, will back Bharat Bandh: Kejriwal at Delhi’s Singhu borderSources stated that farmers came with a list of demands not just demanding amendments but also amenities they expect the government to provide to facilitate their protest and agitation. “They want mics, street lights, sanitation and other things to be able to communicate with others effectively,” added the source. To assuage the agitated farmers, the ministers committed to making amendments brought in as demands. “To this, one of the leaders quipped that so many amendments would be like changing all the sweets inside the box and yet keeping the box. So why not change the box,” stated the source. The fifth round of talks remained inconclusive with government and farmers agreeing on drafting a new set of amendments to the existing farm laws.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws--Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-unlikely-to-share-draft-amendments-to-farm-laws-with-protestors-before-talks-hopes-to-resolve-agitation-through-dialogue/story-DiBt67MIz1pq5Tinpm77oJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav was on Monday detained after he launched a sit-in protest outside his residence in Lucknow before being stopped from going to Kannauj to lead a protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. Over hundreds of workers of the party, who continued with their protest against the farm laws enacted earlier this year, were also arrested in Kannauj.Yadav also wrote to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla over the protests asking him to step in. “Apart from being a Lok Sabha member and Samajwadi Party national president, I had fulfilled my constitutional duty as UP chief minister. There was a pre-announced programme of mine in Kannauj in support of farmers. All preparations were in place. But on the instructions of the UP government, I was prevented from going to Kannauj,” he said.Follow latest updates on farmers protests hereHe added that a heavy police force has been deployed at his house on Vikramaditya Marg. “The police even took my vehicle under their control. This undemocratic behaviour of the state government is not only an infringement of my rights as a citizen but also of special privileges as an LS member. Kindly interfere so that my right to my democratic duties is restored,” Yadav wrote.The Samajwadi Party president had announced statewide Kisaan Yatra - on foot, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, etc - to protest the new agricultural reforms and lend support to the farmers’ cause. Earlier in the day, the SP president had tweeted asking people to join the protest rally. “Step by step, bow your head. Yeh jung hai zameen ki. Join the ‘Kisan Yatra’!” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi. The police have cordoned off Vikramaditya Marg where Yadav’s house is and also deployed anti-riot vehicles. They already took two SP legislative council members - Ashu Malik and Rajpal Kashyap - and sent them to the police lines.After Yadav was prevented from going to Kannauj, Rajendra Chaudhary, SP state spokesperson and former UP minister said, “This government is so scared of Akhilesh ji taking to streets. He has to go there to participate in the farmers’ protest and drive a tractor along with the farmers to raise their issue. First, the central government introduced draconian kind of farm laws and now the state government is preventing our party from protesting. This all is so anti-democratic,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-sits-on-dharna-outside-his-house-over-hundred-sp-workers-protesting-against-farm-laws-arrested/story-tEkCkPfrVg1jH780LzFpFO.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border to inspect arrangements for protesting farmers||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is on his way to visit the national capital’s Singhu border on Monday to inspect arrangements made by the Union Territory government for farmers at the spot protesting against the three central laws enacted by the Centre earlier this year, according to news agency ANI. The visit by the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) national convenor to the Singhu border comes a day after he extended support to the agitating farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh or nationwide strike on Tuesday. “The AAP would support the Bharat Bandh called by farmer groups on December 8. AAP volunteers too would join hands with farmers in peaceful protests across the country on that day. It’s an appeal to citizens of India to support the farmers,” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest hereThousands of farmers, mainly from the northern states of Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders for the 12th day now against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, enacted by Parliament in September. The AAP had voted against the three laws in both Houses of Parliament.AAP leader and Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said all party volunteers and workers will participate in the strike to support the farmers. “This is not just the farmers’ fight but the fight for all countrymen. India is an agricultural country and if farmers are unhappy then the country is affected. I appeal to all to join the protest,” said Rai.Also Read: Farmers across nation break language barriers, join protestAAP Lok Sabha MP from Punjab, Bhagwant Mann said, “We will do our best to support farmers in the nationwide strike on December 8. This strike is not political. It is about farmers, their land, and their livelihood. It concerns the entire nation. I urge everyone to support farmers. The central government has been doing one meeting after another for the past several days with top ministers but they have not been able to resolve the issue. Resolving the issue needs political will and good intent.”Farmers, who are demanding that three farm laws be withdrawn, have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands are not met. They want a special session of Parliament to be called to repeal the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-singhu-border-to-inspect-arrangements-for-protesting-farmers/story-bAI6V9CjE03KFAw6b82FgO.html
07-12-2020||India||Farmers’ group in support of new laws meet Agri Minister, seek amendments||As thousands of farmers continue to protest on various borders of the national capital seeking repeal of three new farm laws, a delegation of 20 from Haryana met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to extend their support for the new legislations.Calling it a delegation of ‘progressive farmers’, a member of the team said the group led by Padmashree awardee Kamal Singh Chavan met Tomar in support of the farm laws enacted in September and demanded the government may amend some provisions but it should not repeal them.The delegation members said they were individual farmers and representatives of farmer producer organisations (FPOs).The delegation included Bharatiya Kisan Union (Attar) National President Attar Singh Sandhu.The meeting took place a day before a “Bharat Bandh” to be observed by protesting farmers’ organisations on Tuesday, while a meeting is already scheduled for the day after on December 9 between a representative group of agitating farmers and the government for their sixth round of talks.No breakthrough has been possible in the five rounds so far, as the protesting farmers have stuck to their demand for the repeal of the laws despite the government’s assurance to look into specific issues without abolishing the legislations.The three farm laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has maintained the MSP and mandi systems would continue and would be rather further improved and strengthened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-in-support-of-new-laws-meet-agri-minister-seek-amendments/story-bQqp0MQWqGHVa5TZeuMtII.html
07-12-2020||India||Opposition parties misleading innocent farmers, says Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath waded into the farm protests on Monday with a scathing attack on opposition parties, accusing them of making a ‘nasty bid’ to create anarchy and disorder in the country by using “innocent farmers” as a cover. His attack comes a day before the Bharat bandh that various farmer organisations have called on Tuesday, with the opposition parties lending their support to demand rollback of the three farm laws enacted recently.“The opposition parties are trying to mislead innocent farmers on the Centre’s revolutionary and historic laws to further their selfish political ends,” Adityanath said at a press conference at his official residence.He also said by goading farmers to organise the bandh amid the pandemic, the opposition parties were exposing farmers to the risk of the coronavirus.Also read: Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house“This is also a conspiracy to weaken the country’s fight against the Covid-19 and some nefarious powers are behind the proposed bandh,” he alleged.Replying to a question, the CM said the call for the Bharat bandh was uncalled for considering the fact that the Centre’s representatives, including Union agriculture minister, were regularly holding dialogues with farmers to hammer out an agreeable solution. Accusing the opposition parties of displaying “double standards”, Adityanath said the Congress-led UPA government had made a strong case for the implementation of the model APMC Act with the provision for contract farming in the larger interest of farmers.“The then agriculture minister and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar even wrote a letter to chief ministers of all states in 2010-11 asking them to modify their APMC laws in accordance with the Model APMC Act made by the Centre,” he said.He further said then the SP, BSP, NCP and the TMC etc were all either a part of the then Congress-led UPA government at the Centre or were supporting it from outside.Adityanath said leaders, including SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, supported the proposal for mandi reforms when it was referred to the Parliament’s standing committee last year.“If the reforms were in the interest of farmers, how can the same reforms go against the interests of farmers now when the Modi government showed the courage to take the plunge?” he asked and demanded the opposition parties to apologise to the nation for misleading innocent farmers by adopting double standards on agriculture reforms and shying away from their old stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-misleading-innocent-farmers-says-adityanath/story-5HYo3LU6OwV6p4eUmQeaUM.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi traffic police ask commuters to take alternate routes to enter city||Delhi Traffic Police on Monday issued traffic alerts and advised people to take alternative routes for entering the national capital as the ongoing farmers’ protest at Burari, Singhu and Tikri borders against the new central farm laws entered the twelfth day. The traffic police took to Twitter to inform commuters about the roads that are closed and borders to Haryana that are open.At the Chilla border on Noida link road and Ghazipur border on National Highway 24 has been closed for traffic due to farmers protests. Delhi Traffic Police has advised people to avoid Noida link road and NH 24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/DND.Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders are open while Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 has been closed on both sides and the police have advised people to take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Traffic has also been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road and people have been advised to avoid Outer Ring road and GTK road.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country have been camping at Delhi’s borders for the past 12 days to demand a repeal of the agriculture reform laws. They continued their sit-in demonstrations on Monday against the three farm laws enacted by the government after the fifth round of talks between their leaders and Union ministers failed to break the impasse.Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 and threatened to occupy toll plazas. The sixth round of talks will take place on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-police-ask-commuters-to-take-alternate-routes-to-enter-city/story-zFoKeWpIHh6LAf7Xo0WbYO.html
07-12-2020||India||Farmers’ Protest Updates: They are ‘misguided,’ says farmers in support of farm laws||As many as seven borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained completely closed on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, causing traffic snarls and inconvenience to motorists in many parts of the city.The opposition parties, including Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Samajwadi Party (SP), All India Forward Bloc (AIFB), National Congress Party (NCP) and Congress and Shiv Sena have extended their support for December 8 ‘Bharat Bandh’ call by farmers who are protesting against the farm laws. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three laws seek to open up farm trade.Farmers have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands for repealing the farm laws are not met. They are demanding that a special session of Parliament is called to repeal the laws. The next talks are scheduled to be held on December 9.Follow live updates here:Farmers who are protesting are misguided: Progressive farmers club“Farmers who are protesting are misguided. Prime Minister has assured that MSP and mandi system will remain,” Kanwal Singh Chauhan, president of progressive farmers club after meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi to remain closed tomorrow“Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi and all other mandis in the city to remain closed tomorrow, in support of ‘Bharat Bandh’ call made by farmers,” news agency ANI quoted Adil Ahmed Khan, Chairman, Azadpur Mand, as saying. Harayana chief minister ML Khattar hit out at oppositionSlamming opposition parties for supporting protests by farmers, Harayana chief minister ML Khattar said, “Opposition parties are doing petty politics in the name of farmers, it’s condemnable. Public and farmers should understand that there is no harm in implementing the laws that have been enacted for the progress of farmers. PM has assured that MSP will continue.”Railway unions extend support to call for Bharat Bandh The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8. “We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands, on December 8, 2020 during ‘Bharat Bandh’. I have already advised AIRF affiliates to organise agitation programmes, dharna, demonstrations and rallies during lunch hour against anti-farmer policies of the Government of India,” said Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF).AAP to hold demonstration on TuesdayAam Aadmi Party will hold peaceful demonstration in the city on Tuesday in support of ‘Bharat Bandh’, Delhi minister Gopal Rai said on Monday.Government will have to accept our demands, says farmer leader“Government will have to accept our demands, we want nothing less than withdrawal of new farm laws,” PTI quoted farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, as saying.We appeal to farmers to not force anyone to observe ‘Bharat bandh, farmer leaders also said.Farmers to observe ‘Bharat bandh’ whole day; road blockade till 3pm The nationwide strike in the country will be observed the whole day on Tuesday, farmer leader Dr Darshan Pal informed media at Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. However, chaka jam (road blockade) will only be in effect till 3pm due to the office hours.”It will be a peaceful bandh. We are firm on not allowing any political leaders on our stage,” Pal also said.Emergency services will also be allowed.Tamil Nadu minister D Jayakumar warns protesters“For those holding protest without permission, law will take its own course,” says Tamil Nadu Minister D Jayakumar on Bharat Bandh tomorrow.Transport services, essential supplies likely to be affected in Delhi on TuesdayAs various unions and associations of cab drivers and mandi traders decide to join the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on Tuesday, transport facilitates and supplies of essentials like vegetables and fruits are likely to be affected in Delhi, PTI reported.‘We want Centre to repeal the farm laws,’ says Akhilesh Yadav“We want the Centre to repeal the farm laws. They should tell the farmers, when will they bring the MSP (Minimum Support Price) that will double the farmers’ income?” asks Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav.Centre issues advisory to states, UTs for Bharat BandhA day before the nationwide strike, the Centre asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security during ‘Bharat Bandh. In a countrywide advisory, the Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed. It also asked the state and UT government to take required precautionary measurers maintain peace and tranquillity.Karanataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar extends support “We would like to extend our support to the farmers who are great support to the economy. Entire country would like to support them. We would like to thank leaders from various parts of the world who’ve expressed solidarity with our farmers,” said Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar.Sportsperson march towards Rashtrapati BhavanSeveral sportsperson including wrestler Kartar Singh marched towards Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi to return they awards as sign of protest against the farm laws. However they were stopped midway by the Delhi police. “30 sportspersons from Punjab and some others want to return their award,” ANI quoted Singh as saying.BJP’s Ravi Shankar Prasad slams opposition parties“The leaders of the Kisan movement have categorically stated that political people do not come to our forum. We respect these sentiments. But they are all jumping, as they are getting another chance to oppose BJP and Narendra Modi,” news agency quoted Ravi Shankar Prasad as saying.“Today, when they are losing their political existence, they join any conflicting movement to save their existence,“ he also said.Punjabi writer, poet Surjit Patar decides to return Padma Shri over farm laws rowI'm deeply hurt with the behaviour of the Centre with the farmers protesting at Delhi borders. Despite making repeated attempts, nothing conclusive done to satisfy them. I have decided to return Padma Shri in support of farmers: Surjit Patar, Punjabi writer & poet #FarmLawsI would call Congress leaders, workers and right-minded people to fully support the farmers : Punjab Congress Chief Sunil JakharI would call Congress leaders, workers and right-minded people to fully support the farmers in Bharat Bandh so that the self-conceit government could open their eyes and ears: Punjab Congress Chief Sunil Jakhar.We don’t want to cause problems for common man: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonWe don’t want to cause problems for common man. Therefore, we will begin at 11 am, so that they could leave for office on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3 pm. Services such as ambulance, even weddings, can go on as usual. People can show their card & leave: Rakesh TikaitOur protest is peaceful and we will continue that way: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonOur protest is peaceful and we will continue that way. Tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh is from 11 am to 3 pm. It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav detainedSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has been detained. He was staging a sit-in protest near his house.BJP govt at Centre must withdraw farm bills or step down: Mamata BanerjeeBJP governmentt at Centre must withdraw farm bills or step down, said Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee at rally in West Midnapore.Delhi Police has made proper arrangements ahead of tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police PRODelhi Police has made proper arrangements ahead of tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh. We are trying to ensure that the lives of the common people are not affected. If someone tries to shut down shops forcefully or block roads, legal action will be taken: Eish Singhal, Delhi Police PROSamajwadi Party Sadar MLA Anil Dohre and many leaders arrested by police in KannaujSamajwadi Party Sadar MLA Anil Dohre and many leaders arrested by the police in Kannauj.Akhilesh Yadav sits on dharna as he was stopped from joining farmer’s protestSamajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav came out and sat on a dharna near his house. Farmers who participated in the protest (in the state) were arrested: MK StalinFarmers who participated in the protest (in the state) were arrested. I had also participated in a protest (in Salem). Edappadi Palaniswami government is against protesters: DMK president MK Stalin.We will support Bharat Bandh and participate in it: DMK president MK StalinThe Opposition has already said that we will support the bandh (December 8th Bharat Bandh) and participate in it: DMK president MK Stalin.Police has stopped our vehicles, we will walk: Akhilesh YadavOur workers have protested at several locations. They (Police) can put us in jail if they want. They have stopped our vehicles. We will walk: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav.He is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of farmers agitating against Centre’s farm laws.Cong MPs from Punjab protest demanding winter session of Parliament to discuss farmers issueCongress MPs from Punjab protest at Jantar Mantar, demanding winter session of Parliament to discuss farmers issue.“Session should be called, anti-farmer laws should be reconsidered and withdrawn. Government is avoiding the session. It’s against democracy,” says MP Manish Tewari.Akhilesh Yadav urges people to take part in ‘KisanYatra’Former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Akhilesh Yadav urged people to take part in ‘Kisan yatra’. क़दम-क़दम बढ़ाए जा, दंभ का सर झुकाए जाये जंग है ज़मीन की, अपनी जान भी लगाए जा‘किसान-यात्रा’ में शामिल हों! #नहीं_चाहिए_भाजपाNew farm bill has raised several doubts and insecurity in minds of farmers regarding MSP : NCPThe new farm bill has raised several doubts and insecurity in minds of farmers regarding MSP and other issues which the government has failed to address. Modi government couldn’t form broader consensus and has failed to satisfy legitimate apprehensions of the farmers and entire opposition, said NCP.Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them: Arvind KejriwalOur party, MLAs and leaders have been serving farmers as ‘sevadars’ ever since. I haven’t come here as CM but as a ‘sevadar’. Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them. AAP supports December 8th Bharat Bandh, party workers will participate in it across the nation, said Arvind Kejriwal.We support all demands of farmers: Arvind KejriwalWe support all demands of farmers. Their issue and demands are valid. My party and I have stood with them from the very beginning. At the beginning of their protests, Delhi Police had sought permission to convert 9 stadiums into jails. I was pressurised but didn’t permit, said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Akhilesh Yadav is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of f protesting armersPolice force deployed outside Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s residence at Vikramaditya Marg. Yadav is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of farmers protesting against the farm laws.Arvind Kejriwal reaches s Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal reaches Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border); meets protesting farmers, inspects arrangements made for them.Arvind Kejriwal leaves for Singhu borderDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal leaves from his residence. He will visit Singhu border today.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) today where farmers’ protest, against Centre’s farm laws, entered 12th day. Other ministers of Delhi government to also accompany the CM. They will inspect arrangements made by the UT government for farmers at the spot.BSP supports Bharat Bandh call by farmersBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supports the Bharat Bandh called by farmer Unions on December 8 over farm laws, tweets party chief Mayawati.Farmers continue to camp at Singhu borderFarmers continue to camp at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) to protest against the farm laws.The farmers’ protest at Singhu border, against Central Government’s Farm laws, entered 12th day today.Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed: Delhi Traffic PoliceSinghu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road: Delhi Traffic PoliceShiv Sena supports ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers on December 8Shiv Sena supports ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers on December 8, tweets party leader Sanjay Raut||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-Jinx0sUitsir01Nm7emP3J.html
