08-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Confusion over meeting venue, Amit Shah meets farmers at ICAR||The meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and the leaders of the protesting farmers on Tuesday got delayed owing to a confusion over the venue of the meeting. The meeting was scheduled to begin at 7pm but it began after 8pm as some of the union leaders were not ready to hold the meeting at Amit Shah’s residence. Finally, the meeting was shifted to the office of Indian Council of Agricultural Research.  We are talking to our people on where the meeting is to be held: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union on being asked about the meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah https://t.co/dKjmCe3cFl pic.twitter.com/ZNVBr9YM5iAccording to PTI, 13 farmer leaders were called for the meeting which included eight from Punjab and five from various nationwide organisations. Some farmer leaders said they first expected the meeting to take place at Shah’s residence here, but the venue was shifted to the Pusa area, PTI reported. Bhartiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rajesh Tikait even reached Amit Shah’s residence at around 7pm. The meeting assumes significance as Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention comes after the farmers called a four-hour symbolic protest on Tuesday, which evoked mixed response across the country, but received massive political support from opposition parties and regional parties. On Wednesday, the farmers and the Centre are scheduled to meet for the sixth time to discus the farmers’ grievances over the farm laws enacted in September.Ahead of the meeting with Shah, the farmers said they will demand just a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer from Shah on whether the laws that the farmers fear will make them vulnerable to the exploitation of the corporates. “We will demand just a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa said.In their last meeting with the Centre on Saturday, the leaders observed ‘maun vrat’ and put up placards ‘yes’, ‘no’ written on them, which led to a deadlock and the Centre asked for some time to come up with an alternative proposal. Since the laws were passed in Parliament, the farmers have been voicing concerns against the reforms, which the Centre has termed as pro-farmer. From November 26, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana started ‘Dilli Chalo’ rally with their tractors and managed to enter Delhi. The protest entered its 13th day on Tuesday with no solution to the stalemate in sight yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-confusion-over-meeting-venue-amit-shah-meets-farmers-at-icar/story-95eXp6sSRxgMdJNvKE3UvI.html
08-12-2020||India||Centre’s new farm laws ‘farmer-friendly’, says Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Terming the Centre’s new agri laws as “farmer-friendly”, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said only 12 lakh to 13 lakh out of an estimated 80 lakh cultivators in the state sell their crops as per pre-determined minimum support price (MSP).He said many people are spreading “confusion” about the three agricultural-marketing laws enacted a few months ago, but their efforts will not succeed, comments coming on a day when agitating farmers observed a nationwide shutdown to demand a roll-back of the contentious legislations.The Centres farm laws are farmer-friendly. These will not only increase farmers’ income significantly, but also provide economic security to them.“Procurements (of farm produce) will continue at MSP... there is no question of ending this mechanism. Mandis (agri markets) will also continue to function as usual,” Chouhan said.Besides, under the new laws, farmers will benefit as they will be able to sell their produce outside existing mandis at competitive prices, the BJP leader said in a statement.The government is committed to safeguard the interest of farmers and the new laws will prove beneficial to them.There are about 80 lakh farmers in Madhya Pradesh, but only 12 lakh to 13 lakh of them sell their crops at MSP,” he said.Chouhan said Madhya Pradesh has recorded the highest annual growth rate in the agriculture sector among states in the last few years.The farmers of MP understand that these new agricultural laws are beneficial to them. Many people are spreading confusion (about the laws), but their efforts will not succeed, he said.The chief minister said the Manmohan Singh government was in favour of amending the APMC Act to facilitate entry of private players in the farm sector.NCP president Sharad Pawar, as the Union Agriculture Minister under the Congress-led UPA, had written to CMs, underlining the need to amend the Act to encourage private participation in the key sector for overall interest of farmers, he said.Chouhan said more agricultural produce was purchased at MSP during the last six years of the BJP-led NDA government than under the previous UPA administration (2004-2014).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-new-farm-laws-farmer-friendly-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-BpTujJxQ8KWWQvKsJWoOBK.html
08-12-2020||India||They did not let me go, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, counters police version on ‘house arrest’||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) claimed was put under house arrest after his visit to the farmers protesting the three central farm laws at the national capital’s Singhu border, said that he was prevented from expressing solidarity with the farmers and that he had planned to go to the border not as a CM but as a common man.“I had planned that today I would go to the border not as CM but as a common man to express my solidarity with the farmers. I think they came to know about my plan and they did not let me go,” CM Kejriwal said.Also Read: Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police call AAP’s allegation of Kejriwal’s house arrest ‘baseless, unfounded’AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Tuesday said that nobody was being allowed to leave or enter the CM’s official residence since Monday. “On a day when the entire country is supporting the farmers in the Bharat Bandh, the Central government’s home ministry has asked the Delhi Police to not allow Kejriwal to leave his residence. Yesterday, when Kejriwal, along with all his Cabinet colleagues, went to Singhu border to meet the protesting farmers as a sewadar, the BJP-led Central government got scared. It is the same way as they got upset when Kejriwal did not allow the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails for the farmers,” he said.Farmers protesting against the three farm laws cleared by the Parliament in September had called for a nationwide strike or a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. AAP was among other political parties who extended their support to the call. “The Aam Aadmi Party fully supports the Bharat Bandh call made by farmers on December 8. AAP workers across the country will support it peacefully. There is an appeal to all countrymen that everyone should support the farmers and participate in it,” Kejriwal tweeted.Also Read: Sisodia says public not being allowed to meet CM, police refute allegation“I am glad Bharat Bandh was successful. I prayed for protesting farmers while sitting inside,” he said from his residence on Tuesday.The bandh (shutdown) call was supported by several opposition parties and state governments. Major political parties, such as the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party (SP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Left Front came out in support of the bandh.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They believe these laws will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-did-not-let-me-go-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-counters-police-version-on-house-arrest/story-9IZllD1HxHEqEfARopB6rM.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Don’t want to inconvenience anyone, should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground’: Punjab Kisan Union||Asserting that farmers protesting the central farm laws do not want to cause any inconvenience to the people of Delhi and Haryana, the Punjab Kisan Union(PKU) on Tuesday said that they should be allowed to hold their protest at Ramlila Ground. “We do not want to cause any inconvenience to anyone from Delhi or Haryana, we should be allowed to hold the protest at Ramlila Ground,” RS Mansa, Punjab Kisan Union said in a press conference at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi) border.Mansa said that five rounds of talks have taken place but the Centre is yet to give any relief to the farmer protesting the farm laws. In the meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah at 7 pm today, Mansa said he will ask him if the Centre is willing to accept the farmers’ demands.This comes as farmer leaders have been invited to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah at 7 pm on Tuesday, a day before the sixth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Central government called by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Thousands of farmers, who have been protesting at several borders of the national capital since November 26 against the farm laws, had called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ today, which had gained support from all corners, including opposition parties and lawyers.Notably, after the fifth round of talks remained inconclusive, Tomar has called another meeting on December 9. Leaders of farmer groups have held several rounds of talks with the government so far.The farmers are protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-to-inconvenience-anyone-should-be-allowed-to-hold-protest-at-ramlila-ground-punjab-kisan-union/story-fPRIOVfBV76N3GyqesItHO.html
08-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers forced to take shower at odd hours, women stand in long queues to use toilets||With farmers’ protests against the agricultural laws at Singhu border enters the thirteenth day, the farmers -- both men and women -- who remain steadfast at the gates of Delhi share their ordeals. Among women farmers, the most challenging activities appear to be that of bathing, changing clothes and availability of toilets. The nearby petrol pump of Bharat Petroleum which is closed since the agitation began witnesses a long queue near the washroom one each for men and women.For 40-year-old Sarabjeet from Punjab’s Amritsar, it is a norm now to wake up at three in the morning and stand in a queue to use the washroom, which she is only able to use after a long wait of two hours. “As a woman, the most difficulty which I have faced so far is of toilet and bathing. We wake up at 3 am and stand in a queue to avail the petrol pump washroom. Our turn comes after waiting for at least two hours. But we won’t leave till our demand is fulfilled,” she told ANI. Speaking about the struggles women farmers are undergoing here, 63-year-old Balbinder shares how these challenges have escalated due to the winter season. “Today, I stayed in the queue for two hours before I could use the washroom. Although there are a few portable toilets, very far from where we are stationed. Moreover, most of us bathe before we begin to prepare the day’s food. It’s winter so our adversities have doubled,” she said. Various NGOs have come forward to help the farmers with basic necessities such as medicines, sanitary napkins, blankets. Although compared to women, men are here in large numbers but they are also facing certain difficulties. Seventy-three-year-old Kuldeep Singh from Punjab’s Patiala said that due to lack of enough bathrooms, he is forced to take bath at random hours in the day. “I am here since November 25. I take bath at the midnight and then sleep. Today also I took bath at 12:56 am. What else can we do, we do not get a spare bathroom even during the day,” he told ANI. Residents at the Singhu border have welcomed the farmers to use their washrooms but being large in number they mostly stick to the water petrol pumps, tankers, and portable toilets.A security guard named Ramdhari Sharma (46) from Bharat petroleum, Kundli said, “No matter at what time of the day it has never seen this washroom empty even for one minute since the protest began. In a day we clean the septic tank five times a day.”Farmers here are also facing difficulty in washing clothes. Although residents have offered to wash their clothes but water availability becomes a problem here, especially when numbers are huge.Among all the protest sites, Nirankari Samagam Ground in Delhi’s Burari is better with most of the facilities available, said a farmer.Farmers who have blocked the borders leading to Delhi as a measure to put pressure on central in rhetoric have stated that they will go back only and if they receive a solution otherwise have ration to sustain longer.After five inconclusive meetings, the sixth round of talks between centre and farmer’s unions scheduled tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-forced-to-take-shower-at-odd-hours-women-stand-in-long-queues-to-use-toilets/story-tFcHgGvPN45b9ejNJ3vELL.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Bharat Bandh’ ends peacefully, life hit in some states as farmers take national centre stage||Life was disrupted in several parts of the country on Tuesday as shops and commercial establishments stayed closed, transport was affected and protesters squatted on key roads and rail tracks in response to a ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers demanding a repeal of the new agri laws.As the day wound to a mostly peaceful close and the farmers termed their show of strength a success, Union Home Minister Amit Shah stepped in to call their leaders for talks, ahead of the sixth round of talks between Central ministers and farmer representatives on Wednesday.“There is no midway. We will demand just a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa told reporters at the Singhu border where thousands of farmers have been protesting for the last 12 days. A delegation of 13 leaders will meet Shah. The nationwide shutdown was observed in around 10,000 places in 25 states, claimed Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. Emergency services were exempted and banks, too, continued operations as the pan-India shutdown, backed by most opposition parties and trade unions, rolled out noisily but peacefully with its impact felt in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, the epicentre of the snowballing protests, as well as in states such as Odisha, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand.The pandemic appeared to recede into the background as security was stepped up across the country, restive crowds demonstrated in some places and the numbers swelled at Delhi’s border points. Protesters also blocked railway tracks at several places in West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha.As slogans such as “Kisan Ekta Zindabad” were heard in protest centrepoints such as Tikri and the agitation picked up pace, so did social media with the hashtag #Aaj_Bharat_Bandh_Hai trending worldwide till late afternoon.From the Rajasthan capital Jaipur, where ‘mandis’ were closed but shops open, there were reports of clashes between workers of the state’s ruling Congress and the BJP.In Delhi, where most main markets were open, tension spiralled with the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleging that Delhi Police had put Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest till evening. City police denied the claim but AAP leaders stuck to their stand.Farmer unions had threatened to block national highways and occupy toll plazas across the country during a ‘chakka jam’ protest from 11 am to 3 pm.All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah described the shutdown as a show of strength by the farmers.“We are standing by our demand that we want a complete repeal of the three laws and will not accept any cosmetic changes… If our demands are not met, we are ready to take our agitation to the next level,” Mollah said. The protesting farmers fear the new laws will pave the way for eliminating the safety of the Minimum Support Price cushion and do away with ‘mandis’, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government maintains the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.Opposition parties are expected to meet Kovind on Wednesday evening to raise their concerns about the three laws. “Leaders from different political parties (those opposing the farm bills) will sit, discuss and take a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind,” NCP chief Sharad Pawar told reporters.Farmers from Punjab and also Haryana have been the drivers of the movement against the laws. In both states, shops and commercial establishments were closed as were thousands of fuel pumps. Farmers assembled at highways and other key roads in both states since morning. All major parties in Punjab — the ruling Congress, AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal -- extended their support.Over 50,000 government employees took mass casual leave in support of farmers, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira.In neighbouring BJP-JJP ruled Haryana, the opposition Congress and Indian National Lok Dal extended their support.The Haryana Police traffic advisory had warned commuters that main national highways would be closed and the peak time of impact was expected to be between 12 noon to 3 pm.In West Bengal, where the ruling Trinamool Congress joined the Congress and the Left in supporting the shutdown but stayed away from enforcing it, the response was mixed. Railway tracks were blocked in several places and there were sit-ins on major roads.Life was hit in Bihar too with train tracks, highways and inner roads teeming with protesters as opposition parties extended their support. In Jehanabad, the movement of Patna-Palamu Express was obstructed for a few minutes until the bandh supporters, squatting on the tracks, were chased away by the police.Train services were also affected in Odisha as activists of farmers’ organisations, trade unions and political parties held sit-ins on tracks in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Bhadrak and Balasore.Elsewhere in the state, ruled by the Biju Janata Dal, normal life was hit with markets and offices shut and Congress and Left supporters blocking major roads. Major cities in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh were deserted with most business establishments closed and public transport keeping away.In Maharashtra, where the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine extended its support, wholesale markets in major cities like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad were shut. Retail shops also downed shutters in many cities.Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) were closed in many parts of the state.The state government appealed to protesters to not disrupt public transport services and buses and local trains were unaffected.“…The situation needs to be created to put pressure on the government, and to achieve this, farmers need to hit the streets. But no one should resort to violence,” said social activist Anna Hazare who went on daylong fast in his village Ralegan Siddhi village in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district.There was a mixed response in other states as well. In Assam, shops pulled down shutters, protesters blocked traffic and demonstrations were staged but most offices were functioning. Dozens of protesters were detained, officials said.The ruling TRS and opposition parties, including the Congress and various unions, held protests across Telangana. In Tamil Nadu, the opposition DMK and its allies, including the Congress, held protests across the state but life was mostly unaffected. In the union territory of Puducherry, ruled by the Congress, however, the ‘bandh’ call evoked a near total response. Normal life was affected in parts of Karnataka as farmers and workers hit the roads. Many organisations in the state came out in support of the bandh. In some states, including in Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh, life continued unimpeded. The three contentious laws at the centre of the farmer protests are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-ends-peacefully-life-hit-in-some-states-as-farmers-take-national-centre-stage/story-ruPcpFo1k4QypzdBW0yIFJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm today||Home minister Amit Shah has invited a group of protesting farmers for a meeting at 7pm Tuesday, two farm union leaders who will be attending the meet have said. The meeting, likely to take place at Shah’s residence, comes a day ahead of a crucial round of talks between farm unions and the government, the sixth time the two sides will be meeting to resolve a crisis sparked by a set of farm-reform laws approved by Parliament in September. Tens of thousands of farmers are protesting a set of pro-market agricultural laws with a nationwide shutdown from 11am to 3pm on Tuesday. Major Opposition parties have supported their strike call. The farmers have stocked up on months of supplies, preparing to dig in for months on New Delhi’s borders. “The home minister’s office sent a message. We will meet him. Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction, a farmers’ union. Also read | Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm laws“One of the issues we will raise is the arrest of several farmers in and around Delhi, including Karol Bagh. We will urge the home minister to meet our demands on the three farm laws,” said Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakaji of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, a farmers’ organisation. Although previous rounds of discussions led by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar have showed no signs of ending the impasse, the home minister has been informally talking to farmers’ representatives to facilitate a solution. The first round of talks was facilitated by several rounds of phone conversations between Shah and key farm union leaders, which took place on December 1. Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets to compete with a network of government-controlled agricultural markets. The government has leaned on a reformist agenda to overhaul India’s antiquated agriculture. Deregulation of agricultural markets will pave the way for more competition and better prices, the government has claimed. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and stop the government’s purchase of staples at guaranteed prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-amit-shah-to-meet-farmers-at-7pm-today/story-pwYu6awy6oOMsg0GwTozRP.html
08-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm laws||Leaders from different Opposition parties are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation, express their concerns over the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and seek their repeal. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar said the Opposition leaders will meet to discuss the issue and formulate a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting the President. Apart from the NCP, the other Opposition parties likely to join the meeting include the Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), the Communist Party of India (CPI), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress, which is a last minute addition to the delegation. All these parties are supporting Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers’ unions. Also read | Farmers to meet Amit Shah today before 6th round of talks tomorrowBesides Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and TKS Elangovan of the DMK will meet the President. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is also likely to join but there is no official confirmation yet. On Tuesday, Pawar met defence minister Rajnath Singh and the two are said to be have discussed land acquisition for the Purandar airport in Pune district. A war of words has erupted between the government and the Opposition parties over the farmers’ protests. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday that Pawar, as the agriculture minister in the UPA government, had asked states to amend the APMC Act and had even warned them that the Centre will not provide financial assistance in absence of the three reforms. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also cited letters written by Pawar at that time to chief ministers in this regard. However, the NCP said after taking over as the agriculture minister, Pawar had tried to form a broader consensus among state agriculture marketing boards by inviting suggestions for the implementation of the Act. “The benefit of farmers as per the model APMC Act was explained by Pawar to various state governments, many of which came forward to implement it. Farmers across the country are gaining from the implementation of the Act which was fine-tuned by Pawar to protect farmers’ interests,” it said. Meanwhile, former Haryana chief minister and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda demanded immediate convening of the Parliament session to repeal the farm laws. He also said that some reforms are needed in the agriculture sector but those have to be framed keeping in mind the interests of farmers. “I agree some reforms are needed but these should be in the interests of farmers. The Acts passed recently have no reflection of such reforms. The government should call a Parliament session to repeal these laws and discuss agricultural reforms that don’t hurt the farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-opposition-leaders-likely-to-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-BODZJTBOEswV7zqse15dhL.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers to meet Amit Shah today before 6th round of talks tomorrow||As the four-hour Bharat Bandh called by farmers protesting against the farm laws recently passed by Parliament comes to a close, farmers are likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday. National spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait said farmer leaders will meet the home minister on Tuesday at around 7pm.The farmers’ unions which have been protesting since November 26 demanding an immediate withdrawal of the farm laws that they apprehend will corporatise farming are scheduled to meet Union ministers on Wednesday for another round of talks. In Wednesday’s meeting, the Centre is supposed to new draft to the farmers, though both sides remain quite unwavering on their stance — the protesting farmers on their demand to completely withdraw the laws, and the Centre on its decision to amend the laws instead of withdrawing.Click here for live updates of farmers’ protest and Bharat BandhHectic parleys went on throughout Tuesday in preparation for Wednesday’s talks as agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. So far, there have been five rounds of negotiations between the farmers and the Centre since September. The farmers walked out of the first meeting in September as there was no minister present in the meeting. Three rounds of talks took place in December after the farmers started their ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest. Though there has been no headway so far, the proposed meeting between the farmers and home minister Amit Shah comes as a significant development, indicating that the top level of the government is engaged in addressing the farmers’ issues and overcoming the stalemate situation.On Wednesday, several opposition parties will also meet and take a collective stand on the ongoing farmers’ protest before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind, NCP president Sharad Pawar has said. The ongoing protest against Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 gathered momentum after political parties, celebrities supported farmers’ cause. The call for nationwide strike on December 8 too received support from political parties, a number of trade, transport, bank unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-meet-amit-shah-today-before-6th-round-of-talks-tomorrow/story-LSv9OAIc5A2SFTACpTWI9K.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Haryana CM Khattar to meet agriculture minister Tomar today||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is scheduled to meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday to discuss the ongoing farmers’ protest demanding rollback of the recently passed farm laws.The meeting comes a day before the sixth round of meeting between the government and the farmers’ representatives. It also comes amid speculation that the Khattar government in Haryana could come under a cloud as its ally, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), has joined the chorus for revisiting the recently enacted farm laws. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, appears unfazed by the JJP’s stand. According to a senior party functionary, statements from five JJP MLAs who have expressed support for the ongoing farmers’ protest should not be read as an indication of partnership being on the verge of breaking.Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh here“It is obvious that a political party that counts farmers among its core supporters cannot shy away from taking up their concerns. So the statements from the JJP leaders are politically expedient,” the senior functionary quoted above said. While there is speculation that the JJP could go the Shiromani Akali Dal’s way and break its alliance with the BJP over the farm laws, the BJP leadership in Delhi appeared confident that there is no threat to the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana. “The JJP is in no position to pull out (support) from the government. There appears to be no imminent threat to the Khattar government. Even if the Congress tries, JJP a will not extend support them. Besides, they are short of numbers and cannot ratchet up a government,” the functionary said. The leader also added that the Union government has indicated that it will address the concerns that famers have about certain provisions in the laws. “For instance, there is a fear that in contract farming, the remuneration may begin to decrease after a few years. There are provisions and rules by which such concerns can be addressed. The government is open to making rules that will benefit the farmers,” the leader said.The JJP has been cautious in its demands and has urged the government to consider the demand from farmers that a guarantee for MSP should be given in writing and be made part of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-haryana-cm-khattar-to-meet-agriculture-minister-tomar-today/story-vNjb9wHNo61e63UHH7nIVL.html
08-12-2020||India||Haryana CM Khattar cancels visit after venue vandalised in farmers’ support||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had to cancel a programme scheduled for later today after miscreants vandalised the venue on Monday night, a day ahead of the Bharat Bandh call given by various farmer unions seeking repeal of three new agriculture laws.Per information, a group of villagers vandalised the helipad area, uprooted tents in Padha village of Karnal district ahead of the CM’s visit. It is learnt that the venue was vandalised in support of the farmers’ protests as they also burnt the effigy of the CM late on Monday night.Deepika Rani, Sarpanch of Padha village, speaking to HT said, “As per the information from the district administration the chief minister was to visit our village to review the progress of some developmental programmes at 3.30pm on Tuesday.“On Tuesday evening some people gathered in the sports complex and burnt the effigy of the chief minister and vandalised the venue, they also dismantled the helipad.”The CM’s visit was subsequently cancelled.However, some villagers said that the farmers were angry over the failure of the government to resolve the farmers’ issue. Rajesh Kumar, a local BJP leader, alleged that the incident was politically motivated. “The chief minister was to give developmental projects of several crores to Padha and nearby villages but some people could not digest it and they played politics in the name of farmers,” he added.He demanded that the action should be taken against the people responsible for it.The CM was to review the progress of developmental works of an under construction women college and Panchtirthi Tirath and was to address a gathering. Karnal District Collector Nishant Kumar Yadav said the chief minister’s visit to Padha village has been cancelled for now but he will visit to Karnal on Tuesday evening. Karnal Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said that the main accused are being identified. He said that legal action will be taken under the appropriate sections of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-khattar-cancels-visit-after-venue-vandalised-in-farmers-support/story-n36jRSSVRWEiqR6up2OjsK.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: How strike is likely to pan out across different states||Farmers, agitating for nearly two weeks against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre earlier this year, have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday. The general strike from 11am till 3pm will be backed by several political parties and a joint platform of 10 central trade unions.The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have extended their support to the call. Several cab and taxi unions are also supporting the Bharat Bandh due to which travelling across the states is likely to be disrupted.Follow latest updates on Bharat Bandh here The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked all states and Union territories to enforce Covid-19 health and safety protocols strictly and make adequate security arrangements during the nationwide shutdown strike called by farmers’ groups, demanding the repeal of three laws that seek to liberalize agricultural markets.ALSO WATCH | Bharat Bandh: Farmers stop train in Maharashtra’s Buldhana, several detained Thousands of farmers have gathered on Delhi’s borders since November 26 to protest against the three contentious laws. Due to the demonstrations, seven borders of the national capital are completely closed. They are protesting the three legislation —The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Here’s how the bandh will come to pass across different states of the countryDelhi: While the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is all set to lend its support to the Bharat Bandh call and peaceful protests against three contentious laws, the Delhi Police on Monday said that they will take strict legal action against persons who would try to disrupt the movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops. Nearly 4,000 traffic and thousands of security personnel will be deployed on the borders and the city roads to regulate the traffic and avoid any untoward incidents.Punjab: Farmers who have been protesting for the past 13 days are mainly from the northern states of Punjab and Haryana. Punjab is therefore likely to witness a major impact of the strike. All political parties, traders’ bodies, truck unions and mandi associations have extended support to the call. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, on Tuesday said the strike will be complete.Haryana: In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmers’ bodies planning blockades along major highways. Haryana’s additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the public may have to face traffic blockages while travelling on various roads and highways of the state on Tuesday.Uttar Pradesh: Thousands of protesters from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled UP have marched to the Capital. Opposition parties, including the Congress, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party have supported the bandh. The general strike is likely to have a major impact in western UP where the Bhartiya Kisan Union has influence. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials not to compromise with peace and order at any cost and take all necessary steps for ensuring that people do not face any problem because of the proposed ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday. West Bengal: The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal has decided to extend “moral support” to the nationwide strike called by farmers. The party, in solidarity, will stage sit-ins in various parts of the state for the next three days. Senior TMC leader and lawmaker Saugata Roy said the party will not enforce the strike called by the farmers as it is against “bandh culture”.Maharashtra: The ruling alliance of the Shiv Sena, Congress, and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have supported the Bharat Bandh. Offices in major cities like Mumbai and Pune may continue to operate but highways in rural areas of Marathwada and Vibadhra could be blocked.Bihar: Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and Left parties have supported the call for the bandh in Bihar, which is ruled by a coalition of the BJP, Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) and other small parties. Tejashwi Yadav-led RJD has announced protests across the state due to which the police fear major blockades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-how-nationwide-strike-is-likely-to-pan-out-across-different-states/story-nfzqkXBF8oZTUbuhNok0iN.html
08-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi won’t celebrate birthday over farmers’ agitation, pandemic||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will not celebrate her birthday on Wednesday, in view of the ongoing farmer’s agitation against the three farm bills and the Covid-19 situation across the country, a party functionary said on Tuesday. Gandhi is currently in Goa after doctors advised her to move out of the national capital in view of heavy pollution and poor air quality that had aggravated her chest infection.Her son and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is accompanying her. Farmers protesting the Centre’s agricultural sector laws have called a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday after several rounds of talks with the government over the new farm laws remained inconclusive. Farmers’ unions on December 4 decided to intensify their agitation against the farm laws calling for ‘Bharat Bandh’ stating that they were not satisfied with amendments to the agricultural legislation being proposed by the government.The ‘Bharat Bandh’ or the nationwide strike called by the farmers against the farm laws will begin at 11am and continue till 3pm on Tuesday. Haryana Police and Delhi Police have issued travel advisories informing that people may face traffic blockages on various roads and highways.“It is expected that agitating groups may sit in dharna on various roads and highways, within Haryana and blockage them for some time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm. There may be some disruptions on various toll plazas in the state. The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time,” the travel advisory by Haryana Police read.Thousands of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly-enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Leaders of farmer groups have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.Meanwhile, India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 9.67 million after 32,981 new infections and 391 deaths were reported from across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Monday. The nation’s death toll has mounted to 140,573 and the active cases stood at 396,729.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-won-t-celebrate-birthday-over-farmers-agitation-pandemic-report/story-h3G2S5zlLZCSCXL3gnMJfM.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh Updates: Centre not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meeting with Amit Shah, reports PTI||Thousands of farmers are protesting against Centre’s new farm laws in and around Delhi with a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh held on Tuesday from 11am to 3pm. A day before the sixth round of talks between farmers’ representatives and the government, Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday invited the leaders of farmers’ union for talks. The meet which began after 8 pm was held at the office of Indian Council of Agricultural Research. As many as 13 farmer leaders were invited for talks with Shah which ended post 11pm. The farmer leaders said that Centre was not ready to repeal the farm lawsFarmers have been protesting the three contentious farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - enacted by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament.The next round of talks between the government and the protesting farmers is scheduled to take place on Wednesday. Follow live updates here:Govt not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meet with Amit ShahThe meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and farmer leaders finally ended with farmer leaders saying that the Centre was not ready to repeal the farm laws. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Hannan Mollah post the meeting said the home minister told the government would give in writing about the amendments it is willing to make, reports PTI. Plea in Supreme Court to allow farmers to protest at designated placeA PIL seeking to allow farmers, who are protesting at several border points of the national capital against the new farm laws, to protest at the designated place by following Covid-19 guidelines has been filed in the Supreme Court. The plea filed by Delhi-based lawyer Reepak Kansal has sought framing guidelines to balance citizens right to protest with right to free access and movement, according to PTI.‘Excellent at drama’, says Meenakshi Lekhi on Kejriwal’s house arrest claimResponding to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s claims regarding Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house arrest, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi on Tuesday said that “everyone knows he is excellent at doing drama”. “It is not house arrest but rest in the house. We have video footage of last night in which he can be seen, we do not know what did he eat at some marriage function that he is at his house. Everyone knows he is excellent at doing drama, I doubt if his degree is from the Indian Institue of Technology (IIT) or the National School of Drama (NSD),” Lekhi, Lok Sabha MP from New Delhi constituency told ANI.Amit Shah meets farmer leaders ahead of crucial talks on farm lawsA day before the government’s crucial sixth round of talks with representatives of protesting farmers, Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday met a select group of union leaders in a bid to break the deadlock. According to a report in PTI quoting sources, 13 farmer leaders were called for the meeting, which began after 8 pm. The farmer leaders included eight from Punjab and five from various nationwide organisations.5-member Oppn delegation to meet President tomorrow on farm lawsA delegation of opposition parties will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9 over concerns on the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and to seek their repeal, senior leaders said Tuesday. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the five-member delegation - Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a representative of the DMK, CPI general secretary D Raja and he - will meet the President tomorrow at 5 pm on behalf of the Opposition parties.Taking to our people on location for meeting with Shah, says Rakesh TikaitWe are talking to our people on where the meeting is to be held: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union on being asked about the meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah.‘Tomar assures MSP to Haryana farmers’, says Khattar after meeting minister“For our government, the interest of Haryana’s Annadata has always been important and will always be. Regarding farmers’ issues today I met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. He has assured over Minimum Support Price and said “MSP pr kbhi aach nhi aayege,” Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar tweeted after meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday in New Delhi.Wanted to go to the border not as CM but as a common man, says KejriwalI had planned that today I would go to the border not as CM but as a common man to express my solidarity with the farmers. I think they came to know about my plan and they did not let me go: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.“If I was not stopped, I would have gone and supported the protesting farmers in their Bharat Bandh movement. I am glad that Bharat Bandh was a success. I prayed for the protesting farmers while sitting inside,” he added.Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa joins farmers’ protest Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa joins farmers’ protest against Centre’s farm laws, at Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP border)“The Government should agree to the demands of the farmers,” Jass Bajwa said.We should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground, says Punjab Kisan UnionWe do not want to cause any inconvenience to anyone from Delhi or Haryana, we should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground: RS Mansa, Punjab Kisan Union at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi border)Delhi deputy CM Sisodia holds sit-in protest outside Kejriwal’s houseDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia holds sit-in protest outside chief minister’s residence alleging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest. #WATCH: Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia hold sit-in protest outside Chief Minister's residence alleging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest. pic.twitter.com/QGeedRLXTXProtests held in parts of Nagpur city, rural areasProtests were held in several parts of Maharashtra’s Nagpur city and rural areas on Tuesday in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding repeal of the Centre’s agriculture laws.The bandh, however, received a mixed response from traders who supported farmers but did not shut their establishments.Farmers today are much better informed, says Congress leader Kamal NathAre the farmers stupid that they’ve gathered here in such numbers? There’s a huge difference in the farmers from 30 years ago and now. The farmers today are much much better informed: Congress leader Kamal Nath said, as quoted by news agency ANI.BKU’s Tikait says farmer leaders to meet Amit Shah at 7 pmRakesh Tikait, spokesperson of (Bhartiya Kisan Union) BKU Tikait faction UP, said that farmer leaders are going to meet Amit Shah. Meeting to take place at 7 pm today.There will be a press conference at Singhu border, says Rakesh Tikait. He also urged farmers to clear the blocked carriageways going towards Ghaziabad from DelhiShiv Sena never supported farm laws, says Sanjay RautShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never supported the three farm laws in Lok Sabha as alleged by the BJP. Raut suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah can hold talks with cultivators who are observing the Bharat Bandh against farm laws.Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hold a meetingHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hold a meeting at the latter’s residence.Group of farmers block a carriageway of NH-44 near Singhu borderA group of young farmers have blocked one carriageway of NH-44 outside a Gurdwara, a few kilometers before Singhu border.Centre should call a Parliamentary session and discuss these reforms: Bhupinder Singh HoodaFormer Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “I agree that some reforms are needed. But these Acts which have been passed, have no reflection of these reforms. They should call a Parliamentary session and discuss these exact reforms.”Manohar Lal Khattar arrives at Narendra Singh Tomar’s residenceHaryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar arrives at the residence of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to meet him.Farmers’ associations demonstrate march on the streets of PuducherryFarmers’ associations demonstrate march on the streets of Puducherry, in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Central Government’s farm laws.Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy was also present.Shopkeepers in Delhi’s Sarojini Nagar market tie black ribbons around their arms to show solidarity with farmers’ protestsDelhi shopkeepers in Sarojini Nagar market tie black ribbons around their arms to show solidarity with farmers’ protests, on Bharat Bandh.“We are doing this to show our support for the farmers’ cause. Why can’t the government grant a simple demand of the MSP,” says one shopkeeper.BJP is perplexed by farmers and Arvind Kejriwal: Manish SisodiaDelhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said the BJP is perplexed by the farmers and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “They are perplexed after he went to meet the farmers at Singhu border. He has been put under house arrest ever since he returned, his house has been barricaded. Entry/exit of people not being allowed. BJP is scared that the CM will take to the streets in favour of Bharat Bandh and speak for farmers. They don’t say anything to Captain Amarinder because the two are colluding to call the farmers anti-nationals,” Sisodia said.DMRC closes Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green lineThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has closed Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green line (Inderlok to Mundka) for security reason. DMRC officials said that trains will not stop at this station. The station is located near Tikri border. “Entry and exit gates of Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green Line are closed,” DMRC tweeted.Will present oppn parties’ collective stand before President tomorrow, says Sharad PawarNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said five to six people from different political parties are on Wednesday going to sit, discuss and take a collective stand. We have a 5pm appointment with the President and will present our collective stand before him.Activists, leaders of Bharatiya Kisan Union and others blocked Delhi- Pauri Highway Activists and leaders of BKU, BKU( Tomar), Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Kisan Vichar Manch and Bhartiya Kisan Andoland have blocked Delhi- Pauri Highway at Mawana Khurd in Meerut district.Arvind Kejriwal had shown his support for the farm bills when he notified a gazette: Smriti IraniArvind Kejriwal had shown his support for the farm bills when he notified a gazette. Gazette is notified when the government accepts a bill administratively and politically. So he has given his acceptance to this bill already, says Union Minister and BJP Leader Smriti Irani.Shops in Maharashtra seen open amidst Bharat BandhShops in Maharashtra seen open. There is regular traffic movement in Matunga area of Mumbai amidst Bharat Bandh.TRS leaders protest in support of Bharat BandhTelangana Rastriya Samiti leaders K Kavitha, KT Rama Rao and others, along with party workers, protest in Ranga Reddy in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against Centre’s farm laws.If government can make law they can repeal it as well: Farmer leaderFarmers’ associations demonstrate at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (Delhi-UP) border as part of Bharat Bandh call.“If government can make law they can repeal it as well. They must work with farmer associations and experts. We will leave only after we get it in writing,” says a farmer leader.Police take positions along barricades at Singhu borderThe police have taken positions along the barricades and at several other points at the Singhu Border amidst the ongoing Bharat Bandh. They have set up new restrictions using ropes to prevent people from taking one of the two walkable routes along the borderline. The stage at Singhu Border saw a much larger gathering than earlier days, and farmers said that there has been an influx of new farmers since Monday night. “About 200 trucks laden with farmers are set to arrive at Singhu Border by today afternoon. Many have already reached, hence the increase in the rush,” said anavjeet Singh, a farmer from Balauli village of Ropar district.Punjab farmers protesting farm laws in Mohali, block Chandigarh highwayPunjab farmers protesting the farm laws in Mohali, block Chandigarh highway, on Bharat Bandh.Farm laws brought by Centre will finish farmers of the country: Mumbai Dabbawala AssociationThe farm laws brought by the Centre will finish the farmers of the country. Farmers have started a massive agitation in north India and Bharat Bandh was announced for today. Mumbai Dabbawala Association supports the Bandh, says Subhash Talekar, president, Mumbai Dabbawala AssociationClaim of Arvind Kejriwal being put on house arrest is incorrect, says Delhi PoliceThis statement is absolutely incorrect. As being the CM of Delhi, he can move around wherever he wants, says Anto Alphonse, DCP North, Delhi.Opposition who is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical : Prakash JavadekarThe opposition who is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical as they had passed the contract farming act while in power. Congress has mentioned the introduction of these laws in their manifesto, says Union Minister Prakash JavadekarAssam Police detain a few people who were protesting Assam Police detain a few people who were protesting in front of Janata Bhawan in Guwahati today, in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions.BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi will join the mayors and other councilors outside Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residenceBJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi will join the mayors and other councilors outside Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. West Delhi MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma is outside the CM’s residence. Arvind Kejriwal has not been put under house arrest: Anto Alphonse, Deputy Commissioner of Police North, DelhiIt is a general deployment to avoid any clash between AAP and any other party. CM has not been put under house arrest: Anto Alphonse, DCP North, DelhiNo one is allowed to go inside Arvind Kejriwal’s residence: Saurabh BharadwajNo one is allowed to go inside. He (Kejriwal) is not allowed to come out. MLAs, who had a meeting with the chief minister yesterday, were beaten up by Police when they went to meet him. Workers were not allowed to meet him either. BJP leaders are being made to sit outside his residence, says Saurabh Bharadwaj.Delhi Police barricaded Kejriwal’s residence, putting him in house arrest like situation: Saurabh BharadwajThe chief minister met farmers at Singhu border yesterday. He had said that we will serve them like ‘Sevadars’ and support them. After he returned, Delhi Police barricaded his residence from all sides, putting him in a house-arrest like situation, at the behest of Home Ministry, says AAP’s Saurabh Bharadwaj.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal put under house arrest after his visit to farmers, tweets AAPDelhi Police has put chief minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu Border yesterday, tweets Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Protestors in Jharkhand raise slogans and go on a march in Ranchi Protestors in Jharkhand raise slogans and go on a march in Ranchi on account of Bharat Bandh, against the new farm laws.CITU took out a portest march in AsansolCentre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) took out a protest march in Asansol today, in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against Central Government’s farm laws.Left parties in West Bengal raise slogans against farm laws  Left parties in West Bengal raise slogans against farm laws and burn effigies in Jadavpur area of Kolkata“In West Bengal there is complete bandh in support of the peasant’s demand. We imagine similar situations prevailing across India as well,” says Sujan Chakraborty, CPI(M) leader.If govt has a heart, it will talk to farmers: Sanjay RautIf the government has a heart, be it the Home Minister or the Prime Minister, they themselves will go and talk to them (farmers), says Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut.RJD workers show support for Bharat BandhWorkers of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) workers burn a tyre at Ganj Chowk in Darbhanga in protest against the central government and show their support to Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions.Karnataka Congress leaders protest in support of Bharat BandhKarnataka Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, BK Hariprasad, Ramalinga Reddy and others protest in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions. They raise slogans against the Centre and show black flags in front of Gandhi statue at Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru.Appeal to all to maintain peace in Bharat Bandh: Rachakonda Police, TelanganaIt is appealed to all to maintain peace in Bharat Bandh. Action will be taken against those who indulge in any forcible closure or stoppages, say Rachakonda Police, TelanganaOfficers are ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly: Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh NagarOfficers are taking rounds in their respective areas and ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly. Everyone has been instructed to ensure security of railway stations, bus stands, metro stations and autos. We will strictly deal with anyone who takes law in their hands: Additional CP.Ensuring public don’t face inconvenience : Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh NagarWe are ensuring that public don’t face inconvenience and there’s no traffic disruption. Adequate security deployed at all important entry/exit points to/from the district. We also deployed PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) force, says Love Kumar, Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh Nagar.Slogans against the new farm laws raised by Left organisations in Karnataka’s KalaburagiSlogans against the new farm laws raised by Left organisations in Karnataka’s Kalaburagi, on account of Bharat Bandh Telangana Road Transport Corporation workers in Kamareddy extend their support to Bharat BandhTelangana Road Transport Corporation workers in Kamareddy extend their support to Bharat Bandh by farmer unions. A bus driver says, “CM raised his voice against Farm laws. Going with him, we the workers of RTC are protesting here. Farmers should not be subjected to injustice.”Left political parties protest in Andhra Pradesh in support of Bharat BandhLeft political parties protest in Parvathipuram of Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh, in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers unions, against Central Government’s farm laws.Pune APMC market remains open on ‘Bharat Bandh’“We support farmers’ agitation. But we’ve kept the market open today so farm produces coming in from other states can be stored or else they will rot. It will be sold tomorrow only,” says a local trader, Sachin PaygudeDelhi Traffic Police lists borders to Haryana that are open Available open borders to Haryana are - Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. Tikri, Jharoda borders, Dhansa are closed for any traffic movement. Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic, says Delhi Traffic Police.Farmers try to close liquor shop near Hall gate Golden temple during Bharat Bandh protest in AmritsarFarmers tried to close liquor shop near Hall gate Golden temple during Bharat Bandh protest against the farm laws in AmritsarBharat Bandh: Banks to remain open Bank unions have said they stand in solidarity with the farmers but will not participate in the bandh. Our protest will be completely peaceful: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonOur protest will be completely peaceful. If someone gets stuck for 2-3 hours in a Bandh called by us, we provide them with water and fruits. Ours is a different concept: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionFarmers staying at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground gathered for prayers this morningFarmers staying at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground gathered for prayers this morning. The protest at the Ground entered 13th day today. Left political parties, trade unions and farmer unions in Odisha stop trains at Bhubaneswar Railway Station Left political parties, trade unions and farmer unions in Odisha stop trains at Bhubaneswar Railway Station. Swabhimani Shetkari Saghtana staged ‘Bharat Bandh Rail Roko’ protest and briefly stopped a train todaySwabhimani Shetkari Saghtana staged ‘Bharat Bandh Rail Roko’ protest and briefly stopped a train today in Malkapur of Buldhana district. They were later removed from the tracks by police and detained.All examinations scheduled on December 8 under Osmania University jurisdiction postponed: Controller of Exams, Osmania UniversityAll examinations scheduled on December 8 under Osmania University jurisdiction have been postponed due to Bharat Bandh. The revised schedule will be given in due course of time. Examinations scheduled from December 9 will be held as per schedule: Controller of Exams, Osmania UniversitySonia Gandhi to not celebrate her birthday in view of farmers’ protestCongress interim president Sonia Gandhi will not celebrate her birthday on December 9, in view of the ongoing farmer’s agitation against agriculture bills and Covid-19 situation across the country.Will take strict legal action against disruptors: Delhi PoliceThe Delhi Police have said they will take strict legal action against those who would try to disrupt the movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops during the Bharat Bandh.There will be complete ‘Bharat Bandh’ till 3 pm: Farmer leader Balbir Singh RajewalThere will be complete ‘Bharat bandh’ till 3 pm on Tuesday, but emergency services will be allowed, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/bharat-bandh-today-live-updates/story-LdVg0trDXKLvcS2Oh1ZFAO.html
08-12-2020||NA||Contentious farm bill passed in Karnataka with support from JDS||Even as farmers are agitating across the country against several legislations related to the sector, the BJP-led government in Karnataka has managed to pass a contentious farm bill with the help of the regional Janata Dal (Secular) in the upper house. The amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act of 1961, which had not been cleared in the previous legislative council session, have now been passed.During the monsoon session, the government, which had passed the bill in the assembly where it enjoys a comfortable majority, had failed to introduce it fearing defeat as it is in a minority in the upper house. Even after the recent victory in four teachers and graduates constituency, the BJP has only 31 members in the 75-member Karnataka legislative council.The amendments allow non-agriculturists to buy agricultural land. The bill amended sections 79 (A), 79 (B) and 79 (C) of the 1961 act. Earlier, there was an income limit on who could buy agricultural land, the profession of the purchaser and penalty for wrong information. With the amendments, everybody is now eligible to purchase agricultural land.Also read: Govt not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meet with ShahEven as the Congress demanded a division in votes, the government sailed through with the help of the JDS with 37 voting in favour and 21 against with several council members including nine from the Congress being absent. The JDS’ move surprised many as earlier, on the day, some of its leaders had supported the farmers’ stir against the government.Meanwhile, the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) is planning a massive demonstration starting tomorrow with the organisation saying thousands of farmers will lay siege to Vidhana Soudha - the seat of power in the state. The KRRS is demanding that various ‘anti-farmer’ legislations at both the Centre and state be withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/contentious-farm-bill-passed-in-karnataka-with-support-from-jds/story-NSUedyjcsvfk5dQoEGEuMK.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Agencies to probe Christchurch shooter’s stay in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Agencies to investigate Christchurch shooter’s stay in IndiaIndian intelligence officials said on Tuesday that they will look into 2019 Christchurch mosque shooter Brenton Tarrant’s three-month stay in India. The agencies will try to know the places he visited and people he met, officials said on condition of anonymity. Read moreOppn leaders to meet President on Wednesday to seek repeal of farm lawsLeaders from different opposition parties are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and also express their concerns over the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and seek their repeal. Read moreChina cancels special stamp launch with India to mark 70 years of tiesChina has cancelled the joint launch of a commemorative stamp with India amid the ongoing military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘I’ll see if I can play the tour match,’ Virat Kohli reveals plans ahead of first TestThe India captain Virat Kohli lifted the trophy after his team won the three-match T20I series 2-1. The third T20I in Sydney did not go India’s way as the visitors fell short by 12 runs while chasing the target of 187 set up by Australia in Sydney. Kohli smashed 85 runs in 61 balls - becoming the only Indian batsman to register a fifty in the match - but his fiery innings was not enough to see India through. Read more Priyanka Chopra can’t stop smiling as she holds her book’s cover in her hands for the first timePriyanka Chopra is super excited about her upcoming autobiography, titled, Unfinished. The actor shared a new picture on Instagram on Tuesday, showing her fans how she cannot wait to get her hands on the book. Read more From most tweeted emojis to most liked tweet: Twitter India shares #ThisHappened2020As 2020 approaches its end (fortunately), many people are reminiscing about what this whirlwind of a year has meant to them. Now, Twitter India has shared a few posts recapping some big happenings of 2020. The tweets, shared with the hashtag #ThisHappened2020, will not only help you remember the year better but may also leave you feeling a little nostalgic. Read moreWatch: India-China tension: Russia blames ‘devious’ West as LAC stand-off continuesAs the border tension between India and China continues, Russia blamed Western powers for the stand-off. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said that ‘devious policies’ of Western nations were trying to draw India into ‘anti-Chinese games’. He added that the US is pressurising India to weaken its partnership with Russia. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-agencies-to-probe-christchurch-shooter-s-stay-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xTwsDqWVZhngxWne3RuQyH.html
08-12-2020||India||Over 150 politicians, activists detained in Mathura during ‘Bharat Bandh’||To foil any untoward incident during the ‘Bharat Bandh’, the Mathura district administration made preventive arrests of over 150 leaders and activists of different political parties on Tuesday, officials said.“The strategy of the district administration to divide it into six zones and 18 sectors paid rich dividends as not a single untoward incident was reported,” Mathura District Magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said.The DM said he visited rural areas extensively where he interacted with the farmers and was happy that they reciprocated in equal measure without creating problems for the administration.In the urban areas of the district, over 80 activists and leaders of different political parties were detained in the Police Lines area, City Magistrate Manoj Kumar Singh said.A ‘Kisan Yatra’ taken out, led by the Samajwadi Party, between Jabra and Mant area of the district was stopped as the participants were detained.In support of protests against the farm laws, a peace march of local farmers was taken out in the Yamuna Expressway led by Ram Babu Katelia, president of Bhartiya Kisan Kalyan Samiti.“On December 12, a similar peace march covering 10 kilometres would be taken out on the Yamuna Expressway, by the farmers of the area in case the demand of agitating farmers are not conceded,” he stated.The Mant toll plaza was blocked by farmers of the area on both sides for a few hours. After some time, vehicles were allowed to go through but only on one side of the road, SP (Rural) Srish Chand said.There was no work in the courts in support of farmers, said Sunil Kumar Chaturvedi, Secretary of Mathura Bar Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-politicians-activists-detained-in-mathura-during-bharat-bandh/story-nMxlbgZf4oFXsPpHBGwAwK.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmer leaders claim Bharat Bandh successful; want to shift protest to Delhi’s Ramlila ground||Farmer leaders claimed on Tuesday their ‘Bharat Bandh’ against the new farm laws was “successful” and had an impact in 25 states. Addressing a press conference at a protest site on the Singhu border, they said the “super bandh” made the government open its “eyes and ears”. The farmer leaders said the protestors did not go to Burari ground as it is an “open jail” and demanded that Ramlila Ground be given to them. They stressed that they don’t want to trouble the people of Delhi and Haryana. Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa said a 13-member delegation of farmers’ representatives will seek a “yes or no” to their demands when they meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday evening. “The ‘Bharat Bandh’ against the new farm laws was successful and had an impact in 25 states. It was ‘super bandh’ from Kashmir to Kanyakumari,” Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said. The meeting between Shah and the 13-member farmer leaders’ comes a day before their sixth round of talks with Union ministers slated for Wednesday. “There is no midway. We will demand just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah at today’s meeting,” Mansa said. The central government now knows it doesn’t have a way out. They will have to withdraw the three new farm laws and guarantee minimum support prices for crops, he said. He claimed the central government has bowed down before the ‘Bharat Bandh’. “When the first four meetings did not lead to any breakthrough, we went silent in the fifth one and demanded that the government answer in ‘yes or no’,” Mansa said. “We will rest only when we make the government accept all our demands,” he said. BKU leader Bhog Singh Mansa said the farmers will hold discussions after the meeting with Shah and announce their future course of action on Wednesday. The nationwide shutdown was observed in around 10,000 places in 25 states, added Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. “It was a historic day. Nobody thought the bandh will be successful on such short notice... It has made the government open its eyes and ears,” he said. Fishermen, sand mine and stone quarry workers, industrial federation, students, railway personnel federation, intellectuals and writers all supported the bandh, he claimed, adding “it became successful because every citizen of India made it his own protest”. Besides Punjab and Haryana, the ‘bandh’ was “successful” in states like Telangana, Tripura, Assam, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, he claimed, adding social activist Anna Hazare also observed a ‘symbolic fast’ in support of the protesting farmers. Yadav alleged that around 200 farmer leaders were detained in Gujarat, and there were reports that many were arrested in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-leaders-claim-bharat-bandh-successful-want-to-shift-protest-to-delhi-s-ramlila-ground/story-1JKEHiwDUhdyBLb33CPjAP.html
08-12-2020||India||Centre’s new farm laws ‘farmer-friendly’, says Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Terming the Centre’s new agri laws as “farmer-friendly”, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said only 12 lakh to 13 lakh out of an estimated 80 lakh cultivators in the state sell their crops as per pre-determined minimum support price (MSP).He said many people are spreading “confusion” about the three agricultural-marketing laws enacted a few months ago, but their efforts will not succeed, comments coming on a day when agitating farmers observed a nationwide shutdown to demand a roll-back of the contentious legislations.The Centres farm laws are farmer-friendly. These will not only increase farmers’ income significantly, but also provide economic security to them.“Procurements (of farm produce) will continue at MSP... there is no question of ending this mechanism. Mandis (agri markets) will also continue to function as usual,” Chouhan said.Besides, under the new laws, farmers will benefit as they will be able to sell their produce outside existing mandis at competitive prices, the BJP leader said in a statement.The government is committed to safeguard the interest of farmers and the new laws will prove beneficial to them.There are about 80 lakh farmers in Madhya Pradesh, but only 12 lakh to 13 lakh of them sell their crops at MSP,” he said.Chouhan said Madhya Pradesh has recorded the highest annual growth rate in the agriculture sector among states in the last few years.The farmers of MP understand that these new agricultural laws are beneficial to them. Many people are spreading confusion (about the laws), but their efforts will not succeed, he said.The chief minister said the Manmohan Singh government was in favour of amending the APMC Act to facilitate entry of private players in the farm sector.NCP president Sharad Pawar, as the Union Agriculture Minister under the Congress-led UPA, had written to CMs, underlining the need to amend the Act to encourage private participation in the key sector for overall interest of farmers, he said.Chouhan said more agricultural produce was purchased at MSP during the last six years of the BJP-led NDA government than under the previous UPA administration (2004-2014).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-new-farm-laws-farmer-friendly-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-BpTujJxQ8KWWQvKsJWoOBK.html
08-12-2020||India||No midway, just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Amit Shah at today’s meeting, says farmers’ leader||Hours ahead of a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, farmers have reiterated their stance of not compromising on their demand that the three contentious farm laws be repealed.“There is no midway, we will demand just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah at today’s meeting,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa told news agency PTI.Also Read: Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm todayOn the day of a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh observed in protest against the farm laws, Amit Shah invited the farmers for a meeting at his residence at 7pm. “The home minister’s office sent a message. We will meet him. Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction, a farmers’ union. The meeting comes a day ahead of the sixth round of talks between farm unions and the government, in which both sides will try to resolve the impasse caused by the farm-reform laws approved by Parliament in September.Also Read: Sisodia says public not being allowed to meet CM, police refute allegationThe three farm laws that the farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke are -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and stop the government’s purchase of staples at guaranteed prices. The government, on the other hand, hails the laws as reforms that have opened new doors of possibilities for farmers. “These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” prime minister Narendra Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-midway-just-yes-or-no-from-amit-shah-at-today-s-meeting-says-farmers-leader/story-P3spvJ4b4e3ZVrsOaf8zfN.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh puts brakes on normal life in Bihar||Normal life came to a standstill in many parts of Bihar on Tuesday due to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of three farm laws.Farmers supported by various political parties and trade unions held protests against the new farm laws. Roads were mostly deserted but emergency services, including hospitals and chemist shops remained open. There has been heavy police deployment across the state to prevent any untoward incident. But despite the large number of policemen on major roads and national highways, protesters blocked many routes including state highways and Mahatma Gandhi Setu that connects north Bihar to Patna by placing burning tyres on roads, affecting vehicular traffic leading to long queues of vehicles. A few luxury cars were damaged at Ara, Patna, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur by bandh supporters.Train services too were affected due to ‘rail roko’ agitation at many stations like Jehanabad, Ara, Pawapuri, Rajgir, Laheriasarai, Saharsa, Chhapra over demands to repeal the new farm laws. Hundreds of passengers were stranded at scores of railway stations, bus stations and taxi stands from the morning. A clash between police and protesters was reported from Jehanabad after cops tried to drive away protesters from the national highway. Police said that protestors blocked the national highway after puncturing many trucks. Reports from Jamui, said a clash took out between protestors and passerby at Chakai locality. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Communist supporters fanned out to various parts of Patna, forcing shopkeepers to down their shutters and deflating tyres of vehicles plying on the roads. Many bandh supporters were seen carrying party flags, much to the embarrassment of their leaders who had said that instructions were in place “not to give a political colour” to the support for the bandh. All examinations scheduled for Tuesday under Magadh University and Bihar University’s jurisdiction have been postponed in view of Bharat Bandh, the university administration said. Central and state government offices registered thin attendance while banking services across the state worked unhindered. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “Police were deployed in large numbers across the state to ensure that the movement of essential goods and services remained unhindered”.Police patrolling across Bihar has been increased to ensure the shutdown remains peaceful. The security forces are also keeping a vigil at the railway stations to avoid any ‘Rail Roko’ protests in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-puts-brakes-on-normal-life-in-bihar/story-hHEPPoxp74KPTi33X7WJ2N.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers today are much better informed, says Congress leader Kamal Nath||Congress leader and former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Kamal Nath on Tuesday came out in support of the farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws. Nath said that the farmers today are much better informed than before. “Are the farmers stupid that they’ve gathered here in such numbers? There’s a huge difference in the farmers from 30 years ago and now. The farmers today are much better informed,” Nath said, as quoted by ANI.Thousands of farmers from Haryana and Punjab are currently protesting in and around Delhi against the agriculture laws with a single demand that the Modi government revokes the laws approved by Parliament in September. The farmers also held a nationwide shutdown on Tuesday from 11am to 3pm, which received support from major opposition parties and lawyers. So far, several rounds of negotiations have taken place between Union ministers and farmers’ representatives to resolve the differences. However, the talks have been inconclusive. The farmers are fully prepared to carry on their ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest until their demands are meant and have stocked up on months of supplies.Now ahead of sixth round of talks, Union home minister Amit Shah has invited farmer leaders for a talk at 7pm today. “The home minister’s office sent a message. We will meet him. Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-today-are-much-better-informed-says-congress-leader-kamal-nath/story-VtUWqzfnQaACh9ojcbh3xL.html
08-12-2020||India||Shiv Sena never supported farm laws, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never supported the three farm laws in Lok Sabha as alleged by the BJP.Taking a swipe at the Centre over farmers’ protests, Raut suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah can hold talks with cultivators who are observing the Bharat Bandh against farm laws.Speaking to reporters here, Raut said the “non-political” shutdown is receiving support from the people across the country.The ruling Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress have extended their support to the Bharat bandh called by famrer unions for repeal of the three agri laws.Raut rubbished BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’ reported comments that the Sena had supported the farm laws in Lok Sabha, saying the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never did so.“There is no politics involved in it (Bandh). There should be none. Forget about the brain, if the government has heart, then the government, be it the prime minister or home minister, will approach and speak to the farmers,” Raut said.Asked about Fadnavis’ remarks, Raut said, “This is an old issue. We did not support it (laws), never”.Raut further said that instead of talking about what happened 10 years ago, the BJP should talk about what is happening now.“The farmers who are on the streets do not have any political backing. The Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra (Fadnavis) should understand this. The farmers do not have any political flag in their hands. Hence, he should think ten times before speaking as the leader of the opposition,” Raut said.He further said Fadnavis will understand the pains of farmers if he keeps aside political considerations and thinks “why farmers are at present ready to face even bullets on their chests”.To a question, Raut said NCP chief Sharad Pawar will definitely meet President Ram Nath Kovind along with other opposition leaders on Wednesday to raise farmers’ issues.“The President will solve the problem if he has rights. The issue will be resolved if the President can order the (Union) cabinet or the prime minister,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-never-supported-farm-laws-says-sanjay-raut/story-rK9ao7vHm6xdSREz1tIkSK.html
08-12-2020||India||Photos: Farmers stage Bharat Bandh protests across nation||Bharat Bandh protests against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws are currently underway. The nationwide protests come a day before sixth round of talks between the Centre and farm unions are scheduled to take place on Wednesday.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government and states ruled by the party have said they don’t support the bandh, almost all opposition parties and opposition-ruled states have thrown their weight behind the protesting farmers.The farmers have been protesting against the three laws since September, the month these were passed. While initially they blocked railway tracks in Punjab, which has been the epicentre of these protests, on November 26 they started marching towards the national capital and arrived on its borders despite stiff resistance from the Haryana police, in what is a BJP-ruled state.Since then, the farmers have been staging protests on the outskirts of Delhi while others are camping at Nirankari grounds, the site allotted to them by the Delhi police.While the Centre has said it is open to amendments in the three laws and asked for farmers’ feedback, farm unions have demanded a complete repeal of what they have termed as “black laws.” However, according to reports, the government is not in favour of repealing the laws completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photos-farmers-stage-bharat-bandh-protests-across-nation/story-Dj6Od0IkzOo0uhm8XDJylO.html
08-12-2020||India||Normal life hit in Odisha as Bharat Bandh begins, govt offices shut||Normal life came to a grinding halt in Odisha as the dawn to dusk Bharat Bandh, called by dozens of trade union bodies, farmer organisations seeking repeal of three new farm laws, stopped all movement of trains, trucks and other vehicles on Tuesday morning. The Bandh is supported by opposition parties such as Congress, CPI, CPM, SUCI, All India Forward Bloc, CPI (ML), CPI (M) and AAP, among others.In Bhubaneswar, vehicle movements came to a stop as bandh organisers burnt tyres at Master Canteen Square and Jaydev Vihar Square while others picketed on train tracks in Bhubaneswar railway station. At Jaydev Vihar square, hundreds of inter-state trucks and ‘night-coach’ buses were stranded between Cuttack and Bhubaneswar.Movement of auto rickshaws and taxis was also stalled. In Baramunda bus stand, passengers had a torrid time as no buses were plying on roads. Several office goers in Bhubaneswar too faced difficulties as the Mo Bus service of the state government remained off the roads due to bandh.Public transportation services were affected as the protesters held picketing at the railway stations and bus stops in Bhubaneswar, Rourkela, Rayagada, and several other places. Vegetable markets, shops, shopping malls, petrol pumps were shut as the Federation of All Odisha Traders Association have also extended its support to the farmers’ cause.“The BJP government is against the farmers. If Narendra Modi believes in democracy, he must repeal the new farm laws,” said CPI leader Narayan Reddy.Though the Naveen Patnaik-led BJD government did not publicly support the bandh call, the party indirectly supported it shutting down all the government offices in the state. The party hoped that all outstanding issues can be resolved through dialogues between the Centre and the farmers’ groups.“The party has always been demanding doubling of Minimum Support Prices as suggested by the Swaminathan Committee and will continue to do so for the benefit of our farmers,” a BJD leader said.The state home department has asked district collectors to take all preventive measures to maintain law and order and ensure maintenance of essential services in the districts in view of the Bharat Bandh.Meanwhile, the General Studies Paper-I and General Studies Paper-II of the Odisha Civil Services-2019 Main examination scheduled for Tuesday has been rescheduled in view of the Bharat Bandh. As per the new schedule, the OCS 2019 main exam for General Studies Paper 1 and Paper 2 will be held on January 2, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-life-hit-in-odisha-as-bharat-bandh-begins-govt-offices-shut/story-5S18vZnc2RDMZm7VCtlGdO.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Haryana farm group backs Centre’s agricultural laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.One farm group in Haryana backs Centre’s new lawsA group of farmers from Haryana met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to lend support to three new farm laws, appealing the minister not to repeal the legislation. Read moreSonia Gandhi not to celebrate her birthday in view of farmers’ protests, Covid-19Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided not to celebrate her birthday on Wednesday in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 pandemic, a party functionary said Tuesday. Read more‘Mystery disease’ in Eluru: Central team to take stockThe Centre rushed a three-member expert team to the Andhra Pradesh town of Eluru on Monday as authorities struggled to control a yet-to-be-identified “mystery” disease and 171 more patients were admitted to hospital. Read moreChina sends warplanes, troops for drill in PakistanChina has dispatched fighter aircraft and troops to a Pakistani airbase close to the Gujarat border to take part in the latest edition of a bilateral military exercise, the Chinese military announced on Monday evening. Read moreIndia will have a strong attack if he plays with Bumrah and Bhuvi: Sehwag names third Indian pacer for T20 World Cup 2021Former Indian opener and captain Virender Sehwag has opined that pacer T Natarajan can play a major role in making the Indian bowling attack look extremely dangerous in next year’s ICC World T20. Read moreTwitter reveals what Indians talked about the most this yearTwitter has revealed what Indians have talked about the most on its platform this year. The results aren’t surprising as the most talked about topics were Covid 19, Sushant Singh Rajput, and the Hathras gang rape. Read moreMumbai Police shares viral video of kid getting haircut. Here’s whyIf you’ve been around the Internet recently, then you must have seen the viral video of a kid named Anushrut. The clip shows the cutie being less-than-pleased about getting a haircut. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-haryana-farm-group-backs-centre-s-agricultural-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-nzV4DWLykbgQBWNSgaDYaM.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: How strike is likely to pan out across different states||Farmers, agitating for nearly two weeks against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre earlier this year, have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday. The general strike from 11am till 3pm will be backed by several political parties and a joint platform of 10 central trade unions.The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have extended their support to the call. Several cab and taxi unions are also supporting the Bharat Bandh due to which travelling across the states is likely to be disrupted.Follow latest updates on Bharat Bandh here The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked all states and Union territories to enforce Covid-19 health and safety protocols strictly and make adequate security arrangements during the nationwide shutdown strike called by farmers’ groups, demanding the repeal of three laws that seek to liberalize agricultural markets.ALSO WATCH | Bharat Bandh: Farmers stop train in Maharashtra’s Buldhana, several detained Thousands of farmers have gathered on Delhi’s borders since November 26 to protest against the three contentious laws. Due to the demonstrations, seven borders of the national capital are completely closed. They are protesting the three legislation —The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Here’s how the bandh will come to pass across different states of the countryDelhi: While the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is all set to lend its support to the Bharat Bandh call and peaceful protests against three contentious laws, the Delhi Police on Monday said that they will take strict legal action against persons who would try to disrupt the movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops. Nearly 4,000 traffic and thousands of security personnel will be deployed on the borders and the city roads to regulate the traffic and avoid any untoward incidents.Punjab: Farmers who have been protesting for the past 13 days are mainly from the northern states of Punjab and Haryana. Punjab is therefore likely to witness a major impact of the strike. All political parties, traders’ bodies, truck unions and mandi associations have extended support to the call. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, on Tuesday said the strike will be complete.Haryana: In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmers’ bodies planning blockades along major highways. Haryana’s additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the public may have to face traffic blockages while travelling on various roads and highways of the state on Tuesday.Uttar Pradesh: Thousands of protesters from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled UP have marched to the Capital. Opposition parties, including the Congress, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party have supported the bandh. The general strike is likely to have a major impact in western UP where the Bhartiya Kisan Union has influence. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials not to compromise with peace and order at any cost and take all necessary steps for ensuring that people do not face any problem because of the proposed ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday. West Bengal: The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal has decided to extend “moral support” to the nationwide strike called by farmers. The party, in solidarity, will stage sit-ins in various parts of the state for the next three days. Senior TMC leader and lawmaker Saugata Roy said the party will not enforce the strike called by the farmers as it is against “bandh culture”.Maharashtra: The ruling alliance of the Shiv Sena, Congress, and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have supported the Bharat Bandh. Offices in major cities like Mumbai and Pune may continue to operate but highways in rural areas of Marathwada and Vibadhra could be blocked.Bihar: Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and Left parties have supported the call for the bandh in Bihar, which is ruled by a coalition of the BJP, Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) and other small parties. Tejashwi Yadav-led RJD has announced protests across the state due to which the police fear major blockades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-how-nationwide-strike-is-likely-to-pan-out-across-different-states/story-nfzqkXBF8oZTUbuhNok0iN.html
08-12-2020||India||No midway, just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Amit Shah at today’s meeting, says farmers’ leader||Hours ahead of a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, farmers have reiterated their stance of not compromising on their demand that the three contentious farm laws be repealed.“There is no midway, we will demand just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah at today’s meeting,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa told news agency PTI.Also Read: Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm todayOn the day of a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh observed in protest against the farm laws, Amit Shah invited the farmers for a meeting at his residence at 7pm. “The home minister’s office sent a message. We will meet him. Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction, a farmers’ union. The meeting comes a day ahead of the sixth round of talks between farm unions and the government, in which both sides will try to resolve the impasse caused by the farm-reform laws approved by Parliament in September.Also Read: Sisodia says public not being allowed to meet CM, police refute allegationThe three farm laws that the farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke are -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and stop the government’s purchase of staples at guaranteed prices. The government, on the other hand, hails the laws as reforms that have opened new doors of possibilities for farmers. “These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” prime minister Narendra Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-midway-just-yes-or-no-from-amit-shah-at-today-s-meeting-says-farmers-leader/story-P3spvJ4b4e3ZVrsOaf8zfN.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh puts brakes on normal life in Bihar||Normal life came to a standstill in many parts of Bihar on Tuesday due to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of three farm laws.Farmers supported by various political parties and trade unions held protests against the new farm laws. Roads were mostly deserted but emergency services, including hospitals and chemist shops remained open. There has been heavy police deployment across the state to prevent any untoward incident. But despite the large number of policemen on major roads and national highways, protesters blocked many routes including state highways and Mahatma Gandhi Setu that connects north Bihar to Patna by placing burning tyres on roads, affecting vehicular traffic leading to long queues of vehicles. A few luxury cars were damaged at Ara, Patna, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur by bandh supporters.Train services too were affected due to ‘rail roko’ agitation at many stations like Jehanabad, Ara, Pawapuri, Rajgir, Laheriasarai, Saharsa, Chhapra over demands to repeal the new farm laws. Hundreds of passengers were stranded at scores of railway stations, bus stations and taxi stands from the morning. A clash between police and protesters was reported from Jehanabad after cops tried to drive away protesters from the national highway. Police said that protestors blocked the national highway after puncturing many trucks. Reports from Jamui, said a clash took out between protestors and passerby at Chakai locality. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Communist supporters fanned out to various parts of Patna, forcing shopkeepers to down their shutters and deflating tyres of vehicles plying on the roads. Many bandh supporters were seen carrying party flags, much to the embarrassment of their leaders who had said that instructions were in place “not to give a political colour” to the support for the bandh. All examinations scheduled for Tuesday under Magadh University and Bihar University’s jurisdiction have been postponed in view of Bharat Bandh, the university administration said. Central and state government offices registered thin attendance while banking services across the state worked unhindered. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “Police were deployed in large numbers across the state to ensure that the movement of essential goods and services remained unhindered”.Police patrolling across Bihar has been increased to ensure the shutdown remains peaceful. The security forces are also keeping a vigil at the railway stations to avoid any ‘Rail Roko’ protests in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-puts-brakes-on-normal-life-in-bihar/story-hHEPPoxp74KPTi33X7WJ2N.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh Updates: Centre not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meeting with Amit Shah, reports PTI||Thousands of farmers are protesting against Centre’s new farm laws in and around Delhi with a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh held on Tuesday from 11am to 3pm. A day before the sixth round of talks between farmers’ representatives and the government, Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday invited the leaders of farmers’ union for talks. The meet which began after 8 pm was held at the office of Indian Council of Agricultural Research. As many as 13 farmer leaders were invited for talks with Shah which ended post 11pm. The farmer leaders said that Centre was not ready to repeal the farm lawsFarmers have been protesting the three contentious farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - enacted by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament.The next round of talks between the government and the protesting farmers is scheduled to take place on Wednesday. Follow live updates here:Govt not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meet with Amit ShahThe meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and farmer leaders finally ended with farmer leaders saying that the Centre was not ready to repeal the farm laws. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Hannan Mollah post the meeting said the home minister told the government would give in writing about the amendments it is willing to make, reports PTI. Plea in Supreme Court to allow farmers to protest at designated placeA PIL seeking to allow farmers, who are protesting at several border points of the national capital against the new farm laws, to protest at the designated place by following Covid-19 guidelines has been filed in the Supreme Court. The plea filed by Delhi-based lawyer Reepak Kansal has sought framing guidelines to balance citizens right to protest with right to free access and movement, according to PTI.‘Excellent at drama’, says Meenakshi Lekhi on Kejriwal’s house arrest claimResponding to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s claims regarding Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house arrest, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi on Tuesday said that “everyone knows he is excellent at doing drama”. “It is not house arrest but rest in the house. We have video footage of last night in which he can be seen, we do not know what did he eat at some marriage function that he is at his house. Everyone knows he is excellent at doing drama, I doubt if his degree is from the Indian Institue of Technology (IIT) or the National School of Drama (NSD),” Lekhi, Lok Sabha MP from New Delhi constituency told ANI.Amit Shah meets farmer leaders ahead of crucial talks on farm lawsA day before the government’s crucial sixth round of talks with representatives of protesting farmers, Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday met a select group of union leaders in a bid to break the deadlock. According to a report in PTI quoting sources, 13 farmer leaders were called for the meeting, which began after 8 pm. The farmer leaders included eight from Punjab and five from various nationwide organisations.5-member Oppn delegation to meet President tomorrow on farm lawsA delegation of opposition parties will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9 over concerns on the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and to seek their repeal, senior leaders said Tuesday. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the five-member delegation - Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a representative of the DMK, CPI general secretary D Raja and he - will meet the President tomorrow at 5 pm on behalf of the Opposition parties.Taking to our people on location for meeting with Shah, says Rakesh TikaitWe are talking to our people on where the meeting is to be held: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union on being asked about the meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah.‘Tomar assures MSP to Haryana farmers’, says Khattar after meeting minister“For our government, the interest of Haryana’s Annadata has always been important and will always be. Regarding farmers’ issues today I met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. He has assured over Minimum Support Price and said “MSP pr kbhi aach nhi aayege,” Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar tweeted after meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday in New Delhi.Wanted to go to the border not as CM but as a common man, says KejriwalI had planned that today I would go to the border not as CM but as a common man to express my solidarity with the farmers. I think they came to know about my plan and they did not let me go: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.“If I was not stopped, I would have gone and supported the protesting farmers in their Bharat Bandh movement. I am glad that Bharat Bandh was a success. I prayed for the protesting farmers while sitting inside,” he added.Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa joins farmers’ protest Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa joins farmers’ protest against Centre’s farm laws, at Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP border)“The Government should agree to the demands of the farmers,” Jass Bajwa said.We should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground, says Punjab Kisan UnionWe do not want to cause any inconvenience to anyone from Delhi or Haryana, we should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground: RS Mansa, Punjab Kisan Union at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi border)Delhi deputy CM Sisodia holds sit-in protest outside Kejriwal’s houseDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia holds sit-in protest outside chief minister’s residence alleging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest. #WATCH: Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia hold sit-in protest outside Chief Minister's residence alleging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest. pic.twitter.com/QGeedRLXTXProtests held in parts of Nagpur city, rural areasProtests were held in several parts of Maharashtra’s Nagpur city and rural areas on Tuesday in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding repeal of the Centre’s agriculture laws.The bandh, however, received a mixed response from traders who supported farmers but did not shut their establishments.Farmers today are much better informed, says Congress leader Kamal NathAre the farmers stupid that they’ve gathered here in such numbers? There’s a huge difference in the farmers from 30 years ago and now. The farmers today are much much better informed: Congress leader Kamal Nath said, as quoted by news agency ANI.BKU’s Tikait says farmer leaders to meet Amit Shah at 7 pmRakesh Tikait, spokesperson of (Bhartiya Kisan Union) BKU Tikait faction UP, said that farmer leaders are going to meet Amit Shah. Meeting to take place at 7 pm today.There will be a press conference at Singhu border, says Rakesh Tikait. He also urged farmers to clear the blocked carriageways going towards Ghaziabad from DelhiShiv Sena never supported farm laws, says Sanjay RautShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never supported the three farm laws in Lok Sabha as alleged by the BJP. Raut suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah can hold talks with cultivators who are observing the Bharat Bandh against farm laws.Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hold a meetingHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hold a meeting at the latter’s residence.Group of farmers block a carriageway of NH-44 near Singhu borderA group of young farmers have blocked one carriageway of NH-44 outside a Gurdwara, a few kilometers before Singhu border.Centre should call a Parliamentary session and discuss these reforms: Bhupinder Singh HoodaFormer Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “I agree that some reforms are needed. But these Acts which have been passed, have no reflection of these reforms. They should call a Parliamentary session and discuss these exact reforms.”Manohar Lal Khattar arrives at Narendra Singh Tomar’s residenceHaryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar arrives at the residence of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to meet him.Farmers’ associations demonstrate march on the streets of PuducherryFarmers’ associations demonstrate march on the streets of Puducherry, in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Central Government’s farm laws.Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy was also present.Shopkeepers in Delhi’s Sarojini Nagar market tie black ribbons around their arms to show solidarity with farmers’ protestsDelhi shopkeepers in Sarojini Nagar market tie black ribbons around their arms to show solidarity with farmers’ protests, on Bharat Bandh.“We are doing this to show our support for the farmers’ cause. Why can’t the government grant a simple demand of the MSP,” says one shopkeeper.BJP is perplexed by farmers and Arvind Kejriwal: Manish SisodiaDelhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said the BJP is perplexed by the farmers and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “They are perplexed after he went to meet the farmers at Singhu border. He has been put under house arrest ever since he returned, his house has been barricaded. Entry/exit of people not being allowed. BJP is scared that the CM will take to the streets in favour of Bharat Bandh and speak for farmers. They don’t say anything to Captain Amarinder because the two are colluding to call the farmers anti-nationals,” Sisodia said.DMRC closes Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green lineThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has closed Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green line (Inderlok to Mundka) for security reason. DMRC officials said that trains will not stop at this station. The station is located near Tikri border. “Entry and exit gates of Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green Line are closed,” DMRC tweeted.Will present oppn parties’ collective stand before President tomorrow, says Sharad PawarNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said five to six people from different political parties are on Wednesday going to sit, discuss and take a collective stand. We have a 5pm appointment with the President and will present our collective stand before him.Activists, leaders of Bharatiya Kisan Union and others blocked Delhi- Pauri Highway Activists and leaders of BKU, BKU( Tomar), Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Kisan Vichar Manch and Bhartiya Kisan Andoland have blocked Delhi- Pauri Highway at Mawana Khurd in Meerut district.Arvind Kejriwal had shown his support for the farm bills when he notified a gazette: Smriti IraniArvind Kejriwal had shown his support for the farm bills when he notified a gazette. Gazette is notified when the government accepts a bill administratively and politically. So he has given his acceptance to this bill already, says Union Minister and BJP Leader Smriti Irani.Shops in Maharashtra seen open amidst Bharat BandhShops in Maharashtra seen open. There is regular traffic movement in Matunga area of Mumbai amidst Bharat Bandh.TRS leaders protest in support of Bharat BandhTelangana Rastriya Samiti leaders K Kavitha, KT Rama Rao and others, along with party workers, protest in Ranga Reddy in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against Centre’s farm laws.If government can make law they can repeal it as well: Farmer leaderFarmers’ associations demonstrate at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (Delhi-UP) border as part of Bharat Bandh call.“If government can make law they can repeal it as well. They must work with farmer associations and experts. We will leave only after we get it in writing,” says a farmer leader.Police take positions along barricades at Singhu borderThe police have taken positions along the barricades and at several other points at the Singhu Border amidst the ongoing Bharat Bandh. They have set up new restrictions using ropes to prevent people from taking one of the two walkable routes along the borderline. The stage at Singhu Border saw a much larger gathering than earlier days, and farmers said that there has been an influx of new farmers since Monday night. “About 200 trucks laden with farmers are set to arrive at Singhu Border by today afternoon. Many have already reached, hence the increase in the rush,” said anavjeet Singh, a farmer from Balauli village of Ropar district.Punjab farmers protesting farm laws in Mohali, block Chandigarh highwayPunjab farmers protesting the farm laws in Mohali, block Chandigarh highway, on Bharat Bandh.Farm laws brought by Centre will finish farmers of the country: Mumbai Dabbawala AssociationThe farm laws brought by the Centre will finish the farmers of the country. Farmers have started a massive agitation in north India and Bharat Bandh was announced for today. Mumbai Dabbawala Association supports the Bandh, says Subhash Talekar, president, Mumbai Dabbawala AssociationClaim of Arvind Kejriwal being put on house arrest is incorrect, says Delhi PoliceThis statement is absolutely incorrect. As being the CM of Delhi, he can move around wherever he wants, says Anto Alphonse, DCP North, Delhi.Opposition who is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical : Prakash JavadekarThe opposition who is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical as they had passed the contract farming act while in power. Congress has mentioned the introduction of these laws in their manifesto, says Union Minister Prakash JavadekarAssam Police detain a few people who were protesting Assam Police detain a few people who were protesting in front of Janata Bhawan in Guwahati today, in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions.BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi will join the mayors and other councilors outside Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residenceBJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi will join the mayors and other councilors outside Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. West Delhi MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma is outside the CM’s residence. Arvind Kejriwal has not been put under house arrest: Anto Alphonse, Deputy Commissioner of Police North, DelhiIt is a general deployment to avoid any clash between AAP and any other party. CM has not been put under house arrest: Anto Alphonse, DCP North, DelhiNo one is allowed to go inside Arvind Kejriwal’s residence: Saurabh BharadwajNo one is allowed to go inside. He (Kejriwal) is not allowed to come out. MLAs, who had a meeting with the chief minister yesterday, were beaten up by Police when they went to meet him. Workers were not allowed to meet him either. BJP leaders are being made to sit outside his residence, says Saurabh Bharadwaj.Delhi Police barricaded Kejriwal’s residence, putting him in house arrest like situation: Saurabh BharadwajThe chief minister met farmers at Singhu border yesterday. He had said that we will serve them like ‘Sevadars’ and support them. After he returned, Delhi Police barricaded his residence from all sides, putting him in a house-arrest like situation, at the behest of Home Ministry, says AAP’s Saurabh Bharadwaj.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal put under house arrest after his visit to farmers, tweets AAPDelhi Police has put chief minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu Border yesterday, tweets Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Protestors in Jharkhand raise slogans and go on a march in Ranchi Protestors in Jharkhand raise slogans and go on a march in Ranchi on account of Bharat Bandh, against the new farm laws.CITU took out a portest march in AsansolCentre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) took out a protest march in Asansol today, in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against Central Government’s farm laws.Left parties in West Bengal raise slogans against farm laws  Left parties in West Bengal raise slogans against farm laws and burn effigies in Jadavpur area of Kolkata“In West Bengal there is complete bandh in support of the peasant’s demand. We imagine similar situations prevailing across India as well,” says Sujan Chakraborty, CPI(M) leader.If govt has a heart, it will talk to farmers: Sanjay RautIf the government has a heart, be it the Home Minister or the Prime Minister, they themselves will go and talk to them (farmers), says Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut.RJD workers show support for Bharat BandhWorkers of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) workers burn a tyre at Ganj Chowk in Darbhanga in protest against the central government and show their support to Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions.Karnataka Congress leaders protest in support of Bharat BandhKarnataka Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, BK Hariprasad, Ramalinga Reddy and others protest in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions. They raise slogans against the Centre and show black flags in front of Gandhi statue at Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru.Appeal to all to maintain peace in Bharat Bandh: Rachakonda Police, TelanganaIt is appealed to all to maintain peace in Bharat Bandh. Action will be taken against those who indulge in any forcible closure or stoppages, say Rachakonda Police, TelanganaOfficers are ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly: Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh NagarOfficers are taking rounds in their respective areas and ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly. Everyone has been instructed to ensure security of railway stations, bus stands, metro stations and autos. We will strictly deal with anyone who takes law in their hands: Additional CP.Ensuring public don’t face inconvenience : Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh NagarWe are ensuring that public don’t face inconvenience and there’s no traffic disruption. Adequate security deployed at all important entry/exit points to/from the district. We also deployed PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) force, says Love Kumar, Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh Nagar.Slogans against the new farm laws raised by Left organisations in Karnataka’s KalaburagiSlogans against the new farm laws raised by Left organisations in Karnataka’s Kalaburagi, on account of Bharat Bandh Telangana Road Transport Corporation workers in Kamareddy extend their support to Bharat BandhTelangana Road Transport Corporation workers in Kamareddy extend their support to Bharat Bandh by farmer unions. A bus driver says, “CM raised his voice against Farm laws. Going with him, we the workers of RTC are protesting here. Farmers should not be subjected to injustice.”Left political parties protest in Andhra Pradesh in support of Bharat BandhLeft political parties protest in Parvathipuram of Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh, in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers unions, against Central Government’s farm laws.Pune APMC market remains open on ‘Bharat Bandh’“We support farmers’ agitation. But we’ve kept the market open today so farm produces coming in from other states can be stored or else they will rot. It will be sold tomorrow only,” says a local trader, Sachin PaygudeDelhi Traffic Police lists borders to Haryana that are open Available open borders to Haryana are - Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. Tikri, Jharoda borders, Dhansa are closed for any traffic movement. Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic, says Delhi Traffic Police.Farmers try to close liquor shop near Hall gate Golden temple during Bharat Bandh protest in AmritsarFarmers tried to close liquor shop near Hall gate Golden temple during Bharat Bandh protest against the farm laws in AmritsarBharat Bandh: Banks to remain open Bank unions have said they stand in solidarity with the farmers but will not participate in the bandh. Our protest will be completely peaceful: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonOur protest will be completely peaceful. If someone gets stuck for 2-3 hours in a Bandh called by us, we provide them with water and fruits. Ours is a different concept: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionFarmers staying at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground gathered for prayers this morningFarmers staying at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground gathered for prayers this morning. The protest at the Ground entered 13th day today. Left political parties, trade unions and farmer unions in Odisha stop trains at Bhubaneswar Railway Station Left political parties, trade unions and farmer unions in Odisha stop trains at Bhubaneswar Railway Station. Swabhimani Shetkari Saghtana staged ‘Bharat Bandh Rail Roko’ protest and briefly stopped a train todaySwabhimani Shetkari Saghtana staged ‘Bharat Bandh Rail Roko’ protest and briefly stopped a train today in Malkapur of Buldhana district. They were later removed from the tracks by police and detained.All examinations scheduled on December 8 under Osmania University jurisdiction postponed: Controller of Exams, Osmania UniversityAll examinations scheduled on December 8 under Osmania University jurisdiction have been postponed due to Bharat Bandh. The revised schedule will be given in due course of time. Examinations scheduled from December 9 will be held as per schedule: Controller of Exams, Osmania UniversitySonia Gandhi to not celebrate her birthday in view of farmers’ protestCongress interim president Sonia Gandhi will not celebrate her birthday on December 9, in view of the ongoing farmer’s agitation against agriculture bills and Covid-19 situation across the country.Will take strict legal action against disruptors: Delhi PoliceThe Delhi Police have said they will take strict legal action against those who would try to disrupt the movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops during the Bharat Bandh.There will be complete ‘Bharat Bandh’ till 3 pm: Farmer leader Balbir Singh RajewalThere will be complete ‘Bharat bandh’ till 3 pm on Tuesday, but emergency services will be allowed, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/bharat-bandh-today-live-updates/story-LdVg0trDXKLvcS2Oh1ZFAO.html
