09-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition leaders meet President, seek repeal of farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition leaders meet President, seek repeal of farm lawsA delegation of opposition parties on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek repeal of the three new farm laws enacted in September this year, alleging that the government had “insulted” the farmers by getting these passed in Parliament in an “undemocratic” manner without any discussion and consultations. Read more‘Really impressed to see how far you’ve come’: Foreign envoys laud India’s Covid-19 vaccine progressThe foreign envoys, who travelled to Hyderabad on Wednesday to visit two biotech companies working on Covid-19 vaccines, said they are impressed by the progress made by Indian drug companies. Read moreIf farmers don’t stand up today, they will be silenced forever: Rahul Gandhi after meeting President over farm lawsA delegation of opposition parties including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) chief Sharad Pawar met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, demanding roll back of three farm laws passed by Parliament recently. Read moreWant to be remembered as one who always put his hand up for the team: Parthiv PatelA career spanning 18 years, featuring only 25 Tests and 38 ODIs could be viewed as a career of unfulfilled ambitions. But Parthiv Patel’s cricket-journey is not just about how much he played, but also how he played and what he was part of along the way. Read moreIAF objects to Anil Kapoor’s costume in AK vs AK trailer, actor issues clarificationAfter raising objections against Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl and taking Dharma Productions to court, the Indian Air Force has expressed objections against another one of Netflix’s movies, AK vs AK. Read moreChris Evans’ woke up to see the sweetest thing ever… his dog staring at him. WatchIt’s no secret that Chris Evans loves his dog Dodger. He often takes to Intagram to share sweet moments of interaction with his lovely pet. His recent post is no different and it may leave you with a warm feeling in your heart. Read moreSpanx: New mom Katy Perry shares secret to her post-baby bodyKaty Perry loves to keep it real, and the 36-year-old pop singer who has belted out hits like I Kissed A Girl, TGIF, Bon Appetit, Roar, among others, is giving her fans and followers the down low on ‘what makes a woman.’ Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-leaders-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-634YiSSYz4rxm91vavH1hI.html
09-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders meet President, seek repeal of farm laws||A delegation of opposition parties on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek repeal of the three new farm laws enacted in September this year, alleging that the government had “insulted” the farmers by getting these passed in Parliament in an “undemocratic” manner without any discussion and consultations. The meeting came a day after the Bharat bandh called by various farmers’ unions in protest against these laws. Thousands of farmers are currently agitating on various borders of Delhi. The five-member delegation of opposition leaders included former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India general secretary D Raja and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader TKS Elangovan. The opposition delegation was limited to five because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. “We urge upon you, as the custodian of the Indian Constitution, to persuade your government not to be obdurate and accept the demands raised by India’s annadatas,” the opposition leaders said in a memorandum submitted to the President. “The new agri-laws, passed in Parliament in an anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting, threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporates and domestic corporate,” it added. The memorandum further said over 20 different political parties, including those running state governments, have extended their solidarity with the farmers over their ongoing struggle and also supported their ‘Bharat bandh’ call on December 8, demanding the repeal of the agri-laws and the electricity amendment bill. “We met the President and informed him of our views regarding the three farm laws. We have asked for their repeal. We informed him that it is critical that they are taken back,” Gandhi told reporters after the meeting. “The way the farm laws were passed in Parliament, we feel it was an insult to farmers and that is why they are protesting in the cold weather against them. They will not relent and will continue their peaceful agitation till the laws are taken back,” he said. The former Congress chief claimed that the new laws were aimed at handing over the farm sector to the “friends” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But the farmers are fearless and will not back off. They have lost faith in the government,” he added. Pawar said various political parties have requested the President that these farm laws should be repealed as they were not discussed with either stakeholders or in the select committee of Parliament. “Not a single suggestion offered by opposition leaders in Parliament was accepted by the government and all these bills were passed in haste,” he said. “In this cold, the farmers are on streets protesting peacefully, expressing their unhappiness. It is the duty of the government to resolve this issue,” Pawar added. The NCP chief said the MSP has not been mentioned in the new farm laws and that is why the farmers are disturbed. His views were echoed by Yechury. “We told President that the three farm laws were passed undemocratically in Parliament and have sought the repeal of these laws,” he said. The CPI (M) leader said the government should repeal the acts in view of the widespread protests by farmers. “The Prime Minister has been saying that these laws are in the interest of farmers, but the question is if these laws in their favour then why are they protesting out in the cold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-Mtjcn8XS59ZvG5EjftGHnI.html
09-12-2020||India||Adani Group clarifies it does not buy food grains from farmers; only manages storage for FCI||With its name echoing in farmer protests against agri reform bills, Adani Group has said it neither buys food grains from farmers nor decides the pricing of food grains.The port-to-energy conglomerate said it only develops and operates grain silos for Food Corporation of India (FCI).“The company has no role in deciding the volume of storage as well as pricing of grain as it only a service/ infrastructure provider for the FCI,” it said in a statement posted on its Twitter handle. FCI buys food grains from farmers and stores them in silos built through a public-private partnership. While private players are paid a fee for building and storing the food grains, the ownership of the commodity as well as its marketing and distribution rights, belong to FCI. FCI, it said, controls the procurement and movement of food grains for the Public Distribution System (PDS).The statement came as farmer groups in their agitation against the three farm reforms bills that among other things give farmers the freedom to sell their produce to anyone, alleged that the legislations were brought to favour Ambani and Adani.Some farm groups have alleged that the Adani group is building grain storage facilities for hoarding food grains and selling them at a higher price later.“We do not own any food grains procured from farmers, and are in no way connected to the pricing of grains,” it said.Adani Group said it is in the business of developing and operating grain silos for FCI since 2005. It sets up storage infrastructure after winning competitive and transparent tender by the Government of India.Private rail lines that it built as part of these tenders are to facilitate the movement of grains from silo units to their distribution centres across India, the statement said.FCI, it said, awarded such contracts with a view to modernising the storage and transport infrastructure in the country so that food grains could be safely stored and quality stuff is supplied to the PDS system.“Using ongoing issues for mudslinging is a clear attempt to not only tarnish the reputation of a responsible corporate but also misguide public opinion and hurt their sentiment,” Adani Group said. FCI has partnered with private investors to commission high tech silos equipped with latest fumigation and preservation techniques for food grains for two to four years and dispatch it in bulk form through special trains across India. It is estimated that since inception, some of the prominent private food storage facilities have registered an average direct receipt, from farmers, of around 80,000 tonnes per year in the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adani-group-clarifies-it-does-not-buy-food-grains-from-farmers-only-manages-storage-for-fci/story-qp4xcAnFXP9ClqBorRjbWP.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers harden stance, say ‘if government is stubborn, so are we’||As the Centre on Wednesday sent a new proposal, including the assurance of minimum support price, change in the APMC act, tax on private players etc., the protesting farmers hardened their stance and said if the government is stubborn to not withdraw the laws, then the farmers are stubborn too to carry on with their protests. “Farmers won’t go back. It’s a matter of their respect. Will government now withdraw laws? Will there be tyranny? If the government is stubborn, then so are farmers. Laws have to be withdrawn,” Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, indicating no thaw in the ongoing stalemate, which has laid siege to the Capital.The farmers’ protests against the three farm laws that they fear would corporatise farming have entered the 14th day on Wednesday, as all the attempts to come to an understanding so far have failed. The farmers now demand a complete withdrawal of the laws while the Centre has made it clear that there will be amendments to the provisions to which the farmers have objection but the laws will not be repealed. Starting from September — after the laws were enacted — there have been five meetings between farmers and the Centre. Three meetings have been held after ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests began on November 26. The sixth meeting scheduled to have taken place on Wednesday was cancelled as no side is ready to blink first.As the talks began, the farmers expressed their apprehension over the abolition of the MSP, which the government allayed. The Centre also agreed to strength APMC mandis, create a level-playing field with private markets. A provision would be created for farmers to approach higher courts for dispute resolution, the Centre assured. But the situation has now boiled down to the question whether the laws will be withdrawn. A five-member delegation of the opposition parties including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a representative of the DMK, CPI general secretary D Raja and CPI(M) general secretary Sita - will meet the President today at 5pm.As the protests continued, traffic was disrupted at border points with farmers agitating on Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-harden-stance-says-if-government-is-stubborn-so-are-we/story-4kcs7SGNcDq2k3C9SLTkEO.html
09-12-2020||India||Will consider govt’s ‘written’ proposal only on repeal of farm laws, not amendment: Farmers’ leader||The farmers agitating against three agriculture laws enacted in September will consider a proposal from the government if it’s in a written form and on the repeal of the contentious laws, not amendments, farm union leader Hannan Mollah said on Wednesday.“They (government) said they will send something in writing today. We have told them that if it’s in writing, we’ll look into it. We have our meeting at 12 pm today. A broader committee will discuss it,” Mollah, general secretary, All India Kisan Sabha told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest hereThe farm union leader made the agricultural community’s stance clear on any amendments that the government may offer and said that only if the legislations are revoked, they will consider the draft proposal, which if looks “positive” to them, they will be ready to hold another round of talks with the central leadership on Thursday. According to ANI, Mollah said, “If the writing is on amendment, our position is very clear. If it’s a repeal of the Bill, only then can we take note of it & consider. That meeting (today’s meeting with Centre) is cancelled. If a letter comes and we consider it positive, a meeting can be held tomorrow.” Earlier in the day, the minister of state, commerce and industry, Som Prakash, said that the government will send the farmers a proposal on Wednesday and added that the peasants’ best interest was being kept in mind. “Home minister Amit Shah spoke to Kisan Unions yesterday about amendments. The government will today give a written proposal to Kisan Unions and they’ll think over it. Whatever will be in the interest of the country and farmers, is being considered by all, he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. This comes after the sixth round of talks between the government and farmer unions to end the protests on Delhi’s various borders, which was scheduled on Wednesday, was cancelled over farm leaders’ refusal to attend. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said they’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre, adding that there will be more clarity on their next move by evening. “We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. That meeting is cancelled. Draft will be discussed & further course of action will be decided. We hope things will be clear by 4-5 pm today,” Tikait said. Thousands of farmers have been demonstrating at borders of the national capital against three laws that they say will hamper their income and leave them at the mercy of large corporates. While the government maintains that farmers will benefit from the legislations that liberalise farm trade, farmers are demanding a complete rollback of the contentious laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-consider-govt-s-written-proposal-only-on-repeal-of-farm-laws-not-amendment-farmers-leader/story-MOh9sOeTiMlRdF6R95YMBJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Free fuel to protesters heading to Delhi||In an attempt to intensify the farmers’ protest which entered its 14th day on Wednesday, a few workers of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) started providing free fuel at a petrol pump at Delh-Amritsar national highway to encourage more and more farmers to head towards Delhi. “We have started this to encourage more and more people of Punjab to join the agitation and further strengthen it. We are doing this with the help of the local youth and our NRI friends,” Gursharan Singh, a SAD worker said.A day after Bharat Bandh, the protest seems more on track as the late-night talk between the farmers’ union leaders and Amit Shah offered no way out of the ongoing impasse. Meanwhile, traffic in and around the Capital remained congested as Singhu, Auchandi, Piao, Mangesh borders remain closed.Earlier, the farmers had said that unless their demands are met, they are prepared to be on the road. They have set up langar at Singhu border. The farmers have come with ration, cylinders, stoves and other necessities. Arrangements of WiFi, tractors with amenities, air-conditioning are also there. If the protest goes on till May, June, we can conduct our meetings in the tractor, a protester said.The farmers were supposed to meet Union ministers for the sixth round of talks over the farm bills that were enacted in September, but after the meeting with Amit Shah where, as farmer leaders claimed, it was made clear that the Centre won’t repeal the laws, the meeting stands cancelled. The Centre will send a draft proposal to the farmers and the next course of action will be decided after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-free-fuel-to-protesters-heading-to-delhi/story-mVF8GJppbayklNyqQkF1EM.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic remains heavy around Delhi borders||With farmers continuing their protests, traffic continued to remain heavy around Delhi borders on Wednesday, with a cascading effect being witnessed in several arterial roads during the rush hour. Apart from the Delhi-Meerut expressway, seven borders that remain completely closed on Wednesday due to the farmers’ protest are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and the Chilla border.Delhi Traffic Police tweeted in the morning that Jhatikara border will remain open only for two wheelers and pedestrians. The police also issued an advisory that the traffic was being diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal road. In one of its tweets, it said, “Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders - Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.”“Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road , GTK road, NH-44,” it said in another tweet.Apart from the borders, traffic remained heavy at ITO, Dhaula Kuan, Palam flyover, IIT-Delhi crossing, Rajouri Garden and near Sarai Kale Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-remains-heavy-around-delhi-borders/story-az2YCJawxs5P0AvURUfAzJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Centre-farm unions meeting cancelled, farmers say will discuss after draft proposal||As the farmers’ protest against three agricultural laws has entered day 14, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said their meeting with the central leadership on Wednesday stands cancelled and they will discuss and decide on their next move after the government shares with them the draft proposal with amendments in the contentious farm laws enacted in September. An official confirmed that the crucial sixth round of talks with protesting farmers’ unions has been cancelled due to farm leaders’ refusal to attend, according to news agency PTI. “We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. That meeting is cancelled. Draft will be discussed & further course of action will be decided. We hope things will be clear by 4-5 pm today,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Also Read: Farmers’ protests enter day 14, deadlock persists despite Amit Shah-farm unions’ meet The announcement comes a day after a group of 14 leaders of the agricultural community met Union minister Amit Shah to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation triggered by agri laws that they say will hurt their incomes and benefit large corporations. according to Hanan Mollah of the Kisan Sabha, Shah had said the government would propose amendments related to a fee structure in notified agriculture produce market committees (APMCs), stricter provisions to safeguard farmers’ land rights, strengthening of notified markets, and a guarantee on minimum support prices (MSPs) in Wednesday’s meeting. Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest here The farmers, however, have demanded a complete rollback of the three legislations that the government pushed in September to deregulate farm markets and permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which officials say will spur investments in supply chains. Farmers say government-controlled notified markets will collapse due to competition from deregulated markets under the new laws, as trade in the latter will be free of any fees or service charges.“The government is likely to present a plan spelling out specific measures to strengthen notified markets, such a fee structure so that both new free markets and notified markets can co-exist in a true competitive spirit,” an official said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the legislations since November 26 when they launched their “Dilli Chalo’ march following which several of the national capital’s borders have been choked. They are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/today-s-meeting-with-centre-cancelled-will-discuss-after-draft-proposal-farmers-leader/story-swMSQ3oDpCptQsvzS8mWtL.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests enter day 14, deadlock persists despite Amit Shah-farm unions’ meet | 10 points||Farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws entered day 14 on Wednesday amid indications the impasse between the government and farm unions will not end anytime soon. As protesting farmers continue to sit on the outskirts of Delhi, occupying various highways leading to the national capital, sixth round of talks between the Centre and farm leaders is scheduled to take place on Wednesday, though its fate hangs in balance after “informal” talks between Union home minister Amit Shah and farmer leaders, which took place late Tuesday night, failed to break the deadlock.Here’s all you need to know about the farmers’ stir as it enters day 14:1. Farm union leaders will on Wednesday decide whether to proceed with sixth round of talks, scheduled to take place later in the day. Speaking to news agency ANI, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who attended the meeting with Shah, said the government will give a proposal to farmers which, he said, will be discussed.Also Read | No headway as farmers tell Amit Shah they want full rollback2. 13 farm union leaders attended the meeting with Shah. While the meeting was originally scheduled to begin at 7pm, it got delayed as there was confusion over the venue. Some leaders arrived at Shah’s residence while others reached Indian Council of Agricultural Research’s (ICAR) guesthouse in Pusa, where the talks finally took place.3. At the meeting, leaders reiterated their demand for a complete rollback. Shah, however, said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar would present a “concrete proposal” in Wednesday’s talks. The two sides have thus far held five rounds of talks, including three last week, on December 1, 3 and 5.4. A nationwide Bharat Bandh was organised on Tuesday against the three farm laws. The bandh, which was supported by almost all Opposition parties, was largely peaceful. There were, however, stray incidents of protesters blocking highways and railway tracks.5. On Tuesday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged party convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had been put under “house arrest” by the Delhi Police, which refuted the claims. After AAP workers, including deputy CM Manish Sisodia sat on a ‘dharna’ outside Kejriwal’s residence, the police gave them permission to go inside.6. Later, addressing AAP workers, Kejriwal claimed he was put under house arrest as the Centre was “angry” with him for rejecting Delhi Police’s request to turn nine stadiums into temporary prisons and for meeting protesting farmers at Singhu border on Monday. “I planned to go at the border today not as a CM but as common man but I think they came to know about my plan,” he said.Also Read | They did not let me go, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, counters police version on ‘house arrest’7. A delegation of Opposition leaders will call upon President Ram Nath Kovind at 5pm on Wednesday to discuss with him the ongoing agitation and urge him to repeal the laws. Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury, CPI’s D Raja and TKS Elangovan of the DMK will meet President Kovind.Also Read | Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm laws8. Farmers, most of whom are from Punjab, have been protesting against what they call “black laws” since September, the month these legislations were passed. Initially they sat on railway tracks in Punjab but later announced ‘Dilli Chalo’ march for November 26.9. While on their way to Delhi, the protesting farmers faced stiff resistance from the Haryana Police but managed to reach the capital city. Most are protesting at various borders leading to Delhi while some are at the Nirankari grounds in Burari, the site allotted to them by the Delhi Police.10. Farmers have repeatedly said they only want a complete rollback and will not settle for anything less. They have also threatened to block all highways leading to Delhi and claim to have enough ration and other essential items with them to last for months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-enter-day-14-uncertainty-around-today-s-sixth-round-of-talks-10-points/story-a7nuasVNT66XR3mnfsy5KK.html
09-12-2020||Delhi||Bed attached to truck, desi geyser that runs on wood fire: farmers find ways to cope at protest sites||From sofa-cum-beds attached to the exterior of trucks, to portable ‘desi geysers’ that run on wood and cow dung cakes, some creature comforts are at hand for the Punjabi farmers camping at the Singhu border to protest the Centre’s new farm laws. The most visible of these comforts at the Singhu Border were the sofa-cum-beds jutting out of trucks, padded with mattresses. Up to four farmers sat on each on them, some reading newspapers, others holding discussions. Known in Punjab as ‘manja’, this is a foldable iron structure which farmers --mostly in sugarcane producing belts of Punjab -- get installed after purchasing trucks. When not used, they are folded back into the truck wall. “In Punjab, when we take sugarcane to mills, we have to sometimes spend up to two days and nights in our trucks, while waiting in queues. The seats inside are uncomfortable to sleep on, so the bed comes handy,” said Komaldeep Singh Cheema, who brought one such truck from Cheema Kalan village in Jalandhar. About 3.5 feet wide and six feet long, these beds can comfortably allow two adults to sleep in and seat four to five people. They also have arrangements to fix mosquito nets. “In our villages, when a small group of farmers wish to have a meeting, we place three or four trucks in a circle and roll out the manjas. Here, the manjas are providing a break from the monotony of sitting inside the trucks or standing on the road. It actually feels like a luxury during these protests,” said Cheema.“Locally we also refer it to as daftar (office). The more mattresses you add you it, the more comfortable it gets,” said Harenderjeet Singh Sodhi, another farmer from Pindal Majra village of Fatehgarh Sahib district. A three to four foot tall water heating equipment which the farmers call a “desi geyser” is also turning out to be a boon in the Delhi cold. At several points, particularly near langars and bathing spaces, the geyser made of iron or tin is being used to heat water for bathing or washing utensils. “In villages, we prefer the desi geyser to the electric ones. It heats water in five to ten minutes from the wood fire or cow dung cake fire. The advantage is that unlike a stove, it needs little fuel,” said Harmandeep Singh who belongs to Dhindsa village in Ferozpur. The compact cylindrical apparatus pumps out hot water from a pipe when more water is poured from the top. “We asked our families to send it when we realised that we were going to camp here ( Singhu) for long and the weather is it going to get colder,” said Jasveer Singh, a farmer from Sodhi Nagar in Ferozpur.Farmers have brought several trucks filled with cow dung cakes and wood. The actual intent was to use them for cooking once the gas cylinders ran empty, but the fuel is now being used for the geysers. Among the other things associated with farming that are coming in handy are hundreds of plastic fertilizer sacks.“Earlier we would stitch together several such sacks to make floor mats. Now we use them as roofs on our trucks. They get heated during the day and retain the heat to keep our trucks cosy at night,” said Jasvinder Singh, a farmer from Bhalri village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district of Punjab.HT had earlier reported how sofas made of hay are being used to seat farmers at the protest site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bed-attached-to-truck-desi-geyser-that-run-on-wood-fire-farmers-find-ways-to-cope-at-protest-sites/story-x700N7qFi6OCY4VGLYZuCL.html
09-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders meet President Kovind, ask for repeal of farm laws||A delegation of opposition parties on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek repeal of the three new farm laws enacted in September, alleging that the government had “insulted” the farmers by getting these passed in Parliament in an “undemocratic” manner without discussion and consultation.The meeting came a day after a Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions in protest against these laws. Thousands of farmers are currently protesting at Delhi’s borders after they were denied entry into the Capital. Odisha cabinet passes resolution urging Centre to implement MSPs for all cropsThe five-member delegation of opposition leaders included former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India general secretary D Raja and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader TKS Elangovan. The delegation was limited to five because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Farmers’ protest: Centre sends proposal to farmers “We urge upon you, as the custodian of the Indian Constitution, to persuade your government not to be obdurate and accept the demands raised by India’s annadatas,” the opposition leaders said in a memorandum submitted to the President. “The new agri laws, passed in Parliament in an anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting, threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporates and domestic corporate,” it added. The memorandum said over 20 political parties, including those running states, extended their solidarity with the farmers over their struggle and supported their bandh call on December 8, demanding the repeal of the agri laws and the electricity amendment bill. “We met the President and informed him of our views regarding the three farm laws. We have asked for their repeal. We informed him that it is critical that they are taken back,” Gandhi told reporters after the meeting. “The way the farm laws were passed in Parliament, we feel it was an insult to farmers and that is why they are protesting in the cold weather against them. They will not relent and will continue their peaceful agitation till the laws are taken back,” he said. The former Congress chief claimed that the new laws were aimed at handing over the farm sector to the “friends” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But the farmers are fearless and will not back off. They have lost faith in the government,” he added. Pawar said various political parties requested the President that these farm laws should be repealed as they were not discussed with either stakeholders or in a select committee of Parliament. “Not a single suggestion offered by opposition leaders in Parliament was accepted by the government and all these bills were passed in haste,” he said. “In this cold, the farmers are on the streets protesting peacefully, expressing their unhappiness. It is the duty of the government to resolve this issue,” Pawar added. His views were echoed by Yechury. “We told the President that the three farm laws were passed undemocratically in Parliament and have sought the repeal of these laws,” he said. The CPI(M) leader said the government should repeal the acts in view of the widespread protests by farmers. “The Prime Minister has been saying that these laws are in the interest of farmers, but the question is if these laws are in their favour then why are they protesting out in the cold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-meet-president-kovind-ask-for-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-eYOhL0I8SGaTDzJewXpXII.html
09-12-2020||India||‘Ready to give written assurance on continuing MSP’: Govt in proposal to protesting farmers||The government has said that it is ready to give “written assurance” to farmers protesting near Delhi that the existing Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime for procurement will continue. The farmers have been protesting near Delhi for nearly a fortnight seeking the repeal of three farm laws passed by Parliament. The government and the farmers have held five rounds of talks so far but the impasse is still continuing.The government talked about written assurance on MSP in a proposal sent to 13 agitating farmer unions on Wednesday. The government also said it is ready to provide all necessary clarifications on their concerns about the new farm laws enacted in September. However, the proposal did not mention anything about the main demand of protesting farmers for the repeal of the laws.“The government has tried to address the concerns of farmers with an open heart and with respect for the farming community of the country. The government appeals the Kisan unions to end their agitation,” the proposal sent by Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal said.On farmers’ fears that mandis would weaken after the new laws, the government said an amendment can be made wherein state governments can register the traders operating outside mandis. States can also impose tax and cess as they used in APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) mandis on them.On concerns that farmers may be duped as anyone having just a PAN card is allowed to trade outside APMC mandis, the Centre said in the proposal that the state governments can be given the power to register such traders and make rules keeping in mind the local situation of farmers.Further allaying the concerns that big corporates will take over farmlands, the proposal clarifies that no buyer can take loans against farmland nor any such condition will be made to farmers. On attaching farmland under contract farming, the government said the existing provision is clear but still it can be clarified further if required.The proposal was sent after a meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and farmer leaders in the national capital on Tuesday evening. At the meeting at the state-run Indian Council of Agriculture Research’s (ICAR) Pusa Complex, Shah had said that agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar would present a concrete proposal.The farmers’ leaders, however, had reiterated that their only demand is the scrapping of the legislation that liberalise farm trade.The farmers have been protesting since November 26 against the three laws passed by Parliament in September. The farmers had on Tuesday enforced a national shutdown (Bharat Bandh) from 11 am to 3 pm, which was peaceful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-give-written-assurance-on-continuing-msp-govt-in-proposal-to-protesting-farmers/story-Yq6AQ3r6AIoiepH2IXRPtK.html
09-12-2020||Bollywood||Dharmendra says daughter Ahana’s newborn twins are his best birthday gift: ‘I got the gift in advance’||Actor Dharmendra, who turned 85 on December 8, has spoken about seeing his daughter Ahana’s newborn twins. He said that it was the biggest birthday gift that he could have asked for, and that he received it early.The actor received birthday wishes from family and industry friends. Dharmendra, who has been stationed at his Lonavala farmhouse through much of this year, is currently in his Juhu home. Speaking to ETimes, he said that he has seen Ahana’s daughters. “Yes, I have seen Ahana’s twins. I am here in my Juhu bungalow in Mumbai today but for just a day or two. The two kids, Astraia and Adea, are the biggest gift for my birthday today. And I got the gift in advance.” Ahana’s twins were born on November 26. After Ahana’s delivery, her mother Hema Malini had tweeted about it and written: “Delighted to share the good news of my younger daughter Ahana and Vaibhav who are blessed with twin girls .”On celebrating his birthday, the veteran actor said that it was mostly uneventful. He added that he doesn’t move out of his farmhouse much. “COVID ki vajah se koi zyaada aata-jaata bhi nahin (because of Covid, I do not move around much).”Also read: Rahul Roy, who recently suffered a stroke, will play a stroke victim in new film, titled StrokeOn the occasion, his daughter Esha had written on Instagram: “Holding on to this hand for eternity. Love you papa. Happy Birthday. Wish you happiness & the best of health always.” His younger son, actor Bobby Deol, had written: “Love you Papa... Happy Birthday.” The veteran actor’s elder son, actor and politician Sunny Deol had written: “#happy #birthday #papa. The Greatest Actor and The Greatest Human being in this World. The World loves you. Be Happy Always. That’s the only way we want to see you. Give us all your sorrows. WE LOVE YOU. PAPA.”Dharmendra had recently been heavily trolled after he tweeted his support for farmers agitating against the new farm bills. He later deleted his tweet. He will be seen next in Apne 2 with his sons, Sunny and Bobby.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/dharmendra-says-daughter-ahana-s-newborn-twins-are-his-best-birthday-gift-i-got-the-gift-in-advance/story-MyRyxbe44F2MfDBWO1z5sM.html
09-12-2020||World||In major faux pas, UK PM Boris Johnson says farm stir is India-Pak issue||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday was asked about the farmers’ agitation in India in the House of Commons, and apparently incorrectly viewing the issue as one between India and Pakistan, told the House of Commons that it is a matter for the two governments to settle.Johnson was asked during Prime Minister’s Question Time by Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi if he could convey anxieties in the UK about images of police action against the protesting farmers in and around New Delhi to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Dhesi said: “Many constituents, especially those emanating from the Punjab and other parts of India, and I were horrified to see footage of water cannons, teargas and brute force being used against peacefully protesting farmers.”“However, it was heart-warming to see those very farmers feeding those forces who had been ordered to beat or suppress them…what indomitable spirit…it takes a special kind of people to do that”.“So will the prime minister convey to the Indian prime minister our heart-felt anxieties, our hopes for a speedy resolution to the current deadlock, and does he agree that everyone has the fundamental right to peaceful protest”, he asked.Johnson responded: “Of course, Mr Speaker, and our views as the honourable gentleman knows well, of course, we have serious concerns about what is happening between India and Pakistan but these are pre-eminently matters for those two governments to settle and I know that he appreciates that point”.The exchange came days after the Foreign Office refused to comment on the farmers’ agitation, when its spokesperson said: “The police handling of protests are a matter for the Government of India.”Dhesi later tweeted: “The world is watching, issue is a huge one with hundreds of thousands protesting globally (including in London, reported on by BBC) and the usual Boris Johnson bluff and bluster heaps further embarrassment onto our nation. Absolutely clueless! So disappointed with his response...But it might help if our PM actually knew what he was talking about!”Dhesi last week coordinated a letter signed by 36 MPs from various parties to foreign secretary Dominic Raab, asking him to raise the farmers’ issue with the Indian government. A protest demonstration was held outside the Indian high commission in Aldwych on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/farmers-issue-a-matter-for-india-pak-to-settle-says-pm-boris-johnson/story-AIXMchYfGe9Kf5GVe3FAwL.html
09-12-2020||India||Stop playing games with farmers: SAD to Centre on farm laws||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday asked the BJP-led Centre to “stop playing games” with innocent farmers and withdraw the three farm laws “immediately and unconditionally”.The SAD, which had pulled out of the National Democratic Alliance amid the consistent digs at it by the Congress after the enactment of the laws, also backed the farmers’ rejection of the Centre’s proposal on these laws.“These proposals were nothing but delaying and diversionary tactics and tricks which have rightly been rejected by the farmers,” it said.“We are with the farmers in everything and in every way,” it added.Farmer leaders on Wednesday rejected a government proposal on the three contentious agriculture-marketing laws and said they would intensify their agitation against the legislations with a nationwide protest on December 14.In a statement here, senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said there was nothing new in these proposals.”These are the same proposals which had been rejected by the SAD before quitting the government and the NDA to stand with farmers,” he said. “It is so tragic that the country’s ‘annadata’, the farmers, are battling cruel and biting cold along with their family members ranging from barely 14-day-old infants to elders in their late eighties and nineties,” said the Akali leader.He urged the government to “abandon its stubborn refusal to listen to farmers and announce an unqualified and unconditional acceptance of their demands”. “The government says the farm laws are meant for farmers’ welfare. If the farmers don’t want these, it is absolutely unreasonable, wrong and undemocratic to thrust these laws upon them,” said the former minister.The senior Akali leader expressed grave concern over how “our country’s soft and civilised image is taking a huge beating with the government’s repressive handling of a peaceful stir”.“What an irony that people and institutions from all over the world, including the UN, have felt deeply touched and extended solidarity with our brave but beleaguered farmers while our own elected government continues to be utterly callous and insensitive to their sufferings,” alleged Majithia.“The unspeakable miseries, which the country’s breadwinners are braving, present a touching human spectacle that can move even the most heartless enemy,” he said.The Akali leader alleged that the government’s “apathy” towards its people and its “love and preference for the rich corporates” have brought back memories of the “colonial rulers”.“The pity is greater because the rulers today are not foreigners but our own elected representatives. People elected them in the hope that they would address their problems as does a parent in a family. Unfortunately, the parent has turned cruelly and heartlessly against its own children,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-playing-games-with-farmers-sad-to-centre-on-farm-laws/story-2h0NFNHKk1mQq0sjdn0ifI.html
09-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders meet President, seek repeal of farm laws||A delegation of opposition parties on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek repeal of the three new farm laws enacted in September this year, alleging that the government had “insulted” the farmers by getting these passed in Parliament in an “undemocratic” manner without any discussion and consultations. The meeting came a day after the Bharat bandh called by various farmers’ unions in protest against these laws. Thousands of farmers are currently agitating on various borders of Delhi. The five-member delegation of opposition leaders included former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India general secretary D Raja and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader TKS Elangovan. The opposition delegation was limited to five because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. “We urge upon you, as the custodian of the Indian Constitution, to persuade your government not to be obdurate and accept the demands raised by India’s annadatas,” the opposition leaders said in a memorandum submitted to the President. “The new agri-laws, passed in Parliament in an anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting, threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporates and domestic corporate,” it added. The memorandum further said over 20 different political parties, including those running state governments, have extended their solidarity with the farmers over their ongoing struggle and also supported their ‘Bharat bandh’ call on December 8, demanding the repeal of the agri-laws and the electricity amendment bill. “We met the President and informed him of our views regarding the three farm laws. We have asked for their repeal. We informed him that it is critical that they are taken back,” Gandhi told reporters after the meeting. “The way the farm laws were passed in Parliament, we feel it was an insult to farmers and that is why they are protesting in the cold weather against them. They will not relent and will continue their peaceful agitation till the laws are taken back,” he said. The former Congress chief claimed that the new laws were aimed at handing over the farm sector to the “friends” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But the farmers are fearless and will not back off. They have lost faith in the government,” he added. Pawar said various political parties have requested the President that these farm laws should be repealed as they were not discussed with either stakeholders or in the select committee of Parliament. “Not a single suggestion offered by opposition leaders in Parliament was accepted by the government and all these bills were passed in haste,” he said. “In this cold, the farmers are on streets protesting peacefully, expressing their unhappiness. It is the duty of the government to resolve this issue,” Pawar added. The NCP chief said the MSP has not been mentioned in the new farm laws and that is why the farmers are disturbed. His views were echoed by Yechury. “We told President that the three farm laws were passed undemocratically in Parliament and have sought the repeal of these laws,” he said. The CPI (M) leader said the government should repeal the acts in view of the widespread protests by farmers. “The Prime Minister has been saying that these laws are in the interest of farmers, but the question is if these laws in their favour then why are they protesting out in the cold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-Mtjcn8XS59ZvG5EjftGHnI.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmer leaders reject govt proposal, call for nationwide protest on Dec 14, to block Delhi-Jaipur highway on Dec 12||The farmer unions on Wednesday rejected the proposal sent by the Centre to end the impasse over farm laws. The farmers protesting near national capital Delhi said that they will block the Delhi-Jaipur national highway by December 12 and hold protest demonstrations in many parts of the country on December 14.The protesters also urged farmers from other states to reach Delhi.“Agra-Delhi Expressway will be blocked on December 12; no tax to be paid on that day at any toll plaza in country,” farmer leader Darshan Pal said.“We will block all roads in Delhi one by one if the three farm laws are not scrapped,” the farmer leaders present at the Singhu border (on the Haryana side) near Delhi said. They also said that no decision has been taken on next round of talks with central government.The protest against the farm laws has been going on since November 26. On Tuesday, the farmers unions had enforced a Bharat Bandh (nationwide strike) from 11 am to 3 pm, which was peaceful. The central government has held five rounds of talks with the farmer leaders, but no breakthrough has been achieved.Union home minister Amit Shah had called the farmer leaders on Tuesday evening for informal negotiations, and informed them that a list of proposal will be shared with them. That list, with seven proposed amendments, was handed over to the leaders of 13 farm unions on Wednesday.The leaders held discussions and rejected the proposal on Wednesday. “There is nothing new in government proposal; we will continue our protest against three agri-marketing laws,” farmer leader Prahalad Singh Bharukheda said.In the proposal, the government had agreed to give a written assurance on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP), one of the main concerns raised by the protesters. It had also tried to allay their fears over mandis (marketplace) and taking over of farmlands by big corporates. But the farmers are firm with their demand that the farm laws should be repealed.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reached home minister Amit Shah’s residence on Wednesday evening for discussions.The farmers are protesting against three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reject-govt-proposal-will-block-delhi-jaipur-highway-on-dec-12-farmer-leaders/story-42av5yEJggVp4Y7S9EMU5M.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers in Karnataka protest amendments to farm laws, march to Vidhan Soudha||Farmers backed by various unions on Wednesday took out a protest march to the Vidhana Soudha here, where the winter session of the Karnataka Legislature is underway, demanding that the state government scrap the recent amendments to the farm laws.The protests were against the amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Act-2020 and Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Act-2020.While the KLR (Amendment) Act-2020 was passed by both the Houses, the APM (Amendment) Act-2020 is waiting for clearance from the Council after being approved by the Assembly in the Monsoon session.Following a call given by the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and allied organisations, the farmers geared up for another show down, a day after joining the nationwide protests against the farm bills brought by the Centre.Many protesters arrived in the city by the train due to which security was beefed up at the Bengaluru City Railway Station.The rally started from the Railway station to the Anand Rao Circle and converged at the Freedom park.Later, the farmers will march towards the Vidhana Soudha carrying whip used to guide bulls.The police barricaded all the roads leading to the Vidhana Soudha and intensified the security measures to prevent any protester venturing closer to Karnataka’s seat of power.The prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC are in place around the Vidhana Soudha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-in-karnataka-protest-amendments-to-farm-laws-march-to-vidhan-soudha/story-ChwGGaL67nq2ob462W9lSO.html
09-12-2020||India||Protest not in favour of country, farmers should accept proposal, says MoS Som Prakash||Asserting that the ongoing farmers’ protest is in favour of neither the country nor Punjab, Som Prakash, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, on Wednesday said they should end the agitation and accept the Centre’s proposal “if most of their demands are met”.“The ongoing farmers’ protest is in favour of neither the country nor Punjab. On Tuesday, the Centre listened to their demands in detail, based on which a proposal with all possible amendments will be sent to the farmers for deliberation. Yesterday, Union minister Amit Shah, along with others, met a delegation of farmers for the sixth time. After that, they will tell us their future course of action. We have already done five rounds of meetings with the farmers,” said Prakash.“If most of their demands are considered by the Centre then they should conclude the agitation,” he added.Also Read |  Will consider govt’s ‘written’ proposal only on repeal of farm laws, not amendment: Farmers’ leaderEarlier today, Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said that the farmer unions will hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre, and hoped that the farmers’ future course of action will be clear by 4.00 pm to 5.00 pm today.“We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. The sixth round of talks with the government, which was scheduled for today, remains cancelled. The Union government wants to send us a draft of their proposal and wants us to look at it. We will decide our further course of action after looking at the draft and discussing it among ourselves. We hope things will be clear by 4.00 pm to 5.00 pm today,” said Tikait at Gzaipur border.On Tuesday, leaders of farmer unions held a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal at Shah’s residence, over their demands regarding the three agricultural laws that were passed earlier in September.The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-not-in-favour-of-country-farmers-should-accept-proposal-says-mos-som-prakash/story-ccEFQY5eszwUxoMD25rSAM.html
09-12-2020||India||Will consider govt’s ‘written’ proposal only on repeal of farm laws, not amendment: Farmers’ leader||The farmers agitating against three agriculture laws enacted in September will consider a proposal from the government if it’s in a written form and on the repeal of the contentious laws, not amendments, farm union leader Hannan Mollah said on Wednesday.“They (government) said they will send something in writing today. We have told them that if it’s in writing, we’ll look into it. We have our meeting at 12 pm today. A broader committee will discuss it,” Mollah, general secretary, All India Kisan Sabha told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest hereThe farm union leader made the agricultural community’s stance clear on any amendments that the government may offer and said that only if the legislations are revoked, they will consider the draft proposal, which if looks “positive” to them, they will be ready to hold another round of talks with the central leadership on Thursday. According to ANI, Mollah said, “If the writing is on amendment, our position is very clear. If it’s a repeal of the Bill, only then can we take note of it & consider. That meeting (today’s meeting with Centre) is cancelled. If a letter comes and we consider it positive, a meeting can be held tomorrow.” Earlier in the day, the minister of state, commerce and industry, Som Prakash, said that the government will send the farmers a proposal on Wednesday and added that the peasants’ best interest was being kept in mind. “Home minister Amit Shah spoke to Kisan Unions yesterday about amendments. The government will today give a written proposal to Kisan Unions and they’ll think over it. Whatever will be in the interest of the country and farmers, is being considered by all, he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. This comes after the sixth round of talks between the government and farmer unions to end the protests on Delhi’s various borders, which was scheduled on Wednesday, was cancelled over farm leaders’ refusal to attend. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said they’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre, adding that there will be more clarity on their next move by evening. “We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. That meeting is cancelled. Draft will be discussed & further course of action will be decided. We hope things will be clear by 4-5 pm today,” Tikait said. Thousands of farmers have been demonstrating at borders of the national capital against three laws that they say will hamper their income and leave them at the mercy of large corporates. While the government maintains that farmers will benefit from the legislations that liberalise farm trade, farmers are demanding a complete rollback of the contentious laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-consider-govt-s-written-proposal-only-on-repeal-of-farm-laws-not-amendment-farmers-leader/story-MOh9sOeTiMlRdF6R95YMBJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests enter day 14, deadlock persists despite Amit Shah-farm unions’ meet | 10 points||Farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws entered day 14 on Wednesday amid indications the impasse between the government and farm unions will not end anytime soon. As protesting farmers continue to sit on the outskirts of Delhi, occupying various highways leading to the national capital, sixth round of talks between the Centre and farm leaders is scheduled to take place on Wednesday, though its fate hangs in balance after “informal” talks between Union home minister Amit Shah and farmer leaders, which took place late Tuesday night, failed to break the deadlock.Here’s all you need to know about the farmers’ stir as it enters day 14:1. Farm union leaders will on Wednesday decide whether to proceed with sixth round of talks, scheduled to take place later in the day. Speaking to news agency ANI, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who attended the meeting with Shah, said the government will give a proposal to farmers which, he said, will be discussed.Also Read | No headway as farmers tell Amit Shah they want full rollback2. 13 farm union leaders attended the meeting with Shah. While the meeting was originally scheduled to begin at 7pm, it got delayed as there was confusion over the venue. Some leaders arrived at Shah’s residence while others reached Indian Council of Agricultural Research’s (ICAR) guesthouse in Pusa, where the talks finally took place.3. At the meeting, leaders reiterated their demand for a complete rollback. Shah, however, said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar would present a “concrete proposal” in Wednesday’s talks. The two sides have thus far held five rounds of talks, including three last week, on December 1, 3 and 5.4. A nationwide Bharat Bandh was organised on Tuesday against the three farm laws. The bandh, which was supported by almost all Opposition parties, was largely peaceful. There were, however, stray incidents of protesters blocking highways and railway tracks.5. On Tuesday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged party convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had been put under “house arrest” by the Delhi Police, which refuted the claims. After AAP workers, including deputy CM Manish Sisodia sat on a ‘dharna’ outside Kejriwal’s residence, the police gave them permission to go inside.6. Later, addressing AAP workers, Kejriwal claimed he was put under house arrest as the Centre was “angry” with him for rejecting Delhi Police’s request to turn nine stadiums into temporary prisons and for meeting protesting farmers at Singhu border on Monday. “I planned to go at the border today not as a CM but as common man but I think they came to know about my plan,” he said.Also Read | They did not let me go, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, counters police version on ‘house arrest’7. A delegation of Opposition leaders will call upon President Ram Nath Kovind at 5pm on Wednesday to discuss with him the ongoing agitation and urge him to repeal the laws. Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury, CPI’s D Raja and TKS Elangovan of the DMK will meet President Kovind.Also Read | Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm laws8. Farmers, most of whom are from Punjab, have been protesting against what they call “black laws” since September, the month these legislations were passed. Initially they sat on railway tracks in Punjab but later announced ‘Dilli Chalo’ march for November 26.9. While on their way to Delhi, the protesting farmers faced stiff resistance from the Haryana Police but managed to reach the capital city. Most are protesting at various borders leading to Delhi while some are at the Nirankari grounds in Burari, the site allotted to them by the Delhi Police.10. Farmers have repeatedly said they only want a complete rollback and will not settle for anything less. They have also threatened to block all highways leading to Delhi and claim to have enough ration and other essential items with them to last for months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-enter-day-14-uncertainty-around-today-s-sixth-round-of-talks-10-points/story-a7nuasVNT66XR3mnfsy5KK.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests LIVE Updates: Acting to ‘garner votes,’ say farmers as they refuse to use govt provided amenities||The nationwide stir against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws on Wednesday entered day 14 and there are no signs of a resolution in sight. On Tuesday, farm unions across the country held a nationwide Bharat Bandh against the three laws from 11am-3pm, which was largely peaceful. Late last night, in a bid to break the deadlock, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a meeting with 13 farm leaders. However the meeting, which was reportedly ‘informal,’ was inconclusive, just like the five rounds of talks which have taken place between the government and farmers, including three last week.Also Read | No headway as farmers tell Amit Shah they want full rollbackSpeaking to media after the meeting, farm union leaders said they reiterated to Shah their demand of a complete repeal but Shah reportedly said the government will not rollback the laws. Instead, he is said to have told farmers Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar would present a “concrete” proposal in Wednesday’s scheduled sixth round talks. Farm leaders, however, told media they would take a call on whether to go ahead with Wednesday’s talks or not.Later in the day, a group of five Opposition leaders will meet President Ram Nath Kovind to discuss the farmers’ agitation and seek a repeal of the laws.Also Read | Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm lawsFollow all live updates here: Watch | Punjabi singer Ammy Virk comes out in support of Farmers’ protest#WATCH: Punjabi singer and actor Ammy Virk sings after addressing farmers protesting at Singhu border.Today is the 14th day of the farmers' protest against the farm laws at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi border). pic.twitter.com/4OAjWlFAqsFarmers rightly rejected govt’s proposal: SAD’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal“Five months’ non-stop protests, 6 marathon meetings, 15 nights spent in chill on Delhi roads by Annadata pleading with GoI to withdraw #AntiFarmerActs but their pain goes unfelt! Centre packaged old wine in new bottle. Farmers have rightly rejected the proposal & SAD stands by them,” tweets Harsimrat Kaur Badal.Farmers refuse to use govt provided amenities at Burari groundFarmers gathered at Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari, refuse to utilise government amenities.“A struggle is always done by ones’ own abilities. We accept help from sympathisers to the cause but not from governments. They only act to garner votes,” ANI quoted a farmer leader as saying.Modi government has betrayed farmers: Rahul Gandhi“The farmer of the country has understood that the Modi government has betrayed him and now he is not going to back down because he knows that if he compromises today, his future will not survive. Farmer is Hindustan!” tweets Congress’ Rahul Gandhi.“We are all with the farmer, keep fighting,” he also wrote.It is govt’s duty to resolve this issue: NCP’s Pawar“There was a request from all opposition parties for in-depth discussion of farm bills and that it should be sent to select committee, but unfortunately, no suggestion was accepted and bills were passed in hurry,” says NCP chief Sharad Pawar after the meeting between opposition leaders and President Kovind.“In this cold, the farmers are on the streets protesting peacefully, expressing their unhappiness. It is the duty of the government to resolve this issue,” said Pawar.Gave memorandum asking to repeal agriculture laws to President: YechuryWe have given a memorandum to the President. We are asking to repeal agriculture laws and electricity amendment bill that were passed in anti-democratic manner without proper discussions and consultations, says Sitaram Yechury, CPI-M.Farmers will not compromise: Rahul Gandhi‘Farmers will not compromise, they know that there is no future if they do don’t take a stand today,’ says Rahul Gandhi after meeting the President.“We informed the President that it is absolutely critical that these anti-farmer laws are taken back,” Gandhi also said.Farmers to block Delhi-Jaipur and Delhi-Agra highways‘We will block Delhi-Jaipur and Delhi-Agra highways on 12th December’ say farmer leaders at Singhu border.Farmers to gheraoed BJP offices on December 14On 14th December, BJP offices will be gheraoed, protest demonstrations will be held in many parts of the country. We are also giving a call to farmers from other parts of the country to reach Delhi, said farmer leaders at Singhu border.We reject the government’s proposals: Farmers’ unionThe farmers announced to block Delhi-Jaipur highway by December 12 as deadlock with the government over farm laws remains.‘We reject the government’s proposals,’ said Darshan Pal, President of Krantikari Kisan Union.More than 25 opposition parties have extended“More than 25 opposition parties have extended their support towards the demand of withdrawing the three laws. These laws are not in India’s interests & also threatens our food security,” said Sitaram Yechury of CPI-M party ahead of meeting with the President against farm laws.Rahul Gandhi reaches Rashtrapati Bhawan Congress leader Rahul Gandhi reached Rashtrapati Bhawan for the meeting of joint delegation of opposition parties with President Ram Nath Kovind over the contentious farm laws.‘Govt prolonging protest’: Farmers’ union leaderSpeaking on protest continuing for the days now, farmer leaders blames government for delay in the resolving the deadlock. Rajeev Nagar, a local farmers’ union leader said, “It is not the farmers but the government that is prolonging the protest.” “The government knows our demands and knows well about our peaceful demonstration. It can address our concern and we will be gone. We do not want to sit here for long, we have got our farms and cattle to look after,” said Nagar, the Gautam Buddh Nagar unit president of the BKU (Bhanu), PTI reported.‘Work in progress,’ says Javadekar on progress in talk“It is work in progress,” said Union minister Prakash Javadekar after he was asked about progress in talks between government and farmers over the farm laws`Farmers remain firm on demand of complete withdrawal of farm lawsAs the talks with government’s offer to amend farm laws fail, the farmers remained firm on the demand for for a repeal of the legislations. “All three farm laws should be repealed. This is our demand,” said Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab at Singhu border.“If the proposal talks of only amendments then we will reject it,” he also said.Farmers receive draft proposal at Singhu borderFarmer leaders at Singhu Border received a draft proposal of the amendments in the farm laws from the Government of India, reported ANI.The draft proposal has been sent by Vivek Aggarwal, Joint Secretary in Agriculture Ministry.If government is stubborn, so are farmers, says BKU spokesperson TikaitBKU spokesperson Rakesh Singh Tikait says unions will strategise in meeting and discuss Centre’s proposal. “Farmers won’t go back as it’s a matter of their respect. If government is stubborn, so are farmers. Laws have to be withdrawn,” says Tikait.Madhya Pradesh CM says farmers “stand with PM Modi”Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan says farmers stand with PM Modi, thanks the farmers of the state for making Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh “ineffective.”Congress leader Digvijaya Singh advises PM Modi to “leave his stubbornness”“Modi ji should leave his stubbornness. It is a matter of farmers, such stubbornness is not right for anyone. All three laws should be repealed. Joint Parliamentary Committee should be formed, that will find a solution after talking to farmers,” says senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh.Meeting can be held tomorrow if we find government’s proposal positive, says farm union leader Hannan MollahHannan Mollah, general secretary, All Indian Kisan Sabha (AIKS) says if farm unions find government’s letter “positive,” Wednesday’s sixth round meeting, which now stands cancelled, can take place on Thursday. If the writing is on amendment, our position is very clear. If it's on repeal of the Bill, only then can we take note of it & consider. That meeting (today's meeting with Centre) is cancelled. If letter comes & we consider it positive, meeting can be held tomorrow: Hannan Mollah https://t.co/CAduXcEEVdGovt will today give written proposal to Kisan Unions, says MoS Som Prakash“Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Kisan Unions yesterday about amendments. Government will today give a written proposal to Kisan Unions and they’ll think over it. Whatever will be in the interest of country and farmers, is being considered by all,” says Som Parkash, MoS, Commerce and Industry.‘Sixth round of talks cancelled, will discuss Centre’s draft proposal’: Rakesh Tikait“Sixth round of talks with government is cancelled. We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. Draft will be discussed and further course of action will be decided. We hope things will be clear by 4-5pm today,” says BKU’s Rakesh Tikait.Farmers continue to camp at Singhu border as protests enter day 14Farmers continue to camp at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) to protest against the farm laws as protests reach day 14. Delhi: Farmers continue to camp at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) to protest against the farm laws.Farmers' protest at Singhu border, against #FarmLaws, entered 14th day today. pic.twitter.com/1l1vp2t5fo‘Meeting was positive, government will give a proposal to farmer leaders’: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait“The meeting was positive. The government will give a proposal to farmer leaders which will be discussed. We want withdrawal of the three farm bills but government wants amendments in the bills,” says Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-farm-unions-to-decide-on-sixth-round-of-talks-with-govt/story-GZZBWptfOe1Lt30akUKGiJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Will consider govt’s ‘written’ proposal only on repeal of farm laws, not amendment: Farmers’ leader||The farmers agitating against three agriculture laws enacted in September will consider a proposal from the government if it’s in a written form and on the repeal of the contentious laws, not amendments, farm union leader Hannan Mollah said on Wednesday.“They (government) said they will send something in writing today. We have told them that if it’s in writing, we’ll look into it. We have our meeting at 12 pm today. A broader committee will discuss it,” Mollah, general secretary, All India Kisan Sabha told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest hereThe farm union leader made the agricultural community’s stance clear on any amendments that the government may offer and said that only if the legislations are revoked, they will consider the draft proposal, which if looks “positive” to them, they will be ready to hold another round of talks with the central leadership on Thursday. According to ANI, Mollah said, “If the writing is on amendment, our position is very clear. If it’s a repeal of the Bill, only then can we take note of it & consider. That meeting (today’s meeting with Centre) is cancelled. If a letter comes and we consider it positive, a meeting can be held tomorrow.” Earlier in the day, the minister of state, commerce and industry, Som Prakash, said that the government will send the farmers a proposal on Wednesday and added that the peasants’ best interest was being kept in mind. “Home minister Amit Shah spoke to Kisan Unions yesterday about amendments. The government will today give a written proposal to Kisan Unions and they’ll think over it. Whatever will be in the interest of the country and farmers, is being considered by all, he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. This comes after the sixth round of talks between the government and farmer unions to end the protests on Delhi’s various borders, which was scheduled on Wednesday, was cancelled over farm leaders’ refusal to attend. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said they’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre, adding that there will be more clarity on their next move by evening. “We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. That meeting is cancelled. Draft will be discussed & further course of action will be decided. We hope things will be clear by 4-5 pm today,” Tikait said. Thousands of farmers have been demonstrating at borders of the national capital against three laws that they say will hamper their income and leave them at the mercy of large corporates. While the government maintains that farmers will benefit from the legislations that liberalise farm trade, farmers are demanding a complete rollback of the contentious laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-consider-govt-s-written-proposal-only-on-repeal-of-farm-laws-not-amendment-farmers-leader/story-MOh9sOeTiMlRdF6R95YMBJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Centre-farm unions meeting cancelled, farmers say will discuss after draft proposal||As the farmers’ protest against three agricultural laws has entered day 14, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said their meeting with the central leadership on Wednesday stands cancelled and they will discuss and decide on their next move after the government shares with them the draft proposal with amendments in the contentious farm laws enacted in September. An official confirmed that the crucial sixth round of talks with protesting farmers’ unions has been cancelled due to farm leaders’ refusal to attend, according to news agency PTI. “We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. That meeting is cancelled. Draft will be discussed & further course of action will be decided. We hope things will be clear by 4-5 pm today,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Also Read: Farmers’ protests enter day 14, deadlock persists despite Amit Shah-farm unions’ meet The announcement comes a day after a group of 14 leaders of the agricultural community met Union minister Amit Shah to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation triggered by agri laws that they say will hurt their incomes and benefit large corporations. according to Hanan Mollah of the Kisan Sabha, Shah had said the government would propose amendments related to a fee structure in notified agriculture produce market committees (APMCs), stricter provisions to safeguard farmers’ land rights, strengthening of notified markets, and a guarantee on minimum support prices (MSPs) in Wednesday’s meeting. Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest here The farmers, however, have demanded a complete rollback of the three legislations that the government pushed in September to deregulate farm markets and permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which officials say will spur investments in supply chains. Farmers say government-controlled notified markets will collapse due to competition from deregulated markets under the new laws, as trade in the latter will be free of any fees or service charges.“The government is likely to present a plan spelling out specific measures to strengthen notified markets, such a fee structure so that both new free markets and notified markets can co-exist in a true competitive spirit,” an official said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the legislations since November 26 when they launched their “Dilli Chalo’ march following which several of the national capital’s borders have been choked. They are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/today-s-meeting-with-centre-cancelled-will-discuss-after-draft-proposal-farmers-leader/story-swMSQ3oDpCptQsvzS8mWtL.html
