10-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: IAF chief, Japanese counterpart discuss enhancing cooperation, interoperability and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. IAF chief, Japanese counterpart discuss enhancing cooperation, interoperabilityThe visiting Chief of Staff of Japan’s Air Self-Defense Force, Gen Izutsu Shunji, and the Indian Air Force chief, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, on Thursday discussed ways to enhance cooperation and interoperability between the two sides. Read moreSarbananda Sonowal lays foundation stone for Assam Agitation martyrs’ memorialThirty five years after the signing of the Assam Accord that marked the end of a six-year agitation against Bangladeshi immigrants, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Thursday laid the foundation stone of a memorial for 855 people who lost their lives in that stir. Read moreCM Uddhav Thackeray inspects tunnel work on Pune-Mumbai expresswayChief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday reviewed the progress of the ‘Missing link’ project in the ghat section on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, which will help reduce the travel distance between the two cities by six kilometres and save 20 minutes of travelling time. Read moreParthiv Patel joins Mumbai Indians as Talent ScoutA day after announcing his retirement from all forms of cricket, former Indian wicketkeeper Parthiv Patel has joined Indian Premier League (IPL) franchise Mumbai Indians (MI) as a Talent Scout. The franchise confirmed the development through a statement on Thursday evening. Read moreAhead of Durgamati, Anushka Shetty wishes Bhumi Pednekar and the team: ‘Best wishes, looking forward’Actor Anushka Shetty has shared best wishes for the team of Durgamati ahead of the film’s premiere on Amazon Prime on Friday. Durgamati, starring Bhumi Pednekar in the lead role, is a remake of Telugu horror thriller Bhaagamathie that starred Anushka in the lead. It is helmed by the director of the original, Ashok. Read more Wife takes a bite out of husband’s lunch every day while packing it. Here’s whyThere are some incidents which despite appearing bizarre at first glance turn out to be heartwarming. They are the tales that may leave you with a huge smile on your face and a fuzzy feeling in your heart. Such is the story of Tracy Howell. She took to Facebook to share how she started taking a bite out of her husband’s lunch while packing it. The reason behind her seemingly strange act has now won people over. Read more Watch: Farmers’ protest: Govt ‘ready to discuss proposal’ reiterates MSP, APMC pointsThe government on Thursday asked farmer groups to consider its proposals for amending the Acts to address their concerns and said it is open to discussing its offer further whenever the unions want, but protesters remained defiant and threatened to block railway tracks too in addition to highways. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-iaf-chief-japanese-counterpart-discuss-enhancing-cooperation-interoperability/story-mGp3jtkncR0ZQyqvYsFbXI.html
10-12-2020||India||With no end to deadlock on 3 laws, farmers pile up pressure with numbers||The number of farmers at Delhi-Haryana borders is increasing with each passing day with more from across Punjab and Haryana making a beeline to join the protest in the national capital against the three farm laws that they deem to be detrimental to their livelihood.The agitation entered the 14th day on Wednesday with a constant flow of farmers carrying black flags on their actor-trailers, SUVs, cars, trucks and canters, marching forward on NH 44----- Delhi-Chandigarh national highway-- towards the national capital.With talks with Union government remaining inconclusive, the farmer leaders are requesting more and more followers to join the protests to increase the pressure on the government for the withdrawal of the three laws. Farmers in the villages along the highways and Gurdwaras are serving langar (community kitchen) for travelling farmers. Another reason behind the continuing surge in the numbers lies in the fact that sowing of wheat is over and the farmers are free for about a month till the first irrigation of the crop.Also Read: Traffic restrictions continue on Delhi borders as farmers carry on with protest“We hired a bus and 45 farmers from my village left for Delhi on Wednesday morning as we should help our brothers and sisters, who are sitting there for the past two weeks,” said Rampal Sharma from Bhor Saidan village of Kurukshetra district.“We want to tell our chief minister that farmers from Haryana are also with their counterparts from Punjab and we will stay in Delhi until these anti-farmer laws are withdrawn,” said a young farmer, Vikas Kamboj, from Yamunanagar.He is on way to Delhi with his four friends in his black SUV.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Why agri reforms are hard to sell Farmers, especially the youth, are expressing their solidarity with ongoing agitation using social media. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni has also created a WhatsApp group to give live updates and video messages to his supporters from the Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-no-end-to-deadlock-on-3-laws-farmers-pile-up-pressure-with-numbers/story-cZHwZQR0nTRj04sSfGPkEL.html
10-12-2020||India||Bring agri reforms in BJP-ruled states first, others may follow suit if they like the outcome: Raut to Centre on farmers’ protest||As the deadlock in the farmers-government talks continues, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has asked if the Centre is even serious about resolving the issue. The Sena MP also said that if the Centre wanted to bring in reforms it should have tried it first in one of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states.“The real question is does the Centre want to find a solution. If they wanted to find a solution, they would have. It seems that they want to keep this issue hanging. If the Centre wants to bring in reforms in agriculture, then it should start with BJP-ruled states, experiment there. The other states will see the outcome and accept it,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai.A day after Union minister of state Raosaheb Danve claimed that Pakistan and China are behind the ongoing protests by farmers, the Sena leader said, “If a Union minister has information that China and Pakistan have a hand behind farmers’ agitation, then, the defence minister should immediately conduct a surgical strike on China and Pakistan.”Speaking at the inauguration of a health centre in Maharashtra’s Jalna district, Danve, the minister of state for consumer affairs, had said, “The agitation that is going on is not that of farmers. China and Pakistan have a hand in it. Muslims in this country were incited first. What was said (to them)? That NRC is coming, CAA is coming and Muslims will have to leave this country in six months. Did a single Muslim leave?” He added. “Those efforts didn’t succeed and now farmers are being told that they will face losses. This is the conspiracy of other countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-agri-reforms-in-bjp-ruled-states-first-others-may-follow-suit-if-they-like-the-outcome-raut-to-centre-on-farmers-protest/story-rLweftozRVmeDQ0Nn1J50J.html
10-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Why agri reforms are hard to sell||As the 1990s began, India found it difficult to pay interests on the $90 billion in foreign loans that had propped up a socialist system, triggering a balance-of-payments emergency. The country then turned to a burst of economic reforms to claw out of the crisis. The Big Bang reforms of 1991 led by then finance minister Manmohan Singh cut some of the world’s highest taxes and tariffs, ended a system of government permits known as licence raj and devalued the currency. The reforms however bypassed India’s agriculture, dominated by heavy subsidies. On Wednesday, a desperate Union government sent out a lengthy set of proposals to farm unions to mollify farmers protesting in thousands at Delhi’s borders against a set of sweeping farm-reform laws, the first attempt to open up the antiquated agriculture sector. Farm unions however have stuck to their demand of scrapping three pro-market agricultural laws they say will hurt their livelihoods, dealing a blow to the Union government’s reformist agenda. Farmers fear losing out to big corporations if private traders get a free-run in deregulated markets. The government says the changes will give farmers greater market access and spur investments. The agriculture sector employs half of all Indians, but adds only 16% to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP), meaning far too many people are engaged in agriculture than is required to generate the same levels of farm incomes. Some scholars, such as Ashutosh Varshney of Brown University, say a distinction needs to be made between “mass politics and elite politics” in debates around the “politics of economic reforms”. “So, it is easier to do a stock-market reform or financial reforms because its scope is limited to a certain elite section of the population. But when it comes to hard reforms affecting masses, such as labour reforms or agriculture, these are areas where we will see big challenges,” said KK Kailash, who teaches political science in the University of Hyderabad. The new farm laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and set new rules for contract farming. The government says allowing traders to stock large quantities of food commodities will incentivise them to invest in supply chains and storage space, which is scarce. Lack of storage means farmers often dump produce such as tomatoes and potatoes during oversupply, when prices crash. Concessions offered by the government provide for more oversight of private markets proposed under the new laws. Farmers have come to trust decades-old regulated markets despite studies that show these markets are run by trader cartels who rig prices. These cartels also lend money to farmers, creating interlocked markets that limit farmers’ bargaining power. Catch LIVE Updates of farmers’ protest hereRecent studies show evidence of monopolistic practices in these regulated markets the government now wants to open up to private competition. In December 2010, when onion prices spiraled, a probe by India’s statutory anti-monopoly agency, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), revealed that one firm accounted for nearly one-fifth of the total trading that month in Lasalgaon, Asia’s largest onion market near Nashik in Maharashtra. A 2012 report by the National Council of Applied Economic Research identified collusion as a major hurdle in fair trade, with a handful of traders monopolising almost all big markets. India’s farm trade is commission-based. Licences for all intermediaries — from commission agent, wholesaler, transporter, storage chain owner and even the railway agent — are often held by the same business families, in effect producing oligopolies. Yet, these markets also offer farmers assured minimum prices for staples, shielding them from risks and providing a sense of security because of government control. The new reforms allow corporations to operate with minimal regulations. “The core concerns (are) about removing regulation on traders and companies and thereby removing all protections to farmers offered by the regulation system,” said Kirankumar Vissa of the Rythu Swarajya Vedika, a farm activist opposing the reforms. Despite evidence that the current system of farm trade is highly inefficient, farmers say the very objective of the new reforms is to favour big corporations. “The crux of the matter is that the government’s laws are centered around large corporations which are against the interest of farmers and consumers. Why can’t markets be farmer-led?” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture, a farm activist who took part in the recent talks with the government. Economists attribute India’s impressive economic growth over the years to reforms in industry, currency markets and manufacturing. According to official data, farm sub-sectors, such as horticulture, milk and fishery – where government intervention is low – have grown on average 4-10% annually, compared to a flat growth rate of 1.1% in cereals where government intervention is high. “This clearly indicates that in recent times,liberalised markets are more favourable to agricultural growth,” states a paper authored by researchers at Niti Aayog, the government’s think tank. But some economists argue that reforms that give a big walkover to the private sector will not work in an impoverished agriculture sector. “Agriculture broadly needs a combination of reforms, investments, support prices and subsidies. Emphasis on one over the other will not help,” said K. Mani, a former economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-why-agri-reforms-are-hard-to-sell-to-farmers/story-TttH29JU5SjVwoABKAlYBI.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Tikri and Dhansa borders remain closed||Amid the continuing stalemate between farmers and the Centre over the new agricultural laws, the Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday took to Twitter to inform commuters about routes closed for traffic in view of thousands of protesters camping at the national capital’s borders. The police also advised people to take alternative routes to avoid inconvenience.Tikri and Dhansa borders are still closed for traffic movement, while Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement, it said.Those travelling to Haryana can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders, the police said in a tweet.The closure of borders has also resulted in heavy traffic on alternative routes.The farmer leaders rejected a government proposal to amend the new agriculture laws on Wednesday, and announced they would intensify their agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra expressways by Saturday, and escalating it to a nationwide protest on December 14.This comes after the sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was cancelled.The farmer leaders have been adamant on their demand to scrap the laws, which they say will lead to dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and mandis that ensure earning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-tikri-and-dhansa-borders-remain-closed/story-p66VMgR46n88xAVkz7ePZN.html
10-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest enters 15th day, ‘No rift among our unions,’ say protesters||The ongoing farmers’ protests which laid a siege to the national Capital entered its 15th day on Thursday, a day after the farmers rejected Centre’s final proposal of amendments to the three farm laws and announced a bigger movement. The stalemate is likely to continue as there is no further meeting scheduled between farmers and the Centre. More protesters will be joining the agitating farmers from today onwards and, according to their plan, the Delhi-Jaipur highway will be blocked by December 12. On December 14, there will be a nationwide protest.With the protest now facing a dead end, with no communication from the Centre after the farmers rejected its proposal, there are speculations of a rift among farmer unions which they have dismissed. Over 30 unions of farmers are spearheading the protest and the rumours of a division started doing the rounds on the day the union leaders were called for a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah. It was decided that the meeting would take place at Shah’s residence and accordingly a few leaders reached his residence at the given time. But later the meeting was shifted to Indian Council of Agriculture Research. Two leaders reportedly had walked out of the meeting over the confusion but later joined. “We take decisions unanimously. It is about consensus and not majority...it cannot be that some people are agreeing to it and others are not. If all unions say the laws should be scrapped, that’s our decision...There is no question of having a personal opinion,” Shiv Kumar said dismissing speculations of a rift.“In all five meetings with the farmer unions, the government held marathon discussions on the same points (that figured in the proposal). Finally, we asked them (government) to answer in ‘yes or no’…whether they want to repeal the three new laws and guarantee MSP or not?” Kakka said.Where does the protest stand now?Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Jagmohan Singh said farmer leaders are open to continuing the dialogue. “We will come for the meeting if the government invites, but our demand should be met. It has become a mass movement. We cannot return to our villages with empty hands,” he said. The farmers may send a rejoinder to the Centre.Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar is likely to make an appeal to the farmers to end their agitation and work with the government, ANI said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-enters-15th-day-no-difference-among-our-unions-say-protesters/story-ALTAghLu1F1QZVfNP1DNcN.html
10-12-2020||India||Farmers’ Protest Live Updates: ‘Our protests will continue peacefully,’ says farmers’ union||Protesting farmer leaders have rejected a government offer of amendments in the new agricultual laws and a “written assurance” on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, saying there was nothing new in it, and vowed to intensify their agitation by blocking key highways linking Delhi and a nationwide protest on December 14.The sixth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions slated for Wednesday was cancelled, but the two sides maintained they were open to dialogue.A five-member delegation of the opposition that included Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, seeking repeal of the farm laws against which thousands of farmers have been protesting on the borders of the national capital for the last 15 days.Follow live updates here:Our protests will continue peacefully: Bharatiya Kisan Union“If Centre was agreeing to 12 of our demands out of 15, that means the bills are not right, then why not destroy them. We had demanded one law on MSP but they brought three bills through the ordinance...Our protests will continue peacefully,” says Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union.Farmers give ultimatum to govt till December 10 on farm laws“We’d given an ultimatum till Dec 10 that if PM doesn’t listen to us and doesn’t repeal laws, we’ll block railway tracks. It was decided in today’s meeting that all the people of India will take to the tracks. Sanyukt Kisan Manch will fix a date and announce,” says farmer leader Boota Singh.Any law cannot be entirely defective: Tomar on withdrawal of farm laws“Any law cannot be entirely defective. Government is ready to discuss the provisions that may adversely affect the farmers,” said Tomar on being asked if farm laws will be repealed.No compulsion on farmers: Piyush GoyalNo compulsion on farmers, they are being given an option to sell their produce: Union minister Piyush Goyal clarifies on farm lawsNew farm laws will not affect APMC or MSP: Tomar“We sent a proposal to farmers. Thet wanted that laws be repealed. We are of the stand that government is ready for open-minded discussions on provisions they have an objection against. Laws don’t affect APMCs or MSP. We tried to explain this to farmers,” Tomar said today.Narendra Singh Tomar addresses on farm lawsThrough recent farm laws, the effort was to make the farmer free from the mandi system, to sell his crop on desired price, says Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar as he address media over farm laws.Modi govt sensitive about farmers’ demands: NaqviUnion minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday said the Modi government was “sensitive” about the demands made by farmers and has addressed their main concerns in a “transparent” manner. He also said that most of the farmers were “satisfied” with the steps taken by the central government, and added that their interests were “safe and secure” in its hands.“The government is completely sensitive about the demands of farmers. That is why it has addressed their main concerns effectively and in a transparent manner. Most of the farmers are satisfied,” news agency PTI quoted Naqvi.Will end protests only after withdrawal of farm laws, says BKU“The proposal has no mention of the withdrawal of the laws. They (central government) wants amendment in them but we want these laws to be repealed. We don’t want changes. We will end our protest only when these laws are withdrawn,” news agency ANI quoted BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait as saying. The government is interested only in ending the protest, he also said.Narendra Singh Tomar will make an appeal to the farmers to end their agitationUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will make an appeal to the farmers to end their agitation and work with the government, today. He will also brief the media: Sources, reports news agency ANI.We appeal to the people of Delhi to support us: Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Manjeet SinghBharatiya Kisan Union’s Manjeet Singh says, “The govt intends to weaken the farmers’ movement but many more farmers are coming to Delhi to join the movement. We appeal to the people of Delhi to support us.”Over 50 medical camps set up for farmers at Singhu borderOver 50 free round-the-clock medical camps have come up at Singhu, one of the multiple Delhi borders, where farmers have been agitating against the three recently enacted farm laws, braving the winters, for the last 15 days. Free medicines and ambulance services are also being provided to the agitating farmers. Farmers’ protest against Centre’s farm laws enters 15th dayFarmers protest at Tikri border against Centre’s farm laws.Farmers reject Centre’s offer, vows to intensify agitationThe farmers have announced a series of plans to escalate their protest. The plans involve closure of the Delhi-Jaipur Highway, boycott of Reliance malls and capture of toll plazas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-d8i7YRFfRPGrU4JRmV7T6O.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Protest enters its 16th day, traffic on borders affected||Farmers continued to camp at Delhi’s borders for the 16th straight day on Wednesday, to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws, leading to partial or complete closure of the border points.At Singhu, Tikri, Chilla, and Ghazipur borders, protesters spent their day cooking and distributing food at langars (community kitchen), delivering speeches or putting up posters and raising slogans against the farm laws.All seven border points of Delhi — Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and Chilla — have been shut since farmers from northern states laid a siege to demand repeal of the new laws.Since the border remained completely blocked, traffic continued to suffer in the city, as it has since November 24. Delhi traffic police said in an advisory, “Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. Available open borders to Haryana are following borders – Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan, Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.”The protest site at Ghazipur border also remained peaceful on Wednesday.The protesters on Wednesday continued to block one of the four carriageways of Delhi-Meerut expressways while traffic on other two lanes remained normal throughout the day. “We do not want to cause any inconvenience to the general public. Who would like to leave their homes and live on the roads? But our cause is important. We need to fight for it,” said Joginder Singh, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar.At the Chilla border (Delhi-Noida) link road the farmers cleared one carriageway around 5.30 am allowing the vehicles to move into Noida from Delhi. The protesting groups at this border also remained peaceful and number of farmers remained low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protest-enters-16th-day-traffic-across-border-points-affected/story-4m02gIgBKs7nc8x0xAulXP.html
10-12-2020||India||Why are farmers sticking to stand?||Farm unions have stuck to their demand of scrapping three pro-market agricultural laws they say will hurt their livelihoods, dealing a blow to the Union government’s offer to bring changes to the laws to end weeks of agitation by farmers. On Wednesday, the farm ministry sent out a lengthy set of proposal to farm unions protesting at Delhi’s borders to address their concerns. Farmers fear losing out to big corporations if private traders get a free in deregulated markets. The government says the changes will give farmers greater market access and spur investments. The agriculture sector employs half of all Indians, but adds only 16% to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP), meaning far too many people are engaged in agriculture than is required to generate the same levels of farm incomes. The new laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and set new rules for contract farming. Concessions offered by the government provide for more oversight of private markets. Farmers, however, say they want nothing short of a full repeal of the laws. Farmers have come to trust decades-old regulated markets despite studies that show these markets are run by trader cartels who rig prices and lend money to farmers, limiting their bargaining power. Yet, these markets also offer farmers assured minimum prices for staples, providing a sense of security. The new reforms allow corporations to operate with minimal regulations. “The core concerns [are] about removing regulation on traders and companies and thereby removing all protections to farmers offered by the regulation system,” said Kirankumar Vissa of the Rythu Swarajya Vedika, a farm activist. The government on Wednesday said its concessions will protect farmers’ bargaining power. Farmers say the very objective of the laws is wrong. “The crux of the matter is that the government’s laws are centered around large corporations which are against the interest of farmers and consumers. Why can’t markets be farmer-led?” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture, a farm activist who took part in the recent talks with the government. Economists attribute India’s impressive economic growth over the years to reforms in industry, currency markets and manufacturing. The burst of reforms initiated in 1991 sidestepped the farm sector altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-are-farmers-sticking-to-stand/story-IO08zYk3pAFOWAYmAJGGsO.html
10-12-2020||India||MSP will not end, will not end, will not end: Shivraj Chouhan to farmers||Reaching out to protesting farmers stationed at the Singhu border near Delhi, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan underlined that the minimum support price for crops will not be diluted and urged farmers to be flexible in their approach and keep up the dialogue with the government.“MSP will not end, will not end, will not end,” said the chief minister while speaking at Hindustan Times Leadership Summit.Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who took over as Madhya Pradesh chief minister for the fourth time in March, advised farmers to keep up the dialogue for a resolution. “The government is ready for dialogue, they [farmers] should not give up on dialogue, lachila rukh apnana chahiye (approach should be flexible),” said the CM.The farmers having rejected Centre’s amended proposal have now vowed to intensify their protests by blocking the capital’s highway to Agra and Jaipur by December 12 and hold a nationwide dharna two days later. They seek repeal of the new farm laws, which they say are aimed at benefitting corporates by weakening the mandi system and the minimum support price (MSP) regime for procurement of farm produce. “Jidd will not solve it, charcha will (Stubbornness will not help, dialogue will),” reiterated CM Chouhan. Earlier today, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar urged farmer union leaders to consider proposals sent to them to break the deadlock over protests and said the government is ready for further discussions with them any time.When asked whether the government would consider a new bill on the MSP system, the minister said the new laws do not impact the MSP system and that will continue.“The government is ready to consider with an open mind any provision in the new laws where farmers have any issues and we want to clarify all their apprehensions,” Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“We kept waiting for suggestions from farmers’ leaders to address their concerns, but they are stuck on the repeal of laws,” he said, while virtually ruling out conceding to the key demand with which thousands of farmers are protesting.The government fad on Wednesday proposed to give a “written assurance” that the existing Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime for procurement will continue. However, the farmers’ unions rejected the proposal. The government has also proposed to make necessary amendments on at least seven issues, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the mandi system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-will-not-end-will-not-end-will-not-end-shivraj-chouhan-to-farmers/story-uuvLkNbBIcPn7YYs1y1KCL.html
10-12-2020||India||With no end to deadlock on 3 laws, farmers pile up pressure with numbers||The number of farmers at Delhi-Haryana borders is increasing with each passing day with more from across Punjab and Haryana making a beeline to join the protest in the national capital against the three farm laws that they deem to be detrimental to their livelihood.The agitation entered the 14th day on Wednesday with a constant flow of farmers carrying black flags on their actor-trailers, SUVs, cars, trucks and canters, marching forward on NH 44----- Delhi-Chandigarh national highway-- towards the national capital.With talks with Union government remaining inconclusive, the farmer leaders are requesting more and more followers to join the protests to increase the pressure on the government for the withdrawal of the three laws. Farmers in the villages along the highways and Gurdwaras are serving langar (community kitchen) for travelling farmers. Another reason behind the continuing surge in the numbers lies in the fact that sowing of wheat is over and the farmers are free for about a month till the first irrigation of the crop.Also Read: Traffic restrictions continue on Delhi borders as farmers carry on with protest“We hired a bus and 45 farmers from my village left for Delhi on Wednesday morning as we should help our brothers and sisters, who are sitting there for the past two weeks,” said Rampal Sharma from Bhor Saidan village of Kurukshetra district.“We want to tell our chief minister that farmers from Haryana are also with their counterparts from Punjab and we will stay in Delhi until these anti-farmer laws are withdrawn,” said a young farmer, Vikas Kamboj, from Yamunanagar.He is on way to Delhi with his four friends in his black SUV.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Why agri reforms are hard to sell Farmers, especially the youth, are expressing their solidarity with ongoing agitation using social media. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni has also created a WhatsApp group to give live updates and video messages to his supporters from the Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-no-end-to-deadlock-on-3-laws-farmers-pile-up-pressure-with-numbers/story-cZHwZQR0nTRj04sSfGPkEL.html
10-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Tikri and Dhansa borders remain closed||Amid the continuing stalemate between farmers and the Centre over the new agricultural laws, the Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday took to Twitter to inform commuters about routes closed for traffic in view of thousands of protesters camping at the national capital’s borders. The police also advised people to take alternative routes to avoid inconvenience.Tikri and Dhansa borders are still closed for traffic movement, while Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement, it said.Those travelling to Haryana can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders, the police said in a tweet.The closure of borders has also resulted in heavy traffic on alternative routes.The farmer leaders rejected a government proposal to amend the new agriculture laws on Wednesday, and announced they would intensify their agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra expressways by Saturday, and escalating it to a nationwide protest on December 14.This comes after the sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was cancelled.The farmer leaders have been adamant on their demand to scrap the laws, which they say will lead to dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and mandis that ensure earning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-tikri-and-dhansa-borders-remain-closed/story-p66VMgR46n88xAVkz7ePZN.html
