11-12-2020||India||Farmers’ agitation likely to get prolonged and intense, says NCP chief Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said that the ongoing farmers’ protest is likely to get prolonged and intense if the Centre doesn’t take a decision at the earliest. He said the protest that is currently on at Delhi’s borders may spread to other parts of the country. “According to my information, a large number of farmers from different areas have joined the protest today with 700 tractors. Since the stand of the Central government is still unclear, the agitation is likely to get prolonged and become intense in the coming days. Further, it is also likely to spread in other parts as currently it is limited to the Delhi border. I request the Centre not to wait for the farmers to lose their patience and take a decision at the earliest,” the NCP chief said.Also read | Farmers insist on guaranteed MSP for 26 crops, call for intensifying stirPawar was talking to reporters at YB Chavan Centre, Nariman Point, in Mumbai.Holding the Centre responsible for the situation, he said, “The Opposition parties had told the government not to clear the bills in haste as farmers would act against the same. But the government chose to pass each of them within 15-20 minutes without holding proper discussion.” Pawar, along with other leaders from United Progressive Alliance (UPA) including Rahul Gandhi, had, on Wednesday, met President Ram Nath Kovind with a demand to repeal the farm laws to end the farmers’ protest.Earlier, he had also observed a one-day fast in solidarity with the eight Rajya Sabha members from the Opposition parties, who were fasting at the Parliament premises against their suspension from the Upper House in September. The Rajya Sabha MPs were opposing the farm bills.Maharashtra BJP unit said that with his stand towards the farmers’ protest, the NCP chief’s stood exposed as he was the one who had been advocating to bring these reforms as the Union agriculture minister. “His (Sharad Pawar) double face was exposed before the people when we shared the copy of his letters as Union agriculture minister to the chief ministers. The Centre has brought the same set of reforms Pawar was advocating since 2005. He is doing politics of protest. Farmers and the people know it very well,” said state BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari.He also said that some of the reforms have been implemented in Maharashtra in the past few years and farmers have been reaping their benefits as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-agitation-likely-to-get-prolonged-and-intense-says-ncp-chief-pawar/story-Le9L1T0RCmnEPrDv27Ww9N.html
11-12-2020||India||Farmers insist on guaranteed MSP for 26 crops, call for intensifying stir||With the talks between the government and farmers remaining inconclusive, Haryana farmer leaders have made it clear that they will continue with the protests till the three contentious farm laws are revoked and a law to guarantee MSP for the 26 crops named by the farmers.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has also urged the farmers of Haryana to increase their strength at Delhi borders and to also port their mobile phone sim cards from Jio to other networks. He said that now there is no further meeting scheduled with the government and the farmers were waiting for the government to accept the demands raised by them in meetings.“All the farmer union leaders have rejected government’s offer for amendments in the laws and we now want the government to withdraw these laws and also enact a law to ensure the guarantee of procurement for all 26 crops on minimum support price,” Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni told Hindustan Times.Charuni is the only farmer leader from Haryana to be among farmer leaders who held talks with the government on farmers’ behalf. Also Read: No reply from farmers’ unions on govt’s proposal: Agriculture minister TomarHe said that during the meetings with the Union government, they have already made it clear that the agitation will continue till the government withdraws the “anti-farmer” laws.“We have now decided that all farmers will port their (Jio) mobile phone numbers to other service providers and on December 12, all toll plazas will be made free for passage for one day, and on December 14, the agitation will be intensified by holding protests at all district headquarters,” he added.Meanwhile, the number of farmers at Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders is likely to increase in days to come as more farmers are leaving for Delhi to join the protests.Also Read: New laws will make us vulnerable to corporate greed: Farmers’ union moves SCFarmers’ march to Delhi gathered pace on Wednesday after it was known that the farmer leaders have rejected the government’s offer of amendments in the agriculture laws.“Now the message has reached every farmer and they are angry over the government’s behaviour,” said, Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of BKU (Charuni). He added that the call given to farmers to march to Delhi to join the protests has got a good response.He said that the strength of farmers is likely to increase in the next two-three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-insist-on-guaranteed-msp-for-26-crops-call-for-intensifying-stir/story-TUyJZTncYL4di67qudoSWN.html
11-12-2020||India||Manipur CM speaks in support of farm laws, opposes any rollback||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh said that the Central farm laws are in larger interest of the farmers of our country and the State government is strongly in support of the bills.Emphatically stating BJP-led coalition government’s stance on the farm laws through a Facebook post on Thursday, Biren said, “The BJP led government has always stood with the farmers and the bill would transform the agriculture sector, doubling the farmers’ income by 2022. It will also fetch farmers a better price for their produce.”Three farm laws, namely the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, were passed in the Parliament in September this year.Several farmer bodies, especially from Punjab and Haryana claim the laws will negatively impact their livelihoods and are opposing them tooth and nail through protests. The talks with the protesting farmer bodies have not yielded any positive result for the Centre yet.Claiming that the BJP-led government in the state was trying to remove middlemen from farmers’ transactions, Biren uploaded a video on his official FB page, which also said, “Now there will be no agent. There will be no commission, no middle men, directly the farmers can order and directly the farmers can purchase.”Also Read: Centre trying to thrust black laws like it imposed demonetization, GST: Sukhbir BadalOn the raging controversy over the status of minimum support price (MSP) regime, Biren said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had categorically and repeatedly given the assurance that there will be no change in the MSP.Apart from this, Union home minister Amit Shah has also committed that MSP will not be changed or touched, he said, before adding,” Fortunately, farmers of Manipur are in support of the Farm Bills.”He opined that any rollback in reforms and development by the government would turn out to be support for vested interests, which, in future, would hinder other reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-speaks-in-support-of-farm-laws-opposes-any-rollback/story-PKc2YvyuHEdC6UydIsDHWN.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic snarls continue in Delhi, around borders||Traffic jams continued in several parts of Delhi, especially around the city’s borders, because of the ongoing farmers’ protest in the national Capital. Delhi Traffic Police said the traffic situation may worsen over the weekend as more farmers are joining the protests and their Unions are threatening to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway and take over the Yamuna expressway on Saturday.Traffic police are heading a meeting on Friday to intensify presence around borders and other arterial roads within the city that might be affected by the protest. The traffic police said that for commuters travelling to and from Haryana on Friday can use single carriageway in Jharoda, Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan, , Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.Delhi Traffic Police tweeted on Friday morning that Jhatikara border will remain open only for two wheelers and pedestrians. The police also issued an advisory saying that the traffic was being diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal road.In another tweet, the police said, “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road , GTK road, NH-44.”Apart from the borders, on Friday morning traffic remained heavy at ITO, Dhaula Kuan, Palam flyover, IIT-Delhi crossing, Rajouri Garden and near Sarai Kale Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-snarls-continue-in-delhi-around-borders/story-ln9m6zZB4JxqFATbMoSULP.html
11-12-2020||India||Farmer groups from Punjab begin journey to Delhi, police on alert||Several farmers’ groups which did not join the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest that began from November 26 began their journey towards Delhi on Friday ahead of the farmers’ announced programme of blocking highways by December 12 and a massive nationwide protest on December 14. The protesters are coming to Delhi primarily by tractors. However, vigilance has been upped in the border areas to check whether farmers are using public transport.“Around 700 tractor trolleys are moving towards Delhi’s Kundli border,” Kishan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee leader SS Pandher said on Friday. The members of this farmers’ group were protesting in Amritsar. On Friday, they started mobilising towards Delhi. So far, there have been five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions. The Centre has agreed to amend the farm acts according to the concerns raised by the farmers, but the unions are demanding a complete withdrawal of the laws. Though door for further talks are open from both sides — as Centre said it is willing to further talks and farmers said they will consider if Centre invites them for another meeting — the ongoing protest to lay siege to the Capital is on. The protesters announced that they would block highways to Delhi by December 12 and on December 14, there will be a nationwide protest. After that, they will block railway tracks across the country to intensify the protest. The massive gathering has triggered Covid-19 fear as two IPS officer posted at the Singhu border have tested Covid-19 positive. Public interest litigations (PIL) against the gathering in view of the Covid-19 situation have also been submitted. One PIL, filed by advocate Om Prakash Parihar, urges the Supreme Court to pass an order shifting the protesters to somewhere else. Another Delhi-based lawyer, Reepak Kansal, filed a plea seeking the framing of guidelines to balance citizens’ right to protest with right to free access and movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-groups-from-punjab-begin-journey-to-delhi-police-on-alert/story-5B5yp0EHFyWwBJKgU3DuRI.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||2 IPS officers posted at Singhu border area test Covid-19 positive: Report||Amid heavy deployment at the Singhu border area, two of the Indian Police Service (IPS) officers who led the force where the farmers’ protest is ongoing against three farm laws, have tested positive for coronavirus.According to the Delhi Police, both the officers are currently under home isolation. The Delhi police officers who tested positive has been identified as Outer North Deputy Superintendent of Police (DCP) Gaurav and Additional DCP Ghanshyam Bansal. This comes on the 16th day of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws.Farmer leaders on Thursday said that they would intensify their agitation by blocking railways to put pressure on the government for the repeal of three farm laws after rejecting the Centre’s proposals to make amendments on Wednesday.Six rounds of talks have taken place between the Centre and farmer leaders regarding the laws but no headway has been made on the front.The farmers are protesting against the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce(Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmer (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-ips-officers-posted-at-singhu-border-area-test-covid-19-positive-delhi-police/story-UlP0NNT2Bz0lKRcAYECWyI.html
11-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest enters 16th day: Only God knows solution, says farmer leader | 10 points||The ongoing protest of the farmers against the three new agriculture laws enters 16th day with the farmers’ unions now threatening to block railway tracks. According to their earlier plan of blocking Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Agra highway by December 12, more farmers are likely to join the protests on Friday. Police have stepped up vigil on the border areas to ensure the protesters can’t block highways. On Thursday, the Centre said channels for more talks are open. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to the protesters to stop agitation as talks are still going on. However, that led to no breaking of ice as the farmers are unwavering in their demand of a complete withdrawal of the three laws, which the Centre is ready to amend — but won’t withdraw.Here are the latest updates of the protest1. While the Centre urged the farmers to consider the proposal that it sent on Wednesday, which includes a proposal of a written assurance on minimum support price, the unions said the proposals contained nothing new.2. Farmers’ unions have said that the protest will be intensified and a date for railway track blockade across the country will be announced soon. Several trains — either originating from or terminating at Punjab — are regularly being cancelled, diverted, short-terminated because of the ongoing protests.3. The main protest site at Singhu border, meanwhile, is buzzing with activities. Apart from langar, WiFi, reading facilities which have been there from the beginning, now a group of sportspersons, farmers are providing laundry services. Winter clothes are also being sold.4. The farmers have said of the government invites the farmers for another round of talks, then they will decide that in their meeting.5. As farmer leaders said agriculture comes under state list, the Central ministers on Thursday said the Centre has the power under Entry 33 of the Concurrent List to pass laws on contract farming and intra- and inter-state trade, and prohibit states from imposing fees/cess outside APMC areas.6. Asked about a solution to the ongoing standoff as the Centre is not mulling withdrawal of the laws, farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said, “Only God knows.” “We are facing a lot of difficulties due to cold weather and the Covid-19 pandemic, but despite this, we will continue our protest until our demands are met,” Kakka told PTI.7. Talking about forces behind the farmers agitation, if any, Tomar on Thursday said media will have to find out that. Union minister Raosaheb Danve had earlier said China and Pakistan were behind the ongoing protests which evoked sharp reaction from farmers. The protesters, meanwhile, said their agitation has remained apolitical. They did not allow any political leader to use their platform.8. Amid the protests, the ministry of information and broadcasting came out with a booklet highlighting agriculture reforms introduced by the government. Titled ‘Putting Farmers First’, the booklet discusses a great deal about the recent farm laws. 9. Traffic in and around Delhi remains disrupted with the main borders remaining closed.10. On Friday, there will be more congestion in the borders that are open as police is stepping up security checks.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-enters-16th-day-only-god-knows-solution-says-farmer-leader-10-points/story-VBsbHk5syMRDsyISTJUgJL.html
11-12-2020||Delhi||Farm to Facebook: Stir at borders gets online push||Village-wise WhatsApp groups for mass sharing of photos and videos, numerous Facebook live sessions, Instagram posts and creative Twitter hashtags -- the farmers’ protesting at Delhi’s borders are making optimum use of social media to connect with people back home and to spread the “correct” message about their ongoing movement against the new farm laws.At Singhu border, connecting Delhi with Haryana, where thousands of farmers have been protesting for the past 15 days demanding revocation of the three farm laws, every second person can be spotted doing a Facebook live of either a speech being delivered from the stage or the distribution of food at the langar (community kitchen). Many youngsters from Haryana and Punjab, who have accompanied their families to the protest site, have also created WhatsApp groups to update people back home about the ongoing protest.Kawaljeet Singh, 28, a farmer from Mohali in Punjab, said he keeps his selfie stick handy for regular Facebook lives. “You can’t hold the smartphone for so long and a selfie stick helps get a wider shot. I do at least five to six Facebook live sessions, of 30 minutes each, every day. It’s very important to show people what’s happening here. Otherwise, there is so much misinformation about the farmers’ protests on social media. We are not Khalistani or terrorists who are trying to disrupt the peace of the nation; we are farmers who work hard to feed the nation and we are here to fight for our rights,” he said.Standing next to the stage set up at Singhu border, a group of youngsters from Moga was trying to upload some pictures on Instagram on Thursday. Balwinder Sandhu, 32, said many Instagram accounts have come up in support of farmers in the last few days. “We click pictures of the protest site and upload them as our stories on Instagram by tagging these accounts. They pick up the pictures and post from their official accounts to further spread them,” he said.By Thursday evening, there were around 972,000 posts with the hashtag #farmersprotest on Instagram. Some of the accounts popularising the movement are ‘farmersprotest’, ‘supportfarmers’, and ‘farmbillprotests’, among others. Youngsters are also using Twitter to garner more support. Navkiran Natt, 29, a protester at Tikri border and the daughter of a farmer family from Mansa district in Punjab, said farmer leaders made a “conscious decision” to promote the movement on social media. “Many of our leaders have language limitations. So they send their messages to youngsters associated with the protest and we translate them into multiple languages and then post them on different social networking sites. We have also made several videos in Punjabi instructing people on how to make accounts on Twitter and how to use it,” she said.Using hashtags such as #farmersprotests, #Istandwithfarmerprotest, and #tractortotwitter, at least 100 tweets were posted per hour on Thursday. “We have many WhatsApp and Twitter groups where we discuss and decide which hashtags to use on a particular day. Many of our Punjabi brothers and sisters living abroad also help us in translating the content,” she said.Through WhatsApp groups, the protesters said they share videos and pictures with people who could not join the agitation at the Delhi borders. “We also make regular video calls to show our family members what’s happening here. Their hearts and minds are here with us and the movement. Besides, these WhatsApp groups help keep the spirits high. We send the videos of speeches being delivered here to our fellow villagers to keep them motivated and interested in the movement. It’s a long fight,” said Harinder Singh, 26, a farmer from Rajpura in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farm-to-facebook-stir-at-borders-gets-online-push-protesting-farmers-make-most-of-social-media-to-spread-their-message/story-1106HpQ4Y93xtCyyrGGr7J.html
11-12-2020||India||BJP to organise nationwide press conferences, chaupals on new farm bills||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will organise press conferences and ‘chaupals’ in all the districts of the country on the new farm bills from Friday. 700 press conferences and 700 ‘chaupals’ will be organised in the coming days, according to news agency ANI.With thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new agriculture laws staying put at Delhi borders, several routes in the national capital remained off bounds for commuters on Friday.Farmers from different states have been camping at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla (Delhi-Noida) border points for nearly two weeks now to demand a repeal of the farm laws enacted in September.Today is the 16th day of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. After rejecting the Centre’s proposals to make amendments in the recently enacted farm laws, against which the farmers are protesting, the agitating leaders on Thursday said that they would intensify their agitation by blocking railway tracks to put pressure on the government to repeal the three Acts.Six rounds of talks have taken place between the Centre and farmer leaders regarding the laws.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-organise-nationwide-press-conferences-chaupals-on-new-farm-bills/story-qklkcoCgMU1XR3cbKe1z1H.html
11-12-2020||India||Farmers insist on guaranteed MSP for 26 crops, call for intensifying stir||With the talks between the government and farmers remaining inconclusive, Haryana farmer leaders have made it clear that they will continue with the protests till the three contentious farm laws are revoked and a law to guarantee MSP for the 26 crops named by the farmers.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has also urged the farmers of Haryana to increase their strength at Delhi borders and to also port their mobile phone sim cards from Jio to other networks. He said that now there is no further meeting scheduled with the government and the farmers were waiting for the government to accept the demands raised by them in meetings.“All the farmer union leaders have rejected government’s offer for amendments in the laws and we now want the government to withdraw these laws and also enact a law to ensure the guarantee of procurement for all 26 crops on minimum support price,” Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni told Hindustan Times.Charuni is the only farmer leader from Haryana to be among farmer leaders who held talks with the government on farmers’ behalf. Also Read: No reply from farmers’ unions on govt’s proposal: Agriculture minister TomarHe said that during the meetings with the Union government, they have already made it clear that the agitation will continue till the government withdraws the “anti-farmer” laws.“We have now decided that all farmers will port their (Jio) mobile phone numbers to other service providers and on December 12, all toll plazas will be made free for passage for one day, and on December 14, the agitation will be intensified by holding protests at all district headquarters,” he added.Meanwhile, the number of farmers at Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders is likely to increase in days to come as more farmers are leaving for Delhi to join the protests.Also Read: New laws will make us vulnerable to corporate greed: Farmers’ union moves SCFarmers’ march to Delhi gathered pace on Wednesday after it was known that the farmer leaders have rejected the government’s offer of amendments in the agriculture laws.“Now the message has reached every farmer and they are angry over the government’s behaviour,” said, Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of BKU (Charuni). He added that the call given to farmers to march to Delhi to join the protests has got a good response.He said that the strength of farmers is likely to increase in the next two-three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-insist-on-guaranteed-msp-for-26-crops-call-for-intensifying-stir/story-TUyJZTncYL4di67qudoSWN.html
11-12-2020||India||No reply from farmers’ unions on govt’s proposal: Agriculture minister Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday the Centre hasn’t yet received any reply from farmers’ unions on the proposals to consider in place of their demand for a repeal of the three farm laws and that he got to know about their rejection of the suggestions through media. The government had on Wednesday sent a draft proposal of amendments to farmers in order to resolve the dispute over the three agriculture laws. However, the farmers union had rejected the proposal, sticking to their demand to repeal the laws.“Our proposal is with them (farmers). They discussed it but we have not received any reply from them. We came to know through media that they have rejected the proposal. Yesterday, I had said that if they want to, we can definitely talk about the proposal,” Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Tomar’s comment comes as hundreds of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting in and around different borders of Delhi against the new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September.Requesting the farmers to end their agitation, Tomar stressed on the trouble being faced by the people of Delhi due to the protests. “Agitation causes problems for the common people too. People of Delhi are facing troubles. So, they (farmers) should end their agitation in the interest of the common people and try to solve issues with the help of talks,” he said.The agriculture minister again assured the farmers that the new farm laws will prove to be beneficial for them and help them live a better life. “Laws made by the government have been formed after a lot of deliberation - to bring a change in the lives of farmers, to remove the injustice that was being done to them for years. It was done to ensure that farmers could live better lives and indulge in beneficial agriculture,” Tomar said.The minister expressed hope of finding a mutual ground, saying that the Centre was ready to make changes in the farm laws after discussion. “We agree that we are not the over-ruling power and Unions might also have something in their mind. So, the government is ready to make reforms in the laws after talks,” Tomar said. “I think we will find a solution. I am hopeful. I would like to urge the farmers’ unions that they should break the deadlock. The government has sent them a proposal. If there is an objection over the provisions of an act, the discussion will be held over it,” he added.Clearing the confusion over the minimum support price system, Tomar referred to his remarks given in Parliament on the matter, saying that no document can be more powerful to assure that MSP will continue. “PM Modi had spoken about this and I had assured on the floors of both the Houses. If it’s being said in Parliament, it is a recorded document. It expresses the intention of the government. There can be no document more powerful than that. MSP will continue. No one should doubt it,” he further said.Since November 26, thousands of farmers have been protesting the three farm laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-reply-from-farmers-unions-on-govt-s-proposal-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar/story-kdtDlEe3bE0CbSBR9anqnJ.html
11-12-2020||India||Manipur CM speaks in support of farm laws, opposes any rollback||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh said that the Central farm laws are in larger interest of the farmers of our country and the State government is strongly in support of the bills.Emphatically stating BJP-led coalition government’s stance on the farm laws through a Facebook post on Thursday, Biren said, “The BJP led government has always stood with the farmers and the bill would transform the agriculture sector, doubling the farmers’ income by 2022. It will also fetch farmers a better price for their produce.”Three farm laws, namely the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, were passed in the Parliament in September this year.Several farmer bodies, especially from Punjab and Haryana claim the laws will negatively impact their livelihoods and are opposing them tooth and nail through protests. The talks with the protesting farmer bodies have not yielded any positive result for the Centre yet.Claiming that the BJP-led government in the state was trying to remove middlemen from farmers’ transactions, Biren uploaded a video on his official FB page, which also said, “Now there will be no agent. There will be no commission, no middle men, directly the farmers can order and directly the farmers can purchase.”Also Read: Centre trying to thrust black laws like it imposed demonetization, GST: Sukhbir BadalOn the raging controversy over the status of minimum support price (MSP) regime, Biren said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had categorically and repeatedly given the assurance that there will be no change in the MSP.Apart from this, Union home minister Amit Shah has also committed that MSP will not be changed or touched, he said, before adding,” Fortunately, farmers of Manipur are in support of the Farm Bills.”He opined that any rollback in reforms and development by the government would turn out to be support for vested interests, which, in future, would hinder other reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-speaks-in-support-of-farm-laws-opposes-any-rollback/story-PKc2YvyuHEdC6UydIsDHWN.html
11-12-2020||India||New laws will make us vulnerable to corporate greed: Farmers’ union moves SC||The Bhartiya Kisan Union on Friday approached the Supreme Court against the three agriculture laws enacted by the government earlier this year, alleging the legislation will make them vulnerable to corporate greed, according to news agency ANI.The move comes two days after farmers’ unions rejected the Centre’s proposal by saying there was nothing new and that they were going to continue their protest against the agricultural laws that liberalise farm trade. The farmers agitating near the national capital have called for a nationwide protest on December 14 and said that they will block the Delhi-Jaipur national highway by December 12.To end the impasse over the contentious laws, the government had agreed to give a written assurance on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP), one of the main concerns raised by the protesters. It also tried to allay their fears over mandis (marketplace) and taking over of farmlands by big corporates. The farmers, however, have refused to budge and are demanding a complete rollback of the laws.Earlier in the day, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre hasn’t yet received any communication from farmers’ unions regarding the proposal and added that he got to know about them rejecting it through the media. “Our proposal is with them (farmers). They discussed it but we have not received any reply from them. We came to know through media that they have rejected the proposal. Yesterday, I had said that if they want to, we can definitely talk about the proposal,” he told ANI.Tomar added that he was hopeful of finding a solution and urged farmers to break the deadlock. “The government has sent them a proposal. If there is an objection over the provisions of an Act, the discussion is held over it,” he said, according to ANI.The minister also highlighted the troubles that the people in and around Delhi are facing due to the thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting along the borders of the national capital since November 26. “Agitation causes problems for the common people too. People of Delhi are facing troubles. So, they (farmers) should end their agitation in the interest of the common people and try to solve issues with the help of talks,” Tomar said.The agriculture minister again assured the farmers that the new farm laws will prove to be beneficial for them and help them live a better life. “Laws made by the government have been formed after a lot of deliberation - to bring a change in the lives of farmers, to remove the injustice that was being done to them for years. It was done to ensure that farmers could live better lives and indulge in beneficial agriculture,” Tomar said.While the Centre maintains the new farm laws will prove to be beneficial for the farmers and help them live a better life, the farmers hold that the legislation will hurt their incomes and leave them at the mercy of large corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-union-moves-supreme-court-says-new-laws-will-make-them-vulnerable-to-corporate-greed/story-3GoAxKtQsGglYalodJIuXI.html
