12-12-2020||India||Ministers who called farmers Khalistani must apologise: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Attacking Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government regarding the ongoing deadlock with farmers over the three agriculture sector laws, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said all the ‘ministers’ who ‘defamed’ the protesting farmers by calling them ‘Khalistanis’ and ‘anti-national’ must apologise to them publicly.Speaking to media in Amritsar, Badal questioned why the Central government is showing ‘tyranny’ and not repealing the laws when the section of the society for whom the laws are made is not happy with them.“Centre is trying to defame agitation by calling it that of Khalistanis and political parties. It is unfortunate that if one disagrees with them they call them anti-nationals. Ministers giving such statements must apologise publicly. We condemn Centre’s attitude and such statements,” said the SAD chief.“It is unfortunate that Centre is trying to stifle the voices of the farmers, instead of listening to them. Farmers don’t want the farm laws. Why is Centre showing tyranny when the section of the society, for whom laws have been formed, doesn’t want it? I request the Prime Minister to listen to farmers,” he added.Badal said the farmers are not happy spending their nights in the streets in this fierce cold but are helpless, and added “it has been the policy of the central government that anyone who raises voice against them is defamed by being called anti-national.”The farmers’ agitation on the borders of Delhi, against the three farm laws passed by the Central government in the last monsoon session of Parliament, entered the 17th day today, with the farmers’ unions now threatening to block railway tracks.According to their earlier plan of blocking the Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Agra highway by December 12, more farmers are likely to join the protests on Friday. Police have stepped up vigil on the border areas to ensure the protesters cannot block highways.On Thursday, the Centre said channels for more talks are open. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to the protesters to stop their agitation as talks are still going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-who-called-farmers-khalistani-must-apologise-sukhbir-singh-badal/story-09E4j5vwixUqLB8yYhdOJL.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Put them behind bars’: Farmer leader on Centre’s accusation of ‘anti-social’ elements in protests||A day after the government said that the farmers’ protest is being misused by some “Leftist, Maoist, anti-social elements”, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said protesting farmers have no idea of any such stray element in their protest. Central intelligence agencies should catch them, he said. “Central Intelligence should catch them. If people of a banned organization are roaming amid us, put them behind bars. We haven’t found any such person here, if we do we’ll send them away,” Tikait told ANI.Amid the ongoing stalemate between the Centre and farmers, which went a notch higher on Saturday with protesters, Union railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal brought direct charges of the protest getting derailed.“People of India are watching, seeing what is happening, observing how across the country Leftist-Maoists are not finding any support and therefore they are trying to hijack this farmers agitation and trying misuse this platform for their own agenda,” Goyal tweeted.The farmers have maintained from the beginning that their protest is apolitical though their call for Bharat Bandh garnered massive support from most of the opposition and regional political parties. No politician has been allowed to speak at the stage at the key protest site at Singhu. However, on December 10, many supporters at Tikri border — another site of the protest — displayed posters of Umar Khalid and Susha Bharadwaj. Some supporters were observing Human Rights Day, union leaders have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/put-them-behind-bars-farmer-leader-on-centre-s-accusation-of-anti-social-elements-in-protests/story-7k1qGq97CfspIIcFLulZDN.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Security at Delhi borders increased after farmers’ announcement to intensify stir||The Delhi Police has increased security arrangements at the city’s border points following the announcement by agitating farmers to block the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra Expressways on Saturday to further intensify their protest against the Centre’s new agri laws.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various areas on Delhi’s borders for the last 16 days and demanding that the legislations be withdrawn. The police have made adequate arrangements and these include multi-layered barricading and deployment of personnel. Measures have also been taken to ensure commuters do not face inconvenience at places were protest are being staged, a senior police officer said.The Delhi Traffic Police has deployed its personnel across important border points to ensure commuters do not face difficulties and is constantly updating people about open and closed routes on its Twitter handle.The developments come after farmer leaders on Wednesday rejected a government proposal to amend the new agri laws and announced they would intensify their agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and the Yamuna expressway by Saturday.In a tweet, the traffic police on Saturday informed commuters about the closure of the Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders.Since these borders are closed, it suggested that motorists take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad,Saboli and Singhu School toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. So, commuters have been advised to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and National Highway-44, the traffic police said. Due to the ongoing farmers’ protests, it said that both the Chilla and the Ghazipur borders are also closed for traffic from Noida and Ghaziabad.“The Chilla & Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests.People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders,” it tweeted.The Tikri and the Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement but the Jhatikara border is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement, the traffic police said in a tweet.Those going towards Haryana, can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders as they are open, the traffic police said.The government had asked farmer groups to consider its proposals for amending the laws to address their concerns and said it was open to discussing its offer further whenever the unions want.Farmers leaders on Thursday also announced they would block railway tracks across the country if their demands were not met by the government and would announce a date for that soon.At least five rounds of formal talks have taken place between the Centre and representatives of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting on various borders of the national capital for over two weeks, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws.The sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/security-at-delhi-borders-increased-after-farmers-announcement-to-intensify-stir/story-uaz3uLGNmxBsEZFAihxxuN.html
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers lay siege to toll plazas in Haryana, allow free movement of vehicles||Farmers overpowered staff at several toll plazas in Haryana allowing toll- free movement of all vehicles from Friday midnight. Following a call by farmer union leaders, the toll plazas on Delhi-Chandigarh national highway 44 at Bastara in Karnal and at Panipat were put under siege along with Kaithal toll plaza on Hisar-Chandigarh national highway (NH 152), Milk-Majra toll plaza on Panchkula-Saharanpur highway in Yamunanagar and Gullarpur toll plaza on Assandh-Karnal highway.The farmers have also held protests at the toll plazas and accused the government of forcing the farmers to take such steps. While the district administrations issued prohibitory orders and imposed section 144 CrPC, but the police did not take any action to stop the farmers.The call to make all toll plazas free for a day was given by the farmer unions to intensify their agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws after several rounds of talks with the government remained inconclusive. “Exactly at midnight, protesters reached the toll plazas and asked officials to allow the movement of all vehicles without charging any toll. They removed the barricades,” said an official at the Karnal toll plaza, requesting anonymity. The toll officials were not ready to speak over the development on record. Also read: Farmers Protest Live Updates: 3,500 police personnel to be deployed at 5 Delhi-Haryana toll plazasThe protesters said that they will stay at the toll plaza for the next 24 hours to ensure the free movement of all vehicles. “We have made toll plazas free for all commuters from midnight and will leave after 24 hours,” said their leader, Sewa Singh Arya. Police deployed at the toll plaza could not stop the protesters. Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said police have been deployed at the toll plazas to ensure people do not disturb the law and order. “We will ensure that nobody violates the prohibitory orders in place and the deployment is being increased,” Punia said. On Saturday morning, when the farmers left briefly, the toll officials started charging toll, but the farmers returned after half an hour and again forced toll officials to allow vehicles to pass without paying.On Thursday, the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president, Gurnam Singh Charuni, said that during meetings with the Union government they have made it clear that their agitation will continue till the three laws are revoked. “We have now decided that all farmers will port their (Jio) mobile phone numbers to other service providers and on December 12 all toll plazas will be made free for all for one day. On December 14, the agitation will be intensified by holding protests at all district headquarters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-overpower-staff-at-toll-plazas-on-chandigarh-delhi-highway-allow-free-movement-of-vehicles/story-hxe6t1eqdUYD142XATlpPM.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers protest enters 17th day: No question of returning home, says union leader; protesters overpower toll plazas of Karnal, Panipat | 10 points||The ongoing protest of the farmers enters its 17th day on Saturday with a massive plan to block highways set in motion. As the impasse persists with government saying it is open to talks and farmers concurring as well to more discussions — only if the Centre wants to discuss the withdrawal of the three farm laws, the standoff sees no immediate resolution while the protest intensifies with more and more farmers’ groups joining. On Friday, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated the commitment of the Centre and said it has not yet received any proposal from the agitating farmers. The farmers, on the other hand, said the Centre should inform the farmers when they want to meet. Follow live updates of farmers protest hereHere are the latest updates of the protest:1. On Friday midnight, farmers overpowered the toll-plazas of Karnal and Panipat on Delhi-Chandigarh National highway, allowing toll-free movement. Today, the workers of Bharatiya Kisan Union will make all highways leading to Delhi free of toll. #WATCH Haryana: Farmers closed Bastara toll plaza in Karnal late last night, as part of their agitation against the three #FarmLaws by Centre. pic.twitter.com/5fv4ZY5UTt2. Faridabad Police is deploying as many as 3,500 police personnel at the toll plazas at five Delhi-Haryana border points, including Badarpur Border, Gurugram Faridabad, Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal, Pali Crusher Zone and Dhauj. There will be drone surveillance too.Also Read: Shah meets cops, security officials to pre-empt any chances of violence in Delhi3. On Friday, the Centre alleged that Leftist-Maoist are hijacking farmers protest. “People of India are watching, seeing what is happening, observing how across the country Leftist-Maoists are not finding any support & therefore they are trying to hijack this farmers agitation & trying misuse this platform for their own agenda,” Food, railways and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. People of India are watching, seeing what is happening, observing how across the country Leftist-Maoists are not finding any support & therefore they are trying to hijack this farmers agitation & trying misuse this platform for their own agenda: @PiyushGoyal4. A faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union has moved the Supreme Court demanding the laws be rolled back. “The impugned legislations corporatise agriculture and usher in unregulated and exploitative regime because Indian farmers, of which most are illiterate, would not have the knowledge to negotiate the best terms with a private company and due to this [will] lead to unequal bargaining position in negotiating the farm agreements with corporates,” the plea said.5. Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader and Haryana deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said he will resign from his post in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government if he is unable to ensure minimum support price for the procurement of farmers’ crops.6. As several farmer groups from Punjab, Haryana are on their way to Delhi, on December 14, there will be sit-ins near BJP offices, according to the plan of the protesters. The Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh will organise sit-ins on Monday.7. Meanwhile, the BJP has decided to hold nationwide programmes, including chaupal in rural areas to highlight the benefits of the three farm laws. 8. The main protest site at Singhu border is bustling with protesters are settling down at their makeshift new homes without betraying any sign of budging. Trolleys containing jaggery, roasted gram, peanuts, gajjak arrived at Singhu border on Friday from Punjab.9. Free medical units have also been set up to check the health of elderly protesters who are braving the cold.10. Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Friday said famers won’t back out now unless the three laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-enters-17th-day-no-question-of-returning-home-says-union-leader-protesters-overpower-toll-plazas-of-karnal-panipat-10-points/story-D4digVgCUBeBm3IgDPp6GP.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers Protest Live Updates: Protesting farmers open Chilla border for traffic after assurance demands will be met||With farmers gearing up to block the highway and picket toll plazas on the border to Delhi on Saturday in response to a call from protesting farmer unions to intensify their agitation against the three agricultural sector laws, police personnel have been deployed in strength to protect toll booths and ensure smooth flow of traffic, Faridabad Police said.As many as 3,500 police personnel will be deployed at the five toll plazas in the area, a statement said. Station house officers and the Police Reserve Force of the respective police stations will also be deployed and personnel will be equipped with anti-riot equipment.The ongoing protest of the farmers against the three new agriculture laws entered its 17th day today with the farmer’s unions now threatening to block railway tracks.Follow live updates here:Chilla border opens for traffic movementProtesting farmers open Chilla border for traffic after assurance demands will be met, reports ANI.People at Singhu border set up a temporary gymA makeshift gym has been set up at Singhu (Delhi-Haryana Border) where farmers’ protest entered 17th day today. “It’s part of our daily routine so we decided to set up one here. People visit the gym according to their convenience,” ANI quoted Jaspreet Singh from Rupnagar as saying.Progressive Haryana farmers submitted memorandum in support of farm laws: Tomar“Progressive farmer leaders from Haryana met me and submitted a memorandum with their signatures supporting the three farm laws. They also shared their experiences on how these laws are benefitting them,” says Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Ready for talks with govt, but will first discuss repealing farm laws:, says farmer leadersSticking to their demands, farmer leaders Saturday said they are ready to hold talks with the government, but will first discuss repealing the three new farm laws. Addressing a press conference at Singhu Border, farmer leader Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu said that thousands of farmers will start their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur through the Jaipur-Delhi Highway at 11 am on Sunday.Farmers to stage hunger strike“We have decided to intensify our agitation against new farm laws, Union leaders will sit on hunger strike on Dec 14,” say farmer leaders.Dozens of farmers detained in AligarhDozens of farmers were detained in different parts of this district for trying to make toll plazas on highways toll-free as part of their stir news agency PTI reported citing police. A large number of protestors at Kurana village under Tappal police station have been taken into police custody and would be kept under detention till 11 pm, officials said.Don’t want written guarantee, want a law for MSP: Farmer leader“We want MSP of all our produce including potatoes, sugarcane, grains, vegetables and milk. We don’t want this guarantee in written form but we want a law for MSP now,” says Dungar Singh, farmer Leader from Uttar Pradesh.Local residents block toll plaza at Makdoli village on Rohtak Panipat highwayFarm reforms will bring investments, technological advancements in agriculture, says PM Modi Trying to assuage farmer’s apprehensions Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that the new reforms will usher in technological advancement and investments in agricultures.Farmers take over some toll plazas in Haryana, stop authorities from collecting feesFarmers take over some toll plazas in Haryana, stop authorities from collecting fees as they intensify protest against new agri lawsCentre’s trying to defame agitation by calling it that of Khalistanis and political parties: SAD chiefCentre’s trying to defame agitation by calling it that of Khalistanis and political parties. Unfortunate that if one disagrees with them they call them anti-nationals. Ministers giving such statements must apologise publicly. We condemn Centre’s attitude & such statements:SAD chiefUnfortunate that Centre is trying to stifle the voices: SS Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal chiefUnfortunate that Centre is trying to stifle the voices, instead of listening to them. Farmers don’t want farm laws. Why is Centre showing tyranny when the section -for whom laws have been formed- don’t want it? I request PM to listen to farmers: SS Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal chief.We have deployed forces to check that no miscreant joins the protest: Prashant Kumar, UP ADG (Law & Order)We have deployed forces to check that no miscreant joins the protest. We are taking measures to see that public movement is not affected. We are ensuring that anti social elements, who are trying to create trouble, are being dealt with: Prashant Kumar, Uttar Prdaesh ADG (Law and Order).Section 144 imposed in Haryana’s Charkhi DadriSection 144 has been imposed in Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri area.Farmers protesting at Delhi-Ghazipur border march towards Delhi“With this march we want to give a message to the Govt to listen to our issues,” says Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union.After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology: PM ModiWe had seen walls between agriculture sector and other areas associated with it - be it agriculture infrastructure, food processing, storage or cold chain. All walls and obstacles are being removed now. After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology. The cold storage infrastructure will be modernised. This will result in more investments in the agriculture sector. Farmers will be benefitted the most out of it, says PM Modi.Govt should work to raise the MSP and also listen to farmer: Hanuman BeniwalHanuman Beniwal, RLP leader and MP from Nagaur begins a demonstration march towards Delhi, protesting farm laws“Thousands of farmers will meet in Kothputli and then decide the further course of action. Govt should work to raise the MSP and also listen to farmers,” he says.Security at Delhi borders increased after farmers’ announcement to intensify stirThe Delhi Police has increased security arrangements at the city’s border points following the announcement by agitating farmers to block the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra Expressways on Saturday to further intensify their protest against the Centre’s new agri laws.Haryana police placed barricades and cemented pillars on Khanauri-Narwana borderHaryana police placed barricades and cemented pillars on Khanauri-Narwana border on Saturday morning. However, locals removed these barricades and rocks from the road.We haven’t found any such person here, if we do we will send them away: Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union when asked if ‘anti-national elements’ got involved in agitationCentral Intelligence should catch them. If people of a banned organizations are roaming amid us, put them behind bars. We haven’t found any such person here, if we do we will send them away: Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union when asked if ‘anti-national elements’ got involved in agitation.Normal vehicular traffic flows through functional toll plazas in Agra district“There’re 5 major toll plazas here and we have no information of any one of them being blocked by farmers. We’re monitoing the plazas as well,” says ASP(West) AgraFarmers head to Delhi to join agitation at the bordersFarmers head to Delhi, to join the agitation at the borders of the national capital against Central government’s farm laws. All doubts can be solved through constructive dialogue: Venkaiah Naidu on farmers stirAmid the ongoing agitation by farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu has said all doubts can be solved through constructive dialogue.Farmers overpower toll plazas on NH44Farmers overpowered the employees of toll-palazas of Karnal and Panipat on Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway 44 allowing toll- free movement of all vehicles from Friday midnight.Opposition efforts to spread disharmony won’t be tolerated: Uttar Pradesh CM AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has hit out at opposition parties for allegedly leading the farmer’s movement towards disorientation, and said that the “malicious” efforts to spread disharmony in the country would not be tolerated.3,500 police personnel to be deployed at 5 Delhi-Haryana toll plazas3,500 police personnel will be deployed at the five toll plazas at five Delhi-Haryana toll plazas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-3-500-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-at-5-delhi-haryana-toll-plazas/story-WGDvNFZ3tFPf6vTSYtXzTI.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||NGO starts free electric foot massages at Singhu protest site||After two weeks of resorting to manual foot rubs, herbal oil, and painkillers for their joint ache and leg pain, protesting farmers at Singhu border were on Friday introduced to free ten-minute massage sessions with 25 foot massagers installed at the protest site.The 25 massagers that were set up at the protest site was introduced by Khalsa Aid, a non-government organisation. The facility is free for all protesters, and all they need to do is get a token number and then wait their turn.  “Our volunteers at Tikri protest site said that several of them were offering manual foot rubs to the farmers. This is what prompted us to arrange for these massagers. We have multiple ongoing projects and already had five such foot massagers which are used during events like kanwar yatra or amarnath yatras,” said Amarpreet Singh, Khalsa Aid’s director in India.Mandeep Kaur, 50, a nurse from Lehra Bet village in Ferozpur district, has been at Singhu border for a week now, protesting with her family. “The constant movement around the protest site and the winter cold can often leave old people with pain in their leg beside severe backache. The massage session helped in comforting me and I will ask my son to buy me these,” she said.Throughout the day, farmers lined up outside the tent with their allotted tokens to get the “electric massage” after word spread around the protest site. Till Friday evening, more than 350 farmers had availed of the services which started at 8am on Friday.Jagdiv Singh, 60, a resident of Amritsar, said, “Getting inside the trolleys and climbing down from them or even sitting for long hours has caused us extreme backache and joint-ache. Other farmers around our trolley told me about the foot massagers, so I came here to try it. Till now, I had been relying on massages given by other younger farmers at the spot,” he said.Two friends – Saab Singh, 63, and Lakhi Ram, 80 – from the Mundlana village in Sonipat district walked out of the enclosure smiling on Friday evening. “Every day, we walk from our trolleys to the stage area which is around 2km away. Sometimes, we do these trips twice a day. As a result, we were left with terrible pain. But the 10-minute massage session has helped. We will come back tomorrow as well,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngo-starts-free-electric-foot-massages-at-singhu-protest-site/story-S4DFfBjng2zmb7KHe0aPFO.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||Singhu border: Farmers protest by day, watch religious films by night||After spending his day raising slogans, holding placards, and creating awareness among people about the farmers’ protest, Ranjodh Singh, 26, a dairy farmer from Jagraon village in Ludhiana district now spends his evenings watching devotional movies on the “big screen” at the Singhu border.“I stand near the stage holding these placards to create awareness among those visiting the protest site. With the speeches wrapping up by evening, there isn’t much to do after that,” he said. “But for the past two days, we have been watching movies on the big screen here.”On Wednesday, an 8x12-feet LED screen was set up near a langar spot a few hundred metres away from the green United Farmers Front stage set up at the Singhu border.For the past two days, hundreds of protesting farmers have been attending the screening of a two-part 3D animated movie called Chaar Sahibzaade directed by Harry Baweja. The farmers said the two-hour historical drama movie, popular in Punjab, is based on the sacrifices of the sons of Guru Gobind Singh.“We sit by the langar and watch the movie during dinner. It is a lot like having a meal at home with family. Through this movie, people will learn more about our culture and it will help in dispelling wrong notions about us or our struggles,” he said.The LED screen has been set up by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee to provide the protesting farmers with some relief.Maan Singh, who is in charge of the screenings held at the spot, said, “Though our focus is on films detailing the history of our culture, we also screen short documentaries on farmers or play shabad-kirtans. The attendees seem to enjoy it as it provides them with a break from the day’s protest activities.”Shoaib Malik, a volunteer at the spot who handles the equipment, said people came up to him on Friday and asked which movie would be screened at night.Eighteen-year-old Gurnool Singh, who hails from Amritsar, was among them. “We were walking towards the langar at night when we noticed the movie playing on the LED screen. We had seen the movie in the theatre when it released a few years ago. To watch it under the open sky with hundreds of farmers is a different experience. We want the organisers to screen more educational content related to farming and agriculture.”After videos of the screening were posted on social media, many labelled it a luxury. “These are attempts to discredit our movement somehow. If an organisation has set up screens and is playing inspirational movies, what is the harm in that?” said Sandeep Singh, a farmer who hails from Khai Phemeki village in Ferozepur district. “I couldn’t catch the complete movie for the last couple of days. But I will definitely visit the spot early today to see what movie they pick today [Friday].”Similar screenings have been held at Tikri border by independent artists and directors who have showcased their documentaries on farming and agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-farmers-protest-by-day-watch-religious-films-on-big-screen-by-night/story-m0mCt2XvfrFnfMJ1wdXUUM.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmer agitation no longer remains farmers’ movement; infiltrated by Leftist, Maoist elements: Piyush Goyal||As the farmers’ protest against new farm laws entered its 17th day, Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the agitation no longer remains a farmers’ movement as it has been “infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements” demanding the release of those put behind bars for “anti-national activities”. This, he said, was clearly to derail agriculture reforms brought by the government. Goyal, however, did not say if the government had or is planning to take any action against any person belonging to banned outfits seen at the protests. “We now realise that the so-called farmer agitation hardly remains a farmers’ agitation. It has almost got infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements, a flavour of which we saw over the last two days when there were extraneous demands to release people who have been put behind bars for anti-national (and) who have been put behind bars for illegal activities,” Goyal, the Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industry and Food and Consumers Affairs, said at FICCI’s annual meeting.Also Read | Farmers’ stir: Forces deployed to deal with anti-social elements, says UP ADGThe demands being raised on a farmers’ platform to release so-called intellectuals and poets clearly demonstrate that the effort to derail farm law improvements is probably in the hands of certain elements who are not good for India, he said. “I would urge all well-meaning business leaders and all well-meaning intellectuals who are involved with Ficci, who are on this webcast, to talk about the benefits of these farm laws, to understand the law. Should you have any apprehension, please talk to us,” Goyal said. The minister assured that these laws are for the benefit of nearly 100 million farmers across the country. He said this is a government that has been committed to farmer welfare, which has almost doubled procurement under minimum support price or MSP, which is “wrongly sought to be portrayed as being under danger”. “This is a government that has ensured that farmers get 50 per cent over their cost of production. “This is a government that has increased the agricultural budget nearly six times, never before increased to today nearly USD 20 billion, Rs 1.34 lakh crore invested in the agricultural sector,” said the minister. Goyal urged industry leaders to educate the farmers in their sphere of influence. He urged them to “explain the benefits, explain how these laws without...in any way touching the past systems, open up new opportunities to do trade and commerce and business for our farmers so that they can go in for more investment”.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Several Delhi borders closed as stir intensifies Explain them how these reforms will spur investment in rural India, there will be R&D, more opportunities for value addition and, therefore, farmers can increase their income, Goyal urged industry leaders. Responding to Goyal’s comments, Former Ficci president and Vice-Chairman of Bharti Enterprises Rajan Bharti Mittal said, “Clearly, you can see when you do the tough reforms like the farm bills, please don’t step back. The industry will back you up.” Besides, talking about reducing compliance burdens, Goyal said efforts were on to create the first genuine single-window system in terms of compliances, ease of approval process. “We intend to come up with a much easier process to meet with compliances, while simultaneously working across ministries to see if we can reduce the burden of compliances,” he added. Speaking about the proposed Brand India initiative, the minister said it is an idea where the government and the industry will partner with each other and develop both on the Make in India side and overall Brand India side. “We are also looking at branding India. It is time now that India demonstrates to the world its leadership position and commitment of quality,” said the minister. He observed that under the Brand India initiative, consumers both in India and internationally will be educated about products which are made in India. “We are pushing all industries to certify the Make in India products,” Goyal added. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked tirelessly and inspired the nation with his vision, simplicity and courage to think beyond the past limitations and willingness to embrace change. The minister said the government will identify areas where the country has competitive and comparative advantages, where we can become global players and contribute to global trade in a bigger way. Observing that the tyre and rubber industry can become a great business leader in the years to come, he said the Centre will encourage rubber plantation through the support of private investment and give adequate support to the tyre industry so that it can grow and flourish. “We have identified another 24 sectors on which work is going on by industry leaders who are working together to come up with actionable agenda to add nearly 200 lakh crores worth of manufacturing in India in the next 10 years,” Goyal said. Describing start-ups as the backbone of the New India, Goyal said start-ups and their ecosystem are encouraging innovation and promoting young entrepreneurs. He urged the industry to support start-ups by providing them financial support, hand-holding, opportunities and mentorship. Referring to Aatmanirbhar Bharat, he emphasised that “we are not at all suggesting that we are anti-imports”, and that it is about India improving its quality and scale of production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-agitation-no-longer-remains-farmers-movement-infiltrated-by-leftist-maoist-elements-piyush-goyal/story-d5nuSF9TCps1ayKAFlM0nI.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers’ group in support of new laws meet Agri minister, threatens to protest if repealed||Amid an ongoing protest against three farm laws, a delegation of 29 farmers from Haryana met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday to extend their support to the new legislations and threatened to stage a protest if those are repealed.The delegation, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (Mann) Haryana state leader Guni Prakash, submitted a “letter of support” to Tomar on the farm laws passed by Parliament in September and demanded the government to continue with these legislations.“We will also protest if the government repeals the laws. We have given a memorandum to all districts,” Prakash told reporters after the meeting.  He also sought to know why the previous government did not implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission till 2014.“Everyone has a right to protest. They have, so do we. We are in support of the three laws, but this protest is being led by Leftists and those who are violent,” he said.Claiming that the ongoing farmers’ agitation is no longer a peasant movement, the BKU leader said, “It has taken a political colour. Farmers will get real freedom through these three laws.” This was the second group of farmers from Haryana that met Tomar and extended support to the farm laws. The first group had met the minister on December 7.No breakthrough has been achieved during the six rounds of talks between the Centre and the agitating farmers so far, as the farmers have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the laws, despite the government sending them a draft proposal to amend specific issues without abolishing the legislations.The three laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and scrap the mandis (wholesale markets), leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has maintained that the MSP and the mandi system would continue and would rather be improved and strengthened further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-in-support-of-new-laws-meet-agri-minister-threatens-to-protest-if-repealed/story-QDUUi6NjjKqFwk13IsJTsL.html
12-12-2020||India||New agri law used to compel firm to abide by contract, says MP govt||The administration in Madhya Pradesh’s Hoshangabad district ordered a firm to buy rice at a higher price as per an agreement by invoking the new law on contract farming, the government said on Saturday.Farmers are protesting against the three new farm laws, including the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, on Delhi’s borders.A release from the MP Public Relations Department said that following complaints, a private firm was directed to procure rice on the contract prices under the new law.Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Pipariya, Nitin Tale said that despite the contract with famrers signed on June 3, 2020, the firm did not buy the produce as per the sale price of December 9 which was Rs 3,000 per quintal.Farmers Pushpraj Patel and Brajesh Patel of Bhokhdi village made a complaint to the SDM on December 10. The district administration constituted a conciliation board under the new law, and the company agreed to purchase rice at the higer rate, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-agri-law-used-to-compel-firm-to-abide-by-contract-says-mp-govt/story-0ZkvWhQDo1XO9cosIMOCdM.html
12-12-2020||Delhi||NGO starts free electric foot massages at Singhu protest site||After two weeks of resorting to manual foot rubs, herbal oil, and painkillers for their joint ache and leg pain, protesting farmers at Singhu border were on Friday introduced to free ten-minute massage sessions with 25 foot massagers installed at the protest site.The 25 massagers that were set up at the protest site was introduced by Khalsa Aid, a non-government organisation. The facility is free for all protesters, and all they need to do is get a token number and then wait their turn.  “Our volunteers at Tikri protest site said that several of them were offering manual foot rubs to the farmers. This is what prompted us to arrange for these massagers. We have multiple ongoing projects and already had five such foot massagers which are used during events like kanwar yatra or amarnath yatras,” said Amarpreet Singh, Khalsa Aid’s director in India.Mandeep Kaur, 50, a nurse from Lehra Bet village in Ferozpur district, has been at Singhu border for a week now, protesting with her family. “The constant movement around the protest site and the winter cold can often leave old people with pain in their leg beside severe backache. The massage session helped in comforting me and I will ask my son to buy me these,” she said.Throughout the day, farmers lined up outside the tent with their allotted tokens to get the “electric massage” after word spread around the protest site. Till Friday evening, more than 350 farmers had availed of the services which started at 8am on Friday.Jagdiv Singh, 60, a resident of Amritsar, said, “Getting inside the trolleys and climbing down from them or even sitting for long hours has caused us extreme backache and joint-ache. Other farmers around our trolley told me about the foot massagers, so I came here to try it. Till now, I had been relying on massages given by other younger farmers at the spot,” he said.Two friends – Saab Singh, 63, and Lakhi Ram, 80 – from the Mundlana village in Sonipat district walked out of the enclosure smiling on Friday evening. “Every day, we walk from our trolleys to the stage area which is around 2km away. Sometimes, we do these trips twice a day. As a result, we were left with terrible pain. But the 10-minute massage session has helped. We will come back tomorrow as well,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngo-starts-free-electric-foot-massages-at-singhu-protest-site/story-S4DFfBjng2zmb7KHe0aPFO.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers will get over the influence of ‘Maoists and Naxalites’: Piyush Goyal||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the government fully trusts farmers of India and is sure that they will not allow “Maoist and Naxal forces to influence the people across the country.” Goyal said he was confident that farmers will get over the influence of “Maoists and Naxalites” and meet and discuss with the central leadership a solution to the deadlock over three farm laws enacted by the government in September.“They (farmers) come for negotiation here, no one is ready to form a committee. Naxals create an atmosphere of fear and that is why the farmers’ leaders could not gather the courage to talk about the issues,” the minister told news agency ANI.The Union minister, who was part of the meetings between Centre and the agitating farmers to break the impasse, said the December 8 Bharat Bandh wasn’t successful even as 18 opposition parties backed it. He also blamed the opposition parties for supporting the nationwide strike, which he said had “failed miserably” as India did not shut down. “Bharat chalega, Bharat aur tez chalega, daudega (India will progress, it will progress at a faster pace)’,” Goyal added.He said people understand that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working towards a new and self-reliant nation. They know he is working to double the income of farmers and create employment opportunities, especially for the youth, Goyal added. He reassured farmers that the agricultural reforms do not change or hamper none of the existing arrangements. The aim of the new legislation is to free the farmers from any past shackles and bring new opportunities for them, he added.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said a group of “progressive farmers’ leaders” have submitted a memorandum backing the three farm laws liberalising agricultural markets. Also, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala met the Union minister earlier in the day and said he was hopeful that the next round of talks between the Centre and the farmers will be held “in the next 24 to 48 hours” and will lead to a conclusive result.The three contentious laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have triggered protests across the country, with thousands of peasants camping at Delhi’s borders to demand their scrapping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-will-get-over-the-influence-of-maoists-and-naxalites-piyush-goyal/story-2atNCBTd9Aql8UijjHK97K.html
12-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Puri Jagannath temple to open on December 23 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Puri Jagannath temple to open on December 23A little more than 9 months after the doors of the Jagannath temple in Puri town were shut to devotees due to Covid-19, the temple administration on Saturday decided to open the temple for devotees in a graded manner from December 23 onwards. Read moreAgriculture minister says ‘progressive’ Haryana farmers submitted memorandum backing new farm lawsUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Saturday a group of “progressive farmers’ leaders” have submitted a memorandum supporting the three farm laws liberalising agricultural markets, which have triggered protests by agriculturists near the national capital’s borders and across the country. The farm minister’s comments came after his meeting with farmers’ leaders from Haryana at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi. Read more‘State’s gender budget for FY 2020-21 unfavourable toward women empowerment’UNICEF, Maharashtra, in its study, has revealed that Maharashtra’s Gender Budget for financial year 2020-21 is about 7,300 crore, around two per cent of state’s total budget and departments with highest allocations are from tribal, development, social justice, rural development, housing and public health. Read more2nd Warm-up match: Rishabh Pant hits 22 runs off last over to reach hundred in 73 balls against Australia A - WATCH After a series of failures across formats, Indian wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant returned to form on Day 2 of India’s warm-up game at the Sydney Cricket Ground. He presented a strong case of selection ahead of the first Test against Australia with a cracking century off just 73 deliveries. Read moreOppo Reno 5 5G, Reno 5 Pro 5G launched, Reno 5 Pro+ 5G coming soonOppo Reno 5 5G starts at CNY 2,699 ( ₹30,400 approx) for the base model. It comes in three colour options of Aurora Blue, Moonlight Night and Starry Night. Oppo Reno 5 Pro 5G has a starting price of CNY 3,399 ( ₹38,200 approx) for the base model. It comes in the same colour options as the Reno 5. Read moreKapil Sharma apologises to wife Ginni Chatrath for working on wedding anniversary: ‘I have to earn to be able to buy a gift’Kapil Sharma and wife Ginni Chatrath are celebrating their second wedding anniversary on Saturday. The comedian, however, is working on his anniversary and has shared a sweet message for her, explaining the reason behind it. Read more Post on grandma writing down steps to change WhatsApp display picture leaves people emotionalA grandma is winning tons of love on Twitter thanks to a tweet about her posted by her granddaughter. Twitter user who goes by @extradecoction shared a heartwarming picture that shows a step by step note by her grandma on how to change WhatsApp display picture. The post, since being shared, has left people emotional. It has also prompted many to share equally heartening, if not more, stories about their grandparents. Read more Watch: ‘Events along LAC very disturbing…’: Jaishankar on border standoff with ChinaExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said India was being tested in the seven-month-long border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and expressed confidence that the country will meet the national security challenge. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-puri-jagannath-temple-to-open-on-december-23-and-all-the-latest-news/story-W6uEUFrW5lRXSG3mu1NfyO.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers close toll plaza in Haryana’s Ambala, Karnal||Amid the ongoing protest in and at the borders of the national capital against the recently enacted farm laws, farmers closed two toll plazas in Haryana’s Ambala and Karnal late last night, letting the vehicles cross without paying the duty. “Vehicles are not paying the toll since midnight. Some farmers had come and forced us to close the toll plaza. We haven’t received any information yet as to how long this will continue but the farmers are saying that it will remain toll-free throughout the day till midnight,” said Ravi Tiwari, in-charge at Shambhu Toll Plaza in Ambala, on Saturday.Apart from Ambala, farmers also closed Bastara Toll Plaza in Karnal late last night, as part of their agitation.The farmers, who were mainly from Haryana and Punjab were adamant that until the government fulfills their demands to withdraw the laws, the movement would continue in a similar way.This would lead to huge losses for the toll plaza operators. Thousands of vehicles cross the Bastara Toll Plaza on the Delhi-Chandigarh route everyday. Around Rs 200 is charged here.Scores of farmers across the country, including Haryana, are heading towards Delhi to join the agitation amid the deadlock with the central government over the new farm laws. They also planned to block the Delhi-Jaipur, and Delhi-Agra highways on Saturday.Besides, the farmers’ unions have threatened to block railway tracks if the laws are not repealed. Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has appealed to the protesters to stop their agitation as talks are still going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-close-toll-plaza-in-haryana-s-ambala-karnal/story-NX4vrld2cXR4q4IUz9f8MK.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology: PM Modi on farm reforms||Amid the ongoing standoff between the Centre and the farmers who are agitating against the three new farm laws for the last 16 days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday championed the ongoing reforms and said these will open new avenues in front of the farmers. “We had seen walls between the agriculture sector and other areas associated with it - be it agriculture infrastructure, food processing, storage or cold chain.We don’t want walls. We want bridges. All walls and obstacles are being removed now. After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology. This in turn will bring in more investment,” Modi said delivering the keynote address at the 93rd Annual General Meeting of FICCI.“The cold storage infrastructure will be modernised. This will result in more investments in the agriculture sector. Farmers will be benefitted the most out of it,” Modi said. His comments come at a time when thousands of protesters have laid siege to Delhi demanding an immediate withdrawal of the farm laws as they fear the new laws will corporatise farming and will benefit corporates at the cost of farmers.Batting for the involvement of all stakeholders in all sectors, PM Modi said, “If the government is confident, then it does not get threatened to make space for other players. This has been happening in India for the last six years.”This is not the first time after the massive agitation of the farmers began that PM Modi touched the issue of farm laws. In his last Mann ki Baat speech, PM Modi had said, “Parliament has recently passed farm reform laws after rigorous brainstorming. These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities to them.”The theme of FICCI’s annual convention this year is ‘Inspired India’, the Prime Minister’s Office’s (PMO) said on Friday. PM Modi also launched the FICCI Annual Expo 2020. This will provide an opportunity to exhibitors from across the globe to showcase their products and advance their business prospects, the PMO had added.Over the three days of the convention, more than 10,000 delegates from across the world and Union ministers Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal, S Jaishankar and Ravi Shankar Prasad will address the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-will-get-new-markets-options-and-more-benefits-of-technology-pm-modi-on-farm-reforms/story-LewN97PzJMUHHAwew7MH0K.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers Protest Live Updates: Protesting farmers open Chilla border for traffic after assurance demands will be met||With farmers gearing up to block the highway and picket toll plazas on the border to Delhi on Saturday in response to a call from protesting farmer unions to intensify their agitation against the three agricultural sector laws, police personnel have been deployed in strength to protect toll booths and ensure smooth flow of traffic, Faridabad Police said.As many as 3,500 police personnel will be deployed at the five toll plazas in the area, a statement said. Station house officers and the Police Reserve Force of the respective police stations will also be deployed and personnel will be equipped with anti-riot equipment.The ongoing protest of the farmers against the three new agriculture laws entered its 17th day today with the farmer’s unions now threatening to block railway tracks.Follow live updates here:Chilla border opens for traffic movementProtesting farmers open Chilla border for traffic after assurance demands will be met, reports ANI.People at Singhu border set up a temporary gymA makeshift gym has been set up at Singhu (Delhi-Haryana Border) where farmers’ protest entered 17th day today. “It’s part of our daily routine so we decided to set up one here. People visit the gym according to their convenience,” ANI quoted Jaspreet Singh from Rupnagar as saying.Progressive Haryana farmers submitted memorandum in support of farm laws: Tomar“Progressive farmer leaders from Haryana met me and submitted a memorandum with their signatures supporting the three farm laws. They also shared their experiences on how these laws are benefitting them,” says Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Ready for talks with govt, but will first discuss repealing farm laws:, says farmer leadersSticking to their demands, farmer leaders Saturday said they are ready to hold talks with the government, but will first discuss repealing the three new farm laws. Addressing a press conference at Singhu Border, farmer leader Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu said that thousands of farmers will start their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur through the Jaipur-Delhi Highway at 11 am on Sunday.Farmers to stage hunger strike“We have decided to intensify our agitation against new farm laws, Union leaders will sit on hunger strike on Dec 14,” say farmer leaders.Dozens of farmers detained in AligarhDozens of farmers were detained in different parts of this district for trying to make toll plazas on highways toll-free as part of their stir news agency PTI reported citing police. A large number of protestors at Kurana village under Tappal police station have been taken into police custody and would be kept under detention till 11 pm, officials said.Don’t want written guarantee, want a law for MSP: Farmer leader“We want MSP of all our produce including potatoes, sugarcane, grains, vegetables and milk. We don’t want this guarantee in written form but we want a law for MSP now,” says Dungar Singh, farmer Leader from Uttar Pradesh.Local residents block toll plaza at Makdoli village on Rohtak Panipat highwayFarm reforms will bring investments, technological advancements in agriculture, says PM Modi Trying to assuage farmer’s apprehensions Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that the new reforms will usher in technological advancement and investments in agricultures.Farmers take over some toll plazas in Haryana, stop authorities from collecting feesFarmers take over some toll plazas in Haryana, stop authorities from collecting fees as they intensify protest against new agri lawsCentre’s trying to defame agitation by calling it that of Khalistanis and political parties: SAD chiefCentre’s trying to defame agitation by calling it that of Khalistanis and political parties. Unfortunate that if one disagrees with them they call them anti-nationals. Ministers giving such statements must apologise publicly. We condemn Centre’s attitude & such statements:SAD chiefUnfortunate that Centre is trying to stifle the voices: SS Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal chiefUnfortunate that Centre is trying to stifle the voices, instead of listening to them. Farmers don’t want farm laws. Why is Centre showing tyranny when the section -for whom laws have been formed- don’t want it? I request PM to listen to farmers: SS Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal chief.We have deployed forces to check that no miscreant joins the protest: Prashant Kumar, UP ADG (Law & Order)We have deployed forces to check that no miscreant joins the protest. We are taking measures to see that public movement is not affected. We are ensuring that anti social elements, who are trying to create trouble, are being dealt with: Prashant Kumar, Uttar Prdaesh ADG (Law and Order).Section 144 imposed in Haryana’s Charkhi DadriSection 144 has been imposed in Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri area.Farmers protesting at Delhi-Ghazipur border march towards Delhi“With this march we want to give a message to the Govt to listen to our issues,” says Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union.After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology: PM ModiWe had seen walls between agriculture sector and other areas associated with it - be it agriculture infrastructure, food processing, storage or cold chain. All walls and obstacles are being removed now. After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology. The cold storage infrastructure will be modernised. This will result in more investments in the agriculture sector. Farmers will be benefitted the most out of it, says PM Modi.Govt should work to raise the MSP and also listen to farmer: Hanuman BeniwalHanuman Beniwal, RLP leader and MP from Nagaur begins a demonstration march towards Delhi, protesting farm laws“Thousands of farmers will meet in Kothputli and then decide the further course of action. Govt should work to raise the MSP and also listen to farmers,” he says.Security at Delhi borders increased after farmers’ announcement to intensify stirThe Delhi Police has increased security arrangements at the city’s border points following the announcement by agitating farmers to block the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra Expressways on Saturday to further intensify their protest against the Centre’s new agri laws.Haryana police placed barricades and cemented pillars on Khanauri-Narwana borderHaryana police placed barricades and cemented pillars on Khanauri-Narwana border on Saturday morning. However, locals removed these barricades and rocks from the road.We haven’t found any such person here, if we do we will send them away: Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union when asked if ‘anti-national elements’ got involved in agitationCentral Intelligence should catch them. If people of a banned organizations are roaming amid us, put them behind bars. We haven’t found any such person here, if we do we will send them away: Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union when asked if ‘anti-national elements’ got involved in agitation.Normal vehicular traffic flows through functional toll plazas in Agra district“There’re 5 major toll plazas here and we have no information of any one of them being blocked by farmers. We’re monitoing the plazas as well,” says ASP(West) AgraFarmers head to Delhi to join agitation at the bordersFarmers head to Delhi, to join the agitation at the borders of the national capital against Central government’s farm laws. All doubts can be solved through constructive dialogue: Venkaiah Naidu on farmers stirAmid the ongoing agitation by farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu has said all doubts can be solved through constructive dialogue.Farmers overpower toll plazas on NH44Farmers overpowered the employees of toll-palazas of Karnal and Panipat on Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway 44 allowing toll- free movement of all vehicles from Friday midnight.Opposition efforts to spread disharmony won’t be tolerated: Uttar Pradesh CM AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has hit out at opposition parties for allegedly leading the farmer’s movement towards disorientation, and said that the “malicious” efforts to spread disharmony in the country would not be tolerated.3,500 police personnel to be deployed at 5 Delhi-Haryana toll plazas3,500 police personnel will be deployed at the five toll plazas at five Delhi-Haryana toll plazas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-3-500-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-at-5-delhi-haryana-toll-plazas/story-WGDvNFZ3tFPf6vTSYtXzTI.html
12-12-2020||Lucknow||UP govt plans to distribute tractors to 69 ‘lucky’ farmers||Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest over Centre’s three contentious agriculture laws, the Uttar Pradesh government is gearing up to distribute tractors to dozens of ‘lucky’ farmers soon in a bid to cultivate goodwill with the farmers’ community in the state, sources dealing with the issue revealed.As many as 69 farmers belonging to different districts will be shortlisted for the free distribution of tractors through bumper lucky draws under the Mandi Parishad’s old scheme—the scheme had been in the cold storage for last around three years. In order to make the prize distribution a big event and turn the spotlight on the same, chief minister Yogi Adityanath will distribute tractors’ keys to around a dozen farmers at a function to be organised in the state capital while the rest of the shortlisted farmers will get keys from commissioners during the functions held at divisional headquarters simultaneously on the same day.The chief minister also heads the Uttar Pradesh State Agricultural Produce Market Board (Mandi Parishad) as its ex-officio chairman.Confirming the re-launch of tractor distribution scheme after some break, Mandi Parishad director JP Singh said tractors would be provided to the farmers under the old scheme called the ‘Mukhya Mantri Krashak Uphar Yojana’. The lucky draws under this scheme, he added, could not be held for the last two years or so due to various reasons, including the prevalence of pandemic since March this year.Also read: ‘Independent ties with countries’ - India pushes back against Russian minister’s comments“We have sought time from the chief minister to grace the function to hand over tractors’ keys to the first prize-winning farmers here,” he said, adding, “A total 69 tractors will be distributed, some by the CM here and the rest in divisions the same day.” The date of the event, he said, would be fixed as per the convenience of the CM. The government launched the Uphar Yojana as back in 2003 to encourage farmers to bring their agricultural produce to market produce committees (mandis) for the sale. The scheme sought to give prize coupons on monthly, quarterly and half-yearly basis to farmers on their mandi transaction worth Rs 5,000 and above.Currently, under the scheme that was amended and upgraded gradually with time, six-monthly bumper lucky draws are supposed to be held twice a year to distribute two tractors (35 HP) each in all the 18 divisions to the farmers winning the first prize. Sources said no bumper lucky draws had been held for around last three years and this time the government had decided to clear some of the backlog in one go. “At a time when the state government has suspended many schemes with financial implications due to the funds being diverted to fight the pandemic, the government’s decision to distribute tractors is certainly an attempt to send a positive message to the farmers,” they said. Singh, however, said that the move had nothing to do with the current farmers’ unrest. “In fact, we invited bids earlier to buy tractors and the tractor companies have offered 25 per cent discount to us on the price of the tractors we have decided to buy to gift the farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-plans-to-distribute-tractors-to-69-lucky-farmers/story-veq6ZsGZW9CaCLClPeVfgI.html
