13-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: Senior Punjab cop resigns from job to support protesting farmers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Senior Punjab cop resigns from job to support protesting farmersA senior official of Punjab police has quit his job to support farmers protesting the three new farm laws, saying the pieces of legislation were “detrimental to the interest of farmers and their future generations”. Punjab’s deputy inspector general of police (prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar said he had tendered his resignation to the state government on Saturday. Read more3 terrorists trapped on Mughal Road in Jammu, encounter onThree terrorists have been trapped by the security forces at Chatta-Pani area on the Mughal Road in Jammu’s Poonch district, officials said Sunday. Read moreBTC polls: New alliance on cards as BJP may join hands with UPPLThe ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) is likely to tie up with the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) to take over the Bodoland Territorial Council. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘If he opens, India can convert their weakness into strength’ - Ashish Nehra picks his openers for Australia TestsIt cannot be exactly called a weakness but India have plenty to ponder when it comes to deciding on their opening combination for the Test series against Australia. India have four designated openers currently in their squad for the four-match Border-Gavaskar Trophy which begins December 17 – Shubman Gill, Prithvi Shaw, Mayank Agarwal and KL Rahul – and although Rohit Sharma likely to join the team for the final two Tests, for the first two, the toss up is between Agarwal and youngsters Shaw and Gill. Read moreGoogle unknowingly reveals a mysterious Nokia smartphone that is yet to launchNokia 5.4 has been spotted on Google’s list of AR Core devices confirming the smartphone’s existence. This comes shortly after the specifications of the Nokia 5.4 were leaked. Nokia 5.4 will succeed the Nokia 5.3 that was launched earlier this year. Read more Kia Motors aims to expand to small towns to further cement its position in IndiaSouth Korean automaker Kia Motors aims to expand its sales network in smaller towns and rural areas as it looks to scale up its presence across the country, according to a senior company official. Read more ‘Angelina Jolie lookalike’ Sahar Tabar sentenced to 10 years in jail in Iran, for ‘corrupting youth’Instagram star Sahar Tabar, who made headlines for her resemblance to Angelina Jolie, has been jailed for 10 years, after she was arrested over her social media activities. She had previously called on Jolie to campaign for her release. Read moreMandira Bedi sizzles in a Rs 16k trail-drape dress with off-shoulder detail in rust that you want to stealThe fashion police have unapologetically centered all limelight on television hottie Mandira Bedi and we don’t blame them as the diva recently made jaws drop with her sizzling look while hosting GQ Men of the Year awards. Taking the glam quotient a notch higher, the Saaho actor served one of her hottest off-shoulder look in a trail-drape dress and fashionistas could not help but take note. Read more‘Soul-stirring and heavenly’: Lucky Ali’s impromptu gig at Goa strikes a chord with netizensIt was not long ago that a video of singer Lucky Ali strumming a guitar and singing his own song O Sanam went viral on the Internet. One of the country’s most popular and loved indie-pop artists, another clip of Ali is again creating a buzz online. It’s his impromptu gig at Arambol, Goa. After watching the clip, you may find yourself grooving to the music. Chances are you’ll also be reminded of the days gone by. Read more Watch: PM Modi, Vice Prez & other ministers pay tribute to Parliament attack heroesPrime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu, Speaker Om Birla, Union ministers and Opposition leaders paid tributes at the Parliament complex to those who lost their lives in the 2001 Parliament attack. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-senior-punjab-cop-resigns-from-job-to-support-protesting-farmers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-spEYVt4UfKqaBhSZtBMwRO.html
13-12-2020||India||Hundreds of women from Haryana and Punjab join farmers’ agitation||They have long juggled the demands of field and family, making sure both are tended to, and now hundreds of women from Haryana and Punjab have added another dimension to their busy lives – the protest grounds at the various gateways into Delhi.As their husbands, sons and brothers leave home to demand a rollback of the Centre’s new agri laws, many women are joining them too, making the trip from village towards the national capital even if for only a few days at a time. For these women, who describe themselves as homemakers, farmworkers, and protesters all rolled into one, any suggestion that farmers are about being alpha males because it requires physical labour is met with scorn. “The profession of farming is not defined by gender. Our fields don’t produce crops differently if tended by women and men. Many male farmers are here protesting. Why should we sit at home?” asked 53-year-old Mandeep Kaur, a farmer from Ludhiana who refuses to be stereotyped into any one role.Mandeep took a bus to the Singhu border, a major protest site of the farmers’ agitation that has been going for more than two weeks, spent a night and returned home. “But I will be back,” she said. “We have to look after both our homes as well as our fight. I watered the fields before I came here. It will sustain the land until I return home.” While the men have been camping at the Tikri and Singhu border, the main access point into the city from Punjab, many of the women have been travelling back and forth, balancing the jobs of taking care of their homes and fields and also participating in the agitation.Mandeep’s companion on the five-hour bus ride from Ludhiana to Singhu was her neighbour Sukhwinder Kaur.  The 68-year-old widow said she was tired of sitting at home while the men in her family were out protesting, and decided she needed to come down, even if it was for a short visit.“I wasn’t being able to sleep at night properly. I couldn’t sit back at home while my brother and nephew, and all our farmer brothers, are fighting here. I had my first good night of sleep after I came here,” Sukhwinder added. It wasn’t the epitome of comfort and toilets were a problem but that didn’t matter, said the feisty women. Sukhwinder and Mandeep, with several other women protestors, slept in a water proof tent provided by Khalsa Aid, an international NGO.  Sukhwinder said she was aware of the fight the farming community had undertaken but didn’t realise what it actually took to keep the fight going until she came here.“We are ‘gharelu’ women, don’t know much about the world, but after coming here I have realised how big this fight is. We are prepared for it, however long it takes. The kind of help we are getting for the protest shows the entire country is with us. I have heard that people from Australia, Canada and America are also with us,” she said.  The farmers, with help from various organisations and generous donors, have pulled out all the stops to sustain their agitation. The site is seeing a constant supply of cooked meals, fruits, dry fruits, and even ‘chaat’.There’s also chai-pakora, cold drinks, kheer and other sweet treats. Arrangements for laundry service, and medical facilities, including regular health check ups and a dental camp, have also been taken care of.Sukhwinder only had one complaint. “The toilet is a little too far,” she said.Staying on the Haryana side of the border, she said she had to take a bit of a stroll to find a toilet, which was on the Delhi side.Inadequate sanitation facilities is one reason why many women have to go back and forth, managing to stay at the protest sight only for a few days at a time. But 75-year-old Daljinder Kaur takes it all in her stride, like many others. She is Mandeep’s aunt and insisted on accompanying her to Singhu despite her age. Daljinder said she is positive her farmer brothers and sisters will convince the government.“‘Modi ko mana ke jaenge. Apne haq lene aaye hain, peeche nahi hatenge’ (We will convince Modi. We won’t go back until we get our rights),” she said. “’And if needed, we will die here too, she said. The farmers have called for a hunger strike on December 14, when they have called for a nationwide protest. Refusing the government’s requests to make amendments to the new farm laws, the farmers are insisting that they should be repealed. On Saturday, farmers picketed highway toll plazas in Haryana, UP, and Rajasthan.They are apprehensive the new legislations will eventually do away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of the corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-of-women-from-haryana-and-punjab-join-farmers-agitation/story-juKzelfNniB8U4yEuBMiJP.html
13-12-2020||India||Pawar sought amendment to farm law for farmers’ benefit: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday defended Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar for actively pushing States to amend the APMC Act when he was the Union agriculture minister under UPA-2 rule. Raut said Pawar’s intentions were then aligned with farmers’ welfare and claimed that in 2010, corporates had not entered farming in a big way.Raut, in his weekly column RokhThok in Sena mouthpiece Saamana, commented on the controversial farm laws passed by the Centre that have triggered the ongoing farmers’ protest on Delhi borders along Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Raut described the three laws, billed by the Centre as key reforms in the agricultural sector, as ‘dark’ laws that will turn ‘farms into graveyards’ and spell ‘death’ for farmers. Pawar, while he was the Union agriculture minister in the UPA dispensation, wrote to various chief ministers of states seeking amendment to the APMC Act, facilitating the entry of private sector. BJP, which has been claiming that the opposition parties were engaged in political mischief and misleading the farmers by fanning their protest, used Pawar’s letter in support of its allegation and slammed the NCP’s support to the farmers’ protest.Raut, in his column published on Sunday, defended Pawar and said, “Ten years ago when Sharad Pawar sought reforms in the agricultural sector it was in the interest of the farmers. Then Ambani-Adani had not entered this field. The expansion by the corporates in the field [of agri-marketing] came about in the last six years”.Also Read: ‘Reforms aimed at increasing competition’: TomarThe article further alleged that the BJP is spreading rumours that farmers’ protest does not reflect the mood of the farmers of the nation. However, the ‘successful’ Bharat Bandh called by the farmers had disproved the theory.“The three laws will turn farms into graveyards and mean death for farmers,” Raut wrote.He warned that if farming collapses, it’ll bring the economy down. “Ministers will come and go but if the farms are destroyed the country will suffer. A communist country like China and a capitalist country like America take care of their farmers then why the indifference by Indian government,” he asked in the column.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-sought-amendment-to-farm-law-for-farmers-benefit-sanjay-raut/story-PsizFbfG0K7q19Evqh8GeM.html
13-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers lift Chilla border blockade, traffic open on both sides||Traffic was restored at Chilla (Noida-Delhi) border early morning on Sunday after senior police officers spoke to farmers’ groups camping there for the past two weeks land requested them to vacate the site. One carriageway of the highway that connects Noida to Delhi was closed by farmers while the other that leads to Noida was open. The traffic is now open on both sides, senior police officers said. A senior officer said traffic was restored around 5 am as farmers cleared the road after the dialogue with the police on Saturday night. Traffic is running as usual, according to the police.Singhu and Tikri borders, however, remain completely closed while Ghazipur border is closed partially due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.“The Gazipur borders is closed for traffic from Noida & Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests.People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via chilla, Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders,” Delhi Police tweeted on Sunday morning. In south Delhi, traffic was reported to be smooth. With farmers’ groups expected to arrive at the Delhi-Gurugram border to block the traffic, the police have made adequate arrangements to ensure law and order. “The situation so far is normal with traffic moving smooth. There’s no gathering. We have sufficient arrangements at the border areas connecting south Delhi to Haryana,” said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-lift-chilla-border-blockade-traffic-open-on-both-sides/story-y6QyCYMGoSJ0guFT17ZGpM.html
13-12-2020||India||‘Opposition trying to destabilize nation through farmers’ stir’: Yogi Adityanath||Coming down heavily on opposition parties, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday blamed them for hatching a conspiracy to destabilise the country through farmers’ movement and cautioned the farmers to be alert against such elements. Addressing a gathering in Meerut on the premises of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture, after inaugurating its library and laying down foundation stones of different projects, CM Yogi targeted the opposition parties extending support to farmers’ movement and said, “They (opposition parties) are those who don’t want development of the country, the poor and the farmers. They are attempting to destabilise the country by training their guns on farmers’ movement.“ The CM’s programme was scheduled to start at 11 am at the agriculture university but his helicopter could not land due to rough weather and returned to Ghaziabad. He then arrived at the university by road which delayed the programme by more than two hours. He said that the opposition parties were upset because PM Narendra Modi was taking the country forward. “They were conspiring because the government ensured payment of sugarcane to farmers. They were receiving money in their bank accounts and getting benefits of many welfare schemes, including crop insurance.” He said that the state government had announced to construct additional lane on Hanga canal and allocated a budget of Rs 600 crore for the project. He further said that Meerut was being connected to Delhi through regional railway project of Rs 32,000 crore. Also read: Delhi-Jaipur highway partially opened amid farmers’ protestThe CM reiterated that the poor and the farmers were on the priority of the Prime Minister but a few people were conspiring because Section 370 was abolished in Kashmir, issue of Ram Temple was resolved in Ayodhya and income of middlemen who used to exploit farmers, had been stopped. The chief minister accused the opposition parties of demanding the release of those who were involved in anti-national activities using farmers’ movement. He said the farmers had always contributed to the development and growth of the country and they would continue doing it. He reiterated that the “problems could be resolved through conversation not struggle.” The chief minister planted a sapling before attending the programme. He then reached the regional office of the BJP and planted a banyan sapling. The chief minister will participate in discussions on the party’s policies and strategies over different issues, including the upcoming panchayat elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-trying-to-destabilize-nation-through-farmers-stir-yogi-adityanath/story-7Ezrj2r9wMBMbEZVbL2jFN.html
13-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Ministers in huddle as farmers threaten to block Delhi-Jaipur highway||Top Union ministers, including home minister Amit Shah, farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar and minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash, went into a huddle on Sunday as farmers who have been camping at Delhi’s borders to demand the repeal of three contentious laws aimed at opening up farm trade dug in their heels.Tomar and Parkash met Shah on Sunday as the deadlock between farmers and the Centre over the new farm laws continued for the 18th day, reports said. The ministers were accompanied by leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from Punjab, according to news agency PTI. Tomar and Parkash, along with their ministerial colleague Piyush Goyal, have been leading the government’s negotiations with the protesting farmers.Tomar and Parkash met the Union home minister at his house and it was not immediately known what transpired in the meeting, even as the farmers’ agitation in and around Delhi entered its 18th day with the protesters threatening to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway.Also read | ‘Always listened to my conscience’: Senior Punjab cop resigns to support protesting farmers“Thousands of farmers will begin a tractor march at 11am on December 13 from Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan and block the Jaipur-Delhi main road,” Sanyukta Kisan Andolan leader Kamal Preet Singh Pannu had said on Saturday.The farmers’ union leader added they will sit on fast from 8am to 5pm on December 14 at Singhu border. “On December 14, all farmer leaders will sit on fast sharing the stage at Singhu border. We want the government to take back the three farm laws; we’re not in the favour of the proposed amendments. The Centre wants to thwart our movement but we’ll continue it peacefully,” he said, according to news agency ANI.Also read | New laws meant to make farmers prosperous: ModiPannu alleged that the Centre is trying to “fail” the farmers’ movement, making attempts to divide the farmers. “We will foil any attempt by the Centre to fail our movement. The government made a few small attempts to divide us and instigate people. But, we will peacefully take this movement towards victory,” he said, according to news agency ANI.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi’s borders demanding the repeal of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The three farm laws, which were enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. Farmers have, however, demanded the repeal of these laws, saying the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and weaken the government’s MSP system. These laws together allow agribusinesses to trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming.On Saturday, a delegation of farmers from Haryana, including those connected with Farmer Producer Organisation, had expressed their support, in a letter, for the three farm laws with the modifications proposed by the central government.The government has held five rounds of formal talks with the representatives of farmers, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand of repeal of the three contentious laws. The sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders was cancelled.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-ministers-in-huddle-as-farmers-threaten-to-block-delhi-jaipur-highway/story-aKFEwvWcMNcCd297leZZkK.html
13-12-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal says will fast in support of farmers tomorrow, urges AAP workers to do the same||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal on Sunday said he will hold one-day fast on Monday in support of farmers protesting the three farm laws and also urged the workers and supporters of his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to join him. Kejriwal also asked the central government to roll back the three contentious farm laws which were implemented by the Centre in September, and demanded a new bill to ensure minimum support prices (MSP) for farmers – currently a policy issue – be drafted and tabled.“I request all party (AAP) supporters and people across the country to observe fast for a day tomorrow (Monday) in solidarity with protesting farmers. I shall be observing a day’s fast too… Let’s support our farmers from our homes. I understand that it is not possible for many of us to be physically present in the (state) border points where the protesting farmer groups have gathered,” the chief minister said in a video press briefing on Monday.Watch | Kejriwal to fast with farmers in support, urges centre ‘shun arrogance’ On the people being called “anti-national” for supporting the protesting farmers, Kejriwal reminded of 2011 Anna Hazare-led movement against corruption, saying that Congress then had done a similar thing to disregard the movement. “In the last few days, I have seen several ministers and BJP leaders calling the protesting farmers anti-national. I have a question for them: So many ex-servicemen, sportspersons, artistes, doctors, lawyers, businessmen have been supporting the protests in some way or other – are they all anti-national? During the Anna Hazare-led anti-corruption movement in 2011, the Congress had done similar things to bring disrepute to the movement. The BJP is doing the same thing now,” Kejriwal said.Thousands of farmers from Haryana and Punjab have been protesting in and around several borders of Delhi against the three farm laws. The government pushed for the agriculture laws saying that it will bring major reforms in the farming sector that will help eliminate the middlemen from the equation, allowing the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the farmers are apprehensive of the new laws and say that it will takeaway the safety cushion of MSP and mandi system, due to which they will have to be at the mercy of corporate leaders. “Some people claim that only a few farmers from Punjab and Haryana are participants in the protest. It is their misconception. Farmers across the country are troubled... The new bills make hoarding legal. It will lead to inflation… I urge the central government to leave behind their ego, roll back the three laws and prepare a new bill to ensure minimum support price for farmers,” Kejriwal added.Earlier in the day, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash met Union home minster Amit Shah as the deadlock between protesting farmers and the Centre over the new farm laws continued for the 18th day, according to reports. The agitating farmers have threatened to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway. The farmers’ union leader also said that they will sit on fast from 8am to 5pm on December 14 at Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-says-will-fast-in-support-of-farmers-tomorrow-urges-aap-workers-to-do-the-same/story-y2Q5H9kN4ZLpgJb0XzPh1K.html
13-12-2020||India||Pawar sought amendment to farm law for farmers’ benefit: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday defended Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar for actively pushing States to amend the APMC Act when he was the Union agriculture minister under UPA-2 rule. Raut said Pawar’s intentions were then aligned with farmers’ welfare and claimed that in 2010, corporates had not entered farming in a big way.Raut, in his weekly column RokhThok in Sena mouthpiece Saamana, commented on the controversial farm laws passed by the Centre that have triggered the ongoing farmers’ protest on Delhi borders along Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Raut described the three laws, billed by the Centre as key reforms in the agricultural sector, as ‘dark’ laws that will turn ‘farms into graveyards’ and spell ‘death’ for farmers. Pawar, while he was the Union agriculture minister in the UPA dispensation, wrote to various chief ministers of states seeking amendment to the APMC Act, facilitating the entry of private sector. BJP, which has been claiming that the opposition parties were engaged in political mischief and misleading the farmers by fanning their protest, used Pawar’s letter in support of its allegation and slammed the NCP’s support to the farmers’ protest.Raut, in his column published on Sunday, defended Pawar and said, “Ten years ago when Sharad Pawar sought reforms in the agricultural sector it was in the interest of the farmers. Then Ambani-Adani had not entered this field. The expansion by the corporates in the field [of agri-marketing] came about in the last six years”.Also Read: ‘Reforms aimed at increasing competition’: TomarThe article further alleged that the BJP is spreading rumours that farmers’ protest does not reflect the mood of the farmers of the nation. However, the ‘successful’ Bharat Bandh called by the farmers had disproved the theory.“The three laws will turn farms into graveyards and mean death for farmers,” Raut wrote.He warned that if farming collapses, it’ll bring the economy down. “Ministers will come and go but if the farms are destroyed the country will suffer. A communist country like China and a capitalist country like America take care of their farmers then why the indifference by Indian government,” he asked in the column.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-sought-amendment-to-farm-law-for-farmers-benefit-sanjay-raut/story-PsizFbfG0K7q19Evqh8GeM.html
13-12-2020||World||Khalistanis target Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in Washington||Khalistani separatists draped their flag around the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in front of the Indian Embassy in Washington on Saturday to show their support for the farmers protesting against the farm laws in India.“Farmers and Khalistan supporters have the same agenda and that is independence of Punjab from Indian occupation,” said Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, general counsel to Sikhs For Justice. Pannun was designated a terrorist by India in July.There have been reports that Khalistanis have tried to inject their separatist agenda into the farmers’ protests to further their own cause, and not to help the protesters. Earlier this month, Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu raised alarm over “Khalistani elements (who) have penetrated the ongoing protests”.Farmers are protesting new laws that seek to reform the farm sector and allow large corporation to bypass government-regulated procurement markets. They fear these reforms could take away the minimum support price (MSP) guaranteed to them by the government on their yields.The Indian embassy issued a statement in this regard. “Strongly condemns this mischievous act by hooligans masquerading as protesters against the universally respected icon of peace and justice,” the statement read.The statement added that the embassy had also lodged a “strong protest” with US law enforcement agencies and taken it up with the State Department and has sought an “early investigation and action against the culprits under the applicable law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/khalistanis-target-gandhi-statue-in-washington-dc/story-zmuDrN3HQfZqNvCveHZ7kL.html
