14-12-2020||India||Statements by BJP leaders on farmers’ protest ‘most unfortunate’, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday slammed remarks made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on farmers’ protest, calling it “most unfortunate and condemnable”. Taking to Twitter, the senior Congress leader also urged the Centre to find mutual ground and address the issues raised by the protesting farmers.“The statements issued by BJP leaders decrying farmers’ protest are most unfortunate and condemnable. The government must find an amicable solution and address the grievances of farmers sympathetically instead of blaming gangs, anti-national elements for these protests,” Gehlot tweeted.The Congress leader’s comment comes amid ongoing protests being carried out by farmers in and around the borders of Delhi against the three farm laws that were implemented by the Centre in September.The chief minister also slammed the government for ignoring the concerns raised by the farmers. Gehlot also demanded that the farm laws be taken back. “Farmers are protesting in a peaceful manner. Their protest is for their most genuine concerns, which the government is ignoring. The farm laws that are not in the interest of the farming community must be taken back,” Gehlot said.Earlier in the day, hundreds of protesting farmers from Rajasthan blocked the Delhi-Jaipur national highway in Alwar district after they were stopped by police from marching towards the national capital. While one-way traffic moving from Delhi to Jaipur is open, the Jaipur-Delhi traffic is blocked due to the agitation, according to PTI.As the protest against the farm laws intensifies, thousands of farmers have gathered around and are camping at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The farmers have expressed strong apprehension towards Centre’s new agriculture laws, saying that it will take away the safety cushion of MSP and mandi system due to which they will have to be at the mercy of corporate leaders.However, the government has maintained its stand that the agriculture laws will bring major reforms in the farming sector that will help eliminate the middlemen from the equation, allowing the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statements-by-bjp-leaders-on-farmers-protest-most-unfortunate-says-ashok-gehlot/story-aE3yCfnCntSphkm0KIDgeO.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Speak for Maha farmers first’: Fadnavis on Thackeray’s remarks on farmers’ protests||The war of words between Maharashtra chief minster Uddhav Thackeray and the former CM Devendra Fadnavis continued on Monday after the Bharatiya Janata Party leader fired another shot. Reacting to Thackeray’s recent comments on farmers’ protest in Delhi, Fadnavis asked the chief minister to first speak about agriculturists in his own state.“The chief minister must speak of Maharashtra farmers first instead of commenting on protests in Delhi. Protesters are being beaten up in their homes here and the state government is talking of protesters’ rights in Delhi and calling it an emergency situation,” ANI quoted the BJP leader as saying.On Sunday, Thackeray had hit out at Fadnavis for his “undeclared Emergency in the state” remarks. “If there is an undeclared Emergency in Maharashtra, then is there a declared Emergency in the rest of the country given the manner in which the protesting farmers are being targeted on the outskirts of Delhi,” he had said.Thackeray had also questioned whether pouring water on farmers in cold weather is a sign of harmony. He had also slammed the BJP government for calling protesting farmers “anti-national”. “The BJP should decide whether protesters have support from Pakistan, China or Maoists. You bring sugar and onions from Pakistan. Now farmers are also coming from Pakistan,” the Shiv Sena leader had mocked, as quoted by PTI.The remarks from both the political leaders come amid ongoing protests in Delhi where thousands of farmers, majority of them from Haryana and Punjab, have gathered in and around the borders of the national capital to protest against the three farm laws.The farmers are seeking the repeal of the three laws -- Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- that were implemented by the Centre in September.So far, the Centre’s representatives and leaders of farmers’ unions have held as many as five rounds of talks to resolve the issues but they all have been inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speak-for-maharashtra-farmers-first-devendra-fadnavis-on-uddhav-thackeray-s-remarks-on-farmers-protests-in-delhi/story-ULWZVK2PsWCvCtH3HnZrmJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Govt ready for talks, won’t take retrograde steps against farm sector: Rajnath||Recent farm reforms were undertaken with the best interests of farmers in mind and the government is always open to dialogue to allay the misgivings of the agricultural sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday. Addressing the annual convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) in the backdrop of a farmers’ protest against the agricultural reforms entering the 19th day, Singh said the government is “always willing to listen to our farmer brothers”. Describing agriculture as the “mother sector for all others”, he said, “There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever. The recent reforms have been undertaken with the best interests of India’s farmers in mind.” Singh added, “We are, however, always willing to listen to our farmer brothers, allay their misgivings and provide them with assurances we can provide. Our government is always open to discussion and dialogue.” Farmers have organised sit-in protests across the country and are observing a hunger strike from 8am to 5pm on Monday. The nationwide protests came a day after farmers blocked the Delhi-Jaipur highway. More and more farmers have joined the protests at several entry points to the national Capital. The farmers have been protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The Centre has said these reforms will eliminate middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce in commercial markets, but the protesters fear the new laws will allow big corporations to enter agriculture and further end the system of minimum support price. Union minister Kailash Choudhary said on Sunday the Centre will soon hold another round of talks with farmers, adding the government will find “some solution” to end the deadlock. Five rounds of talks have been held so far between the farmers and the Centre but they ended inconclusively. A further round couldn’t be held after protesters rejected the Centre’s offer to amend specific provisions of the new farm laws. Singh said agriculture was one sector that was able to the cope with the adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and “come out the best”. He added, “Our produce and procurement have been plentiful and our warehouses are full.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-open-to-dialogues-says-rajnath-on-farmers-protest/story-U8qp7FqeSb9yfTpDl5XoBJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Bihar BJP launches counter offensive in support of farm laws with mega outreach||Amid the ongoing farmers’ stir, Bihar BJP on Sunday launched a 13 day outreach campaign to dispel farmers’ concerns over the new farm laws with Union minister for law Ravi Shankar Prasad and state president Sanjay Jaiswal holding a meeting in Patna to stress that the three heavily-contested laws were beneficial for farmers and would cut the middlemen system in the sale of agricultural produce. Prasad said that Bihar, having scrapped the agricultural marketing boards in 2006, was witness to transformation in the farm sector with farmers getting higher income with the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the state.The farmers in the state were now also producing pineapples, strawberries and litchis in bigger quantities, he said. “I want to clarify that farmers would not have to mortgage their land or sell their land. Under the laws, if a company enters into a contract with any farmers to buy a certain product, the company would provide the farmers better agricultural techniques and seeds. What is wrong in it?” he asked. He stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always wanted farmers to become prosperous.“What is wrong if a farmer has the freedom to sell his produce anywhere in the country instead of just having the option of selling it at Mandis?” he reasoned.Prasad also alleged that the “tukdey tukdey” gang was rallying behind the farm protests and added the government would not allow them to succeed. “ I do not want to name these people. Police have filed charge sheets against them for indulging in Delhi riots and they are unable to get bail. There are now voices being raised to free such so-called intellectuals,” he said, apparently referring to the posters put up at Tikri border for release of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Varavara Rao and Sudha Bharadwaj and others booked under Unlawful Activities ( Prevention) Act.Prasad said that only one section of farmers opposing the laws are in the favour of selling produce only in markets of agricultural marketing boards. Prasad added that the Congress, which was now backing farmer agitation, had promised to scrap the practice of marketing boards in its manifesto in 2019. Bihar BJP president, Jaiswal, said that the ongoing farmers stir was being backed by forces who believe in dividing the country. He claimed that only farmers from Punjab were against the farm laws and accused them of being supporters of a ‘middleman system’ in the sale of agricultural produce. “The farmers wanted an assured minimum support price (MSP). The central government agreed to give a written undertaking. But now, they want repeal of the laws. This is all a conspiracy by anti-India forces. Voices are being raised in support of Omar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam, who are facing grave charges of making statements against the country. This shows anti- national elements are behind the protests,” Jaiswal said.Also Read: In UP, BJP plans outreach meet with farmers amid protests against agri lawsThe BJP’s campaign will run in all the 243 Assembly constituencies spanning the 38 districts, where party leaders and workers will hold corner meetings with farmers. All the union ministers from the state will participate in the events.“The protesting farmers are behaving in such a manner as if they represent the entire farming community in the country. That’s why the state BJP has decided to launch the campaign in support of the new laws,” Jaiswal said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the new farm laws which they claim will dilute the minimum support price system and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by corporates and hurt their income. Also Read: Want to wake government up, says farm union leader as day-long fast against farm laws beginsThey are protesting against the three new laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The CPI-ML( liberation) has meanwhile announced the launch of Kisan Sangharsh yatra across the state to drum up support against the newly enacted three farm laws and to corner the BJP led NDA government over the issue. The Left party has also decided to support a march of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on December 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bjp-launches-counter-offensive-in-support-of-farm-laws-with-mega-outreach/story-4OKRJaQwOTRzrXMLZmZBaI.html
14-12-2020||India||In UP, BJP plans outreach meet with farmers amid protests against agri laws||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh has decided to hold a series of meetings with farmers to counter opposition parties that have backed the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three contentious farm reform laws. Beginning with the ones in Ayodhya and Basti on Monday, the meets would be held till December 18. At these meetings, senior leaders and ministers will explain why the three contentious laws will eventually be beneficial for the farmers. Nearly all opposition parties in the state, including the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Congress and others, have extended their support to the ongoing farmers’ stir demanding the repeal of the legislations. The BJP government at the Centre has indicated that the laws won’t be withdrawn, though it is ready to introduce key amendments to address farmers’ concerns.Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and ministers as well as senior BJP leaders, including state chief Swatantra Dev and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, who was the agriculture minister in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first government, would also address these farmers’ meetings, party leaders said. “On Monday, the UP BJP in-charge would launch these farmers’ meetings from Basti and Ayodhya,” said state general secretary Govind Narayan Shukla. While deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya would address a farmers’ meeting in Varanasi on Tuesday, ministers Mahendra Singh (Moradabad), Mukut Bihari Verma (Amethi) and Neelkanth Tiwari (Pratapgarh) would be in different parts of the state for the same reason. The UP BJP chief will address farmers’ rallies in Bareilly, Shahjahanpur and Badaun on Monday followed by a meeting in Gonda on Tuesday. “The opposition is misleading the people on the issue of farm laws. Such political parties, who cheated and exploited the farmers for decades, are now acting as the biggest well-wishers of theirs,” Swatantra Dev Singh said. He said the BJP would expose the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-up-bjp-plans-outreach-programme-for-farmers-amid-protests-against-agri-laws/story-CVPJ4UGazmxdLXA92ckuWP.html
14-12-2020||India||UP Police on alert over farmers’ protest||The state Uttar Pradesh Police have sounded an alert over yet another protest called by farmers’ unions on Monday, said police officials. The police headquarters issued directives to all district police chiefs to make necessary arrangements to avert any law and of order problem. Commissioner of police (Lucknow) DK Thakur held a late night meeting with police officers to issue directives regarding arrangements to ensure peace during the farmers’ protests. A senior police official said the protests on Monday could be more widespread after farmers failed to leave their mark on two previous occasions on Saturday and December 8 (Bharat Bandh call). The Bharat Bandh, called by various farmer unions against three central agricultural laws, drew a mixed response in UP on Tuesday even as about 1,300 people were detained by police to avert law and trouble. Markets and offices remained largely open while Samajwadi Party, Congress, RLD and Left parties’ workers and some other unions held protests in several districts and even held up a train in Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-on-alert-over-farmers-protest/story-SNxIz3OkfvT8zjRGQnSiSP.html
14-12-2020||India||Farmers’ best interests in mind, open for talks: Rajnath Singh amid protest||As farmers leaders in various parts of the country participated in the day-long fast on Monday to protest against the new agriculture sector reforms, further upping their agitation, defence minister Rajnath Singh hailed agriculture as “mother sector” and also underlined that the government is always open to discussion and dialogue.“There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever. The recent reforms have been undertaken with the best interests of India’s farmers in mind,” he said, hours before agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated the government’s request to farmers to have dialogue with the government.“The hunger strike call given by farmer leaders was successful,” said Baldev Singh, a farmer leader at Singhu border of Delhi and Haryana, where tens of thousands of farmers have gathered since November 27.Elsewhere, a large group of farmers on Monday tried to block the key Delhi-Jaipur national highway at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, but were prevented from doing so by the police. At Gazipur, on Delhi-Noida border, the traffic was blocked for some time by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Takait) faction for some time. Rakesh Takait said that the traffic was blocked to tell the administration that they can block the traffic but were not doing it so that people are not inconvenienced. Farmers raised slogans outside the offices of district commissioners and took out protest marches in Punjab and Haryana on Monday, following a nationwide call given by their unions against the new central laws. The Haryana police closed the Ambala-Patiala highway after protesters gathered at the Shambhu border point adjoining Punjab. Many of these farmers were on their way to Singhu border, which has become the epicenter of farmer protests against the three farm laws.The ruling Congress also held protests in Punjab, with the state unit chief Sunil Jakhar participating in one near the Shambhu border. Shiromani Akali Dal workers protested in Amritsar. In Punjab, farmers protested in several districts including Ludhiana, Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Bathinda, Moga, Faridkot, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran.“Farmers held protests outside the offices of deputy commissioners at several places in Punjab,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. This farmer union had not participated in the day-long hunger strike saying they were not consulted.In Haryana, the farmers came out in large numbers and took out protest marches before holding day-long demonstrations outside the offices of deputy commissioners (DCs) as the agitation against Centre’s three farm laws evoked massive response on Monday. Not only the opposition parties but also different employees associations such as Haryana Sarv Karamchari Sangh and Asha workers association extended support to the peasants protests. The protests remained peaceful. The farmers held protests outside the offices of DCs in Rohtak, Hisar, Bhiwani, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Jind, Fatehabad and other districts and took out protest march after a nationwide call given by their unions. “Everybody should come forward to join this fight for the future of the farming community. We are happy with the support from different sections and sectors,” said Ratan Mann, Haryana BKU (Tikait) state president.In Uttar Pradesh, the Samajwadi Party workers clashed with police at various places as they were prevented from marching towards collectors’ offices. Clashes were reported from Lucknow, Hardoi, Agra, Gorakhpur, Etawah and some other districts. In Agra, the police used mild force to disperse protesting Samajwadi Party workers.“Samajwadi Party supports farmers’ demands. Its sympathy lies with farmers. The ‘kisan yatra’ was started by the SP on December 7. The party workers are holding dharna at all the district headquarters in the state today. I have been arrested in Sandila and many party leaders are under house arrest,” said SP law-maker Rajpal Kashyap.Reports also came from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Odisha, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala of protests being organised by farmer bodies at district headquarters. In support of farmers, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his cabinet colleagues and his Punjab counterpart observed a day-long fast and appealed to the Central government to listen to farmers. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also asked the Centre to repeal the farm laws as being demanded by 32 farmer organisations protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border.As farmers intensified their protests against the newly enacted farm laws, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday asserted that agriculture was a “mother sector” and there was no question of taking any “retrograde steps” against it ever. He also said that government is always open to discussion and dialogue.“There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever. The recent reforms have been undertaken with the best interests of India’s farmers in mind,” he said, hours before agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated the government’s request to farmers to have dialogue with the government.In view of the nationwide protest, the Delhi Police had enhanced security at city border points. Containers, multi-layered cemented barriers, barbed wires and additional police force was deployed at various borders, where the farmers have been protesting. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are currently staying put at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-best-interests-in-mind-open-for-talks-rajnath-singh-amid-protest/story-aL5d8eoiMuZ8eIX3FBr9iK.html
14-12-2020||India||Fourth group of farmers extend support to farm laws, say they welcome them||At least 10 organisations representing farmers in several states met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to lend support to the three farm laws on Monday, on a day as many as 40 farmer leaders of the United Farmers Front began their day-long hunger strike at various border points near Delhi against the Centre’s newly-enacted legislation. This is the fourth group of farmers who have extended support to the laws in the last fortnight.According to news agency ANI, the 10 organisations from various states like Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Bihar and Haryana, associated with All India Kisan Coordination Committee, submitted a memorandum to the Union agriculture minister. “Members of All India Kisan Coordination Committee had come from Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra and Bihar. They supported farm laws and gave us a letter on the same. They said that the Modi government has done this for the welfare of farmers and that they welcome and support it,” Tomar was quoted as saying by ANI.Earlier in the day, the agriculture minister said that the government is engaging with farmers’ leaders to decide on the next date of talks. The government is ready for discussion anytime and the farmers’ leaders have to “decide and convey” when they are ready for the next meeting, he added. “The meeting will definitely happen. We are engaging with farmers,” Tomar told PTI.Also read | ‘Progressive’ Haryana farmers submitted memorandum backing new farm laws: TomarOn Sunday, a delegation of more than 100 farmers from Uttarakhand had extended their support to the laws. Before that, a delegation of 29 farmers from Haryana met Tomar on Saturday to extend their support to the new legislations and threatened to stage a protest if those are repealed. The delegation, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (Mann) Haryana state leader Guni Prakash, submitted a “letter of support” to Tomar on the farm laws passed by Parliament in September and demanded the government to continue with these legislations.Last week, farmers, representing Har Kisan, an organisation of 116 farmer-owned agricultural enterprises known as farmer producer organisations, met the agriculture minister and asked for a separate meeting with him with more members. The farmers’ group from Haryana said they were not opposed to any amendments that the government may be considering but they want to the laws to be in force.Also read | Several border points in Delhi remain closed for traffic as farmers’ stir escalatesThousands of farmers, largely from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the farm laws and vowed to intensify their agitation if the government did not repeal the laws. There have been five rounds of talks between the Centre and representatives of 40 farmers’ unions so far and they have remained inconclusive. The sixth round was scrapped after they rejected the government’s draft proposal to amend certain provisions of the farm laws and declined to participate in the meeting. The government has made it clear that it is ready for discussion anytime. But the farmer unions have said they would come for talks only if the laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-group-of-farmers-extend-support-to-farm-laws-say-they-welcome-them/story-m9k8x3dVjU7laEEGoMP0TL.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Speak for Maha farmers first’: Fadnavis on Thackeray’s remarks on farmers’ protests||The war of words between Maharashtra chief minster Uddhav Thackeray and the former CM Devendra Fadnavis continued on Monday after the Bharatiya Janata Party leader fired another shot. Reacting to Thackeray’s recent comments on farmers’ protest in Delhi, Fadnavis asked the chief minister to first speak about agriculturists in his own state.“The chief minister must speak of Maharashtra farmers first instead of commenting on protests in Delhi. Protesters are being beaten up in their homes here and the state government is talking of protesters’ rights in Delhi and calling it an emergency situation,” ANI quoted the BJP leader as saying.On Sunday, Thackeray had hit out at Fadnavis for his “undeclared Emergency in the state” remarks. “If there is an undeclared Emergency in Maharashtra, then is there a declared Emergency in the rest of the country given the manner in which the protesting farmers are being targeted on the outskirts of Delhi,” he had said.Thackeray had also questioned whether pouring water on farmers in cold weather is a sign of harmony. He had also slammed the BJP government for calling protesting farmers “anti-national”. “The BJP should decide whether protesters have support from Pakistan, China or Maoists. You bring sugar and onions from Pakistan. Now farmers are also coming from Pakistan,” the Shiv Sena leader had mocked, as quoted by PTI.The remarks from both the political leaders come amid ongoing protests in Delhi where thousands of farmers, majority of them from Haryana and Punjab, have gathered in and around the borders of the national capital to protest against the three farm laws.The farmers are seeking the repeal of the three laws -- Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- that were implemented by the Centre in September.So far, the Centre’s representatives and leaders of farmers’ unions have held as many as five rounds of talks to resolve the issues but they all have been inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speak-for-maharashtra-farmers-first-devendra-fadnavis-on-uddhav-thackeray-s-remarks-on-farmers-protests-in-delhi/story-ULWZVK2PsWCvCtH3HnZrmJ.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Anti-Modi elements part of protests, not farmers’: Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that there is a deadlock with farmers because some “anti-Modi” elements have joined the protest. In an interview with Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, he said that there is a delay because of the rumours being spread about the nature of the bills.“The government has successfully initiated dialogue but the farmers’ union have not been able to reach at a unanimous decision. The news which have emerged in the last two days are astounding. Those who believe in the Left ideology are influencing these protests. Attempts are being made to release traitors. This is condemnable and these elements are stopping the movement from arriving at a verdict. And these elements are not farmers, but those who are against Modi,” he told Hindustan.Also Read:Farmers begin day-long hunger strike as protest against farm laws intensifiesThe Union minister reiterated the government’s stand and clarified that the laws were implemented for the farmers’ benefit. “The government intends for the farmers to get maximum price for their produce and enable them to buy licenses in the market, eliminating the role of middlemen. This would result in increased competition and more profit for the farmers,” he said. On being asked why the country’s farmers are protesting against the laws if they were for their benefit, Tomar said it was only the farmers of Punjab and Haryana who were protesting. “The mandi systems in Punjab and Haryana are very strong and decentralised and farmers in these states fear that the laws will alter them. Farmers in other states have welcomed the laws, they even wanted to come to Delhi to show their support but we stopped them in the hope that dialogue will solve the current deadlock,” he said.Also Read: In UP, BJP plans outreach meet with farmers amid protests against agri lawsTomar also targeted the Congress party and said it is being ‘hypocritical’. “On December 8, farmers were not on the roads. Workers of Congress were seen supporting the bandh. Congress is practising politics of doublespeak as it had mentioned these laws in its manifesto and had tried to introduce them when in power, but couldn’t do that due to other pressures,” he said.Meanwhile, farmers have begun their one-day hunger strike at various border points near Delhi. “We want to wake the government up. So, 40 farmer leaders of our United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike today at all borders points between 8 am-5 pm. Twenty five of them will sit at Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border and five at UP border,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-end-to-deadlock-as-anti-modi-elements-are-part-of-protests-not-farmers-says-agriculture-minister/story-CDpEyB6G5xM782pJDjcYRM.html
14-12-2020||India||Supreme Court to hear plea seeking immediate removal of farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders||Supreme Court will hear on December 16 a plea seeking a direction to authorities to immediately remove the farmers who are protesting at several border points of Delhi against three new farm laws.As per Supreme Court website a Bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian will hear the plea filed by law student Rishabh Sharma who says that commuters are facing hardships due to the road blockades and the gatherings might lead to an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases.The farmers are protesting against the recently enacted Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-seeking-immediate-removal-of-farmers-protesting-at-delhi-s-borders/story-ijJOnCnJp6g28LIHCmtKFK.html
14-12-2020||India||Bihar BJP launches counter offensive in support of farm laws with mega outreach||Amid the ongoing farmers’ stir, Bihar BJP on Sunday launched a 13 day outreach campaign to dispel farmers’ concerns over the new farm laws with Union minister for law Ravi Shankar Prasad and state president Sanjay Jaiswal holding a meeting in Patna to stress that the three heavily-contested laws were beneficial for farmers and would cut the middlemen system in the sale of agricultural produce. Prasad said that Bihar, having scrapped the agricultural marketing boards in 2006, was witness to transformation in the farm sector with farmers getting higher income with the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the state.The farmers in the state were now also producing pineapples, strawberries and litchis in bigger quantities, he said. “I want to clarify that farmers would not have to mortgage their land or sell their land. Under the laws, if a company enters into a contract with any farmers to buy a certain product, the company would provide the farmers better agricultural techniques and seeds. What is wrong in it?” he asked. He stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always wanted farmers to become prosperous.“What is wrong if a farmer has the freedom to sell his produce anywhere in the country instead of just having the option of selling it at Mandis?” he reasoned.Prasad also alleged that the “tukdey tukdey” gang was rallying behind the farm protests and added the government would not allow them to succeed. “ I do not want to name these people. Police have filed charge sheets against them for indulging in Delhi riots and they are unable to get bail. There are now voices being raised to free such so-called intellectuals,” he said, apparently referring to the posters put up at Tikri border for release of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Varavara Rao and Sudha Bharadwaj and others booked under Unlawful Activities ( Prevention) Act.Prasad said that only one section of farmers opposing the laws are in the favour of selling produce only in markets of agricultural marketing boards. Prasad added that the Congress, which was now backing farmer agitation, had promised to scrap the practice of marketing boards in its manifesto in 2019. Bihar BJP president, Jaiswal, said that the ongoing farmers stir was being backed by forces who believe in dividing the country. He claimed that only farmers from Punjab were against the farm laws and accused them of being supporters of a ‘middleman system’ in the sale of agricultural produce. “The farmers wanted an assured minimum support price (MSP). The central government agreed to give a written undertaking. But now, they want repeal of the laws. This is all a conspiracy by anti-India forces. Voices are being raised in support of Omar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam, who are facing grave charges of making statements against the country. This shows anti- national elements are behind the protests,” Jaiswal said.Also Read: In UP, BJP plans outreach meet with farmers amid protests against agri lawsThe BJP’s campaign will run in all the 243 Assembly constituencies spanning the 38 districts, where party leaders and workers will hold corner meetings with farmers. All the union ministers from the state will participate in the events.“The protesting farmers are behaving in such a manner as if they represent the entire farming community in the country. That’s why the state BJP has decided to launch the campaign in support of the new laws,” Jaiswal said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the new farm laws which they claim will dilute the minimum support price system and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by corporates and hurt their income. Also Read: Want to wake government up, says farm union leader as day-long fast against farm laws beginsThey are protesting against the three new laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The CPI-ML( liberation) has meanwhile announced the launch of Kisan Sangharsh yatra across the state to drum up support against the newly enacted three farm laws and to corner the BJP led NDA government over the issue. The Left party has also decided to support a march of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on December 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bjp-launches-counter-offensive-in-support-of-farm-laws-with-mega-outreach/story-4OKRJaQwOTRzrXMLZmZBaI.html
14-12-2020||India||Want to wake government up, says farm union leader as day-long fast against farm laws begins||As farm union leaders observe a day-long fast against the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws on Monday, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Punjab, said the leaders want to “wake the government up.” He further said a total of 40 farmer leaders of the “United Farmers Front” are observing the hunger strike.Also Read | Farmers begin day-long hunger strike as protest against farm laws intensifies“We want to wake the government up. So, 40 farmer leaders of our United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike today at all borders between 8am-5pm. 25 of them will sit at the Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border and five at UP border,” Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Punjab) told news agency ANI. We want to wake the govt up. So, 40 farmer leaders of our United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike today at all borders points between 8 am-5 pm. 25 of them will sit at Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border & 5 at UP border: Harinder Singh Lakhowal, General Secy, BKU (Punjab) pic.twitter.com/khQ9VNMC1OMonday marks day 19 of the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws and will also witness Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and workers of his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) observe a hunger strike in solidarity with the protesting farmers. Last Tuesday, the farmers had observed a peaceful Bharat Bandh against the legislations. On Friday, toll plazas across the country were made free by the farmers while on Sunday, farmers moving towards the national capital from Rajasthan sat down on the Delhi-Jaipur highway after being blocked by the police.Farmers have been protesting against what they call the three “black laws” since September, the month these were passed. Initially, they blocked railway tracks in Punjab and have been protesting on the borders of Delhi since November 26. The protesters say they want nothing short of a repeal and have repeatedly warned of “being prepared for the long haul.”Total five rounds of talks have taken place between the government and farm union leaders, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5. The sixth round of talks, scheduled for December 9, were called off after an “informal” meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and farm union leaders, which took place the night before, remained inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-wake-government-up-says-farm-union-leader-as-day-long-fast-against-farm-laws-begins/story-KXZK1aw8X1CRsjjsVGrcPL.html
14-12-2020||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to fast in support of farmers today||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a one-day fast on Monday in support of the farmers protesting against the farm laws in the national capital. The CM also urged the members and supporters of his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to join him.“I request all party (AAP) supporters and people across the country to observe fast for a day tomorrow (Monday) in solidarity with protesting farmers. I shall be observing a day’s fast too… Let’s support our farmers from our homes. I understand that it is not possible for many of us to be physically present in the (state) border points where the protesting farmer groups have gathered,” the chief minister said in a press briefing on Monday.Also Read: Farmers to fast for a day, gathering at Singhu swellsKejriwal also demanded that the three contentious farm laws, implemented by the government in September, be rolled back and a new bill be introduced to ensure minimum support prices (MSP) for farmers.The Parliament passed the three laws - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 - amid large scale protests from the Opposition and farmer unions.Also Read: Key farmer leader favours talks, says ‘goalposts shifted’While the government claims the laws will remove the role of the middlemen, allowing the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country, farmers say they will take away the safety cushion of MSP and mandi system, due to which they will have to be at the mercy of corporate leaders.A meeting was held between agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash and Union home minister Amit Shah to solve the impasse that entered its 19th day on Monday. The farmers’ union leader said that they will sit on fast from 8am to 5pm on December 14 at Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-fast-in-support-of-farmers-today/story-IqVBIGUP0OOf17PoGGI06K.html
14-12-2020||India||Date for next round of talks with protesting farmers soon: Union minister||The government will soon call farmers’ leaders for the next round of talks to end the deadlock over the farm laws, Union minister Kailash Choudhary said on Sunday as agitators intensified their protest against the central legislation with road blockades and a plan for a one-day hunger strike on Monday. There have been five rounds of talks between the Centre and representatives of 40 farmers’ unions so far and they have remained inconclusive.The sixth round was cancelled after farmers’ leaders rejected the government’s draft proposal to amend certain provisions of the farm laws and declined to participate in the meeting. The government has made it clear that it is ready for discussion anytime. But the farmer unions have said they would come for talks only if the laws are repealed.“The meeting will be called soon. We are ready for discussion. But the date has not been finalised,” Chaudhary, the minister of state for agriculture, told PTI. “We have full confidence. In the next meeting, the issue will be resolved,” he said and added that the government will find “some solution” to end the impasse.Also Watch | Tomar meets Uttarakhand farmers; Shashi Tharoor joins protesting MPs Also read | Some just oppose, weaken the country: Tomar’s latest jab at oppn over farmers’ stirChaudhary said Union home minister Amit Shah and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who is leading negotiations with protesting farmers’ unions to break the deadlock over the farm laws, are holding discussions on the issue. Tomar had met Shah earlier in the day.Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The central government has said that the three farm laws will bring in major reforms in the agriculture sector, will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. Also read | Modi govt to deal sternly with ‘Tukde Tukde gang’, says Union law ministerHowever, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that they will pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system and do away with the mandis or agricultural markets, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.Leaders of farmers’ unions also said on Sunday that protests will be held in all district headquarters to press their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws even as more protesters headed for Delhi with a large group blocking the key Delhi-Jaipur national highway when it was stopped by police on Haryana-Rajasthan border.Farmers’ leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said while addressing a press conference at the Singhu border that they will observe the hunger strike at their respective places between 8am to 5pm on Monday. “Also, dharnas will be staged at all district headquarters across the country. The protest will go on as usual,” he told reporters.Also read | Tharoor joins protesting MPs in Delhi, says govt failed nation and farmers“There are groups that are ending protest and saying they are in favour of laws passed by the government. We want to clarify that they are not associated with us. They have been hand-in-glove with the government, they conspired to sabotage our protest. The government is hatching a conspiracy to derail the ongoing farmers’ protest,” Chaduni said, according to PTI.Also read: The politics of farm protests | HT EditorialDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he too will observe a day-long fast on Monday and appealed to the central government “to shun ego and scrap the legislation”.Earlier in the day, Union agriculture minister Tomar accused opposition parties of running a propaganda against the new farm laws and said these legislations “may cause difficulty for some in the short term” but will help farmers in the long run. Tomar made the comments while addressing a delegation of more than 100 farmers from Uttarakhand who extended their support to the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/date-for-next-round-of-talks-with-protesting-farmers-soon-union-minister/story-0DNnH2wNFOTwy3BkZZndqN.html
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) differs with other unions, not on hunger strike||Differences surfaced among farmer unions yet again on Monday after Punjab’s largest association, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), announced it would not be observing the day-long hunger strike against the contentious central farm laws. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said the decision was taken as the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, comprising 30 other farm organisations, did not consult it on the issue. “There is no plan to hold a hunger strike today or in the next few days,” said Kokrikalan, one of the key strategists of the union. “The joint forum kept our association out of the loop when 14 union leaders had an unscheduled meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah last week,” he said. “The joint forum (of farmer unions) is repeatedly not taking us on board before deciding on the course of the agitation. Our association is not bound by the programmes decided by other unions. Besides continuation of agitations at Tikri border in Delhi, activists of the Ugrahan faction are holding protest marches at the district headquarters in Punjab,” he said. Following the farmer unions’ call to protest outside offices of deputy commissioners, activists held dharnas in Sangrur and Barnala districts to oppose the farm laws. Women, under the banner of the BKU (Ugrahan), organised separate protests in both districts.RELEASE OF ACTIVISTS A DIVIDING FACTOR The Left-leaning Ugrahan group had observed Human Rights Day on December 10 in Delhi where the demand for the release of activists, including Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Sudha Bharadwaj, and Varavara Rao, was raised. The function was held at Tikri border, where hundreds of Ugrahan supporters have been camping since November 28. The joint forum of farmers has disassociated itself from the demand of the release of the controversial activists. However, the leadership of Ugrahan, which has a following in south Punjab, said all unions have the freedom to choose subjects to oppose or support. “The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha was duly conveyed that the issue of release of detained activists should be included as a joint demand of farmers. Leaders of other unions may have overlooked the demand for reasons known to them but the BKU (Ugrahan) firmly believes that these activists should be freed immediately. It has been on our charter of demands,” said Kokrikalan. NOT ON THE SAME PAGE SINCE THE BEGINNING In three weeks, Ugrahan has differed on various occasions with 30 other farm unions of Punjab on the course of the agitation. On November 26, all farmer unions, barring the BKU (Ugrahan), undertook the Dilli Chalo protest, forcibly entering Haryana from Punjab after breaking barricades. The next day, the Ugrahan faction blamed the joint forum for breaching the understanding reached by national farmer unions that activists will undertake indefinite dharnas wherever the authorities stop them. On November 25, Ugrahan had criticised the two-month-long rail blockade by farmer organisations, saying it was wrong as it had hit the industrial and agricultural interests of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-bku-ekta-ugrahan-differs-with-other-unions-not-on-hunger-strike/story-IkYeL5E6G4thZEOWIdsTiL.html
14-12-2020||India||Farmers begin day-long hunger strike as protest against farm laws intensifies||The farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Centre began their hunger strike at various border points near Delhi. The farmer unions have also said that protests will also be held in other parts of the country.“We want to wake the government up. So, 40 farmer leaders of our United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike today at all borders points between 8 am-5 pm. Twenty five of them will sit at Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border and five at UP border,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union or BKU in Punjab.The protesters who are at the Ghazipur border in Delhi say they are prepared for the day-long fast. “When we take our sugarcane trolleys to mills, it happens that we skip meals for 24 hours. We are prepared for fast,” news agency ANI quoted a farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri as saying.The protest has been going on for nearly 20 days, with the farmer demanding the repeal of the three laws passed by Parliament in September. On Sunday, the protests continued across Delhi borders with more farmers joining the stir at Singhu (Haryana border).The protesters have been shouting slogans against the government, singing songs, taking out marches with posters and banners, and attending speeches delivered from the stage.One farmer even celebrated the first birthday of his daughter by cutting cakes with fellow demonstrators at Tikri border on Sunday. The farmers decorated the protest site with colourful balloons and posters, wishing the little girl a very happy birthday. The poster also displays a picture of the girl with her family.“My daughter is celebrating back home with her mother and our relatives. When we left our homes, we had vowed not to return before our victory. I am fighting for my daughter’s generation and to secure their land rights,” said the farmer Jagat Singh.The government has so far held five rounds of talks with farmers’ organisations including a meeting called by Union home minister Amit Shah offering changes to the laws and written assurances but the stalemate has been continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-begin-day-long-hunger-strike-as-protest-against-farm-laws-intensifies/story-ShnAQFiqKDNzRLUOvgjgLP.html
