16-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India slips a spot in UN’s human development index and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India slips a spot in UN’s human development index, ranks at 131 nowDropping a spot further from its previous position, India on Wednesday ranked 131 among 189 countries in the 2020 human development index, according to a report released by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Read more‘Tolerating it is also sin’: Haryana priest dies by suicide amid farmers’ stir, leaves noteBaba Ram Singh, a priest from Haryana, shot himself on Wednesday at a site of the ongoing protests by the farmers. In a hand-written note, he expressed his pain over the ongoing protest of the farmers against the three laws passed by Parliament in September. Read more With positivity rate on decline in Delhi, Covid-19 testing unlikely to be scaled upWith the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – dipping below 2 per cent, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain indicated on Wednesday that the city is unlikely to scale up testing. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh blasts Kangana Ranaut for claiming he disappeared after inciting farmers, says ‘have some shame’Diljit Dosanjh fired back at Kangana Ranaut after she claimed that he disappeared after tweeting in support of the farmers protesting against the new farm bills. He also questioned who made her the authority to decide who is a patriot and who is an anti-national. Read morePUBG Mobile India latest update: Game is not coming back by New YearPUBG Mobile fans who are waiting for the battle royale to make a comeback, we have some bad news for you. According to a report from InsideSport, the PUBG Mobile India game is not coming back even by New Year. Read moreMan climbs onto wing of airplane taxiing for take-off in Las Vegas airport. WatchIn a bizarre incident, a man climbed onto the wing of an airline taxiing for takeoff in a Las Vegas airport on Saturday, December 12. Several clips of the incident have now surfaced on the Internet. Chances are that the incident will leave you surprised. Read more‘PM Modi is a master at political messaging’: Sanjay Jha on Congress’ mistakesSuspended Congress leader spoke about his upcoming book ‘The Great Unravelling: India After 2014’ during an exclusive interview with Hindustan Times’ Aditi Prasad. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-slips-a-spot-in-un-s-human-development-index-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6MNjwXOXDUgGzY2zWEjvtJ.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Tolerating is also sin’: Haryana priest dies by suicide amid farmers’ stir, leaves note||Baba Ram Singh, a priest from Haryana, shot himself on Wednesday at a site of the ongoing protests by the farmers. In a hand-written note, the 65-year-old expressed his pain over the protest against the three laws passed by Parliament in September. In his note, he said he felt a lot of pain for the farmers as the government is not giving them justice. It is a sin to oppress and continues to be oppressed, he wrote in his note.The note is being verified by police, reported PTI.“Farmers are in pain. They are protesting on roads for their rights, which is a cause of extreme pain. Government is not giving justice, which is cruelty. It is a sin to endure persecution and also a sin to oppress. Some have stood for the farmer rights and against the cruelty. People have returned their awards to show protest. I am committing suicide against the cruelty of the government. This is voice against the cruelty and voice in favour of the farmers,” he wrote in the note.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal condoled his death. “The news of Sant Baba Ram Singh Ji’s suicide is painful. I offer my condolences to his family in this hour of grief. Our farmers are asking for their rights. The government should listen to the voice of the farmers and all three black laws should be withdrawn,” Kejriwal tweeted.The protest entered its 21st day on Wednesday with the Supreme Court intervening in the deadlock situation. Hearing a public interest litigation, the apex court indicated at forming a panel with representatives of the Centre, agitating farmers and farmers from other states as well to come up with a speedy resolution of the situation. The Centre has welcomed the suggestion of setting up a new panel while farmers have said it won’t offer any way out as they want complete withdrawal of the laws. “Government is continuously speaking with farmers. Yes or no is not the end of any agitation...Govt is willing to give in writing that we’ll continue to buy at MSP. Farmers can sell produce inside as well as outside APMC markets,” agriculture minister of state Kailash Choudhary said.According to reports, several farmers have died during the ongoing protest which began on November 26. The reason has mostly been the cold wave condition. Recently, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi quoted a news report and claimed 11 farmers had died in 17 days. The number has now gone up as two road accidents also claimed the lives of four farmers from Punjab. On Wednesday, hundreds of women, including many widows of farmers who were believed to have killed themselves over debt, joined the protest site at Tikri border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tolerating-it-is-also-sin-haryana-priest-dies-by-suicide-amid-farmers-stir-leaves-note/story-SaseWNO4m86hIygzb9IUsO.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: What Supreme Court and Centre said on solution||The 21st day of the farmers’ ongoing protest demanding the repeal of the farm laws saw crucial development as the Supreme Court has now intervened. While the protesters are determined that talks with the Centre will proceed further only when the Centre agrees to withdraw the laws, the Centre too continued its stance that protesting farmers are misled.Here is what happened in the day: The Supreme Court on Wednesday indicated that it may form a committee to resolve the deadlock. > The Supreme Court noted that the issue of road blockade may soon become a national issue.> It also noted that Centre’s negotiations have not worked properly and is bound to fail.Also Read: SC issues notice on pleas to open Delhi’s borders blocked by petitioners, allows farmer organisations to be added; hearing tomorrow> The new committee will have members from farmer organisations and representatives of the government. Members from other farmer organisations — from rest of India — will also be part of it.> When the road blockade by the farmers was compared with that of Shaheen Bagh, the apex court said there can’t be any precedent in a matter of law and order situation.What the Centre said> The Centre on being asked the name of the unions which are blocking roads said it can tell the names of the organisations which are engaged in talks with the Centre.> The government will not do anything which is against the interest of farmers, the law officer said during the hearing.> Union commerce minister of state Som Prakash welcomed the decision of the apex court and said the Centre wants to resolve farmers’ issue quickly. “Farmers and government will express their views in the committee which is good. Whatever final decision SC takes tomorrow on the issue, we will act accordingly,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-what-supreme-court-and-centre-said-on-solution/story-GiNp1pUmQsdwvSebxkMtIN.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Tomar thanks Madhya Pradesh farmers for supporting farm laws||As the farmers’ protest in and around Delhi entered 21st day on Wednesday with no end of the stalemate in sight, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar praised the farmers of Madhya Pradesh for supporting the farm laws against which the farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh are agitating fearing corporatisation of farming.“When attempts are being made to mislead and agitate farmers of Punjab in one corner of the nation, you gathered in Rewa, Sagar, Gwalior, Ujjain and other places to support farm laws by Narendra Modi government. I thank all of you,” the minister said.The minister had earlier met farmers from states like Telangana, Maharashtra, Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Bihar who extended their support to the farm laws. Taking objection to Centre talking to other farm bodies over this contentious issue, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions on Wednesday write to the Centre asking it to stop the parallel talks. In a letter to Union Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said the Centre should also stop “defaming” the ongoing protests being held at several Delhi border points against the three farm laws.Representatives of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan) from Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and submitted a memorandum with suggestions on the laws and the Minimum Support Price. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan) has also decided to end for now its protest, which it was holding at district levels in Uttar Pradesh.Earlier this week, a delegation of over 100 farmers from Uttarakhand had also met Tomar. However, the main protesters at Delhi’s Singhu border are not ready to budge unless the Centre agrees to repeal the laws.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-tomar-thanks-madhya-pradesh-farmers-for-supporting-farm-laws/story-cubMMqbykqxqdOkByw0MrN.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: SC notices to Centre, Delhi on pleas seeking reopening of borders||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice on petitions demanding reopening of Delhi’s borders blocked by farmers agitating against the three farm laws passed by Parliament.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde called the issue “important” And issued notice to Centre and Delhi government. The court allowed the petitioners to include the farmer organisations which are striking to also be included as parties in the petition while posting the matter for hearing tomorrow.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the court that the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) is one of the organisations spearheading thr agitation. At the same time, he pointed out, “Other interests have also taken over this farmer protests.” Highlighting the steps the government was taking to negotiate with farmer groups, he said, there was no headway as farmers were not willing to sit across the table with the Union ministers. “The government is and was willing to engage in talks and discuss clause by clause but the organisations’ approach is, ‘will you repeal or not repeal’.”The bench said, “This will soon become a national issue. It doesn’t seem the government sitting with farmers will resolve the issue. We will form a committee to resolve the issue. It will have members from BKU, the Union Government and some farmer bodies from rest of India.”Mehta was open to this suggestion. While Delhi government represented by advocate Rahul Mehra submitted that the issue of farmers must be immediately resolved, the bench remarked, “Delhi has nothing to do with resolution of dispute. It’s between Centre and farmers.”The court also allowed the petitioners, Rishab Sharma, Reepak Kansal and GS Mani, to contact the solicitor general’s office and get the names of the farmer organisations blocking the road. The court noted, “We must have farmers before us to enable negotiation,” allowing the petitioners to join them as parties to their petitions. The court told Mehta, “These petitions appear to be ill-conceived. We don’t see any legal issue involved except right to free movement of citizens being affected under Article 19(1) (g). Only person which is at the spot is the Union which has blocked the farmers from entering the Capital.” The court asked him to prepare a framework of this committee and members to be included from the governmentThroughout the hearing, Mehta got messages from senior advocate Harish Salve who wished to address the court but was not allowed into the videoconferencing facility. His petition was not before the court. The court directed Salve’s petition to also be listed tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-sc-notices-to-centre-delhi-on-pleas-seeking-reopening-of-borders/story-smqBccUpU272QuxojADkTN.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Now, a library-cultural centre comes up at Singhu border||A group of young, working professionals, students, and farmers from Punjab and Haryana has set up a cultural space-cum-library at Singhu border to serve as a platform for artists as well as engage with the street children around the area amid the farmers’ protest.On Tuesday afternoon, a day after they set up the Sahitya Chaupal near the Kessel Grand Mall at the protest site, several children were huddled around a volunteer in the 30 x 30 feet enclosure, sketching. Few others were busy reading. At another enclosure, set up by the same group, children were doing basic arithmetic.“We saw these children moving around from one langar to another, collecting food, playing among themselves. So we thought we could engage them in drawing or just conduct regular activities for them,” said Sonu Chahal, who has pursued his postgraduate degree in music and hails from Manochahal village in the Tarn Taran district of Punjab.Also read | Farm unions slam Centre, say govt lacks sympathyChahal is among nearly a dozen organisers and around 40 volunteers who have set up the initiative. The larger enclosure, near the Kessel Grand Mall, was set up on Monday by Navdeep Singh -- the young farmer who became an internet sensation after turning off a water cannon during the agitation in Haryana last month.“There are a lot of young farmers who have gathered around the area and they speak their minds. So, we wanted to create a space for reading, discussion and engage the younger generation here in a constructive manner,” he said. When asked if he knew the organisers from earlier, Singh said, “No. Most of us came together on this protest site and only had one or two acquaintances here. Since we share the same idea, we’re all working on this project.”His friend and fellow organiser Gurinder Singh said, “We wanted to create literary chaupals (community space) where people could come, read, and have a dialogue on issues.” Singh, who hails from Patiala and has a postgraduate degree in business administration (MBA), said, “The titles present at the library include a biography on Fidel Castro in Punjabi, Paash’s poetry, books by writers like Arundhati Roy and Khushwant Singh as well as journalist Ravish Kumar.”The team has also created a WhatsApp group and has asked people to donate whatever books they want to so that those can also be added to the library. “We want our elderly protesters to have a space to read and rest and discuss, like we do back home,” said Singh, pointing towards a farmer who slept in the enclosure with a book by his side on Tuesday afternoon. The group will also be holding regular poetry and song sessions inviting artists, musicians, poets, and filmmakers to share their work.“From the looks of it, the protest will continue for a long time. The chaupal is an attempt to maintain discipline here and hold meaningful conversations among the young people,” said Dinesh Chaddha, a lawyer from Barwa village in Ropat.Several other makeshift libraries have been set up at the spot since the earlier days of the agitation. However, this is the first time a group of young professionals is bringing in diverse forms of art like music and poetry into the mix.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-now-a-library-cultural-centre-comes-up-at-singhu-border/story-KFOFpfF1CUcM4cfUDnpokO.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Days after reopening, Chilla border to be blocked today||Two days after protesting farmers cleared the blockade at Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) border, another faction of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) called BKU(A) on Tuesday announced that they will “completely block the Chilla border” on Wednesday to press their demands for repealing the three farm laws.BKU(A) national president Rishipal Ambawata said that they would block the road at 11am on Wednesday. “We will block the Chilla border again at 11am tomorrow [Wednesday] and press for our demands,” Ambawata said on Tuesday while addressing a press conference at the Singhu border.The announcement has prompted the police to revise their security arrangements at the border and plan the deployment of security and traffic personnel on alternate routes through which traffic between Delhi and Noida will be diverted if the blockade takes place.Also Read: Farm unions slam Centre, say govt lacks sympathy“We are coordinating with our counterparts in Uttar Pradesh (Noida) Police and discussing the matter. Our deployment at the border is still in place. If required, security arrangements will be beefed up and the traffic may be diverted onto alternative routes,” said joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar.The call for a complete blockade of the Chilla border came on a day when nearly 100 farmers in cars arrived from Noida and tried to march towards Delhi through the carriageway that had been cleared on Sunday morning.Security personnel from Delhi and Noida police immediately responded to the situation and blocked the road using iron barricades and deployment of personnel, leading to a traffic jam. However, senior police officers had a quick discussion with the farmers and convinced them not to block the traffic. After nearly 10 minutes, the barricades were removed and traffic was restored. The protesters parked their vehicles and sat on one portion of the road, which has been barricaded and dedicated to the protesting farmers.On Saturday night, farmers had cleared the Chilla border, citing inconvenience to commuters, but vehicular movement was restored on Sunday. Satish Tomar, in-charge of the IT cell of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), said “Police and senior officers requested us to clear the road... Our leaders took a decision, and keeping in mind the problems caused to the commuters and locals, we have cleared both the roads. We, along with police personnel, together removed the barricades and reopened the road.”On Tuesday, various farmers groups said they would intensify their agitation and would submit a written rejection of the government’s proposal. Jagjit Singh Dallewal, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), said that the farmers will negotiate with the government only when they talk about the repealing the laws instead of making amendments. “We are also making adequate arrangements for women protesters. As soon as that is done, they too will join the protest in huge numbers in the coming days,” he said.The number of farmers at Ghazipur border also saw an increase on Tuesday. The tractor-trolleys, trucks and four-wheelers have occupied 400-500 metres of the carriageway between Indirapuram and the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border. As many as 15 tents to serve free meals throughout the day have also been set up at the protest site.Hundreds of farmers were seen sitting on the blocked Delhi-Meerut carriageway (going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad) and listening to speeches by various farmer leaders criticising the central government for not scrapping the three farm laws and asserting that their protest will not end until the government accepted their demands.“The Uttar Pradesh government has been stopping farmers from proceeding to Delhi. Many representatives of farmers are under house arrest. We will not tolerate this. If the government continues harassing farmers, we will have no choice but to escalate our agitation to Lucknow and at local levels in Uttar Pradesh. If required, we may block the entire Delhi-Meerut Expressway again,” said Rajveer Singh Jadhon, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (UP unit).At the Singhu border, the death of four farmers in two separate road accidents in dominated the speeches from the stage. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said his government would provide assistance to the families of the deceased farmers.Farmers also objected to the allegations of being misled by Opposition leaders or the protests being hijacked by other groups. Teja Singh, 70, a farmer from Nabha in Patiala district, said, “The government thinks of us as fools. The talks will just serve as an excuse for them to trick us into believing that the new farm laws are for our own good. But that is not the case. We know that these laws will cost us our land eventually, and that is why we are protesting here. Nobody is guiding us. The farmers know the impact these laws can have on us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-announce-complete-blockade-of-chilla-border-on-wednesday/story-0JZxK8cI2gwmrhbAJm3FjP.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers, govt standoff continues as talks in limbo on day 21: All you need to know||In a grim standoff with government, thousands of farmers have continued their protest against three contentious farm laws for three weeks now even as northern India stares at a cold wave. On Wednesday, the protesting farmers said constituting a new panel to break the stalemate on the three new agri laws is not a solution as they want a complete withdrawal of the legislations. Government should have formed a committee of farmers and others before the laws were enacted by Parliament, the union said. Here are the key developments from day 21 of the protest:- Unable to bear ‘farmers’ plight’, Sikh cleric shoots himself deadA Sikh preacher supporting the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture laws allegedly committed suicide near the Singhu border in Delhi on Wednesday, police said. A handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by the deceased, says he was unable to bear the “pain of farmers”.The note is being verified by police.- Supreme Court seeks Centre’s reply on pleas seeking removal of protesting farmers from Delhi bordersThe Supreme Court Wednesday issued a notice to the Centre and others on a batch of petitions seeking removal of farmers camping at several roads near Delhi borders in protest against the three new agri laws.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde, and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also indicated that the court may form a committee having representatives of the government and the farmer unions across the country to resolve the deadlock over the legislations.- Stop holding parallel talks with other farmer bodies: Protesting farmer unions to govtAn umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting against the new agri laws wrote to the Centre on Wednesday, asking it to stop holding “parallel talks” with other farmer bodies over the contentious legislations.In a letter to Union Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the Morcha said the Centre should also stop “defaming” the ongoing protests being held at several Delhi border points against the three farm laws.- Centre being “stubborn” in face of farmers’ agitation: Delhi ministerThe Centre should give up its “ego” and “stubbornness” and accept the demands of farmers who are protesting against the new farm laws at Delhi’s borders despite the biting cold, the city’s Development minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday.Rai, also convener of the Delhi unit of the AAP, said the Arvind Kejriwal-led government and his party stand firmly with the farmers and have been making certain arrangements for them during their protest.- Security beefed up at Chilla borderSecurity arrangements were tightened at the Chilla border between Delhi and Noida on Wednesday as farmer union leaders have threatened to completely block the key border point to press for repeal of the Centre’s new farm laws.A senior police officer said elaborate security measures are already in place at the Chilla border. Multi-layered barricades, jersey barriers and additional security personnel have been deployed to ensure law and order.- Puri appeals to protesting farmers to resume talks with CentreUnion minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday appealed to protesting farmers to resume talks with the central government to discuss their “genuine” demands, saying this is not the time to remain “adamant”.“We are ready to hold talks with them (farmers) to discuss their genuine demands. We are ready to find a solution of this problem, but it is necessary that the farmer brothers join the talks again and put forth their points face to face,” he said.- Farm laws row can be solved in 5 minutes if PM steps in: Sanjay RautThe issues flagged by agitating farmers can be solved in five minutes if Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself steps in, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday. Raut said the BJP-led NDA government should have a dialogue with the farmers who are protesting for the last 21 days outside Delhi demanding scrapping of the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws.- Farmers’ protest a planned conspiracy by Opposition: Gujarat BJP chiefBJP’s Gujarat unit president C R Paatil on Wednesday alleged that the ongoing agitation by farmers on the Delhi borders was a planned conspiracy by the opposition parties to create anarchy in the country and to destabilise it.Paatil, a BJP MP from Navsari Lok Sabha constituency in Gujarat, said Congress was in favour of these farm sector reforms when it was in power before 2014.- At Tikri boder, widows, sisters, mothers of farmers join protestSeveral family members, including widows, mothers and sisters, of Punjab farmers who committed suicide due to rising debt, joined the protesters at Tikri border on Wednesday.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting near various border points of Delhi, including Singhu and Tikri, for over a fortnight demanding that the Centre repeal three new farm laws.- Modi govt continuously working for farmers’ benefits: Amit ShahUnion Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government is continuously working for the interests of the country’s farmers. In a tweet in Hindi, he said the Modi government has taken another major decision and approved an assistance of Rs 3,500 crore for sugarcane farmers.Shah expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Prime Minister Modi for this decision, which will benefit five crore sugarcane farmers, their families and five lakh workers associated with the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-govt-standoff-continues-as-talks-in-limbo-on-day-21-all-you-need-to-know/story-Ua5XaX3TCf1wQhuCFu9xYI.html
