17-12-2020||India||‘No political party appreciates me,’ tweets Kangana, explains why||Calling herself a vote-repellant, as told by her well-wishers, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Thursday took to Twitter and said she is not a favourite of any political party. Though there have been rumours — fuelled after her recent tiff with the Shiv Sena — that the actor may join the BJP, Kangana earlier clarified that she harbours no political ambition. The ongoing farmers’ protest has again brought the actor in news, apart from her movies, after she got engaged in a Twitter spat with singer Diljit Dosanjh over the farmers’ protest. I have been honest about the film industry so most of them are against me, I opposed reservations most Hindus hate me, during Manikarnika’s release I fought with Karni Sena so Rajputs threatened me as well, I oppose Islamists many Muslims hate me, I fought with Khalistanis... 1/2 pic.twitter.com/2Eu4RENQWm“I fought with Khalistanis. so now most Sikhs are against me,” Kangana wrote referring to her recent comments on the farmers’ protest. “...my well wishers tell me no political party likes a vote repellent like me, so clearly no political party appreciates me,” she said explaining. But she said she is appreciated in the world of her conscience.“I have been honest about the film industry so most of them are against me, I opposed reservations, most Hindus hate me, during Manikarnika’s release I fought with Karni Sena so Rajputs threatened me as well, I oppose Islamists, many Muslims hate me,” she wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-political-party-appreciates-me-tweets-kangana-explains-why/story-keIRwSzLXkPXBsMo0XE9fK.html
17-12-2020||India||Consultation with Supreme Court lawyers, panchayat: What farmers are planning now||As the Supreme Court on Thursday commented on the ongoing protests of the farmers at several border points of the Capital, and said it won’t interfere in the protest at this stage, the farmers’ unions which are spearheading the protests have decided that further course of action will be taken only after a proper and thorough consultation.Here are the latest developments> Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said discussion will be held with panchayat.> Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh national coordinator KV Biju said his union has decided to consult four senior Supreme Court lawyers — Prashant Bhushan, Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka and Colin Gonsalves.> The protest will go on as planned as the Supreme Court on Thursday said the protest should be allowed as long as it is peaceful and there is no damage.> The Supreme Court was hearing a PIL filed against the huge gathering of the farmers.> Advocate General of India KK Venugopal, during the hearing, raised the Covid-19 threat issue as none of the protesters is wearing the mask, the AG said.> There was no representation from the farmers’ side — both on Thursday and Friday.> On Thursday, one of the farmers’ unions said setting up a new committee will not result in a breakthrough as the farmers want consultation only on the condition of withdrawing the laws.On Thursday, a 38-year-old farmer from Punjab was found dead at a protest site near the Tikri border. Around 20 farmers, many of them are from Punjab, have so far died either of natural causes or in road accidents, a BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consultation-with-supreme-court-lawyers-panchayat-what-farmers-are-planning-now/story-OJDz9SrOh884x8Rs9Qk65J.html
17-12-2020||India||Won’t interfere with farmers’ protest at this stage, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it won’t interfere with the farmers’ protest at this stage that has been going on at several border points of Delhi for the last three weeks. The protest should be allowed to continue without impediment, it said. “We are of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment and without any breach of peace either by the protesters or the police,” the bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said.On December 16, when the public interest litigation was taken up by the Supreme Court bench, the bench wanted to hear the agitating farmers. However, one of the impleaded respondents-farmers’ associations appeared on Thursday.“The preliminary issue before this court is the claim of the citizen who are the residents of NCT of Delhi/Haryana, having a population of more than two million people, that the manner in which the protest is being carried on is seriously inhibiting the supply of essential goods to the city because of restrictions on the free movement of goods vehicles,” the apex court said.“We clarify that this Court will not interfere with the protest in question. Indeed the right to protest is part of a fundamental right and can as a matter of fact, be exercised subject to public order,” it said.As long as the protest is non-violent and does not result in damage to the life and properties of other citizens and is in accordance with law, there can be no impediment in farmers exercising their rights to protest, the court observed. On finding a way out, the top court mentioned a committee of experts in its order. But this may not be possible without hearing all the necessary parties, it observed. “Till the parties come before us, it would be advisable to obtain suggestions about the constitution of the said committee from all the parties which may be submitted on the date of next hearing,” it said.“List these matters after the ensuing winter vacation with liberty to move the vacation Bench if necessary, after service is complete,” the order said.During the hearing, the court asked Advocate General of India KK Venugopal whether the farm laws can be put on hold as long as the court is hearing the case.When the AG pointed out that if the laws are not implemented, then farmers will not come for further talks, the court said the move is to ensure that the farmers are open to further talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-interfere-with-farmers-protest-at-this-stage-says-sc/story-CZyhbmHjbbJBo5DcN9ZNKO.html
17-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address Madhya Pradesh farmers via video-conferencing on December 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address a conference of Madhya Pradesh farmers on Friday at around 2pm as Rs 1,660 crore will be transferred to the accounts of 35 lakh farmers by the state government. The CMO has confirmed that Modi will be addressing the farmers. This comes at a time when farmers belonging to primarily Punjab and Haryana are up in arms against the three agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September. The protest has been going on for the last three weeks calling for the intervention of the Supreme Court. 18 दिसंबर को प्रदेश भर में होने वाले किसान सम्मेलनों को प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंस के माध्यम से संबोधित करेंगे। प्रधानमंत्री श्री मोदी दोपहर 2 बजे किसानों को संबोधित करेंगे।Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday thanked Madhya Pradesh farmers for supporting the farm laws. • 35 लाख से अधिक किसानों को सम्मेलन में मिलेगी 1600 करोड़ की राहत राशि• पीएम श्री @narendramodi करेंगे संबोधित• सीएम श्री @ChouhanShivraj रायसेन से होंगे शामिल • नए कृषि कानूनों के किसान हितैषी प्रावधानों से करायेंगे अवगतRM:https://t.co/KtqBa6Oiah#CMMadhyaPradesh https://t.co/Ymd2KnV5CaAt tomorrow’s event, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan will also distribute relief amount for crop loss among farmers, his office has confirmed.That there will be a discussion on the new farm laws has also been mentioned by Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s office. Farmers will be made aware of the farmer-friendly provisions of the new agriculture laws in the programme, the CMO has said.The mega event is being organised in four levels — gram panchayat, block, district and state. The chief minister will address the state-level programme where about 20,000 farmers will also be present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-madhya-pradesh-farmers-via-video-conferencing-on-december-18/story-ckf4j6c1FutmZnzWbh97IM.html
17-12-2020||India||Delhi HC rejects PIL seeking medical facilities for farmers protesting at borders||The Delhi high court on Thursday refused to entertain a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought medical and health facilities at borders with Delhi where the farmers have been protesting against the new farm laws. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan said the matter is already pending with the Supreme Court, which is looking into the larger issue. It also said that the petitioner, a lawyer, Ashish, could have filed the petition at the Punjab and Haryana high court rather than coming here.“We are not the central govt. Where are they protesting? Outside Delhi? Is this publicity interest or public interest?,” the bench said. The court also said that since the protests are being held at the borders, it does not have jurisdiction. It said the same plea could have been filed before the Punjab and Haryana HC which could have adjudicated it.The plea filed through advocate Rohit Jha contends that under the present circumstances the agitation may take the face of “violent riots” at any point of time. It said that ‘unavoidable situations’ have been witnessed between the farmers and police authorities while the former has been agitating against the newly passed farms laws.The plea said that the farmers gathered at various borders of Delhi are at a high risk of getting infected from Covid-19 as there is no adherence to social distancing and most of the protestors are spotted without facemasks, which shows they are least aware about their own safety in the present situation of Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: Crucial meeting at BJP headquarters on farmers’ issue; Ready to talk only if Centre calls, says TikaitThe petition argued that it was likely to turn the situation in Delhi critical if a large number of protestors get infected, thereby increasing the chance of a mass spread of the disease in the capital.“That the farmers who are protesting at various borders of the NCT Delhi are vulnerable to various kinds of diseases and are a threat to the women, children and aged protesters,” the plea said.The plea further argues that “it is a possibility that the violent anti-national groups may see a good opportunity to convert the peaceful protests by the farmers into violent riots and create communal tension among people. The protesting farmers who are already de-motivated by the utter negligence of the Union of India may act violently due to the inducement and abetment by the bad elements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-rejects-pil-seeking-medical-facilities-for-farmers-protesting-at-borders/story-sqI57PYLVxeF36A0olKT7H.html
17-12-2020||India||Amit Shah, Tomar, Piyush Goyal attend crucial meeting on farm issues at BJP headquarters||As the Supreme Court on Thursday heard the issue of the ongoing protest of the farmers and made some suggestions to untangle the present deadlock, the protesting unions of the farmers remained stern on their demand to withdraw the laws first. A crucial meeting is being held at the BJP headquarters to discuss the farmers’ issues with party general secretaries. The meeting is to be attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, commerce minister Piyush Goyal. Agreeing to what Supreme Court pointed out that the issue must be resolved soon, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said the future course of action will be taken after discussion with panchayat. As the apex court noted that the farmers have rights to protest but not blocking a city, Tikait said that the protesters have not blocked roads. The barricades have been put up by police, he said. “Supreme Court is right that the issue should be resolved soon. We’ll go if we’re called. Government wants amendments, while we want them to take back the laws,” Tikait said. The Supreme Court on Thursday noted that farmers have rights to protest but sitting on roads will not bring about any solution. A panel for mediation is likely to be set up with representations of farmers and the Centre. Experts like P Sainath can also be members of the panel. As the panel gets formed and starts working, the farmers can continue their protests, the Supreme Court bench, led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, said. It also asked attorney general of India KK Venugopal whether the government can commit to not implement to laws as long as the hearing on the case is going on. The AG said if the laws are not implemented, then farmers will not continue the talks to which the SC bench said the move is aimed at facilitating further talks. The AG sought some time to take direction from the government.Since the three bills were passed in Parliament in September, there have been five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmers. Three rounds of talks have been held in December after thousands of farmers started ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest rally on November 26. The protest has entered its 21st day on Thursday. No date for another round of meeting has been finalised yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crucial-meeting-at-bjp-headquarters-on-farmers-issue-ready-to-talk-only-if-centre-calls-says-tikait/story-WVJq8SS8uXrQieU5o3lk4N.html
17-12-2020||India||Can farm laws be put on hold for the time being, asks CJI Bobde | 10 points||A day after the Supreme Court rapped the Centre over the ongoing protests of farmers as the negotiations didn’t yield results, a bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde on Thursday asked the attorney general for India if the government can give a commitment that the far laws will not be implemented while the court if hearing the petitions.The Centre told the apex court that if the implementation of farm laws is put on hold, then farmers will not come forward for negotiations. When the bench told that this is to enable talks, the AG sought some time to get back on this issue.During the hearing, the Supreme Court bench made some significant observations regarding the ongoing protests, the plight of Indian farmers etc. The protesters, on the other hand, remained unfazed as the agitation against three farm laws remained unfazed.Here is how the hearing on Thursday proceeded:> Farmers have rights to protest, but the protest has to be non-violent, the bench observed.> The apex court wants to facilitate further talks between the farmers and the Centre, it said.> An impartial and independent panel is likely to be set up. Apart from farmers and government’s representations, experts like P Sainath are likely to find a place in the committee.> Meanwhile, the protest can go on, the bench said.> Attorney General KK Venugopal said the large gathering at various border points of Delhi increases the Covid-19 risks. “None of them (protesters) wears a face mask. They sit together in large numbers. Covid-19 is a concern. They will visit villages and spread it there. Farmers cannot violate the fundamental rights of others,” the AG said.> The Punjab government has no objection to the Supreme Court’s suggestion that a group of people will act as the facilitator between the Centre and the farmers, P Chidambaram, who represented the Punjab government, said. It is for farmers and the Centre to decide who will be the members of the committee, he said.> Sitting in protest won’t help, said CJI“Blocking Delhi may lead to people in the city going hungry. Your (farmers) purpose can be fulfilled by talking. Just sitting in protest won’t help,” the CJI said.> Sympathetic to farmers: CJI“We are also Indian, we are familiar with the plight of farmers and are sympathetic to their cause. You (farmers) have to only alter the way the protest is going. We will ensure you can plead your case and thus we are thinking of forming a committee,” the CJI said.> The CJI also asked the AG if the government can commit that the farm laws will not be implemented while the court is hearing the petitions and that no executive actions will be taken under the laws in order to facilitate the negotiations.> The AG said if the implementation is put on hold, then farmers will not agree to negotiation. The bench said that the suggestion is to facilitate negotiation and then the AG sought some time to get back on this point.Farmers are not a mob, the bench noted. “We are worried over plight of farmers and the way things are going,” the CJI said. On Thursday, no judgment was passed. The bench said it will order for serving of notices to protesting farmer unions and give them liberty to approach vacation bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-farm-laws-be-put-on-hold-for-the-time-being-asks-cji-what-happened-in-supreme-court-hearing-today/story-2tnNLGRLTYaun8951tWpaO.html
17-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh Congress to protest against fuel price hike, new farm laws on December 19||The opposition Congress in Madhya Pradesh will hold a statewide protest on Saturday against the rise in fuel prices and the Centre’s three new farm laws, state party spokesman Bhupendra Gupta said on Thursday.Talking to PTI, Gupta claimed the prices of fuel and cooking gas have hit the roof and that farmers across the country want the agri laws to be repealed.“We are going to demonstrate near the statues of Mahatma Gandhi in the state on December 19. Protests will be held at every district and block level,” he said.State Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath also hit out at the government.“Cooking (LPG) gas cylinders price has shot up by Rs 100 recently after the rates of petrol and diesel skyrocketed.There is no trace of (cooking gas) subsidy. This time around, a BJP government fuelling inflation has come,” Nath tweeted on Wednesday.Thousands of farmers have been camping at border points of Delhi since November 26 to protest against the three new farm laws enacted by the central government.On Wednesday, the Supreme Court observed that the Centre’s talks with the protesting farmers have “not worked apparently” and were bound to fail, and said it will form a committee having representatives of both the sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-congress-to-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-new-farm-laws-on-december-19/story-Ip63YK67WfWNXTKNsZGFYN.html
17-12-2020||India||38 year old farmer dies near Tikri border protest site, cause unknown||A 38-year-old farmer from Punjab was found dead at a protest site near the Tikri border on Thursday morning, police said. Jai Singh, a resident of Tungwali village in Bathinda district, and his brother had been part of the farmers’ protest at the Haryana-Delhi border against the Centre’s three farm laws for the last several days, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh.Jai Singh was found dead in the morning. The exact cause of the death can be ascertained after a post mortem, an official of the Bahadurgarh police in Haryana said.Singh’s brother suspected that he might have died of heart attack. The body was sent to the Bahadurgarh civil hospital in Jhajjar district, the official said.Shingara Singh demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a government job for the kin of the deceased.Around 20 farmers, many of them are from Punjab, have so far died either of natural causes or in road accidents, the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader said.The farmers have been camping at several border points into Delhi for three weeks, demanding that the new farm laws be repealed as they claim it would benefit the corporates and end the traditional wholesale markets and the minimum support price regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/38-year-old-farmer-dies-near-tikri-border-protest-site-cause-unknown/story-E5DRPZlyQnJfqc9qdVLfDO.html
17-12-2020||India||Farmers protest Updates: Farmers’ body FIFA meets Tomar; extends support for new farm laws||The Supreme Court will today hold a crucial hearing on a petition seeking removal of protesting farmers from Delhi border areas. The protest has been going on for the last 21 days, with the farmers demanding repeal of three farm laws passed by Parliament in September.The Supreme Court heard the case on Wednesday and gave a notice to the Centre. It also asked for the farmers’ organisations to be made party to the case.Several rounds of talks between the Centre and farm unions have reaped no resolution so far as the protesting farmers are adamant with their demand that the farm laws must be repealed. On December 9, a written proposal was also sent to the farm unions by the government regarding the laws which were rejected by the farmers.The protesting farmers have blocked various highways leading to the capital city and say that they have enough ration and other essential items with them to last for months.Follow live updates here:SC denies to interfere in farmers’ protest against new farm lawsSC says it will not interfere with the farmers protest against three farms laws. “We’re of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment & without any breach of peace either by the protesters or police,” its says, reports ANI.Tomar writes open letter to farmers, says ‘misunderstanding’ created regarding reforms Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar writes an open letter to farmers over the new farm laws. He writes, "Misunderstanding has been created among some farmers' unions regarding these laws". pic.twitter.com/KiNsW043RzMaharashtra cabinet panel for farm laws hold its first meetingA sub-committee of the Maharashtra cabinet, formed to study the contentious farm reforms of the Centre, met for the first time here on Thursday, reports PTI. BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi takes a jibe at Delhi CM for tearing farm laws, calls him new chameleonCentre’s three Farm laws were notified in Delhi Gazette on 23rd Nov. Now, they’re tearing copies of same act in Delhi Assembly after notifying. This is opportunistic politics. Delhi CM is the new chameleon, he can just change colours without qualms, said BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi on Delhi CM, reports ANI.SC must direct govt to hold farm laws, immediately call parliament session to repeal them: Farmers’ leaderSupreme Court must direct the govt to put these three laws on hold & to immediately call parliament session to repeal these laws. After that, a committee can be formed for other things like MSP, said Ashok Dhawale, All India Kisan Sabha, reports ANI. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tears Centre’s farm laws during state assembly session Delhi: Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal addresses a special session of Delhi Assembly called to discuss farmers' agitation."I want to ask Centre how many sacrifices farmers will have to make, to get their voices heard," he said. pic.twitter.com/49bANt4f6lShah, Tomar, Goyal reach party headquarters for meeting on farmers’ protest Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal reach BJP headquarters to attend a meeting with party general secretaries to discuss farmers’ agitation, reports ANI. Will discuss future action in Panchayat; will go if called by SC: Farmers union leaderWe’ll discuss future course of action in our Panchayat. We’ve not blocked roads, barricades have been put up by police. SC is right that issue should be resolved soon. We’ll go if we’re called. Govt wants amendments while we want them to take back Farm laws, says Rakesh Tikait, BKU, reports ANI. No tax on farmers wanting to sell produce outside market, says UP CM YogiPM & Union Agriculture Minister have ensured that the laws made for farmers’ development don’t allow anyone to capture their farmlands. No tax on farmers, who want to sell their produce outside the market. A provision to guarantee this is in progress: CM Yogi Adityanath, reports ANI. AAP MLA Mahendra Goyal tears copy of Centre’s farm laws during state assembly sessionDelhi: AAP MLA Mahendra Goyal tears copy of Centre's Farm Laws during a special Delhi assembly session called to discuss farmers' agitation. "I refuse to accept these black laws which are against farmers,' he said while tearing the copy. pic.twitter.com/o4OQqvH5zSSC asks Centre to explore possibility to put legislations on hold Farm laws: Supreme Court asks Centre to explore the possibility of putting legislations on hold.Supreme Court asks the Attorney General if the government can assure the Court that it will not take any executive action on implementation of the law till the court hears the matter pic.twitter.com/drdupu0fV3Protesting farmer dies near Tikri borderA 38-year-old farmer from Punjab was found dead at a protest site near the Tikri border on Thursday morning, police said, reports PTI.Alter the way of protesting, will ensure you can plead case: CJI on farm laws to farmers "We are also Indian, we're familiar with the plight of farmers and are sympathetic to their cause. You (farmers) have to only alter the way the protest is going. We will ensure you can plead your case & thus we are thinking of forming a committee," says CJI on farm laws matter pic.twitter.com/a8CIeYNaKFPurpose can be fulfilled by talking, just sitting in protest won’t help: CJI to farmersBlocking Delhi may lead to people in the city going hungry. Your (farmers) purpose can be fulfilled by talking. Just sitting in protest won’t help, says Chief Justice of India during a hearing on farm laws, reports ANI. CJI says farmers cannot continue to block a city while hearing petition seeking removal of protesters from Delhi border areas, reports ANI Farm laws matter in Supreme Court: The committee will give a finding which should be followed. The protest can go on in the meanwhile, says CJI https://t.co/GDRnwTdkICWill only decide on farmer protest and not validity of laws, says SCThe first and the only thing we will decide today is regarding the farmers' protest and the fundamental right of citizens to move. The question of the validity of laws can wait," says Supreme Court https://t.co/9m5r1M1dLfTraders confederation write to Tomar, Goyal as per SC directions to resolve farm laws impasseIn the wake of the directions given by SC yesterday regarding formation of a committee to resolve farmers’ bill impasse, we have written to Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal for giving due representation in the proposed panel said Confederation of All India Traders, reports ANI. Will discuss, take decisions when SC sends notice, says farmers’ leaderWe've not received any notice from SC. When we get a notice, all farmers' unions will hold a discussion&take a decision: MS Rai, Bhartiya Kisan Union, DoabaSC has allowed impleadment of 8 farmer unions as respondents in petitions seeking removal of protestors from Delhi borders pic.twitter.com/faL45lk7fR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-will-discuss-take-decisions-when-sc-sends-notice-says-farmers-leader/story-SpyBAq6WvQrvgK7aUUeGDK.html
17-12-2020||Bollywood||Diljit Dosanjh shuts down Kangana Ranaut’s rhetoric again, says ‘I don’t owe you any explanation, you’re obsessed with me’||Kangana Ranaut and Diljit Dosanjh’s Twitter feud reignited on Wednesday, when Kangana suggested that Diljit had ‘disappeared’ from the scene, after raising his voice in support of protesting farmers. Diljit has countered Kangana’s arguments on the Centre’s farm laws, and offered vocal support for those protesting against them at the Delhi border. Kangana, in a series of tweets, asked Diljit what precisely was his issue with the laws is. She wrote, “@diljitdosanjh ji I am simply asking what exactly you don’t like about the #FarmBills2020 ? For example I like the fact that now farmers can sell their produce any where in the country, just how you can earn money anywhere in the country, I also like the fact they can choose to skip the middle man and sell their products directly to corporates or consumers, everyone feels these are revolutionary steps taken by the government to help miserable condition of farmers in India,then why are you provoking protests? Please help me understand your POV.”ALSO WATCH | Farmer protest: Diljit Dosanjh visits Delhi border after Kangana Ranaut fight Diljit replied, “Vaise Tan Mainu Lagda Bai Tainu Samjhaiye Yaan Dasiye EH Zaruri Ni (I don’t think I owe you any explanation).. Tu Avi Na authority Bani Jaya Kar Har Gal Ch (stop pretending to be an authority on all matters). Changa (great).. Fer V Sara Din Tu Yaad Kardi rehni an Mainu Pata Lagga (still, you seem to be obsessed with me) .. Ah Ley Kadh Time Fer Sunn Kan Laa Ke (so here you go, take some time out and listen to this)..” Diljit shared a link to a news report on the issue, in Punjabi.  Vaise Tan Mainu Lagda Bai Tainu Samjhaiye Yaan Dasiye EH Zaruri Ni.. Tu Avi Na authority Bani Jaya Kar Har Gal Ch.. Changa.. Fer V Sara Din Tu Yaad Kardi rehni an Mainu Pata Lagga .. Ah Ley Kadh Time Fer Sunn Kan Laa Ke.. https://t.co/Jk9VQ5F55K https://t.co/dGLFa6FDWODiljit signed off with, “CHANGA Fer (alright then)... Saun Lagga.. Avi Na Disappeared Wali News Chala Deo (don’t spread reports that I’ve disappeared, I’m only going to sleep).. Subha Gal Karde an (we’ll talk in the morning) .. BABA SAB DA BHALA KAREY (may Baba bless you all).”Also Watch l Diljit Dosanjh vs Kangana Ranaut over farmer protest  On Wednesday, responding to a news article on Kangana’s tweet targeting him, Diljit tweeted in Punjabi, “Don’t even think that I have disappeared. Who gave her the authority to decide who is a patriot and who is an anti national? Who made her the authority? Have some shame before you label farmers as anti nationals.” Disappeared Wala Tan Bulekha Hee Kadh Deo..Naley Kon Desh Premi Te Kon Desh Virodhi Eh Decide Karn Da Hakk Ehnu Kiney De Ta ? Eh Kithey Di Authority aa ?Farmers Nu Desh Virodhi Kehn ton Paihlan Sharm Kar Lao Koi Maadi Moti.. https://t.co/4m4Ysgv7QhEarlier in the day, Kangana had tweeted a video which seemed to show that farmers are clueless about why they are protesting. She wrote in Hindi, “I want Diljit Dosanjh and Priyanka Chopra, who are acting as local revolutionaries for the farmers, to make at least one video explaining to the farmers what they have to protest about. Both of them have disappeared after inciting farmers. Look at the state of the farmers and the country!”“When famous celebrities instigate innocents, incite incidents like the Shaheen Bagh unrest and farmers’ protest, shouldn’t there be an investigation into them or a case filed against them? Is there no punishment for taking part in such anti-national activities?,” she added in another tweet.Kangana also targeted Priyanka Chopra, and wrote in a tweet that Diljit and she had instigated the protests, which she claimed to have cost Rs 70,000 crore. “Please tell me who will pay for this?” she had written. Also read: Diljit Dosanjh blasts Kangana Ranaut for claiming he disappeared after inciting farmers, says ‘have some shame’Diljit and Kangana’s Twitter spat began earlier this month, with him referring to a tweet posted by her on November 27, in which she wrongly identified an old woman at the ongoing farmers’ protest as Bilkis Bano, the face of the Shaheen Bagh protest. After claiming that Bilkis was ‘available (for hire) in 100 rupees’, Kangana deleted the erroneous tweet. However, Diljit criticised her for spreading misinformation.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/diljit-dosanjh-shuts-down-kangana-ranaut-s-rhetoric-again-says-i-don-t-owe-you-any-explanation-you-re-obsessed-with-me/story-cWEwMek6mJ2R7AdrJu7pjK.html
17-12-2020||India||Supreme Court steps in to resolve deadlock over farm laws: ‘Talks set to fail’||The Supreme Court stepped in on Wednesday to try and end the impasse between farmers’ unions and the Centre over the contentious new laws to open up trade in agriculture, observing that the protest will soon become a national issue and that recent events suggest government negotiations with the unions were “bound to fail again.”The organisation spearheading the protest said in its initial reaction that the court’s decision was moral victory for the farmers, but insisted that the laws should be repealed.Also Read| ‘Tolerating is also sin’: Haryana priest dies by suicide amid farmers’ stirA bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde will hold a joint hearing of the government and the farmers’ organisations on Thursday, indicating that the court will set up a committee of representatives of both sides to discuss and resolve the dispute.“It doesn’t seem the negotiations between the government and farmers will work,” the court said.The CJI-led bench is already seized of a clutch of petitions that have challenged the validity of the laws passed in September. These will also come up for hearing on Thursday. At least six factions of the BKU will be there at Thursday’s hearing. Permission was granted to implead major farm unions as respondents in the case, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU - Rajesh Tikait), BKU - Sidhupur (Jagjeet S. Dallewal), BKU - Rajewal (Balbeer Singh Rajewal), BKU - Lakhowal (Harinder Singh Lakhowal), and others.The three laws triggered a massive protest by farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, who have massed at the borders of Delhi since November 26. The laws allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate.The government has offered to amend the laws substantially; the farmers’ unions want nothing short of their repeal.“The SC’s order, in which it suggested a committee for negotiations, are a big moral victory for farmers. But talks will help only if they are about withdrawing the three laws,” said Avik Saha, secretary of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee, a large platform of farm unions spearheading the protests.The AIKSCC said the Prime Minister was misinforming the nation about the Acts not affecting farmers’ land, about minimum support prices and diverting attention from the real issues by invoking the bogey of “Opposition fooling farmers”.“The Movement in Delhi will continue till 3 Acts are withdrawn. Farmers always ready to explain their issues to either the court or government. We will come up with more detailed views after studying the SC order,” said Darshan Pal, another farmers’ leader.During the hearing on Wednesday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Union government, complained that “some other interests” have taken over the farmers’ protests and that the protestors’ representatives turn their chairs, showing their backs to the union ministers during the talks.“They come with placards, written ‘Yes or No’. The government was ready and is still ready to engage in talks with the farmers. But the problem is that their stand is either you repeal the laws or we don’t want to talk. I can submit that the government will not do anything which is against the interest of the farmers,” added the law officer.But the bench was not impressed. “What is the point of saying this when they perceive it to be against their interests? Your negotiations do not appear to work and are bound to fail again. What’s the point of saying something very good when it serves no purpose since the farmers are not before us (the court)?”The bench, which included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, pointed out that while the bunch three petitions were filed before it by lawyers with different kinds of prayers, no farmers’ union or representative is a party to the hearings.The court issued notices on the petitions but it underscored the need to give an audience to the farmers’ representatives for a suitable adjudication of the issues, which ranged from clearing the road blockades to directing the government to ensure the farmers’ demands are met.Responding, the SG said that he was aware that the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) was at the forefront of the protests and that his office would be sharing the contact details of their leaders so that they can be heard tomorrow.At this, the CJI told Mehta: “Tentatively, we will form a committee comprising representatives of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, the government, and other farmers’ organisation from other parts of India because this will soon become a national issue. So, we will have other organisations from other parts of the country too.”One of the petitioners cited the need to move the farmers to a designated spot and clear the roads in the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Shaheen Bagh case wherein it was held that public roads cannot be blocked indefinitely by protestors. The Shaheen Bagh protest was against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act .The bench, however, said no order can be passed without the court hearing the other side. “What were the number of people in Shaheen Bagh? How many blocked the road? Will the numbers not matter? Who will take the responsibility? There cannot be any precedent in a law-and-order situation,” it added.The Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra also appeared in the case. While he questioned the petitioners for filing half-baked public interest litigations (PILs), Mehra said that it was very important that some urgent steps are taken by the Centre given the fact that farmers have been compelled to protest in the open in a cold winter.At this, SG Mehta retorted: “Mr Mehra seems to be appearing for some union and not a government. Which union are you appearing for, Mr Mehra?” This triggered a sharp response from Mehra, who said he can also comment on why and for whom Mehta was appearing in the matter.The bench asked the two lawyers to refrain from personal comments and fixed the matter for a hearing on Thursday, pointing out the court will be on a winter break after Friday. Senior advocate Harish Salve is also expected to appear in this matter on Thursday for a new petition or application.Zia Haq in New Delhi contributed to this report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-steps-in-to-end-deadlock-over-farm-laws-talks-set-to-fail/story-6VYwXLRlFFkTgreR3juruN.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||Widows, mothers of farmers who died by suicide join stir at Delhi’s Tikri border||A 56-year-old woman whose farmer husband died by suicide five years ago; a 70-year-old who lost her daughter-in-law, the sole earner of the family, a decade ago; and a 60-year-old mother whose son consumed poison in 2010 were among the several people from farm families who joined the protest at Tikri border on Wednesday.Jasbeer Kaur, 56, a farmer from Kakarwal village of Sangrur district of Punjab, said her husband ended his life in 2015 after he failed to repay his farm debts. “Our lives had stopped the very day. We just could not ever overcome the loss. Things got more worse after that. We had to sell the two-acre land and my 16-year-old son is now working on someone else’s farmland. I still have to repay a loan of Rs4 lakh,” she said.Holding photographs of their loved ones, the women were seen raising slogans against the new farm laws at the Delhi-Haryana border in Tikri near a separate stage set up by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan).Hardeep Kaur, 70, a farmer from Ugrahan, said her daughter-in-law died by suicide a decade ago after she was trapped in farm debts. “She was the only earning member of our family. Both my husband and my son are bedridden. We had Rs6 lakh debt at that time and the produce from our less than two-acre land was not enough to repay that. Her death was like a storm we feel every day. The debt is still there and we have no means of repaying it,” she said.The women said they had decided to join the stir at Delhi’s borders because the three new farm laws will “lead to more farmers ending their lives”. To be sure, the suicide cases are not linked to the new farm laws, which were approved by Parliament in September. However, farmers’ suicides, a long-standing issue in India, have been linked to farmers’ indebtedness, poor crop prices and price volatility. A Reserve Bank of India (RBI) study in 2019 warned that farmers were taking on more agricultural loans than is required to meet cultivation costs based on prevailing prices.As many as 10,281 agriculturists (5,957 cultivators and 4,324 farm labourers) died by suicide in 2019, accounting for 7.5% of total suicides in the country, according to official data.Sarjeet Kaur (60), said her 28-year-old son died by suicide in 2010 as he could not repay the debt of ₹10 lakh. “He was our only son. We are still under huge debt despite selling our three-acre land. Both my husband and I work on our neighbour’s farmland. Now, these new farm laws will further reduce the income of farmers and will force more farmers to meet a fate like my son’s. We do not want anyone to go through what we have faced,” she said.The protesting women said that debt has increased over the years. Mahinder Kaur, 55, whose husband died by suicide in 2015, said, “He ended his life because he could not repay a loan of ₹5 lakh. Now, that loan has increased to ₹15 lakh. I can’t end my life and leave my children alone. We are also here to ask the government to either give us compensation or waive our debts. This debt-ridden life is a slow death.”Harpreet Kaur, president of BKU (Ugrahan) women’s wing, said, “We had requested these women to join the stir to make the government understand that farmers have been struggling for years due to anti-farmer policies. The new farm laws will make the situation worse for them and trigger more suicides.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-widows-mothers-of-farmers-who-died-by-suicide-join-stir-at-tikri/story-iTZsmlr1pqWVVn722NZlVI.html
17-12-2020||India||Farm unions urge Centre to stop ‘parallel negotiations’||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading the protests against three agricultural laws, has asked the government not to hold parallel negotiations with farmers and stop vilifying farmers as anti-national elements. In a letter to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, the group said: “Please don’t hold parallel negotiations. We have already said that your proposals for amendments are not acceptable to us.”The letter also asked the government not to spread misleading information. “The government is open to talking to all kinds of farmers, including those on protest. Discussion and dialogue is the only way for a solution,” farm minister Tomar had said on Tuesday after meeting a group of farmers. The government has so far met four delegations of farmers who say they support the farm laws. “Yesterday, the PM made a wrong claim that milk production has been promoted by non-government private sector, while it is the government- aided cooperative sector which has helped milk farmers, and later the entry of the private sector stressed the milk sector,” said Avik Saha, a leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.A massive farmers’ rebellion was set off by the three laws pushed by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.“PM {Narendra} Modi’s document Putting Farmers First says that the laws “open up avenues for agribusiness” and it is the corporates and MNCs who these laws and government is helping, not the farmers,” the letter said. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Farmers decided to call off negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. The government on December 9 sent a written proposal to amend some provisions of the laws for greater oversight on deregulated markets, sparing farmers from penalties for stubble burning, which causes pollution, and promising to keep providing farmers subsidised power instead of direct cash transfers, but farm unions say they will not call off their protest until the laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-urge-centre-to-stop-parallel-negotiations/story-6nRETSos4fzJkfB4OrgHEO.html
17-12-2020||India||Farmer unions to consult top lawyers including Prashant Bhushan on SC proceedings||The agitating farmer unions at the Delhi borders on Thursday said that they will consult lawyers on the ongoing proceedings of the Supreme Court related to their protests against three farm laws before taking any decision. Addressing a press conference on Singhu border on Thursday evening, farmers leader and coordinator of Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh KV Biju said, “All farmer unions had a meeting today and we have decided that we will consult four Supreme Court lawyers - Prashant Bhushan, Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka and Colin Gonsalves - about the ongoing proceedings in the Supreme Court… We will neither comment on the matter nor announce any decision without consulting these lawyers.”The Supreme Court stepped in on Wednesday to try and end the impasse between farmers’ unions and the Centre over the contentious new laws to open up trade in agriculture, observing that the protest will soon become a national issue and that recent events suggest government negotiations with the unions were “bound to fail again.” A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde on Thursday asked the attorney general for India if the government can commit that the farm laws will not be implemented while the court is hearing the petitions filed against the ongoing protest.Also read: Second setback: Jitendra Tiwari quits TMC ahead of Amit Shah’s visit; may join BJPThe farmer leaders said that they have not received any notice from the apex court so far. “We have only got to know what is happening in the Supreme Court through the media. We have not received any notice or communication as of now. We will take a legal decision only after consulting these four lawyers,” said another farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal.The agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered the 22nd day on Thursday. Meanwhile, Senior advocate and the president of the Supreme Court bar association Dushyant Dave said that he had offered free legal advice to the farmers on all issues. “If they have decided to take my help it is a privilege and honour for me. After all, for this country ‘Jai Jawaan, Jai Kisan’ means the most. It’s my duty as the lawyer of the Supreme Court to help them as much as I can… I will be happy to appear for them in the Supreme Court if they ask me.”Senior advocate HS Phoolka also confirmed that the farmer leaders had consulted him and the other three lawyers on the matter. Advocate Prashant Bhushan said that he will be offering legal advice to the farmer associations if they approach him.Advocate Colin Gonsalves said, “The discussion with farmers is in the very initial stage. We might be able to comment on it after a couple of days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-to-consult-top-lawyers-including-prashant-bhushan-on-sc-proceedings/story-4T9ccIDWVnBX3Gbf9mNgnI.html
17-12-2020||India||Kejriwal is ‘new chameleon’, says Meenakshi Lekhi after CM tore copies of farm bills||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi slammed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejirwal on Thursday for tearing the Centre’s three farm bills at the one-day session of the Delhi Assembly. Lekhi pointed out that the three farm laws had been published in the Delhi Gazette on November 23, and that they were tearing up the copies of the act after notifying. She called Kejriwal the ‘new chameleon’ who can ‘just change colours without qualms’.“Centre’s three farm laws were notified in Delhi Gazette on November 23. Now, they’re tearing copies of same act in Delhi Assembly after notifying. This is opportunistic politics. Delhi CM is the new chameleon, he can just change colours without qualms,” she said.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had torn up the copies of the three farm laws in the one-day session of the Delhi Assembly on Thursday as a protest against the controversial legislation. He accused the BJP of ensuring their poll funding through the laws rather than thinking of the welfare of the farmers. “What was the hurry to get the farm bills passed in Parliament during the pandemic? It has happened for the first time that three laws were passed without voting in Rajya Sabha, even when several members were opposing the move… In the last 6-7 years, the BJP has made elections so expensive. So, much of money is spent on elections (by political parties). These laws have not been passed for the farmers. These laws have been made to ensure election funding for the BJP,” he told the members of the house. The assembly had passed a resolution tabled by revenue minister Kailash Gahlot demanding that the Central government should repeal the laws immediately.The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convener also accused the nation’s ruling party of asking big party leaders to convince the farmers, saying that the farmers were not the ones that were misguided, but the BJP leaders and supporters. Kejriwal even urged the Centre to not be worse than the British. “How many sacrifices will the farmers have to make to get their voices heard? Today, the Delhi Assembly rejects all the three farm laws and appeals to the Central government to take back the legislations. I request the Centre not to be worse than the British,” he said. Scores of farmers have been protesting against the three controversial farm legislations brought by the Centre for days now and talks between representatives of both have resulted in stalemate. The Centre is willing to amend the laws but the majority of the protesting farmers want a complete roll back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-is-new-chameleon-says-meenakshi-lekhi-after-cm-tore-copies-of-farm-bills/story-xJtptKYR13A5lga7kUZbZM.html
17-12-2020||Delhi||‘Farm laws made to ensure poll funding for BJP’: Kejriwal’s sharp jibe at Centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the three farm laws are not meant for farmers but have been made to ensure election funding for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as he launched a scathing attack on the Centre.Kejriwal tore copies of the three farm laws during the House proceedings to mark his protest against the controversial legislation even as the assembly passed a resolution tabled by revenue minister Kailash Gahlot demanding that the Central government should repeal the laws immediately. Kejriwal was speaking at the one-day session of the Delhi Assembly.“What was the hurry to get the farm bills passed in Parliament during the pandemic? It has happened for the first time that three laws were passed without voting in Rajya Sabha, even when several members were opposing the move… In the last 6-7 years, the BJP has made elections so expensive. So, much of money is spent on elections (by political parties). These laws have not been passed for the farmers. These laws have been made to ensure election funding for the BJP,” Kejriwal told the members of the House. ALSO WATCH | ‘All parties have betrayed UP’: Kejriwal says AAP will contest 2022 state polls Urging the Central government to withdraw the farm laws, the chief minister said it has been 20 days since the farmers are protesting and each day at least one farmer is sacrificing his life in the agitation. “How many sacrifices will the farmers have to make to get their voices heard? Today, the Delhi Assembly rejects all the three farm laws and appeals to the Central government to take back the legislations. I request the Centre not to be worse than the British,” he said. Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), took a jibe at the BJP and said the national leadership is now asking big party leaders to convince all the farmers. “They (the BJP) have taught just one line to all their party leaders that the farmers will be able to sell their produce anywhere across the country. At least tell them where should the farmers sell? Big businessmen will buy produce at throwaway prices from farmers and sell it at high-rates in retail across the country which will lead to inflation. It is being said that the farmers are being misguided. Farmers are not being misguided. It is the BJP leaders and supporters who are being misguided,” he said. Kejriwal said that today each protesting farmer is a Bhagat Singh. “As part of BJP’s campaign to convince farmers, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath told farmers that these laws will benefit them as their land will not be taken away from them. How is that a benefit? The farmers already had their land. He said, mandis will not be finished. Again, how is that a benefit as that system already exists?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-made-to-ensure-poll-funding-for-bjp-kejriwal-s-sharp-jibe-at-centre/story-sLoKAeEwrUZXJMCFq7087J.html
17-12-2020||India||Can farm laws be put on hold for the time being, asks CJI Bobde | 10 points||A day after the Supreme Court rapped the Centre over the ongoing protests of farmers as the negotiations didn’t yield results, a bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde on Thursday asked the attorney general for India if the government can give a commitment that the far laws will not be implemented while the court if hearing the petitions.The Centre told the apex court that if the implementation of farm laws is put on hold, then farmers will not come forward for negotiations. When the bench told that this is to enable talks, the AG sought some time to get back on this issue.During the hearing, the Supreme Court bench made some significant observations regarding the ongoing protests, the plight of Indian farmers etc. The protesters, on the other hand, remained unfazed as the agitation against three farm laws remained unfazed.Here is how the hearing on Thursday proceeded:> Farmers have rights to protest, but the protest has to be non-violent, the bench observed.> The apex court wants to facilitate further talks between the farmers and the Centre, it said.> An impartial and independent panel is likely to be set up. Apart from farmers and government’s representations, experts like P Sainath are likely to find a place in the committee.> Meanwhile, the protest can go on, the bench said.> Attorney General KK Venugopal said the large gathering at various border points of Delhi increases the Covid-19 risks. “None of them (protesters) wears a face mask. They sit together in large numbers. Covid-19 is a concern. They will visit villages and spread it there. Farmers cannot violate the fundamental rights of others,” the AG said.> The Punjab government has no objection to the Supreme Court’s suggestion that a group of people will act as the facilitator between the Centre and the farmers, P Chidambaram, who represented the Punjab government, said. It is for farmers and the Centre to decide who will be the members of the committee, he said.> Sitting in protest won’t help, said CJI“Blocking Delhi may lead to people in the city going hungry. Your (farmers) purpose can be fulfilled by talking. Just sitting in protest won’t help,” the CJI said.> Sympathetic to farmers: CJI“We are also Indian, we are familiar with the plight of farmers and are sympathetic to their cause. You (farmers) have to only alter the way the protest is going. We will ensure you can plead your case and thus we are thinking of forming a committee,” the CJI said.> The CJI also asked the AG if the government can commit that the farm laws will not be implemented while the court is hearing the petitions and that no executive actions will be taken under the laws in order to facilitate the negotiations.> The AG said if the implementation is put on hold, then farmers will not agree to negotiation. The bench said that the suggestion is to facilitate negotiation and then the AG sought some time to get back on this point.Farmers are not a mob, the bench noted. “We are worried over plight of farmers and the way things are going,” the CJI said. On Thursday, no judgment was passed. The bench said it will order for serving of notices to protesting farmer unions and give them liberty to approach vacation bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-farm-laws-be-put-on-hold-for-the-time-being-asks-cji-what-happened-in-supreme-court-hearing-today/story-2tnNLGRLTYaun8951tWpaO.html
17-12-2020||India||38 year old farmer dies near Tikri border protest site, cause unknown||A 38-year-old farmer from Punjab was found dead at a protest site near the Tikri border on Thursday morning, police said. Jai Singh, a resident of Tungwali village in Bathinda district, and his brother had been part of the farmers’ protest at the Haryana-Delhi border against the Centre’s three farm laws for the last several days, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh.Jai Singh was found dead in the morning. The exact cause of the death can be ascertained after a post mortem, an official of the Bahadurgarh police in Haryana said.Singh’s brother suspected that he might have died of heart attack. The body was sent to the Bahadurgarh civil hospital in Jhajjar district, the official said.Shingara Singh demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a government job for the kin of the deceased.Around 20 farmers, many of them are from Punjab, have so far died either of natural causes or in road accidents, the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader said.The farmers have been camping at several border points into Delhi for three weeks, demanding that the new farm laws be repealed as they claim it would benefit the corporates and end the traditional wholesale markets and the minimum support price regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/38-year-old-farmer-dies-near-tikri-border-protest-site-cause-unknown/story-E5DRPZlyQnJfqc9qdVLfDO.html
17-12-2020||Bollywood||Sunny Deol gets Y-category security, after tweeting in favour of new farm laws: report||Actor and politician Sunny Deol has been given Y-category security by the Central government. The security upgrade comes days after he spoke in favour of the new but controversial farm laws.The new laws have provoked massive protests from farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana. Sunny had tweeted to say that the matter ought to remain between farmers and government but insisted some were trying to instigate trouble. He is a Member of Parliament from Gurdaspur in Punjab.The security upgrade will mean that he would now have 11 personnel, including two commandos and policemen, always with him, as per a report in NDTV.Tweeting on the contentious issue, Sunny had written: “I request the entire world that this matter remains between our farmers and the government. Do not interfere, because they will find a way after holding discussions. I know that many people want to take advantage of it and create problems. They are not thinking of the farmers and may have their own agenda.” pic.twitter.com/a9imr724lgThe farm protests has seen celebrities being divided on the lines of ‘for and against’ the laws. Actor Kangana Ranaut and singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh have had bitter Twitter exchanges over the issue. The most recent interaction happened as Kangana provoked a response from Diljit, asking him where he had disappeared after instigating farmers. In his reply, written in Punjabi, he wrote that he did not owe her an explanation.Kangana has been attacking Priyanka Chopra too, who had said that the farmers’ ‘fears need to be allayed’. She had written: “Our farmers are India’s Food Soldiers. Their fears need to be allayed. Their hopes need to be met. As a thriving democracy, we must ensure that this crises is resolved sooner than later.”Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/sunny-deol-gets-y-category-security-after-tweeting-in-favour-of-new-farm-laws-report/story-h9rdnqu7kSIFHeXOKI3nNP.html
17-12-2020||India||Farm law protests enter day 22, Supreme Court to resume hearing on blockade of Delhi’s borders | 10 points||Farmers’ agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws reached day 22 on Thursday as protesters’ numbers continue to swell on the borders of Delhi. On Wednesday, day 21 of the protests, the Supreme Court took up petitions seeking directions to authorities to remove the protesters from the national capital’s borders. A 3-judge bench of the top court, headed by chief justice SA Bobde, issued notice to the Centre in this regard and will resume the hearing on Thursday.Here are developments from day 21 of the anti-farm law protests:1. In its observations, the CJI-headed bench noted that if urgent measures are not taken, the protests may “soon become a national issue.” The apex court suggested formation of a committee comprising government representatives, farm union members and members of farm unions from the rest of India.Also Read | Supreme Court steps in to resolve deadlock over farm laws: ‘Talks set to fail’2. The bench also observed that the Centre’s negotiations have not worked properly and are “bound to fail again.” On comparison with the Shaheen Bangh protests, it said, there can’t be a precedent in a law and order situation.ALSO WATCH | ‘BKU leaders from UP support the farm laws’: Union Agriculture Minister 3. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the Centre, alleged in the court that “some other interests” have taken over the protests. “The problem is that their stand is that either the government repeal the laws or we won’t talk,” Mehta said.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: What Supreme Court and Centre said on solution4. Meanwhile, reacting to the developments in the apex court, the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC), a large platform of farm unions which is spearheading the agitation, called it a big “moral victory for the farmers” but also stressed that the movement will continue till the three laws are repealed.5. In a tragic development on Wednesday, a Sikh cleric died by suicide at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border, the epicentre of these protests. In a suicide note, Sant Baba Ram Singh of Karnal wrote that he was “hurt to see the farmers’ plight” and the “government’s oppression.”6. The Opposition lashed out at the Centre after death by suicide of the Sikh priest. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet, remarked that the Modi government’s “brutality has crossed all limits.” He too demanded withdrawal of the anti-farmer laws.7. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, continued its outreach to clear what it alleges is “misinformation” being spread by the Opposition on the farm laws. In Gwalior, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, once again stressed that the laws will benefit farmers from across the country.Also Read | ‘Does he know anything about farming?’: MP CM slams Rahul Gandhi amid stir8. Farmers, majority of whom are from Punjab, have been protesting against these laws since September, when these were passed by the Centre. Initially, they blocked rail tracks in Punjab. Then, in last week of November, they arrived in Delhi to put pressure on the government to repeal the laws.9. The protesting farmers have blocked various highways leading to the capital city and say that they have enough ration and other essential items with them to last for months. They have warned that they will block Delhi’s borders till their demands are met.10. In recent days, they have also been joined by small groups of farmers from other states like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan. A group of farmers from Rajasthan has been sitting on the Delhi-Jaipur highway since Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-law-protests-enter-day-22-supreme-court-to-resume-hearing-on-blockade-of-delhi-s-borders-10-points/story-RRr8Geh28EN905BPsCkLtO.html
17-12-2020||India||Farm unions urge Centre to stop ‘parallel negotiations’||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading the protests against three agricultural laws, has asked the government not to hold parallel negotiations with farmers and stop vilifying farmers as anti-national elements. In a letter to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, the group said: “Please don’t hold parallel negotiations. We have already said that your proposals for amendments are not acceptable to us.”The letter also asked the government not to spread misleading information. “The government is open to talking to all kinds of farmers, including those on protest. Discussion and dialogue is the only way for a solution,” farm minister Tomar had said on Tuesday after meeting a group of farmers. The government has so far met four delegations of farmers who say they support the farm laws. “Yesterday, the PM made a wrong claim that milk production has been promoted by non-government private sector, while it is the government- aided cooperative sector which has helped milk farmers, and later the entry of the private sector stressed the milk sector,” said Avik Saha, a leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.A massive farmers’ rebellion was set off by the three laws pushed by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.“PM {Narendra} Modi’s document Putting Farmers First says that the laws “open up avenues for agribusiness” and it is the corporates and MNCs who these laws and government is helping, not the farmers,” the letter said. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Farmers decided to call off negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. The government on December 9 sent a written proposal to amend some provisions of the laws for greater oversight on deregulated markets, sparing farmers from penalties for stubble burning, which causes pollution, and promising to keep providing farmers subsidised power instead of direct cash transfers, but farm unions say they will not call off their protest until the laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-urge-centre-to-stop-parallel-negotiations/story-6nRETSos4fzJkfB4OrgHEO.html
17-12-2020||Bhopal||PM Modi’s virtual address to MP farmers to be telecast live across 23k villages||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address farmers virtually in a Kisan Kalyan Sammelan of Madhya Pradesh on Friday, a day after hundreds of farmers from the state, under the banner of Ekta Parishad, started foot march from Morena, the home district of Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, to support the farmers’ protest in the national capital demanding repeal of three central farm laws.The PM’s virtual address will be telecast live across 23,000 villages of the country and at all the district headquarters of Madhya Pradesh, a state government official said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will join the programme from Raisen. During the event, the state government will transfer Rs 1,600 crore to the accounts of 3.5 million farmers as relief funds against crop loss, said the official of public relation department.“The previous Congress-led state government did injustice with the farmers by not transferring relief funds into their accounts. The previous Congress government did not even deposit the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna. But BJP is determined to work for the welfare of farmers. We have already deposited the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna and are now going to transfer relief funds,” the chief minister said.Also read: Farmers protest should be allowed, observes SCOn Wednesday, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijaywargiya had said that farmers in Malwa are supporting the farm laws and are ready to show the support. Addressing farmers’ meet in Indore, Vijaywargiya said, “Four lakh farmers in on 1 lakh tractors are ready to march towards Delhi in support of the law. They are just waiting for the nod of cabinet minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan. It will take only 10 days to reach Delhi from Malwa region.” Pradhan was also present at the meeting.On the other hand, hundreds of farmers under the banner of Ekta Parishad started foot march from Morena to Dholpur in Rajasthan on Thursday against the farm laws. Ekta Parishad president PV Rajgopal said farmers from across MP have joined the march. “The foot march will end in Dholpur on Saturday and thereafter, we will leave for Delhi in vehicles. Our motive is not a protest but to resolve the problem. We are willing to convince the Central government in favour of farmers,” said Rajgopal.MP Kisan Congress state president Dinesh Gurjar, local Congress MLAs Ravindra Singh Tomar and Ajab Singh Kushwaha are participating in the march. Some local tribal leaders are also taking part in the march. A tribal leader, Kasturi, who only uses first name, said, “We are supporting the protest because it is a fight for the rights of farmers.” Earlier too, Ekta Parishad held a successful Jan Satyagraha on October 2, 2012, against then UPA government demanding National Land Reforms Act. Former Union minister of rural development Jairam Ramesh had agreed to draft a national land reform act to help poor and homeless people on the sixth day of the march.MP Congress Committee also announced to stage protest on December 19 in districts of MP to support the farmers’ protest. Former chief minister and MPCC president Kamal Nath, Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh and other leaders will participate in the protest.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting at Delhi borders since November 27 braving the chilly nights asking the Central government to scrap the three farm laws passed in the monsoon session of Parliament in September. Farmers in different parts of India have held demonstrations to support the protests around the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/pm-modi-s-virtual-address-to-madhya-pradesh-farmers-to-be-telecast-live-across-23k-villages/story-W4KvtauIvuLuvjzIobNJzM.html
17-12-2020||India||Farm unions urge Centre to stop ‘parallel negotiations’||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading the protests against three agricultural laws, has asked the government not to hold parallel negotiations with farmers and stop vilifying farmers as anti-national elements. In a letter to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, the group said: “Please don’t hold parallel negotiations. We have already said that your proposals for amendments are not acceptable to us.”The letter also asked the government not to spread misleading information. “The government is open to talking to all kinds of farmers, including those on protest. Discussion and dialogue is the only way for a solution,” farm minister Tomar had said on Tuesday after meeting a group of farmers. The government has so far met four delegations of farmers who say they support the farm laws. “Yesterday, the PM made a wrong claim that milk production has been promoted by non-government private sector, while it is the government- aided cooperative sector which has helped milk farmers, and later the entry of the private sector stressed the milk sector,” said Avik Saha, a leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.A massive farmers’ rebellion was set off by the three laws pushed by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.“PM {Narendra} Modi’s document Putting Farmers First says that the laws “open up avenues for agribusiness” and it is the corporates and MNCs who these laws and government is helping, not the farmers,” the letter said. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Farmers decided to call off negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. The government on December 9 sent a written proposal to amend some provisions of the laws for greater oversight on deregulated markets, sparing farmers from penalties for stubble burning, which causes pollution, and promising to keep providing farmers subsidised power instead of direct cash transfers, but farm unions say they will not call off their protest until the laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-urge-centre-to-stop-parallel-negotiations/story-6nRETSos4fzJkfB4OrgHEO.html
