18-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Solution hopefully before year ends, says Tomar | 4 key points||The day farmers’ ongoing protest completes the 23rd day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually addressed a farmers’ conference in Madhya Pradesh which made it clear that the government is ready for more talks, leading to probable amendments, but repealing the laws is not quite on its table. The Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that it won’t interfere with the protest at this moment as long as the protest is peaceful. It has also proposed a committee of experts to broker peace between farmers and Centre.Here are the major takeaways of the 23rd day of the protest:Main protest gaining strength: The protest gains strength as the All India Kisan Sabha has now extended support to the protesting farmers. Thousands of farmers will start from Nashik on December 21 to come and join the protest in Delhi.A group comprising 20 Indian doctors from the USA has delayed its return to provide medical services at Tikri border.Chipko movement leader Sundarlal Bahuguna has extended his support to farmers.Informal talks with farmers going on, says ministry: Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in an interview to PTI said solution is likely before this year ends. Though official talks between the Centre and the farmers have not furthered after five rounds, informal talks are going on, Tomar said. “Farm leaders, who are concerned about welfare of farmers, should discuss peasants’ problems. Why should it matter if the acts are repealed or not?” Tomar said.Farmers have previously objected to Centre parallelly talking to a few groups of farmers organisations.Farmers our top priority: PM Modi’s messageExplaining the benefits of the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered a one-hour long address to Madhya Pradesh farmers where he appealed to farmers with folded hands. His appeal was to not believe in the rumours allegedly spread by the opposition parties. However, if the farmers have concerns, the government is ready to address all, PM Modi said, as farmers are the top priority. BJP ministers addressing farm issuesOn Friday, several BJP ministers addressed the issue of the ongoing farmers’ protest, training their guns on the opposition. “The opposition says that the one who made the bills isn’t a farmer. The one who talks of producing 40-inch potato is he a farmer? Is Sonia Gandhi a farmer? The one who actually did something for farmers is PM Narendra Modi,” Smriti Irani said in Meerut. “Failed political players who have been rejected repeatedly by the people are acting under their depression of defeat and misleading the farmers,” Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said.Meanwhile, the mortal remains of Sikh preacher Sant Ram Singh, who was supporting the protest against the farm laws and allegedly committed suicide near the Singhu border unable to bear the “pain of farmers”, were consigned to flames in Karnal on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-solution-hopefully-before-year-ends-says-tomar-4-key-points/story-WDoM1LK9oxq4leQxWuOjuM.html
18-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rod) warns of blocking road entry to Dehradun||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rod), a farmers’ body, has warned of blocking road entry to Dehradun, the capital of Uttarakhand, if the Centre doesn’t roll back the three farm laws. A final decision on the exact date from which road passage will be blocked will be taken in a meeting on December 20 in Roorkee. Chaudhary Padam Singh Rod, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rod), said, “It’s time to intensify the agitation and in our union meeting, we will decide the date and points of protest as well as blocking the entry roads into Dehradun. Both the Central and state BJP-led government has taken an anti-peasant stance and are playing in the hands of the corporates which we will not tolerate any cost.” While other major farmer unions Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), BKU (Ambawat) and BKU (Tomar) are also opposing the three farm laws, they have not decided to carry out road or rail blockade in any part of the state. Farmer leader and ex-legislator Ambrish Kumar said that despite braving inclement weather conditions, farmers’ agitation has spread in the country. Major trade unions of Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) and industrial sector of SIIDCUL have also extended their support to the ongoing agitation of farmers. BHEL Majdoor Trade Union, Devbhoomi Shramik and Inqalabi Majdoor Trade union have also assured their support to the agitating farmers in the district against the farm laws. BHEL Majdoor Trade Union representative Brajraj said labour unions have extended support to farmers’ fight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-bharatiya-kisan-union-rod-warns-of-blocking-road-entry-to-dehradun/story-XWWFUMOy9gKs0ljFvBWhdI.html
18-12-2020||India||UP: Sambhal administration scraps Rs50 lakh notices for farm protests||The Sambhal district administration in western Uttar Pradesh has decided to scrap the notices issued to the national president and five other office bearers of Bhartiya Kisan Union(Asli), or BKU (Asli), wherein they were asked to submit personal bonds of Rs50 lakh each on the charge of inciting farmers against the three new farm laws. The sum was later revised to Rs50,000 each, but now the notices would be withdrawn altogether, an official said.Notices to over a dozen farmers seeking personal bond of Rs5 lakh each are also being scrapped. Sambhal sub-divisonal magistrate (SDM) Deependra Yadav issued the notices on December 12 and 13 for personal bond of Rs50 lakh each to BKU (Asli) president Harpal Singh, youth wing state in charge Rishabh Chaudhary, divisional general secretary Sanjeev Gandhi, Sambhal district president Rajpal Singh Yadav and two others on charges of inciting farmers to participate in the movement. Likewise, over a dozen other farmers were issued notices of Rs5 lakh each on similar charges. SDM Yadav said he issued notices to 20 to 25 farmers on the basis of reports submitted by different police stations amid the farmers’ agitation.“We first revised the amount, but eventually decided to scrap all the notices after farmers’ written assurance that they would carry out their protest peacefully,” SDM said.Also read | Will bow my head in front of farmers, will discuss every issue, says PM ModiHowever, BKU(Asli) president Harpal Singh said, “We were protesting peacefully since the beginning and no farmer has given anything in writing. They are scrapping it (notices) to save their skin.”Additional superintendent of police, Sambhal, Alok Kumar Jaiswal also confirmed that notices issued against the farmers would be scrapped.SDM Yadav said issuing notices during a protest was a routine exercise, but it was blown out of proportion in this instance. He accused the farmers of blocking roads, caused inconvenience to people.Reacting to SDM’s comment, BKU (Asli) national vice-president Surendra Singh held the administration and the police responsible for road blocks. “We wanted to go to Delhi to join the ongoing farmers’ movement. They (police) stopped us, compelling us to sit on the roads,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-sambhal-administration-scraps-rs50-lakh-notices-for-farm-protests/story-7YyLCgT35zali9szJVQWHP.html
18-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest traffic updates: One side of Chilla border opens, Tikri, Dhansa and others closed||Delhi Traffic Police on Friday said the Chilla border for commuters travelling from Delhi to Noida is now open while the other carriageway is closed. They also alerted in a tweet that the Tikri and Dhansa borders are closed for any movement while the Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians. Traffic Alert,Chilla Border one carriageway from Delhi to Noida is open for traffic however other carriageway from Noida to Delhi is closed.COVID PRECAUTIONS :-WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE.Commuters on the Delhi-Haryana route can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders as they are currently open.“Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders. *Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” the traffic police tweeted.The traffic police also asked the commuters to take an alternate route through Lampur, Safiabad Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders as Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed amidst the farmers’ stir. Police have diverted traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road and have asked commuters to avoid the Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and National Highway 44.“Singhu,Auchandi,Piau Maniyari, & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur,Safiabad Saboli & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd,GTK road & NH 44,” the police’s tweet said.The Chilla and Ghazipur borders for commuters travelling to and from Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad were closed in lieu of the farmers’ protest. Commuters were asked to take alternate routes for Delhi through Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders. The police had earlier in the morning suggested the same routes due to the closure of Ghazipur border.Also Read | Farm laws have not been introduced overnight, says PM Modi addressing Madhya Pradesh farmersPeople in Delhi have been facing traffic troubles while commuting to neighbouring states as thousands of farmers from all across India have been sitting on the Capital’s borders since the last 23 days. They have been protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September. Farmers believe the laws are for corporates and will leave them vulnerable, to be exploited by them. Even after extensive rounds of talks between the farmers’ leaders and the Centre, the deadlock over the issue continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-traffic-updates-one-side-of-chilla-border-opens-tikri-dhansa-and-others-closed/story-q1444FKp6FnL9qEdSdlLhK.html
18-12-2020||India||Will bow my head in front of farmers, will discuss every issue, says PM Modi||In an hour-long address to the farmers of Madhya Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reiterated his government’s commitment to the welfare of farmers and explained how the three farm laws against which several thousands of farmers are protesting for the last three weeks are a step towards making farmers’ lives better. The laws in question have not been passed in Parliament in hurry; there have been decades of discussions, PM Modi said beginning his speech. Towards the conclusion of his speech, PM Modi said the welfare of the farmers is the utmost priority of the government. Farmers should not believe the lies being spread over the new farm laws. “But still after all these, if our farmers have any concern, we will bow our heads in front of them and will listen to what they have to say. Their benefit is our utmost priority,” he said concluding his address.PM Modi says Oppn intentionally did not work on Swaminathan Commission recommendationsIn between, he slammed the opposition, debunked the rumours around the farm laws and compared his government’s agriculture report card with that of the previous government.“Farmers of India can’t be left behind while other countries are moving towards new technologies. Now, a lot of discussions are going on over farm laws. These should have been done long ago. And these have not been introduced overnight. Our farmers have been demanding these for decades. If today we see the past manifestoes of the political parties, we will find the same promises,” PM Modi said.Taking a swipe at the opposition parties for “misleading” farmers for gaining back the lost political ground, PM Modi said, “I don’t think they have a problem with the farm reforms. They have problems with the fact that what they promised and could not deliver has been now done by Modi. I am folding my hands in front of all political parties. Please, take all credit you want. I will give credit to the manifestoes of the political parties.”“When they were in power, they junked Swaminathan Commission report. We dug out the report and implemented the recommendations,” PM Modi said adding that Madhya Pradesh farmers are well aware of Congress’s false promises. “You know better as they had promised loan waiver to Madhya Pradesh farmers. But have all of you got that?” he said.Congress’s promise of farm loan waiver never includes small farmers who can’t even go to banks and loan waiver was only applicable to a few big farmers, PM Modi said.Reiterating the government’s commitment towards the MSP system, PM Modi said, “Had we actually wanted to do away with MSP, why would we implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission? The laws came into force few months ago. But MSP system is continuing. There can be no bigger lie, bigger conspiracy than this that we are abolishing MSP. This system will not end.”Comparing the minimum support prices on various crops between now and the previous government, PM Modi said, “The previous government used to give an MSP of Rs 1,400 per quintal of wheat and Rs 1,310 per quintal of paddy. Our government offers an MSP of Rs 1,975 per quintal of wheat and Rs 1,870 per quintal of paddy.”“If I start telling you what all our government has done for the welfare of farmers, I may run out of time. But I am quoting these figures so that you can understand the commitment of this government towards farmers,” PM Modi said.Debunking “lies” spread regarding agriculture laws, PM Modi said, “After MSP and APMC, the third greatest lie regarding laws is farming agreement. We are not doing anything new. What we did is we brought a provision for farmers’ security. We have made it sure that sponsors won’t be able to escape their responsibilities. So many cases are now coming up that farmers are approaching SDMs and are getting their dues. The agreement is only on the produce. The agreement is not for land.”“The agreement has provisions that if there is more benefit than that was agreed upon in the contract, farmers will get share of the additional benefit. And also it is on the farmers whether they want the contract or not. A farmer can also end the contract whenever he wants,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-have-not-been-introduced-overnight-says-pm-modi-addressing-madhya-pradesh-farmers/story-A08hwK5P5o4bvoNhVgr51H.html
18-12-2020||NA||Farmers’ protest: DMK, allies show support by holding day-long hunger strike in Chennai||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led Secular Progressive Alliance (formed for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections) is holding a day-long hunger strike in Chennai on Friday in support of farmers protesting in Delhi against the Centre’s three new farm Bills. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday announced that state president L Murugan will undertake a three-day tour from December 19 under the “Farmers’ friend Modi” programme to explain the contents of the Bills and Central schemes that have benefitted farmers across different districts.DMK’s hunger protest is being held despite police denying them permission citing Covid-19 pandemic norms. The leaders wore green shawls and masks and sat on a stage erected in the city. Those in attendance were DMK’s president MK Stalin, MP Kanimozhi and leaders of alliance partners like Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) chief Vaiko, CPI (M) secretary K Balakrishnan, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) MP Thol Thirumavalavan.Also read | Will join hands with Rajinikanth if our ideologies match, says Kamal HaasanSpeaking at the event, Stalin said, “Farmers have been rallying for 23 consecutive days today. The struggle will continue until all three agricultural legislations are repealed.” “We continue to see the government hastily enacting anti-people laws. Farmers should have been consulted before bringing in these laws; They should hold consultations with representatives of the agricultural associations or it should have been debated in the Lok Sabha. But, this federal government has not done any of this. Who do these laws protect? And those who fight it are called anti-nationals.”Stalin had, on December 5, launched a state-wide protest from chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s home constituency in Salem, demanding the repeal of the three agrarian legislations. The Opposition leader has attacked the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)- BJP alliance over the issues, particularly chief minister Palaniswami’s farmer roots. The ruling AIADMK government had backed the three farm bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/farmers-protest-dmk-allies-show-support-by-holding-day-long-hunger-strike-in-chennai/story-bsYBORe7xtdyjlkwC5YfpL.html
18-12-2020||India||BKU chief Naresh Tikait asks Centre to call all party meet to resolve farmers’ stir||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief and head of Baliyan Khap Naresh Tikait advised the Union government on Thursday to resolve the issue of farmers’ stir over three farm laws by calling an all party meeting. Tikait was interacting with mediapersons after a meeting with khap heads in Baraut area of Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh. He later left for Delhi to attend the BKU’s Mahapanchayat at Ghazipur border on Thursday. Tikait said that the government should resolve the issue of protests over the farm laws through dialogue instead of adopting a stiff attitude. He added that since six rounds of talks between farmers and the government had yielded no results, the government should call an all party meeting to resolve the impasse. The farmer leader accused the government of a stubborn attitude while farmers were braving acute cold under the open skies since the past 21 days. He said that the government wanted a confrontation between different groups of farmers. “They are farmers who want a solution for their problems, not confrontation, either with the government or with each other,” he said and explained that the farmers might be associated with different organizations but they had a common goal. Tikait’s comments come at a time when Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has reached out to protesting farmers with an open letter, saying a “misunderstanding” has been created among some farmer unions and “white lies” are being spread on the issue of minimum support price for crops.Also Read: ‘Talk to each other’: Supreme Court allows farmers protest to go onProtesting farmers fear the new farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the ‘mercy’ of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bku-chief-naresh-tikait-asks-centre-to-call-all-party-meet-to-resolve-farmers-stir/story-yW0YTTuRQTLQXJFZIDQd8I.html
18-12-2020||India||‘Soft-spoken, altruistic’ farmers’: Followers pay respects to priest who died by suicide||Baba Ram Singh had barely turned four years old when his parents noticed that their son had the traits of an ascetic. The devout Sikh couple handed over the toddler to Gurudwara Nanaksar, located in Kaleran village of Jagraon in Ludhiana district of Punjab, to pursue the path of spirituality. Gurudwara Nanaksar was his abode for many years. A little before 1990, he left Jagraon to spread the message of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. And his next destination, and permanent abode, became Gurdwara Nanaksar Singhera--a small Sikh shrine then spread across one acre in Karnal, Haryana. On Thursday, shocked admirers and followers of Singh came in droves to Gurdwara Nanaksar Singhera to pay their last respects to the Sikh priest. Singh, 65, died after allegedly shooting himself on Wednesday at the Delhi-Haryana border in Singhu where he had joined the farmers’ protest against three farm laws. He was unmarried and is survived by his sister and a brother, who live in Punjab. The soft-spoken Baba, known for his sense of charity and in-depth knowledge of Sikhism, had a huge following across religions, castes, communities and countries. Singh became head of Gurdwara Nanaksar Singhera in 1990 following the death of his predecessor Baba Jang Singh. He worked relentlessly to expand the shrine and visited many places in India and abroad to encourage people to donate to the gurdwara, said Gupal Singh, a follower from Peont village.His efforts paid off .From the small shrine it was in 1990, the gurdwara is now spread over 16 acres. It has a huge langer (community kitchen) hall with the capacity to serve meals to hundreds of visitors every day. The campus has residential buildings for about 400 sewadars (volunteers) and visitors, a sprawling lawn and parking lot. According to Satnam Singh, who has been with the Sikh priest since 1995, the Baba also set up two gurdwaras in Ulhasnagar of Mumbai and Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. He is credited with the construction of gurdwara also in Jalandhar district of Punjab. “He was very polite and always available to all. We never saw him angry,” recalled Jasvinder Kaur,70, a follower. She said she has been a regular visitor to Gurdwara Nanaksar Singhera for the past 20 years and he also had followers from the Hindu and Muslim communities. A confidant of the Baba, Satnam Singh, said that on December 9, he had visited the protesting farmers for the first time and donated Rs 5 lakh to farmers’ organisations spearheading the agitation. On December 15, he again visited the protest site and donated blankets to farmers. “After returning from Delhi on late night on December 15 he was very upset and told me that the farmers were being forced to spend their nights in open in harsh winter conditions and the government was insensitive to them”, said Satnam Singh. Satnam Singh said on December 16, the Baba again decided to go to the protest site and that his driver Gurpartap Singh and his aide Manjeet accompanied him. “At the dharna spot, Babaji asked his driver to bring tea... when the driver returned he found Babaji dead with a bullet injury on his forehead... but the driver did not find the weapon,” said Satnam Singh, who hails from UP and who is considered the successor to the Baba.“In fact, Sant ji never carried a weapon with himself,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soft-spoken-altruistic-farmers-followers-pay-respects-to-priest-who-died-by-suicide/story-2Iq9yf3bge24TdZE076YfK.html
18-12-2020||India||In a letter to farmers, Narendra Singh Tomar reiterates assurance on MSP||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday wrote an impassioned letter to farmers protesting against the three farm reform laws, reiterating his commitment to resolve farmers’ issues and again offering a written assurance that the system of state-set minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm commodities will remain place. In the eight-page letter, Tomar said farmers in most parts of the country were happy with the reforms and that confusion had been created by some political forces as part of a conspiracy to derail the laws enacted in September, appealing to the protestors to call off the agitation.“I belong to a farmer’s family and since childhood, I have experienced the tough life of farmers. It is very satisfactory that after implementation of the laws, MSP procurement has set a new record this time,” Tomar said.Tomar didn’t name anyone, but wrote: “A lie is being spread in the name of MSP and Mandis. The fact is that nothing is going to change.”Farmers, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have massed at border entry points to Delhi since November 26 in a massive protest was set off by three laws pushed through by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. They are also concerned that the government-controlled mandis. or agricultural markets, may be dismantled. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. The agriculture minister wrote that MSPs and the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees that run the mandis will remain in place and the government was ready to offer a written assurance to that effect Tomar alleged that the Congress did not act on recommendations made by a commission headed by agricultural scientist MS Swaminathan t for eight years. “These days, they are working again to create tension. They even questioned our Army and their supreme sacrifice in Leh-Ladakh,” the minister wrote, appealing to the farmers to end the agitation.The farmers’ group spearheading the protest insisted that the laws be withdrawn,“The government (is) repeatedly dishing out old rejected logic. Farmers are ready for talks, but the three Farm Acts and the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 have to be withdrawn,” said Avik Saha of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee.The draft bill has a provision for direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidy provided to consumers, particularly to the agriculture and domestic sectors. Opposition leaders say this will work against the interest of farmers and poor domestic consumers, and insisted that the mode of payment should be left to state governments to decide. The bill also aims to ensure a mandatory minimum purchase of power from renewable sources of energy and enforce stringent penal measures for non-compliance with the provisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-letter-to-farmers-tomar-reiterates-assurance-on-msp/story-MLSrylJo2lYvY1EdgkNsrK.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers start cleaning up agitation site at Singhu border after residents complain||After over a fortnight of garbage piling up at the protest site at the Singhu border, farmers started cleaning the roads after residents complained about the mounting litter heaps.Since Tuesday, they have been collecting truckloads of garbage from the protest venue, while urging protesters to ensure that local residents do not remember them “for the wrong reasons”.Those carrying out the sanitation drive said they started it after complaints from several residents about the mess that was being left on the roads and adjacent neighbourhoods.“When we began the cleaning exercise on Tuesday; we brought 500 garbage bags and distributing them to farmers but they were not enough. “On Thursday, we have brought another 1,000 garbage bags,” said Jugraj Singh Jaggi, who belongs to Mundh village in Jalandhar, and heads a group of about 25 people under the banner of Fikr-e-Hond, an organisation that works for farmer welfare in Punjab. These men -- kitted out in blue half jackets and carrying broomsticks, dustpans and extra-large dustbin covers -- begin the cleaning exercise daily at 10am and continue till 5pm.“We realised that we were only organising langars (community kitchens) and doing nothing about the waste. We had made a lot of mess,” said Jaggi’s friend, Snehdeep Kamboj. Rajesh, a municipality sanitation worker from Sonepat, said he was among 20 workers deployed by the government soon after the protests began. “Now only 13 of us are working here. The work is a lot and we are too few hands to clean up everything,” said Rajesh. The drains here have been heavily clogged with decaying food, disposable plates, plastic glasses and all sorts of garbage. The empty plots have been used extensively for defecation and the streets are littered with waste. Sanitation work by civic agencies on the Delhi side is limited to areas not occupied by farmers. Jaggi’s group said they have been collecting at least four truckloads of garbage every day since Tuesday. “We take the garbage to a dump yard, 10km away. Cleaning the place will take a lot of effort and time, but we intend to sanitise the place and leave it better than when we arrived here,” said Kamboj. Jitender Singh, who belongs to Patiala town and calls himself a sewadar, said he was among another group of 15 farmers cleaning the streets from morning to evening. “The electronic media was reporting about the sanitation mess. No one should face problems because of us. So, we are apologising to the public and cleaning up,” said Jitender.He said he and his men have been loading the waste into trolleys and dumping them on empty plots away from the site. “Those empty plots already are filled with waste,” said Jitender whose group is associated with a gurdwara in Ludhiana. Then, there are individual farmers who have joined hands and divided the protest site into zones to ensure no area is left dirty. “We have formed groups of 10 each and assigned a few hundred metres of road to each group to keep clean,” said Palwinder Singh, a farmer from Badwa village in Ropar district, while carrying a large number of brooms that had been donated by a Delhi resident. Some groups are limiting themselves to distributing garbage covers. Dileep Singh of Khalsa Aid, a charitable organisation that is into “dry langar” and provides services such as free foot massages, sanitary napkins and undergarments, among others, said they have been disturbing garbage bins for quite some time now.Local residents, however, were unimpressed by all this and said the sanitation efforts were yet to make a difference to the area. “The farmers may have been cleaning the area where they are camping. But will they clean the adjacent empty plots which have been turned into open toilets for the past 20 days? The neighbourhood around here is stinking,” said Sanjay Sahni, a local trader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-start-cleaning-up-agitation-site-at-singhu-border-after-residents-complain/story-kZvdcNnRARXjF4r40Hc4PO.html
18-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pak foreign minister accuses India of planning surgical strike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pak foreign minister accuses India of planning surgical strikePakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has claimed that India was planning a surgical strike on its neighbouring country to divert attention from issues it had been facing at home. Read moreKerala HC asks govt to return Rs 10 crore it got from Guruvayur temple for flood reliefThe Kerala High Court on Friday ordered the state government to return Rs 10 crore it had received from the Guruvayur Devasom Board towards the CM’s relief fund. In the order the court said the temple fund was meant to develop the shrine and its allied services and it was not proper to divert it for other reasons. Read moreHyderabad company booked for fraud, scam bigger than Nirav Modi caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against a Hyderabad based company, Transstroy (India) Ltd, for allegedly cheating a consortium of banks of Rs 7,926 crore, officials said on Friday. Read moreTransporter marries employee without divorcing wife, booked for rapeA transporter is facing charges of rape, cheating and bigamy on the complaint of his second wife.The accused, a resident of Partap Colony, Mundian Kalan owns a transport company in Transport Nagar. Read morePrithvi Shaw fails again in Adelaide Test: ‘Better for him if he is taken out of the team,’ says Nick KnightWhen Prithvi Shaw made his Test debut at Rajkot against West Indies in the October of 2018, he was considered the next big thing of Indian batting. Hailing from Mumbai, Shaw had made a name for himself in age group cricket and followed that up with an impressive debut season in domestic cricket. Read moreInstagram crashes for Android users across the world, services restored nowInstagram has crashed for Android users across the world and many users have taken to Twitter to complain about the issue. People have been tweeting with #instagramdown and #instagramcrashing making these topics trend on the micro-blogging site. Read moreUrmila Matondkar says her husband Mohsin Akhtar, his family are constantly attacked by trolls: ‘There is a limit’Actor-politician Urmila Matondkar called the constant troll attacks on her husband, Mohsin Akhtar, and his family ‘unfortunate’. She also talked about her Wikipedia page being vandalised by miscreants, who changed her parents’ name on it. Read more Artist brings nature and geometry together in surreal light sculptures. WatchThe use of light as a medium to create spellbinding artworks has a long and diversified history. For years, artists have used light and shadow to create temporary or permanent art pieces. Philipp Frank is one such creator whose videos, shared on Instagram, present viewers with a chance to experience surreal sculptures that he creates by projecting light on different natural surfaces - from tree trunks to mushroom to rocks. Read more Watch: ‘Ready to discuss all issues’: PM Modi to farmers on new laws, protest, MSPPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that political parties, experts and even farmers had been demanding new farm laws for long, and assured that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism for crops will continue. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pak-foreign-minister-accuses-india-of-planning-surgical-strike-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IJokNJ0eM5xFVM9EF5yrbO.html
18-12-2020||India||DMK, allies observe one-day fast in support of agitating farmers||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) led by MK Stalin and its allies on Friday observed a day-long fast in support of the farmers protesting against the three farm bills passed by the Centre in September. Stalin condemned the statement of the government that those protesting against the farm laws are anti-nationals and said he supports the farmers. “The central government said that those protesting against the farm laws are anti-nationals. We condemn it,” the DMK president said while addressing a gathering. “The central government led by the BJP have passed three laws against farmers. The farmers are protesting continuously for 23 days against it. We took the decision to support protesting farmers. As a part of it, we are doing fasting and protest today,” he said.’Also Read: Late to join but Khaps of western UP pledge a mega push to farmers’ protestThe leader also accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and AIADMK of passing laws that were not in favour of the people and said the coronavirus pandemic was used as an excuse to pass the three farm laws in a hurry. “The central government is not thinking about farmers or people. The BJP and AIADMK governments pass laws against them. They use Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse and passed them in a hurry. Especially the three farm laws,” he told the gathering. “They don’t care for the people and only support and give subsidies to the corporates,” he said.“Everybody in India is in an agitative mode, particularly those in Delhi. They (the BJP) are doing drama in the name of discussion,” he said, adding that he welcomed all his party members and alliances to participate in the protest and observe a two-minute silence for the farmers who lost their lives in the protest.Also Read: Farmers in UP get Rs 50 lakh notice over protests, sum revised to 50,000Thousands of farmers are protesting against the three laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - that were passed in Parliament in September.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-allies-observe-one-day-fast-in-support-of-agitating-farmers/story-WfET1VVaYs563FCUNz6fNK.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Chilla border open from Delhi-Noida side, Tikri and others remain closed||Delhi Traffic Police on Friday announced the Delhi-Noida carriageway on Chilla border will be open for traffic but the other side will remain closed in the view of the protests by farmers, who have been camping on the borders of the national capital for 23 days now.Other border connecting the national capital with neighbouring Uttar Pradesh such as Tikri and Dhansa remained closed. Jhatikara border will be open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians.“Tikri, Dhansa borders are closed for any traffic movement. Jhatikara borders is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” traffic police tweeted.A few of New Delhi’s borders with Haryana were also shut as the farmers’ agitation entered its 23rd day. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad & Singhu school toll tax borders,” traffic police tweeted, adding that traffic had been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Commuters were advised to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH-44.Borders that were open between Delhi and Haryana were Jharoda, Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera. Only one side of the Jharoda border was open. Traffic Alert: Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders *Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.The traffic police further added that Ghazipur border was closed for traffic coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi.‘Gazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders,” the traffic police tweeted.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting near Delhi’s borders against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-chilla-border-open-from-delhi-noida-side-tikri-and-others-remain-closed/story-2POQx5CimNpzVTj3k6bLsN.html
18-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Unity sphere’, tech dome in New India garden plan under the Central Vista project and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Unity sphere’, tech dome in New India garden planThe New India Garden or Nav Bharat Udyan proposed to be built on the bank of the river Yamuna as part of Centre’s plan to extend the Central Vista axis from India Gate till the river will house a “sunflower plaza”, a “Growth Plaza” representing all states and UTs of India. Read moreDay temperatures likely to drop below normal today over Delhi, other parts of NW IndiaThe temperature at 6.10am today was around 4.5 degrees Celsius (C) at Safdarjung station. The minimum temperature data for today will be updated by India Meteorological Department (IMD) at 9am. Read morePM Modi to address MP farmers today amid protests against farm lawsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will speak about the “beneficial provisions” of the new farm laws in his address to the farmers of Madhya Pradesh as part of a Kisan Kalyan Sammelan on Friday. Read moreVirat Kohli lost his momentum as Cheteshwar Pujara was caught at one end: Brad Haddin after Day 1 of India vs Australia first TestIndia finished the opening day of the first Test against Australia in Adelaide on 233/6 and although at stumps, the match was even-sided, it could have remained titled in India’s way had it not been for the run out of Virat Kohli. Read moreVarun Dhawan says he was ‘rejected’ by girlfriend Natasha Dalal 3-4 times: ‘I didn’t give up hope’Actor Varun Dhawan and his girlfriend, fashion designer Natasha Dalal, met in the sixth grade but their friendship did not immediately translate into love. In fact, she ‘rejected’ him multiple times before they got into a relationship. Read moreNokia phones aren’t the only affordable ones with Zeiss cameras anymoreUntil now we have all have been associating Zeiss lenses with Nokia-branded smartphone cameras. But that exclusivity was long gone when the optics firm joined hands with Sony earlier this year. Read moreMan sings to bird in a heartfelt voice, it ‘joins’ inA video of a man singing a song to a bird perched on a car has now left netizens emotional. It’s the heartfelt voice of the singer which has earned him applauds from people. Read moreNCB asks Karan Johar to explain 2019’s viral video of party, issues noticeNCB issued a notice to filmmaker Karan Johar seeking details of his parties. As per reports, no date for summon has been mentioned in the note. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-unity-sphere-tech-dome-in-new-india-garden-plan-under-the-central-vista-project-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WRZfWMuUaVfOXT8PhQww7K.html
18-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address MP farmers today amid protests against farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will speak about the “beneficial provisions” of the new farm laws in his address to the farmers of Madhya Pradesh as part of a Kisan Kalyan Sammelan on Friday. This comes a day after hundreds of farmers from the state started a foot march from Morena in support of the agriculturists who have been protesting in Delhi for three weeks now against the controversial farm laws implemented in September.“PM Modi will address the farmers of the state around 2 pm through video-conference and explain to them in detail the beneficial provisions of the new agricultural laws,” an official of the Madhya Pradesh public relations department on told news agency PTI on Thursday.The PM’s address will be telecast live across 23,000 villages of the country and at all the district headquarters of Madhya Pradesh, the official said. Rs 1,660 crore will be transferred to the accounts of 35 lakh farmers by the state government to compensate for crop loss, he added.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will also attend the programme from Raisen. “The previous Congress-led state government did injustice with the farmers by not transferring relief funds into their accounts. The previous Congress government did not even deposit the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna. But BJP is determined to work for the welfare of farmers. We have already deposited the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna and are now going to transfer relief funds,” the chief minister said.The Kisan Kalyan programme is being organised in four levels — gram panchayat, block, district and state. Nearly 20,000 farmers will take part in the state-level programme in Raisen.The PM’s address comes in the backdrop of thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana protesting at Delhi borders since November 27, demanding that the three farm laws -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- be scrapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-mp-farmers-today-amid-protests-against-farm-laws/story-uPM8qu40ey2wdhFRZYEqlO.html
18-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest LIVE updates: All India Kisan Sabha extends support to farmers’ protest against new laws||Farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws entered day 23 on Friday and, as of now, impasse continues between the government and farmers’ unions. Amid the continued deadlock, prime minister Narendra Modi will on Friday virtually address the farmers of Madhya Pradesh in a ‘Kisan Kalyan Sammelan.’ The program will be telecast across 23,000 villages of the country and at all the district headquarters of Madhya Pradesh.Also Read | PM Modi’s virtual address to MP farmers to be telecast live across 23k villagesOn Thursday, the Supreme Court resumed hearing petitions seeking immediate removal of protesting farmers from the borders of Delhi. The 3-judge bench, headed by chief justice SA Bobde, which had taken up the pleas on Wednesday, said the apex court would not interfere with the protests, adding that these should be allowed to go on as long as these are peaceful and do not result in damage to life and property of other citizens. Also on Thursday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who has been leading the government in its talks with the protesters, wrote an open letter to farmers in which he said that misunderstanding had been created among them regarding the reforms. Tomar further wrote that several other farmers’ unions had welcomed the reforms and were happy with the laws.Also Read | ‘I come from farming family,’ Tomar writes open letter to farmers; PM Modi urges to readFollow all live updates here:All India Kisan Sabha extends support to protesting farmersThe All India Kisan Sabha on Friday said it would join farmers protesting in Delhi against the new farm laws introduced by the Centre, reports PTI.Why can’t farmers rally in Delhi if Anna Hazare can, asks Congress leader SurjewalaCongress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, on Friday, slammed the Centre by questioning that if social activist Anna Hazare can rally in the national capital, then why farmers are not allowed to enter Delhi and stage the protest, reports PTI.Union minister Irani slams opposition on farmers’ stir, says PM Modi did something for farmersThe opposition says that the one who made the bills isn’t a farmer. The one who talks of producing 40-inch potato is he a farmer? Is Sonia Gandhi a farmer? The one who actually did something for farmers is PM Narendra Modi, said Smriti Irani, Union Minister of Textiles in Meerut, report ANI.Congress leader and boxer Vijender Singh distributes food at langar for protesting farmers Delhi: Congress leader & boxer, Vijender Singh distributes food at langar organised by Jamindara Student Organization (JSO) for protesting farmers at Tikri Border"We are here to serve the farmers of our country. Our fight is not against the govt but the 3 black laws," he says pic.twitter.com/FPu4i1i8R2Govt is serious about MSP: PM Modi on farmers’ stir  during Kisan Kalyan address If we'd to remove MSP, why would we implement Swaminathan Commission report? Our govt is serious about the MSP, that's why we declare it before sowing season every year. This makes it easy for farmers to make calculations: PM Modi virtually addressing Kisan Kalyan event in Raisen https://t.co/Y6s3GG1f3H pic.twitter.com/kiniQGKtVSPolitical parties misguiding farmers for their benefit: PM Modi on farmers’ stir Political parties should stop misguiding farmers. It's been 6-7 months since Farm laws were implemented. But now suddenly, games are being played to plough one's own political land through a web of lies: PM Modi addressing Kisan Kalyan event in MP through video-conferencing https://t.co/CUsXWvFVGu pic.twitter.com/BzyumYLLo0Ready to meet farmers to end deadlock, says agriculture minister TomarOpen to meet protesting farm unions anytime to end deadlock, address all genuine concerns, says agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, reports PTI. Changed rules to make Kisan credit card available to all farmers: PM Modi to MP farmers Today, several farmers have been given Kisan Credit Card. Earlier, they were not available to all farmers. But we changed rules to make Kisan Credit Card available to all farmers across the country: PM Modi addressing MP farmers through video conferencing https://t.co/d0idM94WmY pic.twitter.com/BwRfqqOzIxPM Modi to shortly address Madhya Pradesh farmersPM Narendra Modi’s virtual address to farmers of Madhya Pradesh to begin shortly.Fasting on behalf of UPA in support of farmers, says Puducherry CM Narayansamy“Today on behalf of the UPA, the leaders of the Congress party, CPI, CPI(M), MDMK, DMK and other parties are sitting on one-day hunger strike in support of farmers protesting against the three farms laws in Delhi,” says Pudcuherry CM V Narayansamy.Chipko movement leader extends support to farmersChipko movement leader Sundarlal Bahuguna extends his support to farmers protesting against the three farm laws, says, “I support the demands of the ‘annadatas’ “.DMK observes one-day fast in support of protesting farmersDMK observes in Chennai, one-day fast in support of the protesting farmers. “We condemn the Centre’s statement that protesting farmers are anti-nationals,” says party chief MK Stalin. The central government said that those protesting against the farm laws are anti-nationals. We condemn it. We stand in support of the farmers: DMK President MK Stalin in Chennai https://t.co/X7qPFc18uq pic.twitter.com/aC7OtcHMtSPM Modi should talk to farmers and repeal the laws, says Bharatiya Kisan Morcha leader“PM Modi should talk to the farmers and take back the farm laws. We will not give up our fight against these laws,” says Dayal Singh of Bharatiya Kisan Morcha (BKM).Ghazipur border closed completely; Chilla border blocked from one side, tweets Delhi Traffic PoliceIssuing a traffic advisory, the Delhi Traffic Police has tweeted that the Ghazipur border is completely blocked while the Chilla border is open only from the Delhi to Noida side.PM Modi to virtually address Madhya Pradesh farmers todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday virtually address farmers in Madhya Pradesh. The program will begin at 2pm via video conferencing, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s office said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-farmers-protest-live-updates-december-18-2020/story-MQV862NXt9fhVSCWAhKSfL.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||New farm laws meant to secure poll funding: Delhi CM||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday attacked the Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday, saying the three laws aimed at opening up trade in agriculture had been designed not with the interests of farmers in mind, but to ensure electoral funding for the ruling party. At a special session of the Delhi assembly, Kejriwal tore up copies of the three farm laws in protest against the legislation. The assembly passed a resolution tabled by revenue minister Kailash Gahlot demanding that the Central government repeal the laws immediately.Farmers, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have massed at border entry points to Delhi since November 26 in a protest was set off by three laws pushed through by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say they promote corporate interests, and not theirs.“What was the hurry to get the farm bills passed in Parliament during the pandemic? It happened for the first time that three laws were passed without voting in Rajya Sabha, even when several members were opposing the move… In the last 6-7 years, the BJP has made elections so expensive. So, much of the money is spent on elections (by political parties). These laws have not been passed for the farmers. These laws have been made to ensure election funding for the BJP,” Kejriwal told the House.After the chief minister’s speech, MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to the well of the House shouting “jai jawan jai kisan” after which the speaker adjourned the House until 11 am on Friday. A few AAP legislators even burnt copies of the farm laws outside the House. Urging the Central government to withdraw the farm laws, the chief minister said the farmers have been protesting for 20 days now and one farmer has died everyday in the agitation.“How many sacrifices will the farmers have to make to get their voices heard? Today, the Delhi assembly rejects all the three farm laws and appeals to the Central government to take back the legislation. I request the Centre not to be worse than the British,” he said.“Big businessmen will buy produce at throwaway prices from farmers and sell it at high rates in retail {outlets} across the country, which will lead to inflation. It is being said that the farmers are being misguided. Farmers are not being misguided. It is the BJP leaders and supporters who are being misguided,” he said.Kejriwal said that today each protesting farmer had become a Bhagat Singh. He reminded members of the House of a similar movement  Pagdi Sambhal Jatta that took place in Punjab in 1907 against three laws --Bari Doab Act (related to canals), Punjab Land Colonisation Act, and Punjab Land Alienation Act -- of the British era. “At that time also, the British government had suggested some amendments in the laws and they reiterated that they will make some changes in the laws in several rounds of discussions that were held. But the farmers were adamant about revoking and repealing the three laws. In the end, and after nine months, the Britishers had to repeal the three laws…I am in pain while I tear these three farm laws, as I did not intend to do this. But today, when a farmer of the country is sleeping on the road in 2°C temperature, I cannot betray the jawans and kisaans of my country. I am first the citizen of this country, and then the chief minister,” he said.BJP’s New Delhi MP and spokesperson Meenakshi Lekhi criticised Kejriwal for his “doublespeak” on the farmers’ issue. “Arvind Kejriwal puts chameleons to shame when it comes to changing colours within seconds. After notifying one of the farm laws in Delhi, he tore the copies of the Acts in Delhi Assembly today. He is the expert of U-turns and a champion of politics of bluff,” she said. Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted, “Yet another hypocrisy of @ArvindKejriwal! He tore off copies of the same farm reform bills today in Delhi Assembly which he had notified in November in the Delhi Gazette.”To this, a government spokesperson said all the three farm laws were brought in and implemented by the Central government and that the state governments had no role to play in it.“The Delhi government not notifying it would not have made any difference in the city. The day the President signed the black farm laws, these laws became effective across the entire country from that day itself. It is no longer in the hands of the state,” the official said. (ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-farm-laws-meant-to-secure-poll-funding-delhi-cm/story-yeQ6sg5NZnQiTMuIQSmY7I.html
18-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers start cleaning up agitation site at Singhu border after residents complain||After over a fortnight of garbage piling up at the protest site at the Singhu border, farmers started cleaning the roads after residents complained about the mounting litter heaps.Since Tuesday, they have been collecting truckloads of garbage from the protest venue, while urging protesters to ensure that local residents do not remember them “for the wrong reasons”.Those carrying out the sanitation drive said they started it after complaints from several residents about the mess that was being left on the roads and adjacent neighbourhoods.“When we began the cleaning exercise on Tuesday; we brought 500 garbage bags and distributing them to farmers but they were not enough. “On Thursday, we have brought another 1,000 garbage bags,” said Jugraj Singh Jaggi, who belongs to Mundh village in Jalandhar, and heads a group of about 25 people under the banner of Fikr-e-Hond, an organisation that works for farmer welfare in Punjab. These men -- kitted out in blue half jackets and carrying broomsticks, dustpans and extra-large dustbin covers -- begin the cleaning exercise daily at 10am and continue till 5pm.“We realised that we were only organising langars (community kitchens) and doing nothing about the waste. We had made a lot of mess,” said Jaggi’s friend, Snehdeep Kamboj. Rajesh, a municipality sanitation worker from Sonepat, said he was among 20 workers deployed by the government soon after the protests began. “Now only 13 of us are working here. The work is a lot and we are too few hands to clean up everything,” said Rajesh. The drains here have been heavily clogged with decaying food, disposable plates, plastic glasses and all sorts of garbage. The empty plots have been used extensively for defecation and the streets are littered with waste. Sanitation work by civic agencies on the Delhi side is limited to areas not occupied by farmers. Jaggi’s group said they have been collecting at least four truckloads of garbage every day since Tuesday. “We take the garbage to a dump yard, 10km away. Cleaning the place will take a lot of effort and time, but we intend to sanitise the place and leave it better than when we arrived here,” said Kamboj. Jitender Singh, who belongs to Patiala town and calls himself a sewadar, said he was among another group of 15 farmers cleaning the streets from morning to evening. “The electronic media was reporting about the sanitation mess. No one should face problems because of us. So, we are apologising to the public and cleaning up,” said Jitender.He said he and his men have been loading the waste into trolleys and dumping them on empty plots away from the site. “Those empty plots already are filled with waste,” said Jitender whose group is associated with a gurdwara in Ludhiana. Then, there are individual farmers who have joined hands and divided the protest site into zones to ensure no area is left dirty. “We have formed groups of 10 each and assigned a few hundred metres of road to each group to keep clean,” said Palwinder Singh, a farmer from Badwa village in Ropar district, while carrying a large number of brooms that had been donated by a Delhi resident. Some groups are limiting themselves to distributing garbage covers. Dileep Singh of Khalsa Aid, a charitable organisation that is into “dry langar” and provides services such as free foot massages, sanitary napkins and undergarments, among others, said they have been disturbing garbage bins for quite some time now.Local residents, however, were unimpressed by all this and said the sanitation efforts were yet to make a difference to the area. “The farmers may have been cleaning the area where they are camping. But will they clean the adjacent empty plots which have been turned into open toilets for the past 20 days? The neighbourhood around here is stinking,” said Sanjay Sahni, a local trader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-start-cleaning-up-agitation-site-at-singhu-border-after-residents-complain/story-kZvdcNnRARXjF4r40Hc4PO.html
18-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address MP farmers today amid protests against farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will speak about the “beneficial provisions” of the new farm laws in his address to the farmers of Madhya Pradesh as part of a Kisan Kalyan Sammelan on Friday. This comes a day after hundreds of farmers from the state started a foot march from Morena in support of the agriculturists who have been protesting in Delhi for three weeks now against the controversial farm laws implemented in September.“PM Modi will address the farmers of the state around 2 pm through video-conference and explain to them in detail the beneficial provisions of the new agricultural laws,” an official of the Madhya Pradesh public relations department on told news agency PTI on Thursday.The PM’s address will be telecast live across 23,000 villages of the country and at all the district headquarters of Madhya Pradesh, the official said. Rs 1,660 crore will be transferred to the accounts of 35 lakh farmers by the state government to compensate for crop loss, he added.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will also attend the programme from Raisen. “The previous Congress-led state government did injustice with the farmers by not transferring relief funds into their accounts. The previous Congress government did not even deposit the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna. But BJP is determined to work for the welfare of farmers. We have already deposited the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna and are now going to transfer relief funds,” the chief minister said.The Kisan Kalyan programme is being organised in four levels — gram panchayat, block, district and state. Nearly 20,000 farmers will take part in the state-level programme in Raisen.The PM’s address comes in the backdrop of thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana protesting at Delhi borders since November 27, demanding that the three farm laws -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- be scrapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-mp-farmers-today-amid-protests-against-farm-laws/story-uPM8qu40ey2wdhFRZYEqlO.html
