19-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest day 24: Haryana CM meets Tomar, agitation intensifies||The ongoing protests of farmers demanding an immediate withdrawal of the three agriculture laws that they fear would corporatise farming went on for the 23rd day with no signs of budging on Saturday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as he was addressing an Assocham event, once again reiterated that the laws are benefitting farmers and not otherwise as the opposition is trying to project. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and said a fresh round of talks may happen soon.Here are the updates of farmers protest day 231. Haryana chief minister ML Khattar after meeting agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday expressed hope that the next round of talks could be held in the next 2-3 days. “A solution to this issue (farmers’ protest) should be found through discussion. I have said that this issue should be resolved soon,” Khattar said. Many farmers protesting against the laws are from Haryana.2. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said reforms brought by the laws are benefitting farmers. “Agriculture reforms initiated six months back have started benefitting farmers,” he said3. Rajasthan MP Hanuman Beniwal resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of the ongoing agitation.4. Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantrik party has decided to lead a march of two lakh farmers from Rajasthan to Delhi on December 26.5. All India Kian Sangharsh Coordination committee which is agitating at Ghazipur border said they will block both sides of the road if their negotiation with the local administration over the movement of tractors is not fruitful.6. Union home minister Amit Shah is in West Bengal now. On Saturday, he had lunch at a farmer’s house which amid the ongoing farmers’ protest comes as a vindication of the government’s claim that farmers are the top priority of this rule.7. On Friday, some farmers took part in a “symbolic suicide” protest in Noida.8. A group of volunteers at Singhu border has launched newsletter Trolley Times to dispel misconceptions regarding farm laws.9. A library-cum-cultural centre has been set up at Singhu border so that protesters, children who have come to Delhi can study.10. As the government is reiterating its commitment to MSP, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has said farmers are not getting the remunerative price of their produce which is leading them to commit suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-day-24-haryana-cm-meets-tomar-agitation-intensifies/story-lfPh4IMdyV3tD04uFNbKEP.html
19-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers’ steadfast in their demands as Delhi temperature plummets to season’s lowest yet||Braving the harsh cold of Delhi, thousands of farmers protesting against the three recent agri laws remained steadfast in their demands of repealing the legislations as their agitation entered its fourth week.According to the India Meteorological Department, the national capital recorded its coldest day on Saturday with the minimum temperature dropping to 3.9 degrees Celsius at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides the representative data for the city.The mercury dipped to even lower levels in some parts of the city, recording 3.3 degrees Celsius and 3.4 degrees Celsius at Lodhi Road and Ayanagar, respectively.The agitation has also led to traffic diversions at various border points causing inconvenience to commuters. Taking to Twitter on Saturday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the closure of certain roads and suggested them to take alternative routes.It said the Ghazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad due to the ongoing protest.However, those travelling to Delhi can take alternative routes via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders, it said. “Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” it said in a tweet.However, for those travelling to Haryana, the Delhi Traffic Police said some borders are opened -- the Jharoda border (only for single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera.The Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open for traffic but just one carriageway. However, the other carriageway from Noida to Delhi is closed, according to the traffic police. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road,” the traffic police said.“Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road, NH-44,” it tweeted. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at various border of Delhi for almost four weeks now as formal talks between the government and representatives of farmers’ unions remained deadlocked with protesting peasants refusing to accept anything less than a repeal of the newly enacted laws. The farmers have been saying these new laws will pave the way for a dismantling of the Minimum Support Price mechanism and the mandi system, leaving them to the “mercy” of big corporates, apprehensions the government insists are misplaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-steadfast-in-their-demands-as-delhi-temperature-plummets-to-season-s-lowest-yet/story-uBtWlg73a8vvPdJpHXP7UN.html
19-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest latest updates: Rajasthan MP Beniwal resigns from parliamentary panel in support of farmers’ stir||Farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws entered day 24 on Saturday as the impasse between the government and farmers’ unions continues. Amid the ongoing deadlock, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually addressed the farmers of Madhya Pradesh in ‘Kisan Kalyan Sammelan’ which was telecasted across 23,000 villages of the country and at all the district headquarters of Madhya Pradesh. During the hour long address, Prime Minister Modi reiterated his government’s commitment to the welfare of farmers and explained how the three farm laws are a step towards making farmers’ lives better. Towards the conclusion of his speech, PM Modi said the welfare of the farmers is the top priority of the government. “But still after all these, if our farmers have any concern, we will bow our heads in front of them and will listen to what they have to say. Their benefit is our utmost priority,” he said concluding his address.Responding to PM Modi’s address to Madhya Pradesh farmers, a statement from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said, “The Prime Minister has launched an open attack on the farmers of India by claiming that they are linked to opposition parties. In place of addressing the issue of repeal of the three Farm Acts which erode farmers’ hold on land and farming and establish the MNCs and big business to grow in agriculture, he has reduced himself to a party leader, undermining his role as a responsible executive head of the country, expected to solve problems.”Also read: Farmers’ protest: Solution hopefully before year ends, says Tomar | 4 key pointsAgriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in an interview to PTI on Friday said that the government is hopeful of resolving farmers’ agitation before the new year and is continuing its informal dialogue with various groups to diffuse the crisis. He also asserted that the government is ready to give a written assurance that the minimum support price (MSP) and mandi system will continue.Meanwhile, thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders for more than three weeks. Several protesting leaders have threatened to step up their agitation and have said that they are prepared to celebrate the Republic Day next year with their own tractor rally on Delhi borders.Also read: MSP only real risk protection for farmers, says new studyFollow all the latest updates here:Rajasthan MP Beniwal resigns from parliamentary panel in support of farmers’ protestRajasthan’s Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal on Saturday resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture-related laws, reports PTI.Farmers’ union calls for meeting with administration on Sunday over restricting tractors’ movementTomorrow at 11 am there will be a meeting with administration here over stopping the movement of tractors. If our demands are not fulfilled then both side of road will be blocked: Sardar VM Singh, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee at Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP border), reports ANI.Gujarat CM asks Congress why it allowed contract farming in PunjabGujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday alleged that corporates are allowed to enter into contract farming in the Congress-ruled Punjab while the party is opposing the new farm laws, reports PTI.Protesting farmers at Ghazipur border use solar panel to charge phones, tractors, batteriesAmid the lack of facilities, farmers protesting against the new farm laws at Delhi’s Ghazipur border have started using solar panels to charge their phones, tractor batteries and to carry out other important works., reports PTI.PM says agri reforms have started benefiting farmersSpeaking at an Assocham convention, Modi highlighted reforms spanning from the manufacturing sector to labour to say India has during the last six years emerged as the world’s preferred destination for investment. Record foreign direct investment (FDI) and foreign portfolio investment (FPI) during the pandemic is a testimony to the faith that the world now has in India, he said.“Agriculture reforms initiated six months back have started benefitting farmers,” he said without elaborating.BJP leader and ex-Union minister Birender Singh extends support to farmers’ agitationFormer Union minister and senior BJP leader Birender Singh has extended his support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three agriculture-marketing laws passed by the Centre. Singh is grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram, a prominent politician during the pre-independence era who championed the interest of farmers. Singh, whose son Brijendra is a sitting BJP MP, said it was his moral responsibility to stand with the farmers who he said are “worried” as they fear the new legislations will have an “impact” on their economic condition.“Whatever I have achieved in politics, would not have been possible had I not been the grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram,” Singh said on Friday.Government needs to resolve farmers’ issue, not Supreme Court: AIKSThe All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) on Friday said the issue of the ongoing farmers’ protests against three new farm laws needs to be resolved by the government and not the Supreme Court. The AIKS, a key member of the “Samyukta Kisan Morcha” that is spearheading the “Dilli Chalo” agitation against the three farm laws, asserted that no farmer organisation approached the court in the first place and asked for its intervention in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-december-19-2020/story-ulxXNsoLYaLWOMdhEFFvLP.html
19-12-2020||India||‘Bow to farmers’: PM Modi backs laws, slams Opposition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi defended the three new agriculture laws on Friday, saying the legislation would ensure that Indian farmers kept pace with global standards, and attacked the Opposition for misleading cultivators in his strongest appeal yet to break the stalemate with protesting groups. Addressing a farmers’ meeting in Madhya Pradesh virtually, Modi reiterated his administration’s commitment to state-set crop prices and government-regulated market yards, or mandis, and underlined that he was willing to address all concerns of farmers, who have camped outside the Capital for three weeks now. “Even after my words and the efforts of the government, if someone has any concerns, then we are ready to bow our heads humbly and discuss the issues with folded hands, for the welfare of the farmers,” the PM said. “I believe there is no reason for distrust or place for lies in the farm reforms we have passed.”His comments came on a day agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government was hopeful of resolving the crisis by the new year with the help of backchannel talks with farmer groups. Five previous rounds of talks bore no fruit as protesters were firm in their demand of a repeal of the laws, a possibility the government didn’t entertain. Modi said he will again speak on the issue in greater detail on December 25.In his virtual address, Modi said three farm laws weren’t introduced overnight and should have been enacted three decades ago. “The global scenario is changing and it can’t be accepted that Indian farmers lag behind and become helpless in the absence of facilities and advanced technologies…the new laws have not been introduced overnight. Every central government and state governments had discussed it in the past 20-22 years,” he said. He also alleged that the Opposition was using farmers for politicking and trying to win lost political ground by misleading the agriculturists. “I don’t think the opposition has any problem with the farm reforms but have a problem that Modi fulfilled promises that they made and couldn’t fulfil. They didn’t get credit for it. I am ready to give all credit to you and manifestoes of the political parties but please don’t mislead the farmers,” said the PM. The massive farmers’ protest was set off by the three controversial laws pushed through Parliament by the government in September. These allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business, gut the mandi system and gradually end the regime of minimum support prices (MSP) that acts as a protective net for cultivators. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah. They have threatened to intensify their strike and block more roads if the impasse continues. In his speech, Modi made a strong pitch for MSPs and said it was a lie to suggest that the government was thinking of ending them. “Opposition leaders are spreading lies about MSP. But I want to assure every farmer that the MSP system will not be discontinued. If we actually want to discontinue this system, why would we implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission?” he asked, referring to a 2004-06 commission headed by agricultural scientist MS Swaminathan and set up for the welfare for farmers. “The laws came into force six months ago and like the past, we still declared MSP…we are so serious about MSP that we declare the prices even before cultivation,” the PM added. He presented a set of statistics to prove that his government declared higher MSPs than the United Progressive Alliance administration that was in power between 2004 and 2014. He also strongly countered the notion that mandis would close due to the new laws. “The Opposition’s second lie is about the closure of mandis. The businessmen have a freedom to sell their products anywhere in the world but even after 70 years, the farmers didn’t have freedom. The government used to instruct the farmers to sell their produce at mandis only. But with this new law we have given freedom to framers to take decision whether they want to sell the produce in mandi or outside,” said the PM. “Has one mandi closed after the new laws? Then why is this lie being spread?” he asked. He took on the Opposition over the contract farming law, which many say will leave small farmers vulnerable. “We have just made the law to save the farmers from fraud. The agreement will be of crop and production and it has nothing to do with the land. We have given rights to farmers to break the contract but the businessmen can’t do so. If they do so, they have to pay money to farmers,” said the PM. Taking a jibe at the Congress, Modi said, “In every 10 years, Congress announced a farm loan waiver scheme. But we all know what they promised and what they gave. In Madhya Pradesh, they promised to waive off loans in 10 days but farmers know what they got. They made the farmers loan defaulters. In Rajasthan too, farmers are still waiting.” During the programme, state chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan transferred Rs 1,660 crore to the accounts of 3.5 million farmers as relief for crop loss.Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged the PM was deceiving farmers and added that the Centre should shed its arrogance and repeal the three farm laws at the earliest. “Listen to the farmers, take back the anti-farmer laws,” tweeted Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bow-to-farmers-pm-modi-backs-laws-slams-opposition/story-BLGVqDMJ0x9ceCkHdK5baP.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||If govt can’t find a solution, we will plough our way to one, warns Bharatiya Kisan Union at UP Gate||Exhorting farmers to be a part of the next “kisan kranti (farmers’ revolution)”, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait warned that if the central government cannot find a solution to the deadlock over the three new farm laws, then the farmers will be forced to “plough their way to a solution”. “Six rounds of talks with the central government have yielded no solution. The government should either find a “hal (solution)” or we will have to resort to a “hal kranti (plough our way to a revolution/change)”. Such a revolution would go right through the heart of Delhi itself,” said Tikait, who is also BKU’s national spokesperson, at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border, where hundreds of farmers have been protesting against the farm laws for the past 23 days. Also Read| ‘Bow to farmers’: PM Modi backs laws, slams OppositionAddressing the gathering of farmers, Tikait urged farmers and all kisan unions across the country to “unite and join” the ongoing protests at the four border points of Delhi – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate and Chilla. “Every farmer should now leave their homes and, carrying farming tools, join us in our protest. I also ask all farmer unions , both big and small, to come here (the Delhi borders with their flags and banners. We will welcome them,” said Tikait. The farmer leader also thanked the Supreme Court for terming their protests “peaceful” and for asking the government “why in the past eight days have there been no talks with farmers over contentious issues”. “I have learnt that the representatives of the government will be holding 700 meetings over the farm laws. One such meeting is in Meerut on Friday. Why is the government holding such talks in cities and towns and not meeting farmers in their villages? Farmers are protesting at the Delhi borders. Why is the government not coming here?” said Tikait. Also Read: MSP only real risk protection for farmers, says new studyApart from Singhu and Tikri borders, where thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping for the past 23 days, blocking vehicular movement, farmers from Uttar Pradesh have been protesting at UP Gate and Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) for just as many days, unmindful of the cold wave sweeping through the NCR. The number of tents at Ghazipur border has increased and nearly all of them have been covered with tarpaulin sheets to stop the cold draughts. The elderly farmers have been advised to stay in the tents or tractor trolleys to avoid falling ill. Also Read| The farm laws: How not to do reformsWhile the gathering at three borders remained intact, even increasing during the weekends, the situation at the Chilla border has kept fluctuating in the past fortnight. On Friday, the number of protesting farmers at Chilla border was fewer than 100, compared to Thursday when 200 to 300 farmers had remained present and had a brief standoff with the security personnel, while making a bid to proceed towards Delhi. At Ghazipur and Chilla borders, unlike SInghu and Tikri, protesters have only blocked the carriageways going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad and Noida. The traffic is being diverted to the alternative border points to avoid inconvenience to motorists commuting between Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/if-govt-can-t-find-a-solution-we-will-plough-our-way-to-one-warns-bharatiya-kisan-union-at-up-gate/story-O86r2PNr9eDbSoa2ujRwNP.html
19-12-2020||India||BJP ally Hanuman Beniwal to lead farmers’ march, quits 3 Parliament panels||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party’s Hanuman Beniwal, an ally of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) from Rajasthan, on Saturday resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture-related laws, adding that the party will launch a march towards Delhi on December 26 in support of farmers. The route for the Delhi march is yet to be decided but the party claimed that around two lakh people will join them in the effort. “I am a son of a farmer and I have also supported farmers. Immediately after completing local panchayat elections on December 12 we launched a march for Shahjahanpur and had given an ultimatum to the Centre. Today, the deadline has ended after which my party has decided that we will launch a march towards Delhi on December 26 via Shahjahanpur border in which two lakhs farmers and youngsters will participate. The Central government is in the mood to muscle down the farmers’ protest. But this is the issue of sustenance and pride of farmers and we are standing with them,” said Beniwal while addressing a press conference at his residence. The MP from Nagaur was a member of the Standing Committee on Industry, Consultative Committee, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Committee on Petitions. Beniwal said that we are demanding that the government should implement the Swaminathan Commission recommendations so that farmers’ condition can be improved. “The government should roll back the farm laws. When the bills were discussed in Parliament, I was detected Covid positive. Otherwise, I would have torn the copy of the law. This is the time that the Prime Minister should listen to the farmers and get their blessings. He should not take this protest lightly. A saint died by suicide because of the issue,” the RLP chief added. On BJP’s hard stance amid protests, Beniwal said there is no farmer leader in the BJP and that’s why they are not able to understand farmers’ pain. A BJP spokesperson said that the RLP is supporting the protesting farmers to gain political mileage. “The BJP government is dedicated to the welfare of the farmers and majority of them are with us. The RLP had initially supported the farm laws and now taking a U-turn to gain political mileage,” he said on condition of anonymity. State Congress spokesperson Nitin Agarwal said that there is a lot of difference between what Beniwal says and what he does. “Initially, he supported the farmers’ law and now he is against the bills. There is a contradiction in his statements. If he really wants farmers’ benefit then just like the Akali Dal, he should break the alliance with the NDA,” he said. On being asked about his initial support to the farm bills, Beniwal said he had supported the ordinance which was not a detailed one. “But once I read the farm laws, I came to know that they are totally against the interest of farmers, that’s why I am against it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-ally-hanuman-beniwal-to-lead-farmers-march-quits-3-parliament-panels/story-K6OVsEOqKmUn2l2zA6QS2L.html
19-12-2020||India||BJP leader and ex-Union minister Birender Singh extends support to farmers’ agitation||Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Birender Singh has extended his support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three agriculture-marketing laws passed by the Centre.Singh is grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram, a prominent politician during the pre-independence era who championed the interest of farmers. Singh, whose son Brijendra is a sitting BJP MP, said it was his moral responsibility to stand with the farmers who he said are “worried” as they fear the new legislations will have an “impact” on their economic condition.“Whatever I have achieved in politics, would not have been possible had I not been the grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram,” Singh said on Friday.“Therefore, it is my moral responsibility to stand with the farmers in their fight today and, therefore, I have decided to support this (farmers’) fight,” said Singh, a prominent Jat leader in Haryana.Singh further said that he along with his supporters will soon observe a symbolic hunger strike in Haryana’s districts bordering Delhi. Under the banner of Chaudhary Chhotu Ram Vichar Manch, the former Union minister along with his supporters had sat on a protest at Rohtak on Friday.Farmers from different parts of the country, including Haryana and Punjab, have been camping at various border points of Delhi for three weeks to demand a repeal of the farm laws.Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP), do away with mandi system and will leave them at the “mercy of big corporates”, apprehensions the government has been insisting are misplaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-and-ex-union-minister-birender-singh-extends-support-to-farmers-agitation/story-JZ1KA2ooFddzzNiSt6uwpN.html
19-12-2020||India||‘Bow to farmers’: PM Modi backs laws, slams Opposition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi defended the three new agriculture laws on Friday, saying the legislation would ensure that Indian farmers kept pace with global standards, and attacked the Opposition for misleading cultivators in his strongest appeal yet to break the stalemate with protesting groups. Addressing a farmers’ meeting in Madhya Pradesh virtually, Modi reiterated his administration’s commitment to state-set crop prices and government-regulated market yards, or mandis, and underlined that he was willing to address all concerns of farmers, who have camped outside the Capital for three weeks now. “Even after my words and the efforts of the government, if someone has any concerns, then we are ready to bow our heads humbly and discuss the issues with folded hands, for the welfare of the farmers,” the PM said. “I believe there is no reason for distrust or place for lies in the farm reforms we have passed.”His comments came on a day agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government was hopeful of resolving the crisis by the new year with the help of backchannel talks with farmer groups. Five previous rounds of talks bore no fruit as protesters were firm in their demand of a repeal of the laws, a possibility the government didn’t entertain. Modi said he will again speak on the issue in greater detail on December 25.In his virtual address, Modi said three farm laws weren’t introduced overnight and should have been enacted three decades ago. “The global scenario is changing and it can’t be accepted that Indian farmers lag behind and become helpless in the absence of facilities and advanced technologies…the new laws have not been introduced overnight. Every central government and state governments had discussed it in the past 20-22 years,” he said. He also alleged that the Opposition was using farmers for politicking and trying to win lost political ground by misleading the agriculturists. “I don’t think the opposition has any problem with the farm reforms but have a problem that Modi fulfilled promises that they made and couldn’t fulfil. They didn’t get credit for it. I am ready to give all credit to you and manifestoes of the political parties but please don’t mislead the farmers,” said the PM. The massive farmers’ protest was set off by the three controversial laws pushed through Parliament by the government in September. These allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business, gut the mandi system and gradually end the regime of minimum support prices (MSP) that acts as a protective net for cultivators. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah. They have threatened to intensify their strike and block more roads if the impasse continues. In his speech, Modi made a strong pitch for MSPs and said it was a lie to suggest that the government was thinking of ending them. “Opposition leaders are spreading lies about MSP. But I want to assure every farmer that the MSP system will not be discontinued. If we actually want to discontinue this system, why would we implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission?” he asked, referring to a 2004-06 commission headed by agricultural scientist MS Swaminathan and set up for the welfare for farmers. “The laws came into force six months ago and like the past, we still declared MSP…we are so serious about MSP that we declare the prices even before cultivation,” the PM added. He presented a set of statistics to prove that his government declared higher MSPs than the United Progressive Alliance administration that was in power between 2004 and 2014. He also strongly countered the notion that mandis would close due to the new laws. “The Opposition’s second lie is about the closure of mandis. The businessmen have a freedom to sell their products anywhere in the world but even after 70 years, the farmers didn’t have freedom. The government used to instruct the farmers to sell their produce at mandis only. But with this new law we have given freedom to framers to take decision whether they want to sell the produce in mandi or outside,” said the PM. “Has one mandi closed after the new laws? Then why is this lie being spread?” he asked. He took on the Opposition over the contract farming law, which many say will leave small farmers vulnerable. “We have just made the law to save the farmers from fraud. The agreement will be of crop and production and it has nothing to do with the land. We have given rights to farmers to break the contract but the businessmen can’t do so. If they do so, they have to pay money to farmers,” said the PM. Taking a jibe at the Congress, Modi said, “In every 10 years, Congress announced a farm loan waiver scheme. But we all know what they promised and what they gave. In Madhya Pradesh, they promised to waive off loans in 10 days but farmers know what they got. They made the farmers loan defaulters. In Rajasthan too, farmers are still waiting.” During the programme, state chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan transferred Rs 1,660 crore to the accounts of 3.5 million farmers as relief for crop loss.Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged the PM was deceiving farmers and added that the Centre should shed its arrogance and repeal the three farm laws at the earliest. “Listen to the farmers, take back the anti-farmer laws,” tweeted Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bow-to-farmers-pm-modi-backs-laws-slams-opposition/story-BLGVqDMJ0x9ceCkHdK5baP.html
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers uproot BJP workers’ tent in Fatehabad for fast backing farm laws||Raising slogans against the BJP, farmers uprooted a tent put up by party workers in Fatehabad on Saturday during their day-long hunger strike in support of the three farm laws and their demand for Haryana’s share of water from Punjab through the Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal. BJP district chief Baldev Groha and other party leaders were present when the farmers showed them black flags, raised slogans and uprooted the tent. They left the venue under tight police security. The state BJP announced a day’s fast and dharna at district headquarters to counter the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new farm laws and to demand the construction of the SYL Canal in Punjab and its share of water. Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal, Fatehabad MLA Duda Ram and Ratia MLA Laxman Napa did not join the protest on Saturday. HISAR MP SKIPS PARTY PROTEST A day after his father extended support to the protesting farmers against the farm laws, BJP’s Hisar MP Brijendra Singh skipped the day-long hunger strike. State agriculture minister JP Dalal led the protest in Bhiwani, while Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar observed the protest in Jhajjar. In a video message, Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry of the Congress hit out at the BJP for trying to divide farmers of Punjab and Haryana. “The BJP can do one thing, and that is to create a division among farmers. But the farmers have seen their real face. I want to ask the Haryana agriculture minister why did his party fail to take a single step to bring the SYL water to Haryana despite being in power for six years? The minister should ask his government to send water in the Hansi-Butana canal so that farmers of southern Haryana can benefit,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-uproot-bjp-workers-tent-in-fatehabad-for-fast-backing-farm-laws/story-K9mX5OI10Dgqzwn40P2IqJ.html
19-12-2020||Delhi||If govt can’t find a solution, we will plough our way to one, warns Bharatiya Kisan Union at UP Gate||Exhorting farmers to be a part of the next “kisan kranti (farmers’ revolution)”, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait warned that if the central government cannot find a solution to the deadlock over the three new farm laws, then the farmers will be forced to “plough their way to a solution”. “Six rounds of talks with the central government have yielded no solution. The government should either find a “hal (solution)” or we will have to resort to a “hal kranti (plough our way to a revolution/change)”. Such a revolution would go right through the heart of Delhi itself,” said Tikait, who is also BKU’s national spokesperson, at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border, where hundreds of farmers have been protesting against the farm laws for the past 23 days. Also Read| ‘Bow to farmers’: PM Modi backs laws, slams OppositionAddressing the gathering of farmers, Tikait urged farmers and all kisan unions across the country to “unite and join” the ongoing protests at the four border points of Delhi – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate and Chilla. “Every farmer should now leave their homes and, carrying farming tools, join us in our protest. I also ask all farmer unions , both big and small, to come here (the Delhi borders with their flags and banners. We will welcome them,” said Tikait. The farmer leader also thanked the Supreme Court for terming their protests “peaceful” and for asking the government “why in the past eight days have there been no talks with farmers over contentious issues”. “I have learnt that the representatives of the government will be holding 700 meetings over the farm laws. One such meeting is in Meerut on Friday. Why is the government holding such talks in cities and towns and not meeting farmers in their villages? Farmers are protesting at the Delhi borders. Why is the government not coming here?” said Tikait. Also Read: MSP only real risk protection for farmers, says new studyApart from Singhu and Tikri borders, where thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping for the past 23 days, blocking vehicular movement, farmers from Uttar Pradesh have been protesting at UP Gate and Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) for just as many days, unmindful of the cold wave sweeping through the NCR. The number of tents at Ghazipur border has increased and nearly all of them have been covered with tarpaulin sheets to stop the cold draughts. The elderly farmers have been advised to stay in the tents or tractor trolleys to avoid falling ill. Also Read| The farm laws: How not to do reformsWhile the gathering at three borders remained intact, even increasing during the weekends, the situation at the Chilla border has kept fluctuating in the past fortnight. On Friday, the number of protesting farmers at Chilla border was fewer than 100, compared to Thursday when 200 to 300 farmers had remained present and had a brief standoff with the security personnel, while making a bid to proceed towards Delhi. At Ghazipur and Chilla borders, unlike SInghu and Tikri, protesters have only blocked the carriageways going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad and Noida. The traffic is being diverted to the alternative border points to avoid inconvenience to motorists commuting between Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/if-govt-can-t-find-a-solution-we-will-plough-our-way-to-one-warns-bharatiya-kisan-union-at-up-gate/story-O86r2PNr9eDbSoa2ujRwNP.html
