21-12-2020||India||Modi to release next tranche of PM-Kisan, chat with farmers virtually on Christmas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the next tranche of PM-Kisan, the direct cash-transfer scheme for farmers, making payments worth Rs18,000 crore to 80 million farmers and also chat with them virtually on Christmas Day, the agriculture ministry has said. Modi had released the first tranche in 2019 and will do so again at a time when thousands of farmers, largely from Punjab, are protesting three agricultural laws they say will hurt their livelihoods. The government says the reforms will give farmers more market access and boost investment in the farm sector. “It will be a freewheeling conversation. The Prime Minister is likely to talk about the new farm laws and how they will benefit farmers,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Under PM-Kisan, the government provides income support of Rs6,000 a year to farmers with valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs2,000, once every four months. It was launched on February 24 2019, when the first instalment was paid. Also Read: Maharashtra farmers to start their vehicle march to Delhi from Nashik todayThe Prime Minister will most likely ask them impromptu questions on how they have benefited from the scheme and “take a briefing from them on what they are growing and what else they want to see done for them ahead of the budget”, the official said. Farmers from all over the country will be connected online for the interaction, according to the official. The Prime Minister also intends to receive feedback on the ground realities of farming, he said. The Modi government has ramped up its outreach to stanch a massive ongoing agitation by thousands of farmers who have encircled Delhi, calling for scrapping a set of farm reform laws. PM Modi has frequently been explaining the benefits of the farm reforms and assuring farmers that the existing government support mechanism, including minimum support price and agriculture mandis, will continue. “Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has expressed his feelings by writing a letter to the farmer brothers and sisters, attempting to have a polite dialogue. I request all the farmers to read it,” PM Modi had tweeted on Thursday. Cash transfers under the programme take place every four months: December to March, April to July and August to November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-release-cash-chat-with-farmers-explain-farm-laws-on-christmas/story-vMQqevM1ecH94RnitQYUNK.html
21-12-2020||City||Kundli-Singhu border: 65-year-old farmer allegedly consumes poison||A 65-year-old farmer allegedly consumed poison on Monday morning at Kundli-Singhu border, where farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws for the past three weeks.Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar said he consumed sulphas tablets.“He was rushed to Civil Hospital in Sonepat, from where he was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. We are looking into the matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kundli-singhu-border-65-year-old-farmer-allegedly-consumes-poison/story-nuLeOrUDELQbwb6kwohB4L.html
21-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra farmers to start their vehicle march to Delhi from Nashik today||Over 5,000 farmers from Maharashtra will kickstart a vehicle march from Nashik to Delhi at 3.00pm on Monday, to join the farmers protesting at the borders of the national capital since the past three weeks. All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) will flag off the March with a public meeting in Nashik at 1.30pm. Farmers from 20 districts of the state will gather at Nashik and travel 1,266 kilometres to Delhi and join the protests at the Rajasthan-Haryana border on December 24. Ashok Dhawale, president, AIKS, said in the statement, “The vehicle jatha will begin with a massive public meeting at Nashik at 1.30pm. About 5,000 farmers will join this meeting and participate in the vehicle march. Most of them will accompany us till the Maharashtra border. Thereafter, 2,000 or so farmers will continue to travel to Delhi.” The vehicle march will be met by farmers at Ozar, Pimpalgaon Baswant, Chandwad, Umrane, Malegaon, and Shirpur and Dhule districts of Maharashtra before entering Madhya Pradesh.Also Read: Govt asks farmers to come for talks, spell out objectionsThe purpose of organising this march is to counter the government’s argument that only farmers from Punjab and Haryana are affected by the three laws, and that this is not a pan-India protest. Dhawale said, “The government is running a propaganda that whatever is happening in Delhi is only because of farmers from Punjab and Haryana. When thousands of farmers from Maharashtra will travel around 1,300 kilometres to participate in the protest, it will effectively counter the government’s argument.” The massive farmers’ protest was set off by the three farm laws pushed through Parliament by the government in September. These allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business, gut the mandi system and gradually end the regime of minimum support prices (MSP) that acts as a protective net for cultivators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-farmers-to-start-their-vehicle-march-to-delhi-from-nashik-today/story-ppk0a1YniTxDe5bJCKg9WM.html
21-12-2020||Delhi||Tikri, Singhu borders closed as farmers’ stir enters Day 26||Tikri and Dhansa borders have been closed for traffic movement and the Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians, Delhi Traffic Police said on Monday as the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws entered the 26th day. Police have also asked people to avoid the Outer Ring road, National Highway 44 and GTK Road. Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, and Mangesh borders have also been closed apart from Tikri and Dhansa, they added.“Tikri, Dhansa borders are closed for any traffic movement. Jhatikara borders is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, and Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad Saboli & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK road and NH 44,” they added.The farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three farm laws is nearing its one month anniversary on December 26. Thousands of farmers have taken to the streets leading up to the national capital from several states, especially Punjab. The protesting farmers have made it clear that they were not willing to accept anything other than a complete rollback of all the three laws. The Centre, however, has proposed amendments to the laws, all of which have been rejected after discussions between the representatives of both parties.The sets of representatives have discussed possible future courses of action a number of times but all have resulted in a stalemate. The contentious farm laws were passed by the central government in the Lok Sabha on September 17, and in the Rajya Sabha on September 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tikri-singhu-borders-closed-as-farmers-stir-enters-day-26/story-ZVLidBIdQ3CIdEBke2zfQJ.html
21-12-2020||India||Farmers continue to protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam ground, Tikri border||Farmers continue to protest against the new farm laws at Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari and Tikri border demanding the withdrawal of the laws.“It has been three to four months since we are struggling, first we fought this struggle in Punjab and now we are fighting in Delhi. We will not go until these agricultural laws are withdrawn,” Rampal Singh of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said.The agitating farmers continue to remain at the border areas here amid the prevailing cold conditions. Meanwhile, farmers have decided to sit on a relay hunger strike from today. “Everyday eleven farmers will sit on hunger strike for 24 hours,” said Balwant Singh, Secretary, BKU Punjab. “List of names have been prepared for the relay hunger strike,” he added.Yesterday, farmer unions announced a 24-hour relay hunger strike starting today and appealed to citizens to skip a meal on December 23 on the occasion of ‘Kisan Diwas’. They further said that they had also decided to make the Haryana toll plaza free from December 25 to December 27.The Central government on Sunday invited farmer leaders for a fresh round of talks amid attempts to end the agitation. The government has held several rounds of talks with the farmers so far. On December 8, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had held a meeting with the 13 representatives of farm unions. However, a day later, farmer leaders rejected a proposal sent by the Centre.Hundreds of farmers are protesting at the borders of Delhi since November 26 against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-continue-to-protest-at-burari-s-nirankari-samagam-ground-tikri-border/story-GlLK3ORxg5S5Ygc4D3DTGL.html
21-12-2020||India||Will leave politics if someone tries to abolish MSP, says Haryana CM Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that if someone tries to do away with Minimum Support Price (MSP) then he will quit politics. Speaking at a public gathering in Haryana’s Narnaul, he reassured farmers as their protest on Delhi borders entered day 25 on Sunday. “MSP will always be there. If someone tries to abolish it, Manohar Lal Khattar will leave politics. MSP will not end,” he said. “MSP was there in the past, it is present now and it will remain in the future as well,” he added.Also Read: Govt asks farmers to come for talks, spell out objectionsKhattar’s statement came after he met with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday and discussed the ongoing farmers’ issue. “A solution to this issue (farmers’ protest) should be found through discussion. I have said that this issue should be resolved soon. The Centre is ready to talk to the farmers over their issues related to the new farm laws clause by clause,” the Haryana CM told news agency ANI after the meeting.While Khattar said that another round of talks between the Centre and farmers’ unions could be on the cards, Tomar urged the protesting farm unions to spell out their “apprehensions” about the three agricultural laws in greater detail. He said that this was needed to have focused discussions on specific issues and that their grievances currently “lacked clarity”. The minister also urged farmers to specify a date for talks.Also Read: Amid farmers’ agitation, PM Modi pays surprise visit to gurdwaraAccording to Union home minister Amit Shah, Tomar was likely to hold talks with the protesting groups in a day or two. “I am not exactly aware of the timing but Tomar is likely to meet the representatives of farmers tomorrow or the day after to discuss their demands,” Shah said in a press conference in West Bengal on Sunday. Farmers have been agitating on the borders of the national capital since November 26 against the recently enacted Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-leave-politics-if-someone-tries-to-abolish-msp-says-haryana-cm-khattar/story-g0AgdoDCfWLZCv6S6ddwBL.html
