23-12-2020||India||Modi govt committed to farmers’ welfare; hope they soon withdraw stir: Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday reiterated the government’s commitment to farmers’ welfare and hoped the farmers protesting against three farm laws enacted in September will soon withdraw their agitation. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not allow any harm to the farmers under any circumstancesIn a series of tweets on the occasion of late former prime minister Charan Singh’s birth anniversary that is observed as Kisan Diwas (farmer’s day), Rajnath Singh cited measures Modi has taken in the farmers’ interest. He added Charan Singh, who was known to espouse the farmers’ causes, has inspired Modi to take these measures. Rajnath Singh noted key ministers have talked with protesting farmers to convince them to end the agitation against the farm laws.आज किसान दिवस के अवसर मैं देश के सभी अन्नदाताओं का अभिनंदन करता हूँ। उन्होंने देश को खाद्य सुरक्षा का कवच प्रदान किया है। कृषि क़ानूनों को लेकर कुछ किसान आंदोलनरत हैं। सरकार उनसे पूरी संवेदनशीलता के साथ बात कर रही है। मैं आशा करता हूँ कि वे जल्द ही अपने आंदोलन को वापिस लेगें।“...The government has been talking to them [farmers] with the utmost sensitivity. I hope they will soon withdraw their agitation,” he said. Rajnath Singh paid tributes to Charan Singh, saying the latter voiced concerns of farmers and worked for their welfare. “He [Charan Singh] always wanted that farmers should get a good price for their produce so that their income increases and that their honour always remained secure.” He lauded the farmers for providing the country food security.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-committed-to-farmers-welfare-hope-protesting-farmers-soon-withdraw-stir-rajnath/story-d5O3h4UWIRbvLMosYaha4M.html
23-12-2020||India||Unfortunate that farmers have to protest for rights, says Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said it is the responsibility of those in power to aptly honour farmers, but unfortunately cultivators are now forced to stage protest for their rights.On the occasion of the National Farmers’ Day, the former Union agriculture minister in a post on Twitter wished for justice to the farmers.Thousands of cultivators have been protesting at the border points of Delhi since November 26 against the Centre’s three new farm laws.“It is the responsibility of those in power to aptly honour farmer who forms an important part of economy. But unfortunately the farmer of the country is now forced to stage protest for his rights and demands,” Pawar tweeted.“Wishing for justice to the farmer on the occasion of the National Farmers’ Day,” he added.Farmers protesting at the Delhi border points have been demanding a repeal of the new agri laws.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unfortunate-that-farmers-have-to-protest-for-rights-says-sharad-pawar/story-Te3XG3OQcAofgITg4OcYzN.html
23-12-2020||India||Farm laws: Rahul Gandhi to hold protest demonstration on Thursday, later meet President||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will lead a protest on Thursday against the three farm laws enacted in September before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind along with a delegation of his party’s lawmakers to submit around 20 million signatures collected from across the country over the last three months seeking repeal of the legislation.“After that [the protest] he [Gandhi] and other senior leaders will meet the President and submit a memorandum with 2 crore [20 million] signatures seeking his intervention,” Congress leader K Suresh said.Also Read: Kisan Diwas 2020: Congress, SAD extend support to protesting farmersGandhi earlier undertook a tractor rally across Punjab and Haryana as part of the campaign against the laws.The Congress launched a nationwide campaign in September for collecting appeals of farmers, farm labourers, and other stakeholders addressed to Kovind for repealing the laws.“The government has chosen to brazenly defame, discredit and eventually tire out the lakhs of protesting farmers. The Modi government and its ministers have chosen to insult them,” Congress leader KC Venugopal said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-hold-protest-demonstration-against-farm-laws-on-thursday-later-meet-president/story-bGhNZcFlSC2r8EdC5XjJtK.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Chilla and Ghazipur borders remain closed||Delhi’s border crossing points with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur continued to remain closed on Wednesday because of the farmers’ protest even as the traffic police have suggested alternative routes for motorists.Those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh have been advised to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND, and Apsara borders, which have remained mostly unaffected.The police have continued checking at these points to ensure protesting farmers do not sneak in. This has slowed down traffic.Also Read: Kisan Diwas 2020: Congress, SAD extend support to protesting farmersDelhi’s border crossing points into Haryana passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, and Saboli and Mangesh too remain closed.The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists can choose other points such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches between the two states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-chilla-and-ghazipur-borders-remain-closed/story-fkz1Eeup7ICfkzUBDNXmTI.html
23-12-2020||India||BJP may hold events for farmers across the country on Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will hold events for farmers on the occasion of late former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birthday on December 25 at block levels to explain how the farm laws enacted in September will benefit them, people aware of the matter said. It will also highlight steps the government has taken for the farmers amid protests by farm unions demanding the scrapping of the three laws.The Centre is also expected to pay Rs18,000 crore to 90 million farmers under its PM-Kisan scheme on December 25.In a letter to functionaries across the country, BJP general secretary Arun Singh has asked them to install big TV screens for beaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on the occasion. It says BJP chief JP Nadda wants the party workers to organise large gatherings of farmers at block levels to ensure they listen to the speech.Also Read: Kisan Diwas 2020: Congress, SAD extend support to protesting farmersSpecial leaflets prepared for awareness about the government’s “pro-farmer initiatives” would also be distributed. Singh has urged party workers to get the leaflets translated into local languages.The local level programmes would begin an hour before the speech. BJP functionaries have been asked to give details of steps such as the increase in minimum support prices the Centre has taken for the benefit of farmers.Singh has urged BJP workers to gather outside Agricultural Produce Market Committees and cooperative organisations for similar events and gatherings. In his letter, Singh has said Modi is committed to working for farmers and the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-farmer-events-across-the-country-on-vajpayee-s-birth-anniversary/story-vQ5L09bfFNfoYu5bAjJQ4H.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest day 28: Decision on further talks with Centre today, Kisan Diwas to be observed through fast, agitation, gherao||On December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address some farmers virtually, which will coincide with the 30th day of the ongoing protest Dilli Chalo by the farmers, started from November 26. Before that, a decision on the next round of talks with the Centre is likely as the Centre has already invited them and now it’s on the protesters to fix a date. On Wednesday, on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, farmers will skip a meal protesting against the three agriculture laws, recently passed by Parliament.Here are the latest updates of farmers’ protest:1. About 32 farmer union leaders will meet on Wednesday to decide the next course of action — pertaining to further talks with the government. The Union agriculture minister on Sunday wrote a letter to the leaders and asked them to fix a convenient date for the next round of talks. The leaders met on Tuesday but the date will be finalised today.2. On the occasion of Kisan Diwas 2020, which is observed on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, farmers are all set to intensify their protests. Farmers will skip lunch as a symbolic protest to the three farm laws. The Congress will hold a statewide protest across Uttar Pradesh.3. The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and its associate unions said they will observe December 23 as “Skip Lunch” day to express solidarity with the farmers.4. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday met a few farmers’ groups from Delhi and Haryana who are supporting the news laws.5. Farmers camping at UP Gate on Delhi-Ghaziabad border on Tuesday blocked all 14 lanes of the National Highway 9 for eight hours.6. From December 25 to 27, farmers will halt toll collection in Haryana. Farmers have also decided to band plates during PM Modi’s Mann ki Baat on December 27.7. Kerala state government called a special assembly session on Wednesday to discuss and pass a resolution against the farm laws. But governor Arif Mohammed Khan did not give approval for the session. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it was “regrettable”.8. The protesting farmers are strengthening their presence on social media. A social media cell of the farmers’ collective has been set up, headed by Majha Kisan Committee vice president Baljeet Singh Sandhu, which will host a webinar on Thursday where senior farmers’ leaders will address all queries. The zoom webinar will be open for 10,000 people. 9. Seeking President Ram Nath Kovind’s intervention for withdrawal of the three farm laws, the Congress said a memorandum signed by two crore farmers would be handed over to him on December 24 by a party delegation, led by Rahul Gandhi.10. Harpreet Singh, a farmer from Punjab, objected to Punjab BJP using his photo on its Facebook page to accompany a post which says minimum support price will continue. Harpreet said he is sitting with the protesters at Singhu border and his photo was used without his permission.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-day-28-decision-on-further-talks-with-centre-today-kisan-diwas-to-be-observed-through-fast-agitation-gherao/story-34o2nFAydNFNvvHRwVfijP.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmers harden stand as suspense lingers over talks||Protesting farm unions have said they will write to British lawmakers and Prime Minister Boris Johnson not to travel to India to take part in Republic Day celebrations next month until the Modi government scraps three pieces of legislation they say will hurt their livelihoods.Uncertainty over resumption of talks between farm unions and the government over three contentious agricultural laws lingered on as farm unions said Tuesday they needed wider consultations on whether to hold negotiations again. “We will make more toll plazas freeways and write to Boris Johnson to defer his India visit as a mark of protest,” Kulwant Singh, a senior farm union leader, said. Farm unions were to decide on a response to a set of written concessions sent out by farm minister Narendra Tomar to end the month-long agitation by farmers against the three pro-reform agricultural laws. The unions have constituted a five-member committee to discuss with representatives of nearly 450 organisations protesting the three farm laws on whether and when to hold talks with the government, a senior farm leader said. On December 20, a senior farm ministry bureaucrat wrote to the unions on behalf of the agriculture minister, urging farmers to resume talks and suggest a date. The concessions offered by the government, which the farmers have rejected, include greater oversight on proposed free markets, sparing farmers penalties for pollution-causing farm fires, an assurance on support prices and allowing farmers access to civil courts to settle disputes. Protesting unions held a meeting on Tuesday. They will meet again on Wednesday at 3pm to arrive at a decision, Darshan Pal, a senior member leading the protests at Delhi’s Singhu Border, said. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a major platform of farm unions, said the government was pushing “farmer leaders to give specific point-by-point critique of the clauses (in farm laws)” although the farmers’ representatives “unanimously concluded and explained on December 3 that the Acts have to be repealed”. “But the government selectively picked issues and is now trying to claim that those are the main issues,” AIKSCC secretary Avik Saha said. Tens of thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have hunkered down along Delhi’s borders demanding scrapping of the laws. The changes pushed by the government allow free markets for agricultural trade, permit traders to stockpile farm commodities for future sales and a national law on contract farming. Farmers say easing of restrictions will erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. Protests by farmers have continued, with cultivators resorting to a relay hunger strike and chalking out plans to intensify their agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-harden-stand-as-suspense-lingers-over-talks/story-Z3C9xrDTxEyG71WzXaWwZN.html
23-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers block Delhi-Meerut expressway in protest against UP govt for stopping their counterparts||Farmers protesting against the three farm laws for the past 27 days blocked all carriageways of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border for nearly 10 hours on Tuesday, in a protest against the Uttar Pradesh government for allegedly stopping farmers from marching towards the border.Around 5pm, the farmers cleared one carriageway, allowing vehicles to move from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi.The border blockade disrupted vehicular movement between Delhi and Ghaziabad, as traffic snarls spilt to other border points and connecting roads in Delhi as well as Uttar Pradesh.As the farmers blocked the border around 7am without prior notice, motorists travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi through the expressway during the morning rush hour were stuck.At 7.37am, the Delhi Traffic Police used its Twitter handle to update the public about the closure of the carriageways at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border. Delhi Police’s public relation officer, Anil Mittal, said that the carriageway leading to Ghaziabad was closed for traffic, as farmers blocked the roads at the UP Gate border.The carriageway leading to Delhi from Ghaziabad has already been closed for the last few days due to the farmers’ protest. “Traffic was diverted from Nizamuddin Khatta, Akshardham, and Ghazipur Chowk for onwards journey towards Ghaziabad via Anand Vihar, Apsara and Bhopura borders,” said Mittal.It was the second time since Monday afternoon that the expressway was completely blocked by the farmers. The nearly hour-long blockade on Monday was cleared after the officials of the UP administration assured the farmers that nobody would be stopped from going towards the borders.Rajveer Singh Jadhon, the president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (UP unit), said that the UP government has been harassing farmers in the state and those coming from Uttarakhand, by stopping their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles in different places.Jadhon said that despite assurances, nearly 35 trolleys and 50 four-wheelers ferrying farmers were stopped at Rampur and Pilibhit on Monday night. “The police personnel misbehaved with the farmers and forced them to return. We blocked the UP Gate border with our tractors to express our protest against the UP administration and demand the release of farmers. We cleared one carriageway for vehicles going to Ghaziabad after the farmers were allowed to move towards Delhi,” said Jadhon.The border remained closed between 7am and 5pm on Tuesday, following which the carriageway going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi was opened after a meeting between farmer leaders and officials of the UP administration, who assured that the farmers, who had been stopped at Rampur, Pilibhit and Bilaspur, were allowed to move towards the UP Gate border.Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range), of the Uttar Pradesh police, said, “The carriageway was vacated by the protesters and we have assured that all their issues will be taken up. They were demanding that their vehicles must not be stopped from approaching the UP Gate from other areas in UP. But we have to take up checks to ascertain that no anti-social element gets in. We discussed with other officers and got the issue resolved. The carriageway was vacated around 5pm.”The Singhu and Tikri borders, where thousands of farmers are protesting, continued to remain shut while one carriageway of the Delhi-Noida link road at the Chilla border is open for vehicles entering Delhi from Noida. Motorists going to Noida are being diverted to other borders such as Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway, Kalindi Kunj, New Ashok Nagar, Kondli and Dallupura.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-block-delhi-meerut-expressway-in-protest-against-up-govt-for-stopping-their-counterparts/story-P8T5m8uonmmizIM8BqbadN.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest updates: BKU leaders meet Narendra Singh Tomar at Krishi Bhawan||The farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws entered day 27 on Tuesday as talks between the protestors and the Centre fail to produce any decisive result. As the Centre called for dialogue with the protestors’ representatives, the farmers have given the sense that they will not accept anything other than complete rollback of the three laws. Several farmers on Monday intensified their agitation against the government as they went on indefinite hunger strikes. The Bharatiya Kisan Union took to protesting against Prime Minister Narendra Modi outside the District administration Complex in Bathinda. The protestors also took the time to meet and have a dialogue with farmers supporting the laws, in order to educate themselves regarding how the laws might be beneficial to them. Farmers had also taken part in a blood donation camp organised by Rehras Sewa Society, a Ludhiana based NGO.The farmers’ agitation is against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre back in September. Follow all live updates here:Around 2 crore signatures urging the withdrawal of farm laws to be submitted to the President, says Cong leaderCongress leader KC Venugopal told newsagency ANI that around 2 crore signatures from all over the country, urging withdrawal of the three new farm laws have been collected. He further stated that a delegation led by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will meet with the President on December 24 to submit it.Some farmer leaders met me to extend support to the new farm laws: Narendra Singh TomarUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told news agency ANI that some farmer leaders from Uttar Pradesh met with him to express their support for the new farm laws. He further added that these leaders asked that no amendments be made to the new laws. Farmers all over the country have been protesting against the new farm laws, a meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union and the minister is reported to have taken place today at Krishi Bhavan. Meeting between BKU leaders and Narendra Singh Tomar underway at Krishi BhawanA meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on the new farm laws, is currently underway at Krishi Bhawan, reports ANI. The famers’ body has been protesting against Centre’s new farm laws at Delhi border.Protesting farmers show black flags to Manohar Lal Khattar Farmers protesting against the new farm laws registered their protest by showing black flags to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar as his motorcade was passing through Ambala city. Khattar was visiting the city to show his support for BJP’s mayoral and ward candidates in the upcoming civic polls, reported news agency PTI.Modi govt seems to be in ego clash with farmers: Raghav ChadhaAAP leader Raghav Chadha slammed the Modi government of being in an ego clash with the protesting farmers. Chadha said that the govt must let go of the ego and agree to all the farmers’ demands. He urged the government to roll back the three ‘black laws’. Not received any inviation from Agri Minister, says BKU spokespersonRakesh Tikait, spokesperson for the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that they have yet to receive an inviation from the Agriculture Minister to discuss the farm laws. He also said that the farmers will not accept anything less than complete rollback of the laws and that it would take more than a month to resolve all the issues. Farmers block Delhi-Meerut expresswayVehicular movement on the Delhi-Meerut expressway has been halted as farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws have blocked all its carriageways since 7:30 am.Centre trying to tire out farmers, says Sukhbir Singh BadalThe Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said that the Centre was trying to tire the farmers out by offering to start talks from the very beginning again. He said that it was futile since the farmers’ organisations had already rejected the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-centre-trying-to-tire-out-farmers-says-sukhbir-singh-badal/story-t5KFYq54RIUYnMT7hgCcdL.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmer unions say they are ready for talks if govt comes up with a concrete proposal||Protesting farmer unions on Wednesday held a press conference at the Delhi-Singhu border asking the government not to repeat the promise of amendments to the new farm laws that have been already rejected but to come up with a concrete proposal in writing so further rounds of talks can be scheduled. “We have already told home minister Amit Shah that protesting farmers will not accept amendments,” national president of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh, Shiv Kumar Kakka said.Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, who was also present at the press conference, said that the government’s new letter is an attempt to defame the farmers’ movement. “United Farmers Front today has written a letter to the government. It states that the government should not question the letter written by the United Farmers’ Front previously as it was a unanimous decision. Govt’s new letter is a fresh attempt to defame farmers’ association” Yadav stated. The union was referring to the recent proposal sent by the Centre to the farmers’ unions, in which it offered to hold a fresh round of talks at a date and time of the unions’ choosing. Till now, five rounds of talks have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides. While the Centre has reiterated that the laws won’t be scrapped and has instead proposed amendments, the unions have been adamant on a total repeal since the first day of protests. Pointing to the Union agriculture minister’s meeting on Monday with a five member delegation, under the banner of the Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti (HMKS), who are in favour of the new farm laws, Yadav remarked that it is a concerted attempt at breaking the farmers’ movement. “The government is constantly holding talks with so-called Farmers’ leaders & organisations, who’re not associated with our movement at all. This is an attempt to break our movement. The Government is dealing with protesting farmers, the way it deals with its opposition.” Yadav stated. As the farmers’ protest entered its 28th day, Yadav announced that the protesting farmers’ union is ready for talks with the government and are waiting for the Centre to approach the farmers’ with clear intentions and open mind. All India Kisan Sabha leader Hannan Molla claimed the government wanted to tire the farmers out so that the protest would end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-say-they-are-ready-for-talks-if-govt-comes-up-with-a-concrete-proposal/story-bUqESFyIQzDgK24VVPMEJM.html
23-12-2020||India||‘Whatever they want to add and subtract…’: Agriculture minister Tomar says hopeful farmers’ unions will discuss Centre’s request||On a day when protests against the Centre’s three agricultural laws entered day 28, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday yet again expressed hope for a solution, reiterating that the government was ready for a discussion at a time and date as per “convenience” of the farmers’ unions.“Through various schemes, we will fill all gaps in agriculture sector, which will benefit farmers and ensure that they get the right price…Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, we saw that the work related to farming and agriculture wasn’t affected,” news agency ANI quoted Tomar as saying. “I would also like to thank banks, as they brought more than 1 crore farmers under Kisan Credit cover during the pandemic gave farmers Rs 1 lakh crore in the last eight months. We’ve undertaken some reforms and will bring in future,” he added.Tomar further said, “I’m hopeful that farmers’ unions will discuss our request. Whatever they want to add and subtract from the government’s proposal, they should tell us. We’re ready for a discussion at the time and date of their convenience. I’m hopeful for a solution,” Tomar further said. I'm hopeful that Farmers' Unions will discuss our request. Whatever they want to add & subtract from govt's proposal, they should tell us. We're ready for a discussion at the time & date of their convenience. I'm hopeful of a solution: Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar https://t.co/pDs4qoylHc pic.twitter.com/xliL2EVQKYThe Union agriculture minister was referring to a proposal sent by the Centre to the farmers’ unions on Sunday, in which it offered to hold the sixth round of talks at a date and time of the unions’ choosing. Total five rounds of talks, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides. While the Centre is firm that the laws won’t be scrapped and has instead proposed amendments, the unions are adamant on a total repeal.The farmers’ unions are scheduled to meet on Wednesday and take a call on the government’s proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatever-they-want-to-add-and-subtract-agriculture-minister-tomar-says-hopeful-farmers-unions-will-discuss-centre-s-request/story-xhtrrSgXyUURkVdVOz9T0L.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest updates: BKU leaders meet Narendra Singh Tomar at Krishi Bhawan||The farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws entered day 27 on Tuesday as talks between the protestors and the Centre fail to produce any decisive result. As the Centre called for dialogue with the protestors’ representatives, the farmers have given the sense that they will not accept anything other than complete rollback of the three laws. Several farmers on Monday intensified their agitation against the government as they went on indefinite hunger strikes. The Bharatiya Kisan Union took to protesting against Prime Minister Narendra Modi outside the District administration Complex in Bathinda. The protestors also took the time to meet and have a dialogue with farmers supporting the laws, in order to educate themselves regarding how the laws might be beneficial to them. Farmers had also taken part in a blood donation camp organised by Rehras Sewa Society, a Ludhiana based NGO.The farmers’ agitation is against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre back in September. Follow all live updates here:Around 2 crore signatures urging the withdrawal of farm laws to be submitted to the President, says Cong leaderCongress leader KC Venugopal told newsagency ANI that around 2 crore signatures from all over the country, urging withdrawal of the three new farm laws have been collected. He further stated that a delegation led by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will meet with the President on December 24 to submit it.Some farmer leaders met me to extend support to the new farm laws: Narendra Singh TomarUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told news agency ANI that some farmer leaders from Uttar Pradesh met with him to express their support for the new farm laws. He further added that these leaders asked that no amendments be made to the new laws. Farmers all over the country have been protesting against the new farm laws, a meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union and the minister is reported to have taken place today at Krishi Bhavan. Meeting between BKU leaders and Narendra Singh Tomar underway at Krishi BhawanA meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on the new farm laws, is currently underway at Krishi Bhawan, reports ANI. The famers’ body has been protesting against Centre’s new farm laws at Delhi border.Protesting farmers show black flags to Manohar Lal Khattar Farmers protesting against the new farm laws registered their protest by showing black flags to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar as his motorcade was passing through Ambala city. Khattar was visiting the city to show his support for BJP’s mayoral and ward candidates in the upcoming civic polls, reported news agency PTI.Modi govt seems to be in ego clash with farmers: Raghav ChadhaAAP leader Raghav Chadha slammed the Modi government of being in an ego clash with the protesting farmers. Chadha said that the govt must let go of the ego and agree to all the farmers’ demands. He urged the government to roll back the three ‘black laws’. Not received any inviation from Agri Minister, says BKU spokespersonRakesh Tikait, spokesperson for the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that they have yet to receive an inviation from the Agriculture Minister to discuss the farm laws. He also said that the farmers will not accept anything less than complete rollback of the laws and that it would take more than a month to resolve all the issues. Farmers block Delhi-Meerut expresswayVehicular movement on the Delhi-Meerut expressway has been halted as farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws have blocked all its carriageways since 7:30 am.Centre trying to tire out farmers, says Sukhbir Singh BadalThe Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said that the Centre was trying to tire the farmers out by offering to start talks from the very beginning again. He said that it was futile since the farmers’ organisations had already rejected the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-centre-trying-to-tire-out-farmers-says-sukhbir-singh-badal/story-t5KFYq54RIUYnMT7hgCcdL.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest updates: BKU leaders meet Narendra Singh Tomar at Krishi Bhawan||The farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws entered day 27 on Tuesday as talks between the protestors and the Centre fail to produce any decisive result. As the Centre called for dialogue with the protestors’ representatives, the farmers have given the sense that they will not accept anything other than complete rollback of the three laws. Several farmers on Monday intensified their agitation against the government as they went on indefinite hunger strikes. The Bharatiya Kisan Union took to protesting against Prime Minister Narendra Modi outside the District administration Complex in Bathinda. The protestors also took the time to meet and have a dialogue with farmers supporting the laws, in order to educate themselves regarding how the laws might be beneficial to them. Farmers had also taken part in a blood donation camp organised by Rehras Sewa Society, a Ludhiana based NGO.The farmers’ agitation is against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre back in September. Follow all live updates here:Around 2 crore signatures urging the withdrawal of farm laws to be submitted to the President, says Cong leaderCongress leader KC Venugopal told newsagency ANI that around 2 crore signatures from all over the country, urging withdrawal of the three new farm laws have been collected. He further stated that a delegation led by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will meet with the President on December 24 to submit it.Some farmer leaders met me to extend support to the new farm laws: Narendra Singh TomarUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told news agency ANI that some farmer leaders from Uttar Pradesh met with him to express their support for the new farm laws. He further added that these leaders asked that no amendments be made to the new laws. Farmers all over the country have been protesting against the new farm laws, a meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union and the minister is reported to have taken place today at Krishi Bhavan. Meeting between BKU leaders and Narendra Singh Tomar underway at Krishi BhawanA meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on the new farm laws, is currently underway at Krishi Bhawan, reports ANI. The famers’ body has been protesting against Centre’s new farm laws at Delhi border.Protesting farmers show black flags to Manohar Lal Khattar Farmers protesting against the new farm laws registered their protest by showing black flags to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar as his motorcade was passing through Ambala city. Khattar was visiting the city to show his support for BJP’s mayoral and ward candidates in the upcoming civic polls, reported news agency PTI.Modi govt seems to be in ego clash with farmers: Raghav ChadhaAAP leader Raghav Chadha slammed the Modi government of being in an ego clash with the protesting farmers. Chadha said that the govt must let go of the ego and agree to all the farmers’ demands. He urged the government to roll back the three ‘black laws’. Not received any inviation from Agri Minister, says BKU spokespersonRakesh Tikait, spokesperson for the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that they have yet to receive an inviation from the Agriculture Minister to discuss the farm laws. He also said that the farmers will not accept anything less than complete rollback of the laws and that it would take more than a month to resolve all the issues. Farmers block Delhi-Meerut expresswayVehicular movement on the Delhi-Meerut expressway has been halted as farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws have blocked all its carriageways since 7:30 am.Centre trying to tire out farmers, says Sukhbir Singh BadalThe Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said that the Centre was trying to tire the farmers out by offering to start talks from the very beginning again. He said that it was futile since the farmers’ organisations had already rejected the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-centre-trying-to-tire-out-farmers-says-sukhbir-singh-badal/story-t5KFYq54RIUYnMT7hgCcdL.html
