25-12-2020||India||Union ministers say govt is committed to farmers’ welfare amid protests against farm laws||No corporate can snatch away any farmer’s land as long as Narendra Modi is the Prime Minister, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Friday as he attacked the opposition over agriculture reforms. Shah insisted the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system will continue and mandis will not be shut down.Addressing a gathering in New Delhi to mark late former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, Shah accused the opposition of spreading lies about the three farm laws enacted in September. He maintained the laws, which have triggered protests, would benefit farmers. Shah said farmers were lauding agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar as they knew the laws are in their interest. He added if farmer organisations feel some provisions of the laws are not in their interest, the government is ready to discuss them with an open mind.Also Read: Protesting Haryana farmers throw open toll plaza gates on national and state highways“In 2014 and 2019, ending an era of coalition governments, farmers gave a clear mandate to Modi. And the top priority of the Modi government is the welfare of farmers,” said Shah. He added the Modi government implemented the long-standing demand of farmers to ensure MSP is at least equal to the cost of growing a crop.Shah said the Modi government has hugely raised welfare funds for farmers. He added when Modi introduced the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi direct cash-transfer scheme for the farmers, opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi demanded farm loan waivers.“In 10 years, the [previous Congress-led] UPA [United Progressive Alliance] government waived loans worth Rs60,000 crore. In just two and a half years, Modi provided Rs95,000 crore to 10 crore [100 million] farmers,” Shah said.“...when Sharad Pawar was the agriculture minister, in 2013-14, the budget for farmers was Rs21,900 crore. Now, under Modi, it has reached Rs134,000 crore. It is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. Those who talk about the welfare of the farmers, what did you do when they were in power?”Shah attended Modi’s virtual interaction with farmers along with other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders at a Gaushala in Delhi’s Kishangarh village. Other central ministers addressed similar events across the country.In New Delhi’s Dwarka, defence minister Rajnath Singh suggested that farmers should see how the farm laws work for a year or two. He added that in case they are not found to be beneficial, the government will bring necessary amendments. Singh called the protesting farmers his own people. “Those who are staging a sit-in [against the laws] are farmers...We have a lot of respect for them.”Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana, and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders for almost a month in protest against the three laws.Singh called himself a farmer’s son and said the government will never do anything against the farmers’ interests. “People are trying to mislead farmers about these farm laws. I am the son of a farmer and have worked on farms. I want to assure you there is not a single provision in these laws that is against farmers.”Union minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, who addressed a farmers’ gathering in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur, said the government is committed to the “protection and promotion” of farmers’ welfare. Naqvi said political parties, which know nothing about agriculture, were hurting farmers’ interests.The BJP had drawn an elaborate plan to defend the three laws and union ministers like Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Thaawar Chand Gehlot, Ramesh Pokhriyal are scheduled to travel across the country to counter “misinformation” about them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-say-govt-is-committed-to-farmers-welfare-amid-protests-against-farm-laws/story-WqCRd9apZsM3pPwV5IglrK.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Only farmers of Bengal deprived of central benefits’: PM Modi’s sharp attack on Mamata Banerjee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a sharp attack on Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal and said the state was deprived of the benefits of the Centre’s schemes because its leaders were busy in furthering their own political ideology in name of farmers’ protest.“Today, more than Rs18,000 crores have been directly deposited in the accounts of farmers; no middlemen, no commissions. But the 70 lakh farmers of West Bengal have been deprived of the benefits of the Centre’s schemes. Bengal is the only state which is not allowing benefits of the schemes to reach the farmers,” PM said after releasing the next instalment of PM-Kisan, the direct cash-transfer scheme for farmers.Those who have ruled West Bengal for over three decades have destroyed the state, the PM further said, asking why the Opposition does not raise objections when the same people who stand against central schemes in Bengal go to Punjab and change colours.“Mamata Banerjee’s ideology has destroyed Bengal. Her actions against the farmers have hurt me a lot. Why is the Opposition quiet on this?” he said.“Many farmers from Bengal have written to the Centre, seeking benefits that haven’t reached them because of their state leaders, but the to no avail. The state government does not give importance to their appeals. I am astonished and in pain,” the PM said.PM’s latest outreach comes amid ongoing farmers’ protests against the three laws passed by the Parliament in September to reform the farm sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-farmers-of-bengal-deprived-of-central-benefits-pm-modi-s-sharp-attack-on-mamata-banerjee/story-aGr7Zgex1SUAndkQKmh8IO.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Ready to talk to those who are against us on farm issues’: PM Modi’s top quotes||Training his gun at the opposition parties for misleading farmers who are protesting against the new three farm laws for the past four weeks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he has no problem with parties doing politics. But don’t mislead farmers, he urged. This was BJP’s latest outreach programme amid the ongoing farmers’ protest which is far from the thaw. What PM Modi and other Union ministers have been saying for the past few days were echoed in PM Modi’s speech on Friday. But there was more as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the government is ready to talk to those who are against the government. Here are the top quotes from PM Modi’s speech:‘Talks must be based on issues,facts and logic’“There are parties which supported these farm laws before. We have their written statement. But now they have changed their stance. One political leader is misleading people. He doesn’t even believe in democracy. He has connections abroad as well. Can’t even say things he has been saying. But despite all this, I am saying this with humility that the we are ready to discuss the issue of farmers with those who are against us too but the discussion has to be based on issues, facts and logic,” PM Modi said.‘We have open mind’“We have not claimed that we have all the knowledge. There should be debate. That is how democracy works. We are ready to address all issues in an open mind,” PM Modi said.‘Direct benefit transfer’ Remembering Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary, PM Modi on Friday said the farm laws are in a way inspired by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “Once Vajpayee ji criticised his previous government on how government’s money used to get lost in the way before reaching the beneficiaries. I am glad that we are being able to ensure direct benefit transfer. There is no middleman between the government and the beneficiaries,” PM Modi said.‘West Bengal depriving farmers’ “Over 70 lakh farmers in West Bengal are deprived of this scheme. This is my regret. The West Bengal government is blocking the scheme for its political interest. If you listen Mamata Banerjee’s speech dating 15 years back, then everything becomes clear,” PM Modi said.‘Farmers have replied through ballot box’“The political party which has deprived its own farmers is instigating farmers in Punjab. They have lost political relevance. They have lost the recent elections in placed where they are supporting the farmers’ protest,” PM Modi said.‘Why does Kerala have no mandi system?’“Those ruling Kerala for years are joining Punjab farmers for selfies, but not doing anything for mandi system in own state. If mandi and APMC are so good, then why Kerala does not have these?” PM Modi said.‘Demand has changed’“Farmers had some apprehensions about new laws, but people with political agenda came in between and introduced new unrelated demands. Initially, the demand was MSP,. which is justified as they are farmers. But now there are demands of releasing some people from the prison. There are demands to make highways toll free,” PM Modi said.‘Sell your products anywhere in the country’“Farmers will be able to sell their products anywhere in the country, listen to me carefully. If you want to sell at MSP, you can sell. If you want to sell at mandis, you can do that. If you want to sell online, the new laws empower farmers to do that too,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-politics-but-don-t-mislead-our-farmers-pm-modi-s-top-quotes/story-m287CwWOQxnJbEaKybmruL.html
25-12-2020||India||Let farm laws be implemented for a year; if not found beneficial, we will amend them: Rajnath Singh||Addressing a rally in Delhi, senior BJP leader and defence minister Rajnath Singh made an appeal to “let the farm laws be implemented for a year or so”, adding that the government will be ready to amend the laws if they are not beneficial to farmers.“Let the farm laws be implemented for year or so. If they are found to be not beneficial for farmers, we will be ready for necessary amendments,” Singh said. He made these comments at a rally in Delhi which is a part of Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) efforts to combat the ongoing protest against the three contentious farms laws. The ruling party is conducting a nationwide outreach to the farmers on December 25, the birthday of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Addressing a rally at Dwarka in the national capital, Singh said he himself is a farmers’ son and assured that the Modi government “will never do anything which is not in the interest of the farmers”.Describing the protesting farmers as his own people, Singh said, “Those who are sitting on dharna are farmers and are born to farmers’ families. We have lot of respect for them.”Underlining that all problems can be resolved through dialogue, Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants talks with farmers to continue, and therefore, the government has extended an invitation to them. Singh also said that the government is taking every step in the interest of the farmers. “Our government will never do anything which is not in interest of farmers. Those who are on dharna are farmers, born to farmers’ families; we have lot of respect for them.”Talking about minimum support price, Singh said, “There has been misconception that minimum support price will end. Prime Minister has said & I’ll also give my word that MSP won’t end.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi also virtually addressed farmers across states on Friday and released the next batch of financial aid Rs 18,000 crore from the PM-Kisan scheme. Farmers are protesting on the borders of Delhi against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-farm-laws-be-implemented-for-a-year-if-not-found-beneficial-we-will-amend-them-rajnath-singh/story-0o534UEFLeqI1qGz7zEBTI.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Do they take your land too?’ PM Modi asks Arunachal farmer; Tomar appeals to end stir||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday interacted with farmers from six states, he asked a farmer from Arunachal Pradesh who has been doing contract farming whether the company that he has entered into a contract with also takes away his land or the contract is only for the produce. The farmer who cultivates organic ginger said the contract is only for the produce, not the land. “See, you are in Arunachal Pradesh but still are aware that your land will not be taken away. But there are a few farmers here who have been misled to think otherwise,” PM Modi said in a veiled reference to the ongoing protest of the farmers against the three agriculture laws.The government, in its attempts to dispel fears over contract farming, has been reiterating that contract farming will benefit farmers as it is not binding upon farmers and they are free to terminate the contract. However, apprehension over contract farming persists as reports have emerged that a Delhi-based company refused to buy the crops from Madhya Pradesh farmers even after agreement.PM Modi’s interaction with farmers amid the ongoing standoff with farmers on the occasion of the released of Rs 18,000 crore under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme is significant as the message is clear: the government will not repeal the laws, MSP will continue, protesting farmers have been misled by opposition parties. While PM Modi was addressing farmers through video-conferencing, Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh addressed farmers in Delhi. Inaugurating the main event, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said a few farmers of Punjab are protesting against the laws. Urging them to withdraw their protest, the minister said, “I hope they will understand the importance of the new farm laws, and the issue will be resolved soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-they-take-your-land-too-pm-modi-asks-arunachal-farmer-tomar-appeals-to-end-stir/story-cPJ4J4xwdedcssEuZaqzyM.html
25-12-2020||Lucknow||Top BJP leaders to attend Modi’s farmer outreach events across Uttar Pradesh||Union ministers are among the top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, who have been tasked with ensuring the success of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Kisan Samvad (dialogue with farmers) being held at over 2,500 places across Uttar Pradesh on Friday.BJP leaders said Modi is likely to interact with a few farmers from Uttar Pradesh but there was no official word on the interaction.Modi would address the farmers on Friday as he would transfer the next instalment of Kisan Samman Nidhi into the farmers’ accounts. TV screens have been installed to telecast the address across the country.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Many UK returnees switch off their mobile phonesThe outreach comes amid protests by farmers against three farm laws passed in September to liberalize the sector.“Under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a lot has been done for farmers’ welfare. Naturally, there is great excitement as the PM would interact with farmers on the birth anniversary of late [former Prime Minister] Atal Bihari Vajpayee,” said Uttar Pradesh BJP general secretary Govind Shukla.Top leaders including chief minister Yogi Adityanath would be present for the Kisan Samvad event in Lucknow.Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya will attend the event in Kanpur, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev in Unnao and Union minister Smriti Irani in Amethi. Similarly, other top BJP leaders will attend the event at separate places across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/top-bjp-leaders-to-attend-modi-s-farmer-outreach-events-across-uttar-pradesh/story-KO1U1IgiI4QZ6tgVP4a86M.html
25-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Centre says not ‘logical’ to include MSP in talks, unions likely to reply today||The ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest against three agriculture laws called by several thousand farmers on November 26 enters the 30th day on Friday. Protesters, according to their announced programme, will picket toll plazas today while the standoff with the Centre over the laws continues, though the Centre on Thursday sent a fresh invitation to the protesters urging them to resume talks and fix a date.Here are the latest updates of the four-week-long protest:1. The Centre’s fresh invitation comes after the unions wrote to them that the agenda should be revised as they had already rejected the proposals after the 5th meeting.2. The Centre said it would not be logical to include in the agenda any new demand related to minimum support price as it was out of the purview of the new farm laws. “Any new demand related to MSP, which is out of the ambit of farm laws, is not logical to include in the talks. As informed earlier, the government is ready to discuss all the issues raised by farmer unions,” the three-page letter written by agriculture ministry joint secretary Vivek Aggarwal said.3. With regard to the Electricity Amendment bill and laws related to stubble burning, the government said it is ready to discuss if farmers’ unions have other issues apart from the draft proposal given based on the December 3 discussion.4. Reacting to the fresh invitation, farmers on Thursday said the MSP cannot be separated from the demand of repealing the contentious laws, asserting the issue of a legal guarantee for it is a key part of their agitation.5. The unions are likely to hold a meeting today to discuss the Centre’s letter and what to write in the formal response to the ministry.6. Farmers have alleged that Centre’s repeated invitation without changing the agenda is a propaganda against the protesters to create an impression that they (farmers) are not interested in dialogue.7. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with farmers from six states at 12 noon via video conferencing as he will release a fund of Rs 18,000 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. The event coincides with former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary which the BJP observes every year as “good governance day”.8. PM Modi’s today’s interaction amid the ongoing standoff will be celebrated as a “festival” across the country with BJP ministers, MPs, MLAs attending the programme from various locations. One crore farmers will directly participate while over five crore will hear Modi’s speech. Union home minister Amit Shah will attend the programme in Mehrauli, while defence Minister Rajnath Singh will be in Sector 15 in Dwarka. 9. Reiterating that he will tender his resignation the day he is unable to ensure MSP, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said the new central farm laws need many amendments and urged protesting farmers to give “concrete suggestions”.10. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday met President Ram Nath Kovind and submitted a memorandum containing signatures of two crore farmers against the laws. He said the government should convene a joint session of Parliament to repeal these laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-centre-says-not-logical-to-include-msp-in-talks-unions-likely-to-reply-today/story-KUcGTr2nPYiE1IQnthPIDJ.html
25-12-2020||India||Farmers protests highlights:Were these policies not mentioned in Cong’s 2019 manifesto?: Nirmala||The farmers protest against the three agri laws passed by the Parliament in September enters Day 30 on Friday. Students from various universities have also joined the month-long movement against the government’s new laws for the agricultural sector. The government through Vivek Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union agriculture ministry, again tried to bring the farmers on the table for sixth round of talks, as the farmers on Wednesday had dismissed the government’s initial proposal sent on Sunday.On Thursday, a three-member Congress delegation, including Rahul Gandhi, met with President Ram Nath Kovind to submit a memorandum aimed at repealing of the laws. Earlier in the day, several party leaders including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were detained by the Delhi Police for trying to march towards the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar also met with two groups of farmers on Thursday. He claimed both of the groups to be in support of the government. Kisaan Majdoor Sangh’s 60 members and Kisan Sena’s 21 members met with the minister separately and expressed their motions pro the new farm laws. Tomar also showed the Kisan Majdoor Sangh’s letter of support.Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses farmers across the country and transferred Rs 18,000 crore as part of next batch of financial aid to farmers under the PM-Kisan scheme. The Centre is expected to transfer Rs 18,000 crore to 90 million farmers as part of the initiative to increase their income.Follow all the major highlights here:Farmers in Uttarakhand march against farm lawsFarmers in Uttarakhand took out a protest march against the recently passed farm bills. Protesters were seen ramming a tractor against police barricade in Udham Singh Nagar, according to video tweeted by news agency ANI. #WATCH | Protesters agitating against the new farm laws run a tractor over a police barricade in Bajpur, of the Udham Singh Nagar district in Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/aI97qNcg0UNirmala Sitharaman asks Congress MP Rahul Gandhi to clarify stance on farm billsFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that Congress MP Rahul Gandhi should answer if the same promises of reforms in the agricultural sectors were not promised in his party’s 2019 election manifesto. Sitharaman also said that Cong is not happy that it is PM Modi who is implementing the changes and not Congress. “I want to ask Rahul Gandhi that were these pro-farmers policies not mentioned in the 2019 election manifesto of Congress? They are protesting just because those reforms are being implemented by PM Modi, and not them,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Centre is open for talks with parties opposing farm laws, says PM ModiPM Modi called parties opposing new farm laws for talks, is the discussion will be based on facts. Our government will open-mindedly listen to the protesting parties, he added, while saying our government is for welfare of the farmers.New farm laws will allow technological intervention for value addition in agriculture, says PM ModiPrime minister in his address said new farm laws will allow technological intervention in agriculture and will make India known for quality and quantity. Technological advancement in agriculture will be value addition for farmers, said PM Modi.Farmers can now sell their crops wherever they want, says PM ModiPM Modi in his speech said farmers are allowed sell their crops wherever they want. If they want to sell it in Mandis, they can sell it there at any preferred cost or at MSP. Farmers also have the option to sell crops in different states or through FPOs or online as per their ease, Prime minister added.We increased MSP under the Swaminathan Committee: PM ModiPrime minister Modi talked about increasing Minimum Support Price (MSP) taking note from the Swaminathan Committee. He said our government worked for welfare of farmers that earlier governments never did. Our govt tried to decrease the input cost for the farmers: PM ModiFarmers have gained from the schemes launched by our government. During the interaction, as a farmer from Maharashtra cited benefits of PM-Fasal Bima Yojana, more than 90,000 crore farmers have benefitted from the insurance scheme, he said.PM lashes out at opposition for politicizing the issue and misleading farmersPM Modi during his address lashed out at opposition for misleading the farmers and politicizing the protest to gain traction. PM Modi addresses farmers across countryPM Kisan Samman Nidhi had ensured that there is no leakage while direct transfer of the funds. He also said it is very disappointing to see that only one state in the country is not the beneficiary of the scheme. Prime minister also attacked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for not registering the state under the scheme and devoiding 70 lakh farmers of the state of the benefits. PM Modi interacts with beneficiaries of PM-Kisan scheme from six statesPrime minister interacts with beneficiaries of the scheme virtually. PM asks about the benefits reaped from contract farming, Kisan Credit Card and benefits of PM-Fasal Bima Yojana. He also asked farmers for their opinion on new farm laws and said opposition is trying to mislead farmers on the laws.PM Modi releases next batch of payment of Rs 18,000 crore under PM-Kisan SchemePM Modi released next installment of Rs 18,000 crore as part of next batch of financial aid to farmers under the PM-Kisan scheme.Union minister Tomar calls farmers for fresh talks to discuss farm lawsUnion agriculture minister Tomar during the address called the protesting farmers for fresh talks to end the deadlock and discuss on the new farm laws. Farmers benefitted from PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, says agriculture minister TomarPM Kisan Samman Nidhi has benefitted alot of farmers. Over 11 crore farmers have been registered under this scheme. Except for West Bengal, farmers from various states have been linked to the scheme. Farmers had received money under this scheme even in the backdrop of coronavirus pandemic. Farmers thanked PM Modi for new laws; we will double farmers’ income by 2022: ThakurMany farmers have thanked PM Modi for the new agriculture laws. We will double farmers’ income by 2022. The government is ready to talk and clear doubts of the farmers who are protesting. A solution can be found only through dialogue, said Union minister Anurag Thakur, reports ANI.Security forces deployed on Delhi-UP border amid farmers stirSecurity force has been deployed on the Delhi-UP border.In view of the ongoing protests of farmers against agricultural laws, reports ANI.Chilla, Ghazipur border closed for traffic movements amid farmers stirChilla, Gazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra& Loni borders, alerted Delhi Traffic Police, reports ANI.Punjab Congress chief startles leadership by raising issue of MPs on dharnaThe Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar openly startled the party leadership on Thursday while the whole leadership was signing a memorandum on farm laws. He raised the issue of three party MPs from Punjab who are sitting on dharna. Accusing the senior leaders he said, MPs are sitting on a protest for last so many days but no leader has approached them, reports ANI.Khalsa Aid sets up Kisan mall at Tikri border for farmersDelhi: Khalsa Aid has set up Kisan Mall at Tikri border to provide items of daily use for free to farmers. "We distribute tokens to farmers with which they can procure items from here," says Guru Charan, store manager.(24.12) pic.twitter.com/imZ0Aq1h0O||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-khalsa-aid-sets-up-kisan-mall-at-tikri-border-for-farmers/story-elBDrntfREZ2Sucm548yoI.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Withdraw farm bills, wake up from slumber’: Jharkhand CM slams Centre over farmers’ stir||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren blasted Modi-government in the Centre over ongoing farmers strike saying that PM Narendra Modi would wake up from slumber after death of farmers.Soren was speaking to media after paying respect to martyr Nirmal Mahato, a stalwart of Jharkhand separate state movement, on his 70th birth anniversary in Jamshedpur on Friday.“The way farmers’ strike is continuing, it seems PM Modi would wake up after the death of the farmers as his government appears to be hell-bent on taking the lives of the protesting farmers. The Union government should solve the problems of the farmers and withdraw the anti-people laws immediately. India has a distinguished image at international forums but the PM is diminishing it by his government’s adamant attitude,” said Soren after garlanding the life-size statue of Mahato at his memorial in Uliyan under Kadma police station (PS) this afternoon.The CM also said his government had completed a year in office and would present its account of performance and achievements on December 29 along with the roadmap for the next four years.Also read: From BJP to Mamata Banerjee, a 10,000 farmer rally challenge in Kolkata“Our government will not allow any illegal activity and ensure rule of law at any cost. There have been cases of illegal mining and we have taken action by stalking them. Most of the iron ore mines are now closed and penalty have also been levied on them for illegal mining. The past one year in office has been challenging. The old system has still been in effect in many spheres and we are trying to change the system. The previous state government had completely derailed the state. Once we accomplish the job of getting the system on track, the state will progress with double speed,” asserted Soren.He said it was an occasion of double joy as it was Christmas and also Mahato’s birth anniversary.“Nirmal Mahato was one of the pioneering and leading leaders of Jharkhand separate state movement. The crowd of people here shows the people’s love for him and JMM. It is such occasions when JMM’s bonding with the people gets further strengthened,” Soren said before leaving for Ranchi via Bokaro.Late Nirmal Mahato’s sister-in-law Ichagarh MLA Sabita Mahato, former state minister Sudhir Manato’s widow, her daughters, state ministers Champai Soren, Banna Gupta, MLAs Ramdas Soren, Mangal Kalindi, Samir Mohanty, Sanjiv Sardar and other JMM leaders were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/withdraw-farm-bills-wake-up-from-slumber-jharkhand-cm-slams-centre-over-farmers-stir/story-Ao27ew6xem7lW5eLRu1HvK.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Only farmers of Bengal deprived of central benefits’: PM Modi’s sharp attack on Mamata Banerjee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a sharp attack on Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal and said the state was deprived of the benefits of the Centre’s schemes because its leaders were busy in furthering their own political ideology in name of farmers’ protest.“Today, more than Rs18,000 crores have been directly deposited in the accounts of farmers; no middlemen, no commissions. But the 70 lakh farmers of West Bengal have been deprived of the benefits of the Centre’s schemes. Bengal is the only state which is not allowing benefits of the schemes to reach the farmers,” PM said after releasing the next instalment of PM-Kisan, the direct cash-transfer scheme for farmers.Those who have ruled West Bengal for over three decades have destroyed the state, the PM further said, asking why the Opposition does not raise objections when the same people who stand against central schemes in Bengal go to Punjab and change colours.“Mamata Banerjee’s ideology has destroyed Bengal. Her actions against the farmers have hurt me a lot. Why is the Opposition quiet on this?” he said.“Many farmers from Bengal have written to the Centre, seeking benefits that haven’t reached them because of their state leaders, but the to no avail. The state government does not give importance to their appeals. I am astonished and in pain,” the PM said.PM’s latest outreach comes amid ongoing farmers’ protests against the three laws passed by the Parliament in September to reform the farm sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-farmers-of-bengal-deprived-of-central-benefits-pm-modi-s-sharp-attack-on-mamata-banerjee/story-aGr7Zgex1SUAndkQKmh8IO.html
25-12-2020||India||PM Modi releases Rs18,000 crore as part of PM-Kisan scheme, addresses farmers across states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released the next instalment of PM-Kisan, the direct cash-transfer scheme for farmers, worth Rs18,000 crore into bank accounts of 9 crore farmers. The outreach comes amid ongoing farmers’ protests against the three laws passed by the Parliament in September to reform the farm sector.“It was the initiative of Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government to ensure farmers get loan on low interest rates. Today is his birthday and we have marked the day by releasing an instalment of the PM-KISAN scheme. These initiatives of the government should help farmers in undertaking crop diversification,” PM Modi said while interacting with a beneficiary of the scheme from Odisha.On Thursday, the PM had tweeted that he was going to interact with farmers after releasing the next instalment of PM-Kisan, and said that the day is very important for the country’s ‘annadatas’. “Tomorrow’s day (Friday) is very important for the country’s Annadatas. Will get the opportunity to release the next installment of PM-Kisan for more than 9 crores farmer families through video conferencing at 12pm. Will also interact with farmers of many states on this occasion,” the PM had tweeted.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary Arun Singh wrote a letter to party functionaries and listed a series of steps to ensure that the prime minister’s speech gets a wide viewership. The party made arrangements for farmers’ participation in more than 19,000 venues across the country.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Union minister Smriti Irani, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and state deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya were among the senior party leaders who attended the event. BJP chief JP Nadda had instructed all party MPs, MLAs and other leaders to tune in to the programme.The first instalment of the PM-Kisan scheme was released by the PM in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-rs18-000-crore-as-part-of-pm-kisan-scheme-addresses-farmers-across-states/story-EvRDGUGQH7U6gAvMsreLmN.html
25-12-2020||India||Farmers protests highlights:Were these policies not mentioned in Cong’s 2019 manifesto?: Nirmala||The farmers protest against the three agri laws passed by the Parliament in September enters Day 30 on Friday. Students from various universities have also joined the month-long movement against the government’s new laws for the agricultural sector. The government through Vivek Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union agriculture ministry, again tried to bring the farmers on the table for sixth round of talks, as the farmers on Wednesday had dismissed the government’s initial proposal sent on Sunday.On Thursday, a three-member Congress delegation, including Rahul Gandhi, met with President Ram Nath Kovind to submit a memorandum aimed at repealing of the laws. Earlier in the day, several party leaders including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were detained by the Delhi Police for trying to march towards the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar also met with two groups of farmers on Thursday. He claimed both of the groups to be in support of the government. Kisaan Majdoor Sangh’s 60 members and Kisan Sena’s 21 members met with the minister separately and expressed their motions pro the new farm laws. Tomar also showed the Kisan Majdoor Sangh’s letter of support.Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses farmers across the country and transferred Rs 18,000 crore as part of next batch of financial aid to farmers under the PM-Kisan scheme. The Centre is expected to transfer Rs 18,000 crore to 90 million farmers as part of the initiative to increase their income.Follow all the major highlights here:Farmers in Uttarakhand march against farm lawsFarmers in Uttarakhand took out a protest march against the recently passed farm bills. Protesters were seen ramming a tractor against police barricade in Udham Singh Nagar, according to video tweeted by news agency ANI. #WATCH | Protesters agitating against the new farm laws run a tractor over a police barricade in Bajpur, of the Udham Singh Nagar district in Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/aI97qNcg0UNirmala Sitharaman asks Congress MP Rahul Gandhi to clarify stance on farm billsFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that Congress MP Rahul Gandhi should answer if the same promises of reforms in the agricultural sectors were not promised in his party’s 2019 election manifesto. Sitharaman also said that Cong is not happy that it is PM Modi who is implementing the changes and not Congress. “I want to ask Rahul Gandhi that were these pro-farmers policies not mentioned in the 2019 election manifesto of Congress? They are protesting just because those reforms are being implemented by PM Modi, and not them,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Centre is open for talks with parties opposing farm laws, says PM ModiPM Modi called parties opposing new farm laws for talks, is the discussion will be based on facts. Our government will open-mindedly listen to the protesting parties, he added, while saying our government is for welfare of the farmers.New farm laws will allow technological intervention for value addition in agriculture, says PM ModiPrime minister in his address said new farm laws will allow technological intervention in agriculture and will make India known for quality and quantity. Technological advancement in agriculture will be value addition for farmers, said PM Modi.Farmers can now sell their crops wherever they want, says PM ModiPM Modi in his speech said farmers are allowed sell their crops wherever they want. If they want to sell it in Mandis, they can sell it there at any preferred cost or at MSP. Farmers also have the option to sell crops in different states or through FPOs or online as per their ease, Prime minister added.We increased MSP under the Swaminathan Committee: PM ModiPrime minister Modi talked about increasing Minimum Support Price (MSP) taking note from the Swaminathan Committee. He said our government worked for welfare of farmers that earlier governments never did. Our govt tried to decrease the input cost for the farmers: PM ModiFarmers have gained from the schemes launched by our government. During the interaction, as a farmer from Maharashtra cited benefits of PM-Fasal Bima Yojana, more than 90,000 crore farmers have benefitted from the insurance scheme, he said.PM lashes out at opposition for politicizing the issue and misleading farmersPM Modi during his address lashed out at opposition for misleading the farmers and politicizing the protest to gain traction. PM Modi addresses farmers across countryPM Kisan Samman Nidhi had ensured that there is no leakage while direct transfer of the funds. He also said it is very disappointing to see that only one state in the country is not the beneficiary of the scheme. Prime minister also attacked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for not registering the state under the scheme and devoiding 70 lakh farmers of the state of the benefits. PM Modi interacts with beneficiaries of PM-Kisan scheme from six statesPrime minister interacts with beneficiaries of the scheme virtually. PM asks about the benefits reaped from contract farming, Kisan Credit Card and benefits of PM-Fasal Bima Yojana. He also asked farmers for their opinion on new farm laws and said opposition is trying to mislead farmers on the laws.PM Modi releases next batch of payment of Rs 18,000 crore under PM-Kisan SchemePM Modi released next installment of Rs 18,000 crore as part of next batch of financial aid to farmers under the PM-Kisan scheme.Union minister Tomar calls farmers for fresh talks to discuss farm lawsUnion agriculture minister Tomar during the address called the protesting farmers for fresh talks to end the deadlock and discuss on the new farm laws. Farmers benefitted from PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, says agriculture minister TomarPM Kisan Samman Nidhi has benefitted alot of farmers. Over 11 crore farmers have been registered under this scheme. Except for West Bengal, farmers from various states have been linked to the scheme. Farmers had received money under this scheme even in the backdrop of coronavirus pandemic. Farmers thanked PM Modi for new laws; we will double farmers’ income by 2022: ThakurMany farmers have thanked PM Modi for the new agriculture laws. We will double farmers’ income by 2022. The government is ready to talk and clear doubts of the farmers who are protesting. A solution can be found only through dialogue, said Union minister Anurag Thakur, reports ANI.Security forces deployed on Delhi-UP border amid farmers stirSecurity force has been deployed on the Delhi-UP border.In view of the ongoing protests of farmers against agricultural laws, reports ANI.Chilla, Ghazipur border closed for traffic movements amid farmers stirChilla, Gazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra& Loni borders, alerted Delhi Traffic Police, reports ANI.Punjab Congress chief startles leadership by raising issue of MPs on dharnaThe Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar openly startled the party leadership on Thursday while the whole leadership was signing a memorandum on farm laws. He raised the issue of three party MPs from Punjab who are sitting on dharna. Accusing the senior leaders he said, MPs are sitting on a protest for last so many days but no leader has approached them, reports ANI.Khalsa Aid sets up Kisan mall at Tikri border for farmersDelhi: Khalsa Aid has set up Kisan Mall at Tikri border to provide items of daily use for free to farmers. "We distribute tokens to farmers with which they can procure items from here," says Guru Charan, store manager.(24.12) pic.twitter.com/imZ0Aq1h0O||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-khalsa-aid-sets-up-kisan-mall-at-tikri-border-for-farmers/story-elBDrntfREZ2Sucm548yoI.html
