26-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Will there be 6th round of talks soon? 10 points||The farmers’ unions on Friday indicated that talks with the Centre on the three agriculture laws might begin soon though the unions are yet to reply formally to the last letter of the agriculture ministry. A decision regarding the further course of action is likely to be taken on Saturday.Here are the latest updates:1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other Union ministers on Friday reached out to farmers across the country, making it clear that repealing the laws — what the protesting farmers want — is not on the table.2. In a major development, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday urged farmers to try the new laws as an experiment. “Let farm laws be implemented for a year or two. Let’s try this as an experiment, and if found not beneficial for farmers, the government will be ready for all possible amendments,” he said.3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the government is ready to talk with opposition parties as well if the discussion is based on facts.4. The protesting farmers are thinking of resuming talks with the Centre at this stage as they feel that the Centre has not clearly understood their demands.5. In their last letter to the ministry, farmers raised the demand for a higher MSP. The ministry, in its reply, said as MSP is not under the purview of the three agriculture laws that are being discussed by the two parties, including MSP in the agenda is not “logical”.6. Reacting to PM Modi’s address on Friday, farmers’ unions asked why the government doesn’t give in writing that MSP will have a legal guarantee. “In public speeches, the prime minister said the MSP will remain. Then why is he afraid of giving a legal guarantee for it? Why cannot the government give it in writing?” Shiv Kumar Kakka, a senior leader of Sankyut Kisan Morcha said.7. Farmers also dismissed PM Modi’s claim of implementing the recommendations of the MS Swaminathan Committee. “In election rallies, he says his government has fixed MSP as per the recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Committee. But in court, they say it was not possible to do so,” Shiv Kumar Kakka said.8. The protesters on Friday picketed at highway booths, allegedly ransacked the venue of a BJP event at Bathinda. From December 26, there will be protests against corporates.9. Amid reports that power supply to mobile towers was being disconnected by protesting farmers in different parts of the state, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday appealed to them to not inconvenience the general public with such actions.10. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday claimed the Centre’s new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and do a lot of harm. “BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don’t have a single benefit,” Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-will-there-be-6th-round-of-talks-soon-10-points/story-IqTK4pkaUcF1HZj1bkxJZO.html
26-12-2020||Jaipur||‘Bye-bye. We’re quitting!’ RLP pulls out of NDA over farm bills says chief Beniwal||After Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Rashtriya Loktantric Party (RLP) chief Hanuman Beniwal also walked out of National Democratic Alliance on Saturday. While addressing farmers’ rally in Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan’s Alwar district, Beniwal said, “Bye-bye. We are quitting NDA. Nothing is above the pride of farmers in the country.” State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Mukesh Pareekh said that Beniwal’s party is an independent party and a one man’s unit. “Just because of him, the BJP left the parliamentary seat from Nagaur and helped him in winning the election,” he said.“Earlier, he had supported the agri laws but now just to gain political mileage he had quit the alliance,” Pareekh added. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in September had also pulled out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coalition at the Centre over the passage of contentious farm bills passed in Parliament earlier this month. Also read: ‘Wake up’ - Digvijaya Singh calls upon Congress members to join farmers’ stirThousands of RLP supporters joined the farmers protest on Saturday on Jaipur-Delhi National Highway in Shahjahanpur along the Rajasthan-Haryana border. Around 3 pm on Saturday, hundreds of vehicles had reached the border from Kotputli area of Jaipur rural. The RLP workers had put up a separate pandal on the stretch from where the farmers have been protesting on the highway for 14-days. “I request the central government to not play with flames. Any government who has dared to go against has been dethroned. Because of this act, agriculture mandis will end. Why didn’t the government consult the farmers? Because of this act land mafias raj will increase. I don’t understand why is the government not rolling back the laws,” said Beniwal at the protest site. Also read: Kerala gold smuggling case - Customs to move high court against jail deptCalling himself a son of a farmer, Beniwal said he had always supported them. “The central government is in the mood to muscle down the farmers’ protest. But this is the issue of sustenance and pride of farmers and we are standing with them,” he said.Last week, the disappointed RLP chief, who is a Lok Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) from Nagaur, resigned from three parliament committees in support of farmer’s issue. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat had started proceeding towards Delhi earlier this month but were stopped by the Rewari police at the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Since then, they have been protesting at Shahjahanpur in Alwar district at Rajasthan-Haryana border. RLP in Rajasthan The party has a Member of Parliament from Nagaur (Hanuman Beniwal) and three MLAs from Merta, Khinvsar and Bhopalgarh assembly constituencies. The RLP, which was formed before the 2018 assembly elections, had fielded candidates on 57 constituencies, won three and received a vote of share of 2.40 per cent. The party contested in alliance with the BJP on Nagaur Lok Sabha seat in 2019, thereafter on Khinvsar bypolls. The decision of breaking tie will not have much of an impact on the NDA. The BJP in Rajasthan is in opposition with 71 MLAs - far below the majority figure.Though RLP chief Beniwal is a vocal detractor of chief minister Ashok Gehlot and ex-CM Vasundhara Raje but if Gehlot woo him, it may consolidate his position in circumstances that arise during political crisis in Rajasthan.The BTP with two MLAs has already withdrawn its support from the Congress. If the RLP becomes a Congress ally, it will offset the impact caused by the BTP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bye-bye-we-re-quitting-rlp-pulls-out-of-nda-over-farm-bills-says-chief-beniwal/story-Xfwq9rImkgyNQRsR30beEM.html
26-12-2020||NA||Kerala Assembly session likely to be held on December 31 to discuss farm laws||Decks appear to have been cleared for the one-day session of the Kerala assembly on December 31 to discuss and pass a resolution against the three contentious farm laws of the Centre against which farmers are protesting in Delhi.Raj Bhavan sources said the clarification sought by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has been given by the government and Khan could give his assent for the session by Monday.The governor had earlier turned down the plea of the LDF government to convene a special session on December 23 to discuss the new laws, saying Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had not addressed the question raised by him on the nature of emergency warranating the very brief session.In a letter to Vijayan, he had also stated that the government wanted the special session to “discuss a problem for which you have no jurisdiction to offer any solution”.Vijayan had shot off a letter to Khan on Tuesday describing as regrettable his decision while asserting that the governor was bound by the advice of the Council of Ministers and that moving resolutions and conducting discussions in the assembly “cannot be regulated by gubernatorial powers”.Kerala Law Minister A K Balan and Agricultural Minister V S Sunil Kumar had met the governor on Friday after the state government decided afresh to convene a one-day session to discuss and pass a resolution against the farm laws.They had later said the interactionwas “positive”.Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan met the governor at Raj Bhavan on Saturday to invite him for the customary policy address for the budget session beginning on January 8.On the sidelines of the meeting, the governor and the speaker also discussed the December 31 session recommendation of the state cabinet to which Khan assured that an “appropriate decision” would be taken, assembly sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kerala/kerala-assembly-session-likely-to-be-held-on-december-31-to-discuss-farm-laws/story-1UToAZeKOQoM6vwQSurGkO.html
26-12-2020||Kolkata||Centre not cooperating, indulging in propaganda for political gains: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday for misleading farmers with ‘half-truth and distorted facts’ instead of proactively addressing their issues. She also blamed the Centre of non-cooperation and ‘indulging in propaganda for petty political gains’.“Our farmer brothers & sisters have been on streets protesting against new farm laws. Instead of addressing them, PM today chose to mislead the people with half-truth & distorted facts. BJP-led Centre is not cooperating & only indulging in propaganda for petty political gains,” she tweeted, along with a letter in which she rubbished the Centre’s allegation of the non-cooperation by the Bengal government in implementing the PM Kisan Yojana. Banerjee said that the three contentious farm laws would dilute the MSP and state procurement systems, leaving farmers at the mercy of private buyers. She slammed the PM for ‘showing his apparent concern’ via a televised event rather than proactively working to resolve their issues. Mamata said that she had written two letters on the issue of PM Kisan Yojana and spoken to the minister concerned but it was them who were not cooperating. Our farmer brothers & sisters have been on streets protesting against new farm laws. Instead of addressing them, PM today chose to mislead the people with half-truth & distorted facts. BJP-led Centre is not cooperating & only indulging in propaganda for petty political gains. pic.twitter.com/gtngklCruyBanerjee reminded the Centre of its Rs 85,000 crore outstanding dues to the state, which included Rs 8,000 crore of unpaid GST dues, saying that they must release a part of these funds if they really cared about West Bengal. The chief minister said that her government was prepared to do anything for the benefit of the people, even if it meant supporting the politically driven schemes of the Centre which were formulated out of political agenda and were not in the interest of helping people. Banerjee said that her ideologies were consistent with the vision of the founding fathers of the country, that she had served the people of West Bengal with the right intent and that the people would give a befitting reply to those trying to malign them or their state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/centre-not-cooperating-indulging-in-propaganda-for-political-gains-mamata/story-coFKu3QGCFUR2dqS4jxyGO.html
26-12-2020||India||No confusion over new farm laws in Madhya Pradesh, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday that there was no confusion regarding the new farm laws in the state. He also said that the state government will organise training in all 313 districts of the state to help them understand the laws and learn how to benefit from them. “Centre’s three farm laws have been implemented in Madhya Pradesh, and there’s no confusion over it. In all 313 blocks of the state, we’ll organise training on these laws, so our farmers can understand them better & learn how to benefit from them,” he said. Chouhan has been a vocal supporter of the laws for a while now, terming them ‘farmer friendly’. He said that there were people who were trying to spread confusion and were misleading the farmers into believing that the laws were not beneficial for them. The MP chief minister, who is also a member of India’s ruling party, BJP, has managed to garner the support of several local farmers from his state towards the laws. He stated that the laws would considerably increase farmers’ income and assured that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system was not being discarded. “Procurements (of farm produce) will continue at MSP... there is no question of ending this mechanism. Mandis (agri markets) will also continue to function as usual,” he said. Agitations by farmers against the Centre’s contentious around the national capital Delhi have been going on for a month now with protestors, gathering by the thousands, and blocking off highways. Their demand is a complete rollback of the laws and they have refused to accept anything less so far. The laws were passed in both houses of Parliament in September via voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-confusion-over-new-farm-laws-in-madhya-pradesh-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-0eOqr0UmT6I8t9v3kz7zqJ.html
