27-12-2020||India||‘Urging Centre with folded hands farmers are our people,’ says Kejriwal as he visits Singhu||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday visited Singhu border where thousands of farmers have been protesting for the last four weeks against the three agriculture laws passed by the Centre in September. The Punjab Academy of the Delhi government organised a kirtan durbar on Sunday at Singhu border. Kejriwal and Sisodia paid a visit to the musical event and were seated among the audience during the kirtan.Throwing a challenge to the Centre and its ministers to take part in an open debate with the protesting farmers on the provisions of new laws, Kejriwal said, “The government is saying farmers are being misled. They have little understanding of the farm laws. I have heard all speeches and hence I want the government to send its most knowledgeable minister or representative to take part in an open debate with the farmers. It will be clear who has a better understanding.”Also Read: ‘BJP ministers fail to highlight a single benefit of farm laws’: KejriwalSlamming Centre’s attempt to attribute the protest to “anti-social” elements, Kejriwal said, “This is a weapon of all governments. When we took part in Anna andolan, we were also labelled like this. If farmers are anti-national now, then who will feed you? Farmers have been bluffed by all parties for the last 70 years. I want to tell the Centre with folded hands that these protesters are our people. They are fighting for their cause braving this cold. If they are robbed of their farming, what will they do?”As he said earlier, Kejriwal once again pointed out that the laws have no benefits for farmers. “They are saying MSP will not be done away with. The land will not be grabbed. Are these benefits? These are already there,” he said adding that the provision of selling produce anywhere in the country is also no benefit as getting a better price than the MSP.Assuring of all assistance from the Delhi government, Sisodia said, “The Centre wanted to imprison the protesters inside Delhi stadiums. But Delhi CM opposed and ensured that farmers don’t have to suffer in Delhi. In future too, we will do whatever possible for our farmers.”This was Kejriwal’s second visit to Singhu. The protesters are not allowing any political leader to address from their platform. On Sunday too, Kejriwal’s address was at the musical event organised by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-visits-singhu-border/story-X1ZJzKgzVdSnewcS4MAiMK.html
27-12-2020||India||Took years to see positive results of 1991 economic reforms too, says Rajnath Singh, urges farmers to wait for 2 years||Reiterating Modi government’s commitment to protecting minimum support price so that farmers’ interests are not hurt at any cost, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said it takes some to see the impact of the agriculture reforms. “I appeal to farmers to see changes in the next one and half years. Otherwise, we can improve them through talks,” Rajnath Singh said as he was addressing the people of Himachal Pradesh via video-conferencing on the completion of three years of Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government.“Be it the 1991 economic reforms brought in by the Narasimha Rao government or other ones enacted during the Vajpayee government, it took four-five years to see their positive results. If we can’t wait for four-five years, we can wait for at least two years to witness positive results of the agriculture reforms carried out by the Narendra Modi government,” Singh said.On an earlier occasion too, Rajnath Singh while addressing farmers in Delhi asked them to let the laws be implemented and the wait and see. “The income of farmers will double with the enactment of farm laws,” Rajnath said.Slamming the opposition for misleading farmers, Singh said, “It’s unfortunate that those who don’t even know about farming, are misleading innocent farmers. This govt never intended to stop MSP, neither it will in future. Mandis will also be maintained. No ‘Mai Ka Lal’ can take away land from farmers.”The protesting farmer unions on Saturday decided to resume their dialogue with the Centre and proposed December 29 for the next round of talks to end the deadlock over the three newly enacted farm laws, but made it clear that the modalities for its repeal and guarantee for MSP should be part of the agenda. The agriculture ministry in its last letter to the unions maintained that as MSP does not come under the purview of the three laws that are being discussed, it was not logical to include this in the agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/took-years-to-see-positive-results-of-1991-economic-reforms-too-says-rajnath-singh-urges-farmers-to-wait-for-2-years/story-lSWsOPggordsxeTxCjuLIO.html
27-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers extend toll-free movement in Haryana indefinitely||The farmers’ organisations in Haryana have decided to force open the the toll plazas in the state for an indefinite period to ensure free commute for all passing through. The decision has been taken to further escalate the protests against the three farm laws. Earlier, the farmer union leaders had said that the toll plazas will remain open for three days from December 25 to 27. But in a late night meeting on Saturday, farmer leaders said that they will not allow the toll companies to charge from commuters until the Union government accepts their demands.“We have met several farmers and representatives of farmer unions and it was decided that the toll plazas to will not be allowed to charge from commuters indefinitely”, Bhartiya Kisan Union state president Gurnam Singh Charuni said.He said that the farmers will continue their protests at all toll plazas in the state until the farmers’ protests at Delhi borders are not ended.On the morning of December 25, the protesting farmers gathered at the toll plazas, forcing employees collecting toll to leave. They removed barricades from the toll gates allowing free movement of motorists.Even women and children joined the protests at Kitlana toll plaza in Dadri, while farmers parked their tractor-trolleys on the roadside and sat on a dharna near Makrauli toll plaza on the Rohtak-Chandigarh highway and at Madina toll plaza on the Rohtak-Hisar highway.Also Read: Farm unions agree to talk to govt on Dec 29The farmers also took over Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on NH- 44, which connects Delhi with several northern states. They also took control of the Gullarpur toll plaza on Assandh-Karnal highway, the Thana toll plaza in Pehowa of Kurukshetra on Hisar-Chandigarh highway, Panipat toll plaza on NH-44 and Dahar toll plaza on Panipat-Rohtak highway.Meanwhile farmers from Haryana and Punjab continued their sit-in at the Shambhu toll plaza near Ambala on the Delhi-Amritsar NH-44 for the second day.Also Read: RLP joins protest, leaves NDA over new farm lawsThe concessionaire of Bastara toll plaza on National Highway 44, near Karnal, is likely to suffer a loss of around Rs 1.20 crore per day due to the toll-free movement of vehicles forced on the toll plaza.The toll plaza officials said that per day collection at Bastara is around Rs 1.20 crore to Rs 1.30 crore as 40,000 to 50,000 vehicles cross the toll plaza every day.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the losses suffered by the toll companies will ultimately be borne by the public since the concessionaires’ contracts will get extended to cover for the days they could not charge toll as is categorically mentioned in their contracts.“Opening toll plazas will not cause any loss to the government or the toll companies and it won’t benefit anybody,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-extend-toll-free-movement-in-haryana-indefinitely/story-Fee9Y93YijMMSX369pzcBO.html
27-12-2020||India||JP Nadda shares old video, take a dig at Rahul Gandhi over criticism of farm laws||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda shared an old video of Rahul Gandhi speaking in the Lok Sabha and accused him of opposing now what he advocated earlier. Nadda was referring to the staunch criticism of farm laws by the Opposition.Rahul Gandhi can be seen narrating a story of a Uttar Pradesh farmer in the video. “A farmer from UP once asked me how it was possible that that while he sold potatoes for Rs 2 per kilogram, his children bought packets of potato chips, with each one having chips worth one potato, for Rs 10 each,” he said. ये क्या जादू हो रहा है राहुल जी?पहले आप जिस चीज़ की वकालत कर रहे थे, अब उसका ही विरोध कर रहे है।देश हित, किसान हित से आपका कुछ लेना-देना नही है।आपको सिर्फ़ राजनीति करनी है।लेकिन आपका दुर्भाग्य है कि अब आपका पाखंड नही चलेगा। देश की जनता और किसान आपका दोहरा चरित्र जान चुके है। pic.twitter.com/Uu2mDfBuIT“On being asked why he thought this was happening, the farmer said it was because they were unable to sell their products directly to the factories making chips. If there was provision for us to sell our produce directly, without middlemen, all profit would reach us,” he added.The video clip, from 2015, shows Rahul Gandhi speaking on what prompted the Congress to undertake the Amethi Food Park project.The BJP government at the Centre has been saying that the new farm laws, passed by Parliament in September, will be liberating for small farmers. According to the government, the laws will shield farmers from middlemen and increase their income. The group of farmers protesting against the laws, however, feel that they will put them at the mercy of big landowners. They have proposed December 29 as the date for the next round of talks with the government. This will be the sixth round of meetings between Union ministers and farmer groups.The three contentious farm laws are: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-shares-old-video-take-a-dig-at-rahul-gandhi-over-criticism-of-farm-laws/story-QFnqO63iQHVwwYWMDvoOqN.html
