29-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Health ministry concludes two day Covid-19 vaccine dry run and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two-day Covid vaccine dry run concludes smoothly: Health ministryThe Centre’s two-day dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Monday and Tuesday in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, and Gujarat concluded smoothly with minor hiccups that are being addressed, the Union health ministry said. Read moreIndia vs Australia, 2nd Test: ‘Probably the toughest day to bat,’ Ravi Shastri names the ‘turning point’ of the matchIndia managed to turn around the series after winning the second Test match convincingly against Australia at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. They were on the backfoot after the debacle in Adelaide and did not have the services of their captain Virat Kohli. Read moreKangana Ranaut visits Siddhivinayak, Mumba Devi temples, says she feels ‘protected and welcomed’. See picsActor Kangana Ranaut, who landed in Mumbai recently, has shared pictures from her visit to Siddhivinayak and Mumba Devi temples in the city. She also said that she felt “welcomed and protected” after visiting the temples and seeking blessings. Read moreNissan admits long list of ageing vehicles has set it back in global auto raceNissan had hit a rough patch much before Covid-19 pandemic emerged as a big threat to the global automotive industry. And even as this industry gradually returns to some sense of normalcy, the Japanese car maker may still not be out of troubled waters. Read moreAmazon announces the Mega Salary Days sale: Here are the top dealsThe year 2020 is coming to an end. Ahead of the new year celebrations, Amazon India has announced one last surprise for its customers. Read moreWoman gifts this to specially-abled sister, her reaction is beyond wholesome. WatchThe bond between two siblings is indeed a special one and several videos on the Internet attest to that notion. This Reddit video of two sisters, however, deserves a special mention and may just be the right content to spread cheer in these last few days of an eventful year. Read more‘Those who vandalise country’s infrastructure…’: PM Modi amid farmer protestPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor via video conferencing.PM Modi lashed out at the government for delaying the project and said that it showed the work culture of those in power. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-health-ministry-says-two-day-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-concludes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zbE54ZlU4pDr38ugxN7nVM.html
29-12-2020||Business||Sabotaging telecom infra, disrupting services as form of protest strongly condemned: COAI||Industry body COAI on Tuesday “strongly condemned” the sabotaging of telecom network infrastructure and disruption of services as a form of protest, after over 1,500 mobile towers were targeted during farmers’ stir in Punjab.Terming telecom services as “lifeline” for lakhs of customers, COAI’s Director General, SP Kochhar said disruption of telecom services is causing immense inconvenience to the common man, for whom mobile services are “essential”.“While we respect people’s right to protest on any issue, sabotaging the telecom network infrastructure and disrupting telecom services as a form of protest by anyone is strongly condemned,” COAI said in a statement.Apex industry body Cellular Operators’ Association of India (COAI’s) members include Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea.More than 1,500 telecom towers in Punjab were damaged by farmers protesting against the three farm laws, disrupting services in some pockets.Power supply to towers that relay telecom signals was snapped and cables cut in several parts of the state as farmers vented their anger on the infrastructure owned by billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s firm Jio as they saw him along with infrastructure tycoon Gautam Adani as major beneficiaries of the new laws.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday directed police to take strict action against vandalisation of mobile towers and disruption of telecom services in the state during the farmers’ stir against the agri laws.Asserting that he will not let Punjab plunge into anarchy at any cost and nobody can be allowed to take the law into their hands, the chief minister had said he has been forced to toughen his stance as his repeated appeals to perpetrators of such acts had been ignored.In a statement on Tuesday, COAI said telecom services are the lifeline of lakhs of customers, including students taking online classes, professionals working from home, people going for online health consultations in the tough time of Covid-19.“The disruption of telecom services, which are considered ‘essential’ under various enactments, is causing immense inconvenience to the common man for whom the mobile services are so essential,” COAI’s Kochhar said.During the lockdown and the continuing pandemic, “warriors of the telecom sector” worked tirelessly to provide seamless and uninterrupted connectivity across the length and breadth of the country through doorstep delivery, infrastructure augmentation and 24x7 network support, Kochhar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/sabotaging-telecom-infra-disrupting-services-as-form-of-protest-strongly-condemned-coai/story-rBHcYiDeANgualaxgtsrlK.html
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Mobile connectivity hit as power to 1,561 towers disrupted in Punjab||Over 1,500 mobile phone towers in Punjab have allegedly been vandalised, disrupting telecom connectivity in Punjab, a government spokesperson said, adding that 146 towers have been impacted since Monday due to power supply disruption while the remaining have been physically damaged.He said that some of the farmers protesting against the three farm laws enacted in September to liberalise the sector allegedly vandalised and disrupted power supply to 1,561 mobile phone towers in the state. So far, 433 towers have been repaired. The state has 2,13,06 mobile towers spread across 22 districts.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday warned against vandalisation of the towers and directed strict action against those involved in it. Singh said he will not tolerate the destruction of any private or public property in Punjab and let the state plunge into anarchy. He added nobody can be allowed to take the law into their hands. Singh said his government has not objected to or stopped peaceful protests in the state against the laws. He underlined damage to property and inconvenience to the citizens cannot be tolerated.Also Read: Protesting farmers gherao Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal’s cavalcade in Fatehgarh SahibSingh cited examinations and online education amid the Covid pandemic and added communication breakdown could seriously affect the future of students. He added the government has distributed 17,50,00 smartphones among class 12 students to equip them for the exams.Singh said the professionals working from home because of the pandemic could lose their jobs due to such acts of violence and damage to the telecom property. He added even banking services, which are also largely dependent on online transactions, have been hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-cellphone-connectivity-hit-as-power-to-1-561-towers-disrupted-in-punjab/story-pWMXFhiWSSMrRI8mKAbNqN.html
29-12-2020||India||Sale, purchase of farm yield not govt job: Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government headed by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has backtracked on its opposition to the three central laws aimed at liberalising agricultural trade, and decided to leave the purchase of farm produce to private buyers.According to a statement from the chief minister’s office, the government set up purchasing centres in the countryside during the last season and purchased all the agriculture produce that landed in the centres on humanitarian grounds so that farmers would not suffer losses in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic.The government incurred losses to the tune of Rs 7,500 crore from the purchase of paddy, sorghum, maize, red gram and Bengal gram, the statement said. Although the government paid Minimum Support Prices (MSP) for the crops, it had to sell them at lower prices in the market because there was no demand“The government cannot do it anymore. It is not a business organisation or trader. It is not a rice miller or a dal miller. Sale and purchase are not the responsibility of government. It is not possible to set up purchase centres in the villages from next year onwards,” the statement said. The statement was released after an official meeting convened on Sunday by chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao, who has hitherto steadfastly opposed the three farm laws passed by the Narendra Modi government in September.Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed rates, known as minimum support prices (MSPs).At Sunday’s meeting, the Telangana chief minister told officials that since the new farm laws were being implemented across the country, allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere, there was no need for the state government to purchase farm commodities any longer. He suggested that farmers not bring their entire produce to the markets at one time but in portions so that they get a better price. On December 8, TRS leaders and cadre, led by party working president and the CM’s son K T Rama Rao, took part in the Bharat Bandh (India shutdown) to oppose the new farm laws. KCR, as the TRS leader is popularly known, said he would hold a national conclave in the third week of December and invite all anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) forces to protest against anti-farmer and anti-labour policies of the central government. He said he would build a national consensus against the new agriculture laws. But there is no more any talk about the proposed conclave. “We cannot afford to get into a confrontation with the Centre at present because it will affect the state’s interests,” a former TRS MP, who is presently in a key position in the government, said on condition of anonymity. Telangana BJP state president Bandi Sanjay welcomed the change in stand of the TRS government on the farm laws. “At least now, KCR has opened his eyes and understood the reality on the benefits of the new laws,” he said. Senior Congress leader and Kisan Congress national vice-president M Kodanda Reddy lashed out at the chief minister for the U-turn. “It is unfortunate that the government is shying away from its responsibility of purchasing agricultural produce at MSPs,” he said. Reddy alleged that KCR had changed his stand after recently meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “He didn’t even bother calling on lakhs of farmers who were agitating on the Delhi borders, braving the winter chill,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sale-purchase-of-farm-yield-not-govt-job-kcr/story-JUI1ILqTQG6xELbeDbatFP.html
29-12-2020||India||Farmers’protest updates: Demand repeal of ‘draconian’ laws, says West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||Protests against the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws entered day 33 on Monday as the government and the farmers’ union prepare for the sixth round of talks on Tuesday. The farmers’ unions had on Saturday accepted the government’s second proposal to hold the sixth round of talks at a date and time as per the unions’ convenience, having rejected an earlier invitation. On Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Singhu border to interact with the protesting farmers and “challenged” any Union minister to debate the laws with the protesting farmers so that it becomes clear “how beneficial or harmful these laws are.” Kejriwal had earlier visited the Singhu border, which has emerged as the epicentre of the stir, on December 7.Since September, when these legislations were passed, the farmers, predominantly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against what they call “black laws.” Initially, railway tracks were blocked in Punjab and the farmers arrived in Delhi on November 26 and, since then, have been camping on various borders of the national capital. The farmers have repeatedly said that they are prepared for a “long haul” and will not go back till the laws are repealed; the government, on the other hand, has ruled out a repeal, and, instead, has proposed amendments to these.Previous five rounds of talks, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5, have failed to break the deadlock. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach, too, has failed to convince the farmers.Here are the live updates from day 33 of the anti-farm laws protests:Demand repeal of ‘draconian’ laws: Mamata BanerjeeWe are with the farmers. We demand the three draconian agriculture laws be withdrawn: West Bengal CM Mamata BanerjeeLeaders from 25 farmers’ organisations submit letter in support of farm lawsLeaders of 25 farmers’ organisations meet agriculture minister Tomar in Delhi, submit letter in support of the farm laws. Delhi: Leaders of around 25 farmer organisations today met & handed over to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar a letter in support of the new agriculture laws. pic.twitter.com/deesc2QX3bPolice detains protesters outside Haryana CM ML Khattar’s residencePunjab Pradesh Congress Sewa Dal protests outside Haryana CM ML Khattar’s residence against the farm laws, in Chandigarh. Protesters detained after trying to cross police barricades. Chandigarh: Punjab Pradesh Congress Sewa Dal members today held a demonstration near Haryana CM's residence to protest against Centre's Farm Laws.Protesters were detained by police as they tried to cross the barricades. pic.twitter.com/5xeusGxXOlAnti-farm law protests continue at Delhi-Haryana Tikri borderFarmers continue protests against the farm laws at the Delhi-Haryana Tikri border. कृषि कानूनों के खिलाफ टिकरी (दिल्ली-हरियाणा) बॉर्डर पर विरोध प्रदर्शन कर रहे किसान अभी भी डटे हुए हैं। pic.twitter.com/gEOeZ2LvYcDelhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana remain shutDelhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, continue to stay closed. The Ghazipur and Chilla borders with UP are closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad.Farm unions had earlier rejected the Centre’s earlier offer for talksEarlier, the farmers’ unions had rejected the government’s initial offer for sixth round of talks as per the unions’ convenience. However, on Satuday, they accepted the government’s second offer.Govt should listen to farmers and take back laws: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra“It’s a sin to use the kind of words they are using for farmers. Government is answerable to farmers. Government should listen to them and take back the laws,” says Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.PM Modi to flag off 100th ‘Kisan Rail’ at 4:30 pmAmid the ongoing farmers’ protest, prime minister Narendra Modi will virtually flag off the 100th ‘Kisan Rail’ service between Maharashtra’s Samgola and Shalimar in West Bengal, at 4:30 pm on Monday.Day 33 of anti-farm laws’ stirThe protests against the government’s three contentious farm laws in Delhi, which began on November 26, entered day 33 on Monday. Sixth round of talks between the government and the farmers’ unions are likely to take place on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-december-28-2020/story-8mmwyOxc8RK6DW3Hrg7zNJ.html
