30-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Consensus on two issues, says Tomar; next meeting on January 4||After the sixth round of talks with the protesting farmers’ unions on Wednesday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said consensus has been reached on two issues out of four. The next meeting will be held on January 4, the minister said. The minister also said that the talks were held in a good environment and ended with a positive note. This meeting came after a long gap as after the last meeting the situation hit a dead end with farmers being stern on their demand for a complete withdrawal of the laws and the Centre on not accepting it. The meeting started around 2pm and went on for over four hours. Though there was no definite answer to farmers demands, the environment on Wednesday was amicable as the leaders mingled with the central representatives during lunch and evening snack time.Here are the major takeaways from the meeting:Breaking bread, if not ice: Farmer union leaders so far refused food offered at Vigyan Bhawan as they have always arranged for their food cooked at langar. On Wednesday, as they were having their langar food, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal joined them. The union leaders too, in the evening, accepted the beverage offered by the government during the tea break.‘Govt will withdraw electricity amendment bill’Punjab Kisan Union state president Ruldu Singh Mansa said the government has offered to withdraw the electricity amendment bill and to amend the ordinance to remove the penal provision on farmers in stubble burning cases. “Farmers feel that if reform is introduced in the Electricity Act, they’ll suffer loss. Unions wanted that electricity subsidy given to farmers by states for irrigation should continue. The consensus was reached on this issue,” agriculture minister said.Send women, children, elderly home: Minister’s request to farmersUnion minister Tomar requested the farmers several times to withdraw the protest as talks are going on. On Wednesday too, he requested the union leaders to send women, elderly and children back as they are suffering in the chilly weather in Delhi.Offering prayers at Vigyan BhawanAfter the evening tea break, farmer leaders offered ‘ardaas’ (prayers) at the meeting venue before resuming the talks. A committee to examine the lawsThe ministers have proposed to set up a committee to examine the new farm laws. Earlier too, this was proposed but the farmers’ unions were stern that they want an immediate withdrawal of the laws. After today’s meeting as well, Balkaran Singh Brar, Punjab President,All India Kisan Sabha, said they won’t form any committee. The agitation will also not stop. No consensus on MSP yetThe Centre has been reiterating that the system of minimum support price will remain. The Centre, in earlier meetings, agreed to give this in writing. But farmers want legal backing of MSP, to which the Centre has not yet agreed. “Discussion will continue on the legal aspect of MSP and other issues on January 4,” Tomar said.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-s-protest-next-meeting-to-take-place-on-january-4/story-z3nf3deIUiQhKpZtQpo0IK.html
30-12-2020||India||Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal join farmer leaders during lunch at Vigyan Bhawan, share langar food||During all past meetings between the leaders of the agitating farmers’ groups and the Centre, farmers brought their food cooked at langars set up at various protest sites, including Singhu border. It became a statement on part of the farmers that they rejected the hospitality of the government. So in all past meetings, during the lunch time, farmer leaders had lunch together while ministers and other Central representatives had lunch separately. The union leaders either brought food or got it delivered during the lunch time.On Wednesday, however, another message was given and this time it was by the ministers as Piyush Goyal, Narendra Singh Tomar joined the leaders during the lunch break. Food was served to the ministers by the farmer leaders.After the last round of talks remained inconclusive on December 5, several attempts to hold another round of talks went in vain as farmers remained stern in their demand for an immediate withdrawal of the three agriculture laws that they apprehend will corporatise farming. The government, meanwhile, held several outreach programmes to explain that the government is pro-farmer and the new laws will benefit them. This meeting may break the ice between the farmers and the Centre though it is unlikely that the Centre would agree to the farmers’ demand of withdrawing the laws. A middle path can be reached at today’s meeting as both the parties want to end the deadlock. The protest at Delhi borders has been going on for over a month now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-singh-tomar-piyush-goyal-join-farmer-leaders-during-lunch-at-vigyan-bhawan-share-langar-food/story-vdvHscoVMTcFWgfyCFXqhP.html
30-12-2020||India||Farm protests: Congress attacks BJP for ‘aiding corporate interests’, seeks swift resolution||The Congress on Wednesday hit out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “only aiding corporate interests” while seeking a swift resolution to the farmers’ protests and repealing of three farm laws enacted in September.“The central government has met the farm leaders several times now. It has called the farmers again today, but how will they proceed when the government refuses to compromise,” said Congress leader Kumari Selja. She added the government should support the farmers and listen to their demands by repealing the three laws.“The entire country depends on the farmers. It is time that this government should embrace them as well,” Selja said. “People have lost faith in the BJP. Ten farmers from Haryana have lost their lives. The chief minister of Haryana should take a delegation to the Prime Minister and make him understand the situation on the ground.”Also Read: ‘Talks will be held on all issues; hope farm stir ends today’: Union minister Som PrakashAnother Congress leader Pritam Singh accused the government of murdering democracy. “The talks with the government have been inconclusive.” He said the government brings the farmers to the table but says the laws will not be undone. “It is the responsibility of the central government to break this deadlock by repealing the laws.”The Congress’s criticism came as Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal, and Som Prakash began the sixth round of talks with 40 farmer leaders on Wednesday amid their protests against the three agricultural laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-attacks-bjp-for-aiding-corporate-interests-seeks-swift-resolution-to-farmers-protests/story-FwNyzmxveD1lDURRKEezcK.html
30-12-2020||India||Centre, farmers to hold sixth round of talks today: Here’s all you need to know||The Centre will hold the sixth round of talks on Wednesday as part of attempts to end the agitation by farmers, who have encircled the Capital demanding scrapping of three laws enacted in September to liberalise the sector. Here is all you need to know about the protests, the talks and the laws:• The fresh talks are being held after agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal wrote a letter to farm leaders on Monday in response to their e-mail on December 26 in which they agreed to restart negotiations.• 40 leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of over 400 farm organisations involved in the month-long agitation, have been invited for the talks.• Three Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash are likely to represent the government.• The farmers have stuck to their demand that talks must be oriented towards a repeal of the laws.Also Read: Amid protests over farm laws, BJP seeks to build support base in rural Punjab• The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of decades-old government marketplaces.• They allow traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming.• The laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.• Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and erode the government’s procurement system whereby the government buys staples such as wheat and rice at guaranteed rates known as minimum support prices (MSP).• The farm unions want “mechanisms to be adopted to make remunerative MSP recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities.” The demands are the trickiest and are likely to be a test of the fate of negotiations.• The government has made desperate attempts to restart negotiations with the unions, but it is not prepared to scrap its reformist agenda.• The government has proposed a set of concessions and amendments including greater oversight of proposed free markets and a written assurance on continuing the MSP.• The farmers also want amendments in an ordinance to completely exclude farmers from any penalties for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-farmers-to-hold-sixth-round-of-talks-today-here-s-all-you-need-to-know/story-xGv3XP37Sx8s0Tt2tBfQxK.html
30-12-2020||India||Amid protests over farm laws, BJP seeks to build support base in rural Punjab||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans a rural outreach in Punjab as it has identified a lack of leadership and a weak cadre across the state’s villages as a reason for its inability to break the impasse over three farm laws passed in September. The plan has been devised as the BJP is gearing to contest elections in Punjab on its own starting with the local polls in February following Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) exit from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The SAD quit the over two-decade-long alliance with the BJP in protest against the farm laws that have triggered protests. A BJP leader said the failure in nurturing leadership in rural Punjab has prevented the party from stemming the ongoing agitation against the laws and clear the misconceptions about them.Also Read: Farmers’ protests: Sixth round of talks today; unions want repeal of laws, higher MSP“The BJP could not convince the farmers of the benefits that they stand to gain once the laws are implemented. It did not help that the SAD, which was a part of the NDA, and therefore a part of the decision-making process played a double-game and backed out at the last moment. Had they been part of the NDA, it would have been easier for us to clear the misconceptions,” the leader said on condition of anonymity.BJP strategists have warned that a lack of direct contact with people in Punjab’s rural areas could upset its expansion plans ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. This has prompted the party to begin preparations for a membership drive in the rural areas, opening offices at the block levels and to identify candidates for the assembly polls.Former Union minister Vijay Sampla, who has been a Parliament member from Punjab, said they were making amends by focussing on rural areas. “When we were in alliance with the SAD, they kept us out of the rural areas. They did not allow BJP leaders to hold positions in the rural development bodies and would even dissuade us from holding public programmes in these areas. They back-stabbed us on the farm laws. So, the party will put in 10 times the effort required to build its base in Punjab.”Sampla rejected the perception that the BJP is on shaky ground in Punjab over the farm laws, saying they are not allowed to hold public programmes. “Just as the TMC [Trinamool Congress] government in West Bengal is not allowing BJP leaders to step out and hold programmes, the Congress government is doing the same in Punjab.” He added the Punjab government is worried the BJP without the SAD has emerged stronger. “On Monday, we met the state DGP [director general of police] to complain that we were not even allowed to hold public programmes to mark the [birth] anniversary of [late] former PM [Prime Minister] Atal Bihari Vajpayee [on December 25],” he said.A third leader said the local elections and finding candidates for all the seats will be the first big challenge for the party. “Earlier the SAD used to play big brother in the state and allocate seats to the BJP. Now we have to contest all the seats to increase our hold over the urban areas.”SS Jodhka, a sociology professor at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, said caste and class factors will impact the BJP’s plans in Punjab. “It is natural for the party to want to have its own social base in Punjab. But in the current context, it would be difficult for the BJP. In the rural areas, there has been a communal divide as well with the Sikhs opting for the SAD and the urban Hindus the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-protests-over-farm-laws-bjp-seeks-to-build-support-base-in-rural-punjab/story-5SLTfXNOrDdMn1zpHtLgpI.html
30-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests: Sixth round of talks today; unions want repeal of laws, higher MSP||The Union government will hold the sixth round of talks with protesting farmers’ unions on Wednesday, a fresh attempt to resolve a politically challenging strike by farmers who have encircled the Capital and want three recent pro-reform agricultural laws scrapped. Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal had sent out a letter to farm leaders on Monday, responding to an e-mail by the farm unions on December 26 in which they had agreed to restart negotiations after rejecting the government’s appeal to resume the dialogue process several times. In his letter, the farm secretary invited 40 leaders who represent the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of over 500 farm organisations involved in the month-long agitation over a set of reforms they say will hurt their livelihoods. The agriculture ministry’s invite, a copy of which HT has seen, had said the talks would be led by Union ministers. Three Union ministers — Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash — are likely to represent the government side, an official said. Also Read: At Chilla border, farmers plan to launch protest march on Jan 26The farm ministry letter said officials would discuss issues related to farmers in the three laws, signalling the government’s broad strategy to find a solution by addressing points in the legislation that farmers may have objections to. In their December 26 email to the farm ministry, the farmers, however, stuck to their demand that talks must be geared towards a repeal of the laws. The farmers spelt out issues on which they want discussions (on modalities to repeal the laws and legal guarantee for MSP). In their email, they said the first issue they wanted discussions on were the “modalities (that are) to be adopted for the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts”.The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and erode the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed rates, known as minimum support prices (MSP). Second, the unions want “mechanisms to be adopted to make remunerative MSP recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities.”These top two demands are the trickiest and are likely to be a test of the fate of negotiations.Although the government has made desperate attempts to restart negotiations with the unions, it is not prepared to scrap its reformist agenda. Instead, the government has proposed a set of concessions and amendments. These include greater oversight of proposed free markets and a written assurance on continuing the mechanism of MSP. The farmers also want amendments in an ordinance to completely exclude farmers from any penalties for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution, they stated in their letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-hold-sixth-round-of-talks-with-farmer-unions-today/story-TdyvdQHfDAlh3737ThzwvL.html
30-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Several borders of the national capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against three new farm laws. The Delhi-UP border at Chilla and Ghazipur is closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad. The traffic police advised motorists coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND Flyway, Loni DND and Apsara borders, which have remained mostly unaffected. Also Read: Centre, farmer unions to hold sixth round of talks today, protesters firm on demand for repeal of lawsThe entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders have continued to remain closed. The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches opening between the two states. The ongoing farmers’ protest entered Day 35 on Wednesday. The leaders of several farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders will be meeting the Centre for another round of talks Wednesday evening to discuss the three contentious laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-chilla-ghazipur-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted/story-DnHTUEFVa1wDgMHRse7k6N.html
30-12-2020||India||3 union ministers, 40 farm leaders in huddle over Central farm acts||Three Union ministers — Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash — and 40 farm leaders on Wednesday afternoon started the sixth round of talks on a clutch of demands by farm unions, including repeal of three agricultural laws, at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan. According to an official, farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government is open to negotiations and suggested that, if everyone agreed, the talks could take up the easier issues first. The official said railway minister Goyal and Tomar held two meetings with home minister Amit Shah before heading to the meeting’s venue. The first issue farmers want discussions on were the “modalities (that are) to be adopted for the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts”.Second, the unions want “mechanisms to be adopted to make remunerative support prices recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities.”The farmers also want amendments in an ordinance to completely exclude farmers from any penalties for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution.Their last demand is continuation of subsidised power for agricultural use, instead of a proposed switch to direct cash, which farmers say will increase power costs for them.The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and erode the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed rates, known as minimum support prices (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-union-ministers-40-farm-leaders-in-huddle-over-central-farm-acts/story-e3iWsXAIRbvIsGb8Y3qd5H.html
