31-12-2020||India||Farmers to welcome New Year at Singhu as protest continues | 10 points||Several thousands of farmers who are on the roads protesting the three agriculture laws will welcome the new year away from their homes and families. A group of farmers on Thursday broke through barricades at the Shahjahanpur border between Rajasthan and Haryana in their attempt to enter Haryana. The Haryana police used a water cannon and tear gas which resisted some, while some others managed to push past the barriers.Here are the latest updates:1. Though agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar repeatedly requested the union leaders to send women, children and old people back to their homes, protesters are not budging. According to Kisan Ekta Morcha’s Twitter handle, 74-year-old Jal Kaur who is wheelchair-bound has joined the protest at Singhu.2. Several farmers are sitting at Rajasthan-Haryana border after they were stopped from moving further into Haryana. A group of protesters on Thursday broke through the police barricades at the Shahjahanpur border with Rajasthan. The Haryana Police on Thursday used a water cannon and tear gas on them. Farmer leaders at the site made it clear that the protesters who forced their way into Haryana did not have their consent.3. At Singhu, protesters are ushering in the New Year eve in their own way. Some have decided to do ‘sewa’ as they have done in the past. A ‘turban langar’ will be put up for all farmers. Many farmers don’t have a fresh turban. The langar will distribute turban. 4. On Thursday, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar again said he will leave politics if he fails to secure minimum support price guarantee to farmers. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala too said the same committing to MSP for farmers.5. The Kerala Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution demanding the immediate withdrawal of the three contentious central laws. BJP’s lone member in the Kerala Assembly, O Rajagopal, supported the resolution, in a surprise move.6. The Rajasthan government has decided to run a week-long ‘Kisan Bachao-Desh Bachao’ campaign from January 5 in all villages of the state.7. The Aam Aadmi Party has installed five hotspot devices at the Singhu border on Wednesday. 8. Farmers’ protest in Punjab has taken a worrisome turn as over 1,600 mobile towers have been damaged for which the Governor has summoned the chief secretary and the DGP. Reliance Jio has written to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh seeking his intervention for action against those responsible for the incidents of “sabotage and vandalism”.9. As the talks between the farmers and the Centre are going on, a common ground has been reached on the issue of stubble burning and power tariff rise. 10. No consensus has been achieved on the issue of MSP as the farmers are demanding a legal guarantee for MSP.The next meeting which will be the seventh round of meeting will take place on January 4. While the Centre is hopeful of a resolution in the meeting, the farmers have said they won’t withdraw protest until the laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-welcome-new-year-at-singhu-as-protest-continues-10-points/story-uH8HIEjoGy9P2bwMRfiHtI.html
31-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt plans Kisan Bachao-Desh Bachao campaign from January 5||In support of the farmers’ movement against the three Central farm laws, Rajasthan government, led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, has decided to run a week-long ‘Kisan Bachao-Desh Bachao’ campaign in all villages of the state starting January 5.The cabinet meeting chaired by Gehlot decided that ministers, MLAs, other public representatives and Congress workers will participate in the campaign to demand for the withdrawal of the farm laws. It was also decided that the state unit of the Congress party will hold a sit-in protest across the state on January 3 to express solidarity with the agitating farmers, said an official in the CM’s office. Also Read: ‘Colder than Shimla’: Rajasthan’s Churu breaks record of coldest Dec night in 46 years He said the three bills, passed in the state assembly in November to counter the farm laws enacted by the Centre, have not been forwarded by the governor for presidential assent and therefore, a decision to hold a dharna was taken. Issues related to electricity supply to farmers, budget preparations and upcoming by polls in three assemblies were other important issues discussed in the cabinet meeting. The ministers were also asked to review the progress made by their respective departments and identify work priorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-plans-kisan-bachao-desh-bachao-campaign-from-january-5/story-M7cYErBnSUk5QwRtBXlDwN.html
31-12-2020||India||Kerala Assembly’s one-day special session begins, CM Pinarayi Vijayan moves resolution against farm laws||The Kerala legislative assembly is holding a one-day special session on Thursday to pass a resolution against new farm laws which have triggered widespread protests.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan moved a resolution which said that the country is going through a difficult situation and it was the duty of the state government to stand along with the agitating farmers. The resolution also said that the stir which was held under trying conditions and inclement weather failed to oppose eyes of the Union government.“All three laws will only help big corporate houses,” the chief minister said.“The current situation makes it clear that if this agitation continues, it will seriously affect Kerala. There is no doubt that Kerala will starve if the supply of food items from other states stops,” he added.Congress and all other parties have supported the resolution. Congress deputy leader K C Joseph even criticised the Governor for delaying permission to convene the house.O Rajagopal, the lone member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is also attending the session.Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan had on Monday given his assent for convening the state assembly for a one-day special session on December 31. The governor’s nod came after CPI-M led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government sent a fresh proposal to convene the assembly after he had turned down an earlier recommendation.The duration of the session is expected to be of one hour.The governor had earlier declined nod for the special session on December 23 to discuss the contentious laws, saying that the chief minister had not addressed the question raised by him on the nature of emergency warranting the very brief session.In a letter to Vijayan, Khan had also stated that the government wanted the special session to “discuss a problem for which you have no jurisdiction to offer any solution”.Vijayan had shot off a letter to Khan describing as regrettable his decision while asserting that the governor was bound by the advice of the Council of Ministers and that moving resolutions and conducting discussions in the assembly “cannot be regulated by gubernatorial powers”.A large number of farmers mainly from Punjab and Haryana are demanding the repeal of the laws, contending that these would pave the way for a dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and the mandi system, leaving them to the “mercy” of big corporates.The government has been saying these fears are misplaced. A fresh round of talks - the sixth in a month - was held on Wednesday in which the Centre acceded to the demand to spare farmers heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.However, the two principal demands of a repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support prices are yet to be discussed.The government did not take up these core demands on Wednesday, deferring them till the next round of talks on January 4, which the farmers have agreed to participate in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-s-one-day-special-session-begins-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-moves-resolution-against-farm-laws/story-2FXIFwkz4FZrdeIofObq2M.html
31-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: More women join protesters at Delhi’s Singhu border||The number of women protesters swelled at Singhu border on Wednesday with several more groups joining in from parts of Punjab and Haryana. Majority of these women are either farmers or from the families of farmers, and have reached the Delhi-Haryana border to extend solidarity.Donning orange dupattas on their heads, a group of around 40 women from Panipat were seen sitting right in front of the main stage set up at the protest site on Wednesday. The group identified itself as “shabd mandali” or “kirtan mandali’. “We sing devotional songs during religious events. All of us are daughters, sisters, and wives of farmers. We know the gravity of the situation. The government has left farmers and their families with no choice but to come out on the roads,” said Amrit Kaur (42).The agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered its 35th day on Wednesday.Few steps away, another group of women from Amritsar was spotted with all of them wearing green dupattas on their heads. Among them, Harpreet Kaur, 56, said, “Whenever a group of women travels together to the protest sites, they decide to keep a colour code so that we can easily recognise our group members in the crowd. Around 100 women from different villages in Amritsar and other districts in Punjab arrived here last night to participate in the movement. Most of us are under huge debts already and that’s why we can’t let the government make our situation worse by introducing these new “black laws’’.”Also Read: Farm laws stir: Breakthrough as govt accepts two demands of farmersAnother group of around 40 women from Tarn Taran Sahib, all of them donning yellow dupattas, were also spotted at the protest site on Wednesday. “Our husbands and brothers are already here participating in the protest. We were taking care of our crops back home as of now. We are small farmers with meagre income. The new farm laws will rob us off that as well. We can’t let that happen to us. So, we decided to join the protest here,” said Paramjeet Kaur, 27, who has left behind her two-year-old daughter back home to participate in the protest.Some women, who had left for their hometowns earlier after facing difficulties due to lack of toilets and private spaces, also returned to the protest site now. “We had been informed that some women-only toilets and all-women tents were installed at the border. Things have become more comfortable now. More women are soon coming from other parts of Punjab and Haryana to join the protest,” said Mahinder Kaur, 45, a farmer from Patiala.Meanwhile, the situation remained peaceful at Delhi borders on Wednesday with protesters seen shouting slogans against the government, singing songs of resistance, taking out marches with posters and banners, and attending speeches delivered from the stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-women-join-protesters-at-singhu-border/story-mbmcQUTzCS02g0MYuOpkAK.html
31-12-2020||India||Kerala Assembly’s one-day special session begins, CM Pinarayi Vijayan moves resolution against farm laws||The Kerala legislative assembly is holding a one-day special session on Thursday to pass a resolution against new farm laws which have triggered widespread protests.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan moved a resolution which said that the country is going through a difficult situation and it was the duty of the state government to stand along with the agitating farmers. The resolution also said that the stir which was held under trying conditions and inclement weather failed to oppose eyes of the Union government.“All three laws will only help big corporate houses,” the chief minister said.“The current situation makes it clear that if this agitation continues, it will seriously affect Kerala. There is no doubt that Kerala will starve if the supply of food items from other states stops,” he added.Congress and all other parties have supported the resolution. Congress deputy leader K C Joseph even criticised the Governor for delaying permission to convene the house.O Rajagopal, the lone member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is also attending the session.Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan had on Monday given his assent for convening the state assembly for a one-day special session on December 31. The governor’s nod came after CPI-M led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government sent a fresh proposal to convene the assembly after he had turned down an earlier recommendation.The duration of the session is expected to be of one hour.The governor had earlier declined nod for the special session on December 23 to discuss the contentious laws, saying that the chief minister had not addressed the question raised by him on the nature of emergency warranting the very brief session.In a letter to Vijayan, Khan had also stated that the government wanted the special session to “discuss a problem for which you have no jurisdiction to offer any solution”.Vijayan had shot off a letter to Khan describing as regrettable his decision while asserting that the governor was bound by the advice of the Council of Ministers and that moving resolutions and conducting discussions in the assembly “cannot be regulated by gubernatorial powers”.A large number of farmers mainly from Punjab and Haryana are demanding the repeal of the laws, contending that these would pave the way for a dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and the mandi system, leaving them to the “mercy” of big corporates.The government has been saying these fears are misplaced. A fresh round of talks - the sixth in a month - was held on Wednesday in which the Centre acceded to the demand to spare farmers heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.However, the two principal demands of a repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support prices are yet to be discussed.The government did not take up these core demands on Wednesday, deferring them till the next round of talks on January 4, which the farmers have agreed to participate in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-s-one-day-special-session-begins-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-moves-resolution-against-farm-laws/story-2FXIFwkz4FZrdeIofObq2M.html
31-12-2020||India||Farmers protest updates: With some progress, govt and farmers decide to meet again on January 4||Government and farmers’ unions met at 2 pm on Thursday, as protests against the three farm laws enter day 35. On Monday, the government had proposed to hold the sixth round of talks on Wednesday, with the farmers’ unions accepting the proposal a day later. Initially, responding to the Centre’s offer to hold the sixth round of talks at a date and time as convenient to the farmers, the unions had on Saturday proposed to hold the dialogue at 11 am on December 29. The unions had earlier rejected the government’s first proposal in this regard.After the meet, the stakeholders have decided to come together for a seventh round of talks on January to end the stalemate. Previous five rounds of talks, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5 have failed to resolve the impasse. While the Centre has refused to repeal the laws and has instead suggested amendments, the farmers are adamant on a complete rollback.On Tuesday, day 34 of the protests, police in Patna had to lathi-charge a group of protesters who were trying to march to the Bihar governor’s residence to express their support for the farmers protesting at various borders of Delhi. Also on the day, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), whose government is in power in Delhi, announced that it would provide free wifi to the protesting farmers. The AAP has, on a number of occasions, expressed its support for the farmers, with party convenor and Delhi chief minister visiting the Singhu border, the epicentre of the protests, twice. Last month, Kejriwal had rejected the Delhi Police’s request to turn the city’s stadiums into temporary jails, as the police tried to stop the protesters from entering the national capital. Then, on December 17, Kejriwal and AAP MLAs had torn copies of the three laws at a special one-day session of the Delhi Assembly.Here are the updates from day 34 of the anti-farm law protests:With some progress, govt and farmers decide to meet again on January 4The government and farmers union on Wednesday reached some consensus as ministers said that meet concluded positively. “Today’s talks were held in a very good environment and it concluded on a positive note. Consensus on 2 out of 4 issues was reached between both sides,” Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said after the sixth round of talks with farmers’ unions at Vigyan Bhawan. At crucial talks with farmers, govt proposes committee to scrutinise farm lawsThree Union ministers holding their sixth round of talks with protesting farm leaders have not agreed to repeal three farm laws but proposed a committee to examine the laws. The farmers have maintained that the laws will hurt their livelihoods and reduce their earnings.Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash also discussed the possibility of a law on guaranteeing minimum prices for farm prices, a senior farmers’ representative present in the talks. Congress attacks BJP for ‘aiding corporate interests’, seeks swift resolution to farmers’ protestsThe Congress on Wednesday hit out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “only aiding corporate interests” while seeking a swift resolution to the farmers’ protests and repealing of three farm laws enacted in September.Read more. Vehicle carrying food for farmers reaches Vigyan BhawanA ‘Kar Sewa’ tempo, carrying food for farmers delegation, seen at Vigyan Bhawan where the sixth-round of talks over Farm Laws between Centre and farmer unions is currently underway. Delhi: A 'Kar Sewa' tempo, carrying food for farmers delegation, seen at Vigyan Bhawan.Sixth-round of talks over Farm Laws between Centre and farmer unions is currently underway https://t.co/LVIVnQCGQu pic.twitter.com/zj1hUwKZ0cFarmers leaders demand justice and compensation for the families of the farmers who died during the protestFarmer leaders on Wednesday asked the government to compensate the kin of farmers who died during the protest, reported news agency ANI. Sixth round of talks between Centre and farmer unions begins in DelhiFarmer unions and Centre have started discussion on the new farm laws. Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar started the discussions with a short speech, according to an official familiar with the developments. He suggested the farmer unions to discuss the easier issues first. Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal reach Vigyan BhavanUnion ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal have reached Vigyan Bhavan to hold discussions on the farm bills with leaders of the farmers’ union. Delhi: Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal arrive at Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with farmer leaders pic.twitter.com/EkuaE6E2GnFarmer leaders arrive for sixth round of talksA delegation of farmer leaders arrives at Vigyan Bhawan for talks with the Centre. Delhi: A delegation of farmer leaders arrives at Vigyan Bhawan for talks with the Union GovernmentA farmer leader says, "Our stand is clear that the three farm laws should be taken back." https://t.co/XqNmjQkfZm pic.twitter.com/dah0LfIkjOReliance Jio writes to Punjab CM, DGP over vandalisation of mobile towersReliance Jio Infocomm writes to Punjab CM and DGP seeking their intervention into “incidents of sabotage and vandalism at Jio Network sites” in Punjab by unknown personsDelegation of farmer leaders leave for sixth round of talksA delegation of farmers leaders leave Singhu border to hold talks with Centre over three farm laws. A delegation of farmers leaders leave Singhu border to hold talks with Centre over three farm lawsUnion Government will hold sixth round of talks with the protesting farmers today. pic.twitter.com/RamZKPxwrQHope that farmers’ agitation ends today: MoS (commerce and industry) Som Parkash“We hope that the talks will be decisive. Talks will be held on all issues including MSP with an open heart. I hope that farmers’ agitation ends today,” says MoS (commerce and industry) Som Parkash.Farmers’ union says don’t expect to reach a solution today as wellFive rounds of talks between farmers and government have taken place. We don’t think we will reach a solution even today. The three farm laws should be repealed: Sukhwinder Singh Sabra, joint secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab.No question on the integrity of Sikhs: Rajnath SinghOur Sikh brothers have always protected the culture of India. Their contribution will be remembered for protecting the country’s self-respect. There is no question on their integrity: Rajnath SinghNo question of being ‘insensitive’ towards farmers, says Rajnath SinghThere is no question of being insensitive towards farmers. Our farmers are holding demonstrations and I am not the only one pained but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is pained as well: Rajnath SinghFarmers shouldn’t be called ‘Naxals,’ ‘Khalistanis’: Rajnath Singh“These allegations should not be made by anyone against farmers. We express our deepest respect towards them. Our heads bow in respect towards our farmers. They are our ‘annadatas’,” says Rajnath Singh.‘Some forces’ trying to create misconceptions among farmers, Rajnath Singh tells ANI“Some forces have tried to create some misperceptions amongst farmers. We’ve also spoke to several farmers. My only request to farmers is that clause-wise discussion should be done and not seek ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer. We will find a resolution,” Union defence minister Rajnath Singh tells news agency ANI in exclusive interview.Unions adamant on total rollback of lawsIn their reply to the Centre on Saturday, the farmers’ unions that the talks will only be will only be on the modalities of repealing the three new farm laws and giving a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP), among other issues.Centre-farm unions to meet at 2 pm for sixth round of talksSixth round of talks between the Centre and farmers’ unions will take place at 2 pm on Wednesday after the unions, on Tuesday, accepted the government’s offer in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-december-30-2020/story-dWNO51qgC34mRjma8aPwkK.html
