01-09-2020||India||Assam records 50% jump in drug-related cases in two months: DGP||Assam has recorded a nearly 50% jump in cases related to illegal drugs in the past two months, director general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta informed on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference on the day of rejoining duty after recovering from Covid-19, Mahanta stated that the sharp rise in cases showed police pro-activeness in detecting those cases. “The drive against illicit trafficking of drugs has picked up since June 26, when International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking is marked. The rise in numbers indicates police seriousness in dealing with these kinds of cases,” the DGP said. Between June 26 and August 30, the number of drug-related cases has gone up by 49.6%. Similarly, there has been a jump of 46.13% in the number of people arrested during that period, Mahanta said. While 401 cases were registered and 694 people arrested between January 1 to June 25, 200 cases were registered and 338 people arrested between June 26 and August 30. According to a police release, this year till August 30, the Assam Police have recovered 9.27 kg of heroin, over 3,000 kg of ‘ganja’, 8.62 kg of opium, 51,347 bottles of cough syrup and over 6.38 lakh illicit tablets. The recovery of heroin, ‘ganja’ and psychotropic substance tablets have gone up by 53.6%, 60.04% and 274% respectively, the release said. “The sustained drive has weakened the network of drug traffickers. We are also probing links of international drug rackets involved in the trade and also how they are linked to trade in illegal arms as well,” Mahanta said. The DGP said that since some cases couldn’t lead to convictions in the past due to procedural lapses, training has been imparted to police officials through webinars on how to handle drug-related cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-records-50-jump-in-drug-related-cases-in-two-months-dgp/story-Uee4EDmMS6nh2j4oKTDMeK.html
01-09-2020||India||Maoist leader may surrender in T’gana||Hyderabad/Raipur: Top Maoist commander Muppalla Laxman Rao alias Ganapathi, 72, who led the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) for over one-and-a-half decades, offered to surrender to the Telangana police, officials in the state intelligence department said on Tuesday. According to the officials, Ganapathi conveyed the message to the police through some Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders. The surrender is likely to materialise in a couple of days. The Maoist commander carries a reward of ₹1.50 crore on his head. Telangana police department confirmed the report that Ganapathi was willing to surrender. “We have reliable information that along with Ganapathi, his close associate Mallojula Venugopal Rao is also contemplating surrendering to the government. We welcome, even if any other Maoist leaders join them to surrender,” a statement from the police department said. Mallojula Venugopal Rao, also known by other names like Bhupathi, Sonu and Abhay, is a member of the politburo of CPI (Maoist) and Central Military Commission. Stating that the Maoist leaders willing to surrender could approach the police through their relatives or well-wishers, the department said the police would extend all cooperation to them as was given to other Maoist party central committee members like Jampanna and Sudhakar in the past. The officials quoted above said Ganapathi decided to surrender owing to ill-health and that he was suffering from asthma, diabetes and also severe joint pains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-leader-may-surrender-in-t-gana/story-zOiiApDkVpgzBIQDE2cCkL.html
01-09-2020||India||Sangay slams China Border defence policy||New Delhi Chinese President Xi Jinping’s call for bolstering border defences in Tibet and “sinicisation” of Tibetan Buddhism are “misguided” and “unrealistic”, the head of the Tibetan government-in-exile has said. Lobsang Sangay, the sikyong or president of the Tibetan government-in-exile, also expressed concern at China’s military build-up on the Tibetan plateau, and questioned Beijing’s “military expansionism and its intentions on the ‘five fingers’ as well as on the border regions of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand”. Xi had given a call to promote the “sinicisation” of Tibetan Buddhism and to build an “impregnable fortress” to maintain stability in Tibet while addressing China’s top leadership on Saturday at a forum on future governance in Tibet. Xi was quoted by state-run Xinhua news agency as saying that the government and military leaders should “solidify border defences and ensure frontier security” as well as ensure “national security and enduring peace and stability” in Tibet, which shares a long border with India. Responding to Xi’s remarks about building “an impregnable fortress” in Tibet, Sangay said: “China has been quietly militarising the Tibetan plateau for over 60 years under the pretext of development and modernisation. For Tibet, this has only led to an influx of soldiers, Han settlers, and weapons. “For its neighbours, this militarisation of the Tibetan plateau has led to a military build-up on its borders, jeopardising the already contentious border regions as evidenced by the recent Galwan incident.” Sangay said that “to foster stability in Tibet, China must first address the genuine grievances of the Tibetan people and not forget the 154 Tibetans who have set themselves on fire in protest against Chinese policies in Tibet”. He added that the increasing militarisation of Tibet is a “serious source of concern for the Tibetans as well as India and Asia’s security at large. Restoring the status of Tibet as a zone of peace with its historical demilitarised border with India is the only way of enduring peace in Asia.” Sangay, who heads the Central Tibetan Administration based in Dharamshala, said: “The root cause of instability in Tibet is not the Tibetan people’s faith, but the repressive and failed policies of the Chinese government. The continuation of these hardline policies and repression is only going to make matters worse. That’s why genuine autonomy based on the ‘middle way approach’ is the only viable solution.” He also refuted Xi’s call for “sinicising”, saying: “China’s policy of sinicising Tibetan Buddhism is a misguided attempt at controlling the Tibetan people’s religious belief and the reincarnation system. China must draw on its past experiences and allow the Tibetan people to maintain its distinct faith and religious traditions.” The remarks were a reference to increased efforts by Beijing to choose the next Dalai Lama. Chinese authorities have said they will reject any successor to the current Dalai Lama chosen outside China, and experts have contended that any Indian involvement in the issue could potentially affect bilateral relations. The Chinese president’s assertions and Sangay’s response came against the backdrop of the dragging India-China border standoff. Tensions flared again on Monday, when the Indian Army said it had thwarted China’s “provocative military movements” to change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong Lake. Some experts have suggested that the Indian government should play up the Tibet card as part of efforts to pressure the Chinese to complete the stalled disengagement and de-escalation process on the LAC. Sangay said Buddhism is more important than communism for Tibetans. “To force them to treat communism as more important than their faith is not only a violation of international religious freedom, but is also deeply misguided. Sinicization of Tibetan Buddhism is never going to work. The last 60 years of Chinese rule in Tibet is a testament to that fact,” he added. The demolition of Larung Gar and Yarchen Gar, two of the largest Buddhist institutes in the world, by Chinese authorities was a “tragic example of Chinese atrocities on Tibetan Buddhism”, he said. Despite their suffering, the people in Tibet are “still strong and remain faithfully devoted to...the Dalai Lama”, Sangay said. Sangay also emphasised that, as envisioned by the Dalai Lama, Tibetans seek “genuine autonomy within the framework of the Chinese constitution”. He added, “Resumption of dialogue with...the Dalai Lama or his envoys remains the only foreseeable solution to resolve the Tibet issue.” The Central Symposium on Tibet Works was the Chinese Communist Party’s most important forum for Tibet policies. The two-day meeting was the first such gathering since 2015. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sangay-slams-china-border-defence-policy/story-GAQOsbhhtmcv4KmXM1idzI.html
01-09-2020||India||JEE (Main) starts off amid strict measures||New Delhi The Joint Entrance Examination (Main), or JEE (Main) — a six-day process for admissions to premier engineering colleges — began on Tuesday amid stringent precautions and in keeping with social-distancing measures even as the Union education ministry said the exercise was smooth.The JEE (Main) exam was held across the country in two shifts (9am-12 noon and 3pm-6 pm). Measures such as staggered entry and exit for candidates, sanitizers at the entrance, and the distribution of masks were in place in view of health risks posed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Officials of the National Testing Agency (NTA), a government body that conducts the examination, kept an eye on the proceedings through cameras in each venue. “JEE was conducted smoothly all over the country. I would like to thank all state governments and officials of the National Testing Agency for the smooth conduct of the examination,” higher education secretary Amit Khare said.According to a person aware of the developments, “initial estimates suggested that around 60% of the candidates had travelled to examination halls to take the test”. He, however, said these were preliminary estimates and data was being collated.This year, around 858,000 candidates registered for the exams from September 1 and 6. On Tuesday, candidates interested in bachelor’s degree courses in architecture or planning took the test. Candidates aspiring to join a BE or a BTech course will sit for the exam from September 2-September 6.The examination became controversial with a large section of students demanding its cancellation in the wake of Covid-19. Leaders such as Congress’s Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, DMK president MK Stalin and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia demanded that the test be postponed.But on August 17, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea seeking the postponement of JEE and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (for admission to medical and dental courses), saying a precious year of students “cannot be wasted” and life has to go on.In the midst of a pandemic and the debate over students’ safety, the JEE (Main) exam began late this year; it is usually held in April.“On the first day, out of 3,020 registered students, only 1,664, or 55%, remained present, while 1,356 (45%) did not turn up. Normally, 25-30 per cent students skip the exams every year. The percentage this year is higher by 10-15,” Virendra Ravat, JEE coordinator for Gujarat told PTI, while discussing state-specific numbers.Some students complained of inadequate public transport available to reach the examination centres. “We had to face a lot of inconvenience to appear for the examination. But there was no option for us,” said Fiza Siddiqui, 18, who travelled from Bahraich to Lucknow with her father.Fiza said social-distancing was properly maintained during the exam and there was no chaos at her centre.Like many other students from different parts of the country, Fiza found the mathematics section of the paper slightly difficult and aptitude part easy.Satish Prakash, who took the exam in Patna and found the paper easy, said: “Preparation at the exam centre was good. Circles were marked on ground for students to facilitate queues at the entrance gate.”Ravindra Singh, another student who took the test in Ludhiana, said, “The invigilator, too, was wearing a mask. The only common surface we touched was the attendance sheet. I was wearing gloves.”At Ranchi’s Tupudana based examination centre, students were reminded about social distancing norms through loud-speakers. “I was very anxious before the exam, but questions were easy. I found the mathematics section a bit lengthy. Aptitude and drawing sections were easy,” said Puja Kumari, who appeared for the exam in Ranchi .Partha Jagati, a Nainital student, found physics questions a bit tricky. “Otherwise, everything went well,” she said.Ananya Sharma, who appeared for the exam in Jaipur, said she and her friends prepared for the exam by taking mock tests while wearing masks and gloves. “This helped us to cope with anxiety at the examination centre,” she said. (With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-main-starts-off-amid-strict-measures/story-CE9DyurgMOEFQbG3hKNQBO.html
01-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The Indian economy declined by almost a fourth in the first quarter of 2020-21 compared to a year ago, and there are fears that when data from smaller companies and the informal sector is factored in, the fall could be much higher. The coronavirus disease and the lockdown imposed to fight it — there was a near-total lockdown for 68 days, including the entire months of April and May, although some restrictions were relaxed starting mid-April — have clearly roiled the economy. By how much? The loss of 23.9% of GDP, or Rs 8.6 lakh crore (in 2011-12 prices; at current prices, the amount is Rs 11.1 lakh crore), in these three months. Every Indian has seen a loss of Rs 6,466 in this period, although, to be sure, the pandemic hasn’t affected everyone equally.SHARP CONTRACTIONData shows that private consumption is down 27%. There is also the beginning of what some financial advisors term precautionary saving. Still worse, investment fell by 47% in the quarter. Among large economies too, India’s rate of contraction was the sharpest. The general consensus among economists and statisticians is that the contraction will be larger — because proxies have been used to make good the gaps in data collection (the ongoing pandemic made this difficult), and because data on small companies and the informal sector isn’t readily available, although it is anecdotally known that small companies and the informal sector have been hit hard by the pandemic and the lockdown.TOUGH TIMES AHEAD It is now becoming clear that a 5% contraction in FY21 may have been an underestimation. Unless there is a miraculous turnaround in fortunes, the Indian economy will likely contract in the second and third quarters. The numbers released on Monday show that private consumption is down 27%, which isn’t surprising — some people have lost jobs, others have taken salary cuts, and everyone has become cautious with spending. There is also the beginning of what some financial advisors term precautionary saving — with the prospect of the proverbial rainy day now being all too real. Still worse, investment, one of the pillars on which the economy is built, fell by 47% in the quarter. Among large economies, India’s rate of contraction was the sharpest — by quite a bit. The US, for instance, saw its economy shrink by 9.04% in the same quarter year-on-year (its second, because it follows the calendar year for accounting unlike India). GOVT RESPONSEThe govt should spend money to boost aggregate demand, which includes both consumption and investment. One radical alternative is debt monetisation. Given that the primary economic challenge right now is on the demand-side, the government need not worry about inflation just yet. The consensus among experts, before these numbers were released, was that the Indian economy would shrink by at least 5% in 2020-21. It is now becoming clear that 5% may have been an underestimation. India is two months into its second quarter (July-September), and business activity is yet to return to pre-pandemic levels, although it has improved since May. And while there are positive signs in some high-frequency indicators (those released more frequently than a quarter, such as car sales data), there’s nothing to suggest that India is in the midst of a V-shaped recovery as emphasised by the chief economic adviser.Indeed, given the current economic context, even the prospect of a U-shaped recovery looks challenging. Unless there is a miraculous turnaround in fortunes, the Indian economy will likely contract in the second and third quarters. And for the year as a whole, it is possible that the Indian economy will contract by much more than 5% in 2020-21. Some experts believe the number could be close to 10%, though there are others that see this as an extreme estimate.What should the government’s response be?The simple answer to this would be: spend. The government should spend money to boost aggregate demand, which includes both consumption and investment. The problem is that it has limited headroom. Data released on Monday showed that its fiscal deficit is already at 103% of the 2020-21 estimate. One radical alternative (that people are already beginning to talk of) is debt monetisation. In other words, India could consider monetising at least part of its deficit. At one time, any country even thinking of this would have been censured by the world at large. It is a sign of the times, and the pressing economic challenges facing countries, that Indonesia’s decision to monetise $40 billion of its debt didn’t provoke any strong criticism (it did cause a flutter, though). One of the classical economic arguments against this is that it will boost inflation. Given that the primary economic challenge right now is on the demand-side (supply isn’t a constraint, at least, not yet), the government need not worry about inflation (again, not just yet).This could also help the federal governments meet its payout commitments to the states, which are at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic and, therefore, need more money.After all, it will take something special, even unconventional, to deal with an Act of God.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-0a82hFFAlVP6y2gbXvBUdK.html
01-09-2020||India||SJM tells PM Modi not to allow foreign defence firms to register as Indian vendors||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him not to allow foreign defence companies to register themselves as Indian vendors by setting up subsidiary companies in India as it would be in contravention of the government’s thrust on self reliance. An affiliate of the RSS, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch has pointed out that with the change in investment policy allowing FDI up to 74% under automatic route in defence production, the definition of Indian vendor has been diluted significantly “Swadeshi Jagran Manch is of the considered opinion that ‘Indian vendor’ should only mean an entity in which majority ownership and control is retained by Indian Resident Citizens. Diluting the definition of ‘Indian vendor’ will be a deadly blow to Indian Defence Industry,” the letter signed by the national co-convenor of the SJM, Ashwani Mahajan said. It would cause a severe blow to the existence of the domestic defence industry, both big and small which has developed indigenously, as foreign companies would start getting same treatment, which domestic industry gets especially under ‘Buy IDDM (Indian Indigenously Designed Developed and Manufactured)’ categories where special preferences are given to the ‘Indian Vendor’, the letter said. The SJM which has been in the forefront of seeking a rejig of trade and investment policies and boycott of Chinese products has said that if a foreign company is registered in India, and has started making in India, its technology policy is not governed by Indian laws, they are governed by the laws of country of their origin. “…All the gains, which were expected by banning of imports of 101 defence items would be squandered away, as foreign companies establishing their units, would be covered by procurement by the government as a domestic company,” the letter said. In August India announced that it will ban the import of 101 types of weapons and ammunition over the next five years — from artillery guns to light military transport aircraft and conventional submarines to long-range land attack cruise missiles — in a significant step on the long road towards achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. Mahajan underlined that procurement from companies registered in India, where majority shareholding is that of foreigners, is no different from imports, as they would be either importing their components from foreign destinations or would be contracting with companies of their choice, with little chance of developing domestic capabilities. “We understand that the intent of the Government, so far has been that first preference be given to Indian IDDM, that is, Buy Indian IDDM. Therefore, by any chance companies registered in India but owned by foreigners, shouldn’t be included in this category. Second preference in government procurement should be to Indian companies, namely companies having Indian shareholding of 51 per cent or above. However, if ‘clarification’ is to be believed, in both these categories, foreigners will gain dominance and ‘Self Reliance’ in defence will be a distant dream,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sjm-tells-pm-modi-not-to-allow-foreign-defence-firms-to-register-as-indian-vendors/story-66sOpJer0dUwwmQHEhcaTO.html
01-09-2020||India||In highest single-day spike, Gujarat records 1,310 new Covid-19 cases||In record single-day spike so far, Gujarat reported 1,310 new cases of Covid-19 (coronavirus) on Tuesday, pushing the tally to more than 97,700, said the state health department.The death toll has reached 3,036 after 14 new fresh fatalities. While 1,131 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. The number of total recovered patients in the state now stands at 78,913, it also said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe recovery rate in Gujarat now is 80.73 per cent.With 289 infection in the last 24 hours, Surat was among the worst-hit cities of Gujarat. It was followed by the commercial hub of the state, Ahmedabad with 159 cases, Rajkot with 125 cases and Vadodara which reported 121 cases.Of 14 deaths, Surat reported six, Ahmedabad four, Vadodara two, Gir Somnath and Jamnagar one each.Meanwhile, as the Unlock 4 guidelines came into effect from today, some restrictions were eased in Gujarat.As per latest relaxations, restaurants have been allowed to operate till 11 pm, with no time curbs on takeaway service. Restaurants were earlier allowed to operate till 10pm. The time restriction on shop timings has also been removed. Earlier shops were allowed to remain open till 9pm.The state government has also allowed gatherings of up to 100 people for social, educational, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political activities from September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-highest-single-day-spike-gujarat-records-1-310-new-covid-19-cases/story-OWhKoJwKZB4wk6ioTaNccL.html
01-09-2020||India||To cater to demand, more special trains being planned: Railways||The Centre may soon announce more special trains in addition to the 230 trains that are currently operating in a bid to cater to demand, the discussion for which is currently underway with state governments, the railway ministry said on Tuesday.“More special trains are being planned. We are consulting state governments. We will soon announce and let everyone know as and when they are started,” a railway ministry spokesperson said. The ministry did not provide details on how many special trains are being planned.The home ministry on Saturday issued guidelines for the fourth phase of an exercise to lift restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), announcing that metro rail services can resume in a graded manner from September 7. The Railways have currently suspended all regular passenger trains indefinitely. Regular trains have remained suspended since March 22. Earlier in June, the ministry had said passenger trains, including express and suburban services that were earlier suspended till June 30, will not operate till August 12. The 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country, which began on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains, which began on June 1, will continue to function.On August 11, the ministry had clarified that all regular trains will continue to remain suspended but additional special trains will be operated based on the requirement.“This is to bring to the notice of all concerned that, as decided and informed earlier on as well, regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended till further notice. It may be noted that 230 Special Trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate…The occupancy of special trains is being monitored on a regular basis. Additional special trains may be run based on the requirement. However, all other regular trains and suburban trains run before lockdown, will remain suspended for the time being,” the ministry had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-cater-to-demand-more-special-trains-being-planned-railways/story-CJwSnZJP5LUSAvfJ0tDLoO.html
01-09-2020||India||BJP to take out Ram rath yatra ahead of bypolls in Madhya Pradesh||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers will take out ‘Ramshila poojan’ rath yatra in 27 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh where bypolls are expected to be held next month, party leaders said.The first such rath yatra will be taken out in Surakhi state assembly constituency of Sagar district in Bundelkhand on Wednesday and will be led by revenue and transport minister Govind Singh Rajput. Rajput represented Surakhi assembly constituency till March this year before he along with 21 Congress MLAs resigned from the state assembly to join the BJP. The rath yatra will be held over 10 days.“Some religious people were of the view that we should send Ramshila (bricks) to Ayodhya for construction of the temple. Ramshilas will be taken in five directions in the constituencies for its worship from September 2 to September 11 after which the same would be carried to Ayodhya,” he said.Rajput who was inducted in the state cabinet on April 21 without being a member of the state assembly is likely to contest the bypoll from the constituency on a BJP ticket to retain his position as a minister, party leaders said. The bypoll will decide the fate of the BJP government as well. The party which replaced Congress in power on March 23 this year has 107 MLAs in the 230-member state assembly, nine short of the majority mark. The Congress has 89 MLAs and there are 2 BSP, 1 SP and 4 independent MLAs in the assembly. BJP needs to win 9 seats out of 27 to retain the power. According to convener of the Rathyatra Anil Tiwari there are five vehicles which will be used as ‘Rath’ (chariot) which will carry bricks made of eight metals including silver. “We have got permission from the district administration for the Ramshila poojan rathyatra. The police and our party workers will ensure compliance of all the safety norms against Covid-19”, he added. But BJP’s former member of Parliament Alok Sanjar who was present in Sagar when the announcement was made denied that the exercise was connected with the bypolls.“The programme has nothing to do with the bypolls and it has been organised in view of sentiments of people who want to contribute to construction of the Ram temple which could be possible with a firm stand on the issue and able leadership of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi.State BJP media in charge Lokendra Parashar said, “The party has not taken any formal decision to take out any rath yatra for worship of ‘Ramshila’. However, if any party worker or leader in any district wishes to hold any programme for such a worship given his faith in Lord Ram he is free do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-take-out-ram-rath-yatra-ahead-of-bypolls-in-madhya-pradesh/story-KsJw07rsVOo2Gx4lBWJ6XK.html
01-09-2020||India||In Hyderabad, people flout social distancing norms to participate in Ganesh Chaturthi festivities||Thousands of people took part in the immersion of Ganesh idols on Tuesday, concluding the 10-day long Ganesh Chaturthi festivities, but many of the devotees hardly cared for Covid-19 norms. Unlike in the past, in which huge crowds of people used to take part in the centralised procession of Ganesh idols to Hussain Sagar Lake in the city, various Ganesh Chaturthi festival committees took out their own procession of idols in which people took part in large numbers. Individuals also brought the idols in private vehicles. Though the turnout was comparatively less due to the Covid-19 threat, people did not follow any social distancing norms. At many places, young men were dancing together to the music without maintaining any distance. Some people wore facial masks, but many others were found without any such precautions. Around 5,000 Ganesh idols were immersed in the Hussain Sagar Lake and other water bodies in the city where elaborate arrangements had been made.Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said around 50 cranes were installed at Hussain Sagar Lake to facilitate the immersion process. Barricades were erected to close down the road at important places for smooth flow of vehicles towards the lake, he said. The Shobha Yatra (grand immersion procession) of the Balapur Ganesh idol commenced in the morning and concluded in the evening. The crowds were far less compared to last year. The famous Khairatabad Ganesh idol, which was just nine-foot in size compared to 60 feet last year, was also immersed in the Hussain Sagar Lake in the evening. The police commissioner said the immersion of Ganesha idols was peaceful. Tight security arrangements were made and around 15,000 personnel deployed in the city. “Citizens are cooperating with the police and administration in ensuring an incident-free immersion and all wings of the city police are monitoring the programme. The immersion process will conclude by the early hours of Wednesday,” he said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi Youth and other organisations decided not to arrange any prasadam distribution programmes and to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-hyderabad-people-flout-social-distancing-norms-to-participate-in-ganesh-chaturthi-festivities/story-YW9EJdX75zWGWuOJssZbgL.html
01-09-2020||India||CBI questions Rhea Chakraborty’s parents for 9 hours in Sushant Singh Rajput case||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s parents were summoned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday and questioned for close to nine hours as part of the agency’s probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Her parents left from home around 10:30am and reached the DRDO guest house in Santacruz around 10:50am. They left the guesthouse at around 7.45 pm after their questioning.This is the first time that Chakraborty’s parents - Indrajit andSandhya Chakraborty - have been questioned by the CBI in the case. Rhea Chakraborty was grilled for around 35 hours over the last four days while her brother was quizzed for the last five days The CBI also questioned Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, roommate and creative director Siddharth Pithani, his former business manager Shruti Modi and house manager Samuel Miranda again on Tuesday.Last month, the CBI took over the investigation into Rajput’s death based on a FIR filed by his father KK Singh. The actor was found dead in his rented Bandra house on June 14.The Enforcement Directorate, which is also investigating a case of money laundering, in connection with the actor’s death, against Rhea and others, again called Goa Hotelier Gaurav Arya for questioning on Tuesday. Gaurav reached the ED office at 11 am and was questioned till 7.45 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-rhea-chakraborty-s-parents-for-9-hours-is-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-2UCUYoIMjc9KA7pWTSskTK.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Dear Ravi Shankar ji...”: Congress reacts to govt’s letter to Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg||Reacting to Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s letter to Mark Zuckerberg, Congress on Tuesday questioned the government for not seeking a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into alleged collusion between Facebook India and BJP. Congress was responding to Prasad who has accused the social media platform’s employees of supporting people from a political predisposition that lost successive elections, and “abusing” Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers.“If Modi Govt has an iota of credibility, why doesn’t it agree to a JPC probe into the shameless collusion between #Facebook India & BJP. Why are u running scared? Why are u giving cover fire to guilty? Why protect the colluders? Where is the 56’ chest?,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala asked. Also read | ‘Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake, hate news needs to be questioned’: Rahul GandhiDear Ravi Shankar ji,If Modi Govt has an iota of credibility, why doesn’t it agree to a JPC probe into the shameless collusion between #Facebook India & BJP.Why are u running scared?Why are u giving cover fire to guilty?Why protect the colluders?Where is the 56’ chest? pic.twitter.com/sMbVdvnfwwCongress’ retort comes shortly after Prasad wrote a strongly worded letter to Zuckerberg, raising the issue of free speech with Facebook, alleging that the platform is the “latest tool” being used to create “internal divisions and social disturbances” by vested groups.The controversy between the ruling party, Opposition and social media giant Facebook ensued after a report published by foreign publication WSJ cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders and claimed the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana lawmaker Raja Singh, whose posts targeted the Muslim community. The report stated that Das told staff members that punishing violations by BJP politicians would damage the company’s business prospects in India.Also read: 54 ex-bureaucrats write to Facebook CEO, seek audit of hate-speech policyIn August, Congress had written to Zuckerberg, the second time in a fortnight, asking him to specify the steps being taken by his company to investigate the charges against its operations in India.In a tearing allegation, Congress had claimed that WhatsApp has been willingly allowed by Zuckerberg’s India team to be appropriated for hate speech and the consequent tearing of India’s fabric of social harmony.Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal also asked him to explain a global media report claiming that even WhatsApp, used by 400 million Indians, is compromised and controlled indirectly by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dear-ravi-shankar-ji-congress-reacts-to-govt-s-letter-to-facebook-s-mark-zuckerberg/story-eahFhRpgthG1dwXUb17XbO.html
01-09-2020||India||Tourism industry hopes for turnaround after Goa opens borders, bars under Unlock 4||The Goa government’s decision to lift all restrictions on the movement of people across the state borders under Unlock 4 has offered hope to the state’s tourism industry that it will encourage people to consider vacationing later this year.But the decision also drew flak from locals who said that it was too soon to life restrictions that were put in place to fight the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced that there would be no restrictions on the movement of people in and out of the state, which he said was in tune with the central government’s directives. In response, the Goa Airport too announced that screening and the testing were being lifted. “As per the announcements by the Govt of Goa restrictions on interstate travel have been removed in line with guidelines of Govt of India. No more requirements of Covid19 -ve report and no more test requirements for domestic travellers,” the Airports Authority of India, which runs the civilian terminal at the Goa airport, said. The airport handled 34,700 passengers in August, the highest since April and significantly higher than the around 20,000 passengers the airport handled in the months of June and July.The state’s tourism department had said that the need for quarantine upon arrival as well as quarantine upon return to their respective states was an additional deterrent to tourists as well as to business travellers many of whom arrive only for a short stay. The tourism stakeholders hope that with the travel guidelines now clearer, it will help people plan their holidays if not now, then for later this year. An added filip was the reopening of bars, which the industry says will also give the restaurant industry a boost. According to an per an order issued by the Excise Department on Monday all “valid licence holders whose licences are not otherwise suspended and are already renewed for this financial year are permitted to commence the sale of liquor for consumption on premises except in containment zones… provided that they make mandatory arrangements for social distancing distancing between workers, adequate gaps between shifts, staggering lunch breaks of staff, etc.”The government has also mandated that “no liquor be sold without a mask or face cover... and that customers maintain six feet distance from each other” among other conditions. “We are also worried about the virus, because we do not know how fast it is spreading. We have to inspire confidence in people if they are to come back. It will take some time,” Michael Carrasco, the president of the All Goa Bar and Restaurant Association, said. Goa’s economy is heavily reliant on tourism and while the return of the tourists is still some months away, stakeholders are hopeful that with the path now clearer things will turn a corner by November-December. However, many have cautioned that the decision is premature. The Goa unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said the chief minister seems to have given up all efforts to control the spread of Covdi-19.“The breakneck speed at which the BJP government has opened up the state, shows that CM Pramod Sawant, having given up all efforts to either control the spread or ensure treatment of the infected, is only waiting for herd immunity to develop in Goa. The CM has thrown open the borders to everyone, with no testing required. He says this is as per MHA guidelines. But MHA guidelines have only removed the requirement of an e-pass and the guidelines dated 29/08/20 expressly state that movement of people is still to be regulated as per SOPs in place,” the AAP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-industry-hopes-for-turnaround-after-goa-opens-borders-bars-under-unlock-4/story-49UFLFN3KJw2mmsEyLf5TM.html
01-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After Unlock 4 guidelines, Centre may issue guidelines for Metro services tomorrow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre likely to issue guidelines on Wednesday after meeting officials of 15 Metro corporationsThe ministry of housing and urban affairs on Tuesday held a meeting with metro corporations to finalise the standard operating procedures (SOP) for operating metro services allowed under ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines, which are likely to be issued on Wednesday following the home ministry’s nod, officials aware of the development said. Read moreIndia says China resorted to provocative action yesterday, its actions this year have been in clear violation of agreementsIndia said on Tuesday China resorted to provocative action a day earlier when it attempted to change the status quo in the Pangong Lake area even as military-level talks were underway. Read moreIndia writes to Facebook, alleges it is the latest ‘tool’ to create social disturbancesIn a strongly worded letter, India has raised the issue of free speech with social media giant Facebook, alleging that the platform is the “latest tool” being used to create “internal divisions and social disturbances” by vested groups. Read moreThe indestructible Nokia 3310 was launched 20 years ago today: Here’s looking back at the phoneNokia launched the Nokia 3310 20 years back on September 1, 2020. Nokia launched an upgraded version of the phone in 2017. As the phone turns 20, we take a look at the iconic Nokia 3310. Read moreVidya Balan slams vilification of Rhea Chakraborty: ‘Isn’t it supposed to be innocent until proven guilty?’Vidya Balan condemned the media coverage of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case and ‘vilification’ of Rhea Chakraborty, who has been accused by his family of abetting his suicide. She lamented the ‘media circus’ and said that the law must be allowed to take its course. Read more‘One of Bharat’s brightest Ratnas,’ says Amul in tribute to Pranab MukherjeeFormer President Pranab Mukherjee died at the age of 84 on Monday, August 31. Many have since taken to social media to pay tributes to the beloved leader. Among them is dairy company Amul that shared a special post to commemorate the veteran leader. Read moreStar India batsman picked by David Gower to captain his best Test XIDavid Gower, the former England captain and popular commentator, has picked India skipper Virat Kohli as the leader of his Test XI of current cricketers, which also features Joe Root, Kane Williamson, Steve Smith and all-rounder Ben Stokes. Calling Kohli and Stokes ‘immediate picks’, Gower went with India’s R Ashwin and Nathan Lyon of Australia as the two spinners in his line-up and explained why Kohli is his pick to captain the team. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-likely-to-issue-guidelines-on-wednesday-after-meeting-officials-of-15-metro-corporations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-C89dqQ729eYtwDhJF9jkPP.html
01-09-2020||India||Patna municipality ex-boss in the dock for waterlogging says Nitish Kumar also to blame||Former commissioner of Patna Municipal Corporation, Anupam Kumar Suman, on Tuesday ridiculed the state government’s show cause slapped on him for disciplinary action for last year’s water logging in Bihar’s capital city and said chief minister Nitish Kumar should also be held to account for the mess.Suman, a 2004-batch Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer, said he took to the media to reply to the state government’s charge, which he received a couple of days ago, because the letter did not have any significance as he had taken voluntary retirement.“I would have definitely given a befitting reply had I been in service,” said Suman, adding that he came to know about the state government’s action against him only through the media.Blaming the acute shortage of resources and lack of political will for perennial waterlogging in Patna, Suman said he was a victim of a witch-hunt. “If head of the institution is held accountable for fault at the subordinate level, how the PMC mayor, departmental minister and the chief minister shall escape the responsibility. They also review every bit of PMC’s preparations for the monsoon,” he said.Dismissing the charge levelled by the state government against him, Suman said flimsy grounds such as lack of leadership quality, inaccessibility, absence of proper cleaning of drainage, etc, were cited as reasons for his suspension, which never came into effect. “Why did the government not fix responsibility on the officers who waste public exchequer and time to sanction projects under Smart City mission and then cancel them without any substantial reasons?” asked the former PMC head.Bihar’s urban development department minister Suresh Sharma said that action against Suman, then Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation MD AP Singh, an IAS officer, and other officers was taken on the recommendations of a high-level committee headed by the development commissioner.“Action was justified as all executive powers of the PMC are vested with the commissioner and not with the mayor or other elected representatives. Mayor or minister does not have any role in implementation of the scheme. Water logging was caused as the PMC couldn’t take appropriate steps, as assured during the review meetings, to deal with the situation,” Sharma said.Almost a month before Patna was caught in deluge due to heavy showers for four days (September 27-30) last year, Suman had stepped down as the PMC chief and sought voluntary retirement from his parent department, the ministry of revenue. Suman claimed his voluntary retirement was accepted recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-municipality-ex-boss-in-the-dock-for-waterlogging-says-nitish-kumar-also-to-blame/story-U1Fv7uOMDayknps2PhFh7H.html
01-09-2020||India||India, Australia and Japan to launch resilient supply chains for Indo-Pacific||India, Australia and Japan on Tuesday agreed to launch an initiative to ensure the resilience of supply chains in the Indo-Pacific, with the move coming against the backdrop of tensions created by China’s aggressive actions across the region. The creation of the “Supply Chain Resilience Initiative” was mooted by Japan amid the Covid-19 crisis, which has played havoc with supply and manufacturing chains, and the three countries held preliminary discussions on the issue over the past few weeks, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. During their first virtual meeting on the issue, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and his Australian and Japanese counterparts, Simon Birmingham and Kajiyama Hiroshi, outlined their intention to work for the launch of the new initiative because of the “pressing need for regional cooperation on supply chain resilience in the Indo- Pacific”, a joint statement said. They signalled their determination to “take a lead in delivering a free, fair, inclusive, non-discriminatory, transparent, predictable and stable trade and investment environment and in keeping their markets open”, it added. The ministers instructed their officials to promptly work out details of the new initiative for its launch later this year, and called on other countries in the region with similar views to join the initiative, the statement said. The people cited above said the supply chain initiative was a natural follow on to the security cooperation between the three countries, both bilaterally and through platforms such as the Quadrilateral Dialogue Mechanism or Quad, which also includes the US. The three countries will now work with regional partners, including members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean), to build stronger supply and manufacturing chains that are protected from external shocks and influences, the people said. The three nations see countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia and New Zealand among the players who can have a key role in the initiative, the people added. The issue of supply chains found mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address on Independence Day, when he said: “Many businesses around the world see India as a supply chain hub today. Now we have to move forward with ‘make in world’ as well as ‘make for world’.” Addressing the trilateral meeting, Goyal said the initiative couldn’t have come at a more opportune time in the post-Covid-19 scenario, when there is a likelihood of churning of supply chains in the Indo-Pacific region and it was incumbent on the three countries to take the initiative. “The diversification of supply chain is critical for managing the risks associated with supply of inputs including disciplining price volatility. We could provide the core pathway for linking value chains in the region by creating a network of reliable long-term supplies and appropriate capacities,” he said. In order to improve competitiveness of sectors, the three countries may need to identify manufacturing and services sectors that contribute the most to domestic value addition in the region. “We support the need for specific activities listed for enhancing the resilience of the supply chains, which include those related to [promoting] and facilitating trade and investment as well as diversification of production base,” he said. Goyal noted that the cumulative GDP of Australia, India and Japan during 2019 was $ 9.3 trillion and their cumulative merchandise goods and services trade were $ 2.7 trillion and $0.9 trillion respectively. “With such a strong baseline, it is important that we use this opportunity to work towards enhancing the share of our trade and investment in the region,” he said. However, he pointed out that Japan’s procurement of many specific products from India was limited despite Japanese global imports being high. This includes sectors such as steel, marine products, processed agriculture, agro-chemicals, plastics, carpets, clothing and footwear. He expressed hope the proposed initiative would try to bridge this and work towards enhancing mutual trade. Former Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House who closely tracks the Quad, said the supply chain initiative has been in the works for some time. “Essentially, the thinking is that the Quad with its political, strategic and security elements isn’t enough of a response to the emerging situation in the Indo-Pacific and it needs an economic pillar, including deeper economic cooperation, trade, connectivity, supply chains and global and regional value chains,” he said. “It should be welcomed that India is moving in that direction. These are early days and concepts are being cleared. How effective this initiative will be will depend on action on the ground, and we don’t have much time to lose while focussing on the concretising of ideas,” Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-and-japan-to-launch-resilient-supply-chains-for-indo-pacific/story-0e4j7CfG9kz0AmH0tK1ndL.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Provocative military maneuvers’, says India on Chinese actions in Pangong Tso||India on Tuesday said China’s fresh attempt to change the status quo in the south bank area of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh is in “complete disregard” to the understandings reached between the two countries.External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the Chinese side violated previously agreed understanding and engaged in “provocative military maneuvers” in the late night of August 29 and on August 30 in an attempt to change the status quo in the south bank area.“As stated yesterday by Indian Army, the Indian side responded to these provocative actions and took appropriate defensive measures along the LAC in order to safeguard our interests and defend the territorial integrity,” he said in response to a media query on the issue.Srivastava said the Chinese troops again engaged in “provocative action” on Monday even as the ground commanders of the two sides were in discussions to de-escalate the situation.“Due to the timely defensive action, the Indian side was able to prevent these attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo,” he said.The MEA spokesperson further said the actions and behaviour of the Chinese side since earlier this year along the LAC have been in “clear violation” of the bilateral agreements and protocols concluded between the two countries to ensure peace and tranquility on the border.“Such actions are also in complete disregard to the understandings reached between the two foreign ministers as also the Special Representatives,” he said.“We have taken up the matter of recent provocative and aggressive actions with the Chinese side through both diplomatic and military channels and have urged them to discipline and control their frontline troops from undertaking such provocative actions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-are-in-complete-disregard-to-agreed-understandings-india-on-chinese-actions-in-pangong-tso/story-EzqCgWhPD9vMeGfbFVtw4M.html
01-09-2020||India||I look at the craft of acting in a very different perspective, says Chandan K Anand||Actor Chandan K Anand believes that life comes to a full circle so it is important to keep on doing your bit to support the upcoming talent. “Ever since I came in the industry, I always wanted to do something for the newcomers — be it actors, writers or directors. Finally, over the years, I have reached a position where I can provide a platform to them in my own small way. With my own production house, we have come up with two short films and more will follow soon,” said ‘Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl’ and ‘Rangbaaz’ actor over the phone. From acting in theatre to doing television and then films, Chandan feels it has a great journey so far. “It is overwhelming to see my dreams as an actor fulfilled. That’s what an actor is hungry for — performance-based roles that are loved by the audiences. Also, I want to spread goodness with my craft and it was with my production house ‘Naksh Originals,’ I came up with two short films . First is ‘Gannu Ali’ and another tentatively titled ‘Bawal’ that was extensively short in Lucknow waiting to be released. Former has been written and directed by me it is available on online whereas the latter is all hard work of my team.” After working in critically acclaimed film ‘Parched’ along with TV series ‘Stories by Rabindranath Tagore,’ Chandan says he loves working across mediums. “For me the medium is never a reason to take up work, what matters is my character. I am working not only because it’s my passion but I work exceptionally hard to support my team and creativity. Thankfully, I have been getting good projects and my aim of take my craft to right audience is also happening simultaneously. I’m inclined towards mediation and spirituality that too is the reason of my looking at the craft of acting in a different perspective altogether,” said actor who is currently busy with TV daily ‘Barrister Babu’ and an untitled web series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-look-at-the-craft-of-acting-in-a-very-different-perspective-says-chandan-k-anand/story-w7LWGJNPUpW3ph2ZGlzMfM.html
01-09-2020||India||At home with success, Amit stays put||In Lucknow since Holi, ‘Bulleya’ singer Amit Mishra has set up his studio and has decided to make his hometown his base. His ‘Ganpati Aarti’ was recently released digitally, which he recorded at his studio. “I am completely working from Lucknow and maintaining my Mumbai set up as well. Four singles of mine, which will come in September onwards, were recorded here. Besides, I have recorded four film songs that we may re-dub in Mumbai,” said the singer. Mishra said that he will keep his base in Lucknow and travel to Mumbai balancing his ‘janambhoomi’ and ‘karambhoomi’. “It’s true that I have to ultimately work with the industry there, as most filmmakers and composers prefer dubbing as a team. So, my plan is to keep my base in my hometown and travel to Mumbai for work and other places once gigs start. Though it entails extra expenditure but God has been kind and I will be able to financially balance both places.” The ‘Manma Emotions Jage’ singer feels one needs to be on the backfoot these days. “You need to go on the backfoot for that perfect shot. So, I am building my studio set-up. We have set up high-end equipment, amplifiers and got acoustics in place, in collaboration with singer-composer Anand (Tripathi) bhaiya, who is a Bhatkhande Music University alumni. ‘Tinka-tinka jod kar’ we have set this up and the results are coming out well. Though it’s taking longer, doing it from here. Once the market opens up, I am sure we will bounce back.”Since the lockdown, he has not moved out of Lucknow but has been recording from here. “Besides my own songs, I am also recording for Pritam Da’s ‘Jam It’.” In the given scenario, he is getting satisfactory work and returns. “Things are happening on the financial front but since gigs are not happening and brand recordings are slow, so things are moving slowly. But given the situation, I am happy that I am staying with my family and still able to make money from here.” Beyond money, he feels it’s a great time to hone his voice. “It’s true that there was an overuse of vocals and riyaz and learning was being compromised. During this period, we got time for this. Like, I did good sessions with my vocal coach Jaime Vendera sir for my upcoming English project in which I have sung a medley which is very international. It will be released soon.” However, four singles are ready for digital release. “I am not featured in them as I am not shooting in this given situation. Three songs are final and production of the fourth song is underway. I have sung films as well, but that is for next year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/at-home-with-success-amit-stays-put/story-3sokhieWXkKea1Gz0OqKXO.html
01-09-2020||India||Eminent Lucknow architect Prof SM Akhtar, to design Ayodhya mosque||Professor SM Akhtar, a Lucknow architect-cum-town planner and founder dean, faculty of architecture, Jamia Millia Islamia University, Delhi will design the mosque that will come up in Dhannipur village in Ayodhya district, the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) said Tuesday. Other than the mosque, Akhtar will also design other public utility establishments, including a hospital, Indo-Islamic Research Centre, community kitchen and a museum on the allocated 5 acre mosque complex. The land was allocated to the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) in compliance with the Supreme Court order in the Ayodhya case verdict. “We have appointed prof SM Akhtar as consultant architect and hence he will design the entire masjid complex that would come up on the 5 acre land in Dhannipur,” said Athar Hussian, spokesperson of IICF — the trust was formed by UPSCWB to carry out the construction of the mosque and other structures on the mosque complex. Prof Akhtar, who was born and brought up in Lucknow, said the mosque would come up on around 15,000 square feet land and would be an amalgamation of Indo-Islamic architecture. Akhtar, who has penned several books on architecture and environment, said the other establishments on the complex would also be constructed in the same architectural theme. “Besides the mosque, a major portion would be utilised for construction of a hospital. Other utility establishments will be built on the remaining land,” the professor said. He said that bridging the gap between the two communities through his architectural skills would be his sole aim while giving shape to the project. Last month, the IICF had announced that the mosque would be named as Masjid Dhannipur. UPSCWB’s decision to construct the mosque also drew strong reactions from the community, with some people saying that a mosque cannot be constructed on land given by the government. Shaista Amber, a social activist and president All India Muslim Women’s Personal Law Board (AIMWPLB) and eminent Urdu poet Munawwar Rana had raised objection to construction of the mosque on the allocated land. Rana, in a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi had suggested the construction of a grand hospital on the entire 5 acre land in Dhannipur, naming it after Lord Ram’s father King Dashratha. Besides, he had also offered a chunk of his ancestral land in Rae Bareli for construction of the mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eminent-lucknow-architect-to-design-ayodhya-mosque/story-OIQbbleohJCuEgzE6dj6MI.html
01-09-2020||India||India says China resorted to provocative action, its actions in clear violation of agreements. Read full statement here||India on Tuesday said China resorted to provocative action a day earlier when it attempted to change the status quo in the Pangong Lake area even as military-level talks were underway. China’s actions this year have been in clear violation of agreements, the spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs said.Read full statement by Ministry of External Affairs here:As you aware, India and China have been closely engaged through diplomatic and military channels over the past three months to resolve the situation along the India-China border. It would also be recalled that earlier the two Foreign Ministers and the two Special Representatives had agreed that the situation should be handled in a responsible manner and either side should not take any provocative action or escalate matters and ensure peace and tranquility as per bilateral agreements and protocol.The Chinese side however, violated this understanding and engaged in provocative military maneuvers in the late night of 29th and on 30th August in an attempt to change the status quo in the South Bank area of Pangong Lake. As stated yesterday by Indian Army, the Indian side responded to these provocative actions and took appropriate defensive measures along the LAC in order to safeguard our interests and defend the territorial integrity. Furthermore, yesterday on 31st August, even as the ground commanders of the two sides were in discussions to de-escalate the situation, the Chinese troops again engaged in provocative action. Due to the timely defensive action, the Indian side was able to prevent these attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo.The actions and behavior of the Chinese side since earlier this year along the LAC has been in clear violation of the bilateral agreements and protocols concluded between the two countries to ensure peace and tranquility on the border. Such actions are also in complete disregard to the understandings reached between the two Foreign Ministers as also the Special Representatives.We have taken up the matter of recent provocative and aggressive actions with Chinese side through both diplomatic and military channels and have urged them to discipline and control their frontline troops from undertaking such provocative actions.The Indian side is firmly committed to resolve all outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector through peaceful dialogue. In this context, we expect the Chinese side to sincerely abide by the understanding reached earlier and earnestly work with the India to resolve the situation and to restore peace and tranquility in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-china-resorted-to-provocative-action-its-actions-in-clear-violation-of-agreements-read-full-statement-here/story-Y1CG3CqlCGegc0Ofg196LJ.html
01-09-2020||India||Ahead of Bihar assembly polls, 13th RJD lawmaker joins Nitish Kumar’s JD (U)||Desertions from the RJD ahead of assembly polls in Bihar continued on Tuesday when another party MLA, Virendra Kumar, joined the ruling JD (U), taking the total number of legislators, including MLCs, who have recently bolted the Lalu Yadav-led party in the state to 13.JD (U) leader and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh, alias Lallan Singh, who inducted the MLA from Teghra assembly segment into the party, said, “Several other MLAs are sending feelers. If JD (U) decides to provide a free entry, there will be a virtual stampede in RJD.”Seven MLAs and five MLCs of RJD, which leads the opposition Grand Alliance, have already joined JD (U) in the last one month. This includes Parsa MLA Chandrika Rai, the estranged father-in-law of Lalu Yadav’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav.Chandrika Rai is son of former chief minister Daroga Prasad Rai.“The RJD tally will be worse than 2010. It is like a product which has no takers,” Lallan Singh said.The RJD, however, challenged Munger MP’s claim. “Such inductions and invites are indicative of desperation. JD (U) has now become a clone of BJP and, like its partner, can go to any length to encourage desertions. When a leader switches sides, it is hardly an endorsement of a winning team. Rather, it’s a last-ditch attempt to stay relevant in electoral politics at any cost,” said Mritunjay Tiwari, media coordinator of RJD.Given the seat constraint in alliance politics, the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) is seriously hamstrung in extending an open offer to sitting RJD MLAs, especially after the recent demand aired by BJP MPs during their interaction with national president J P Nadda favouring a 50:50 seat sharing formula with the JD (U).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bihar-assembly-polls-13th-rjd-lawmaker-joins-jd-u/story-OSH4ZfYPIdNgYhYPAqOQaL.html
01-09-2020||India||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad writes to Facebook’s Zuckerberg. Read full text here||Dear Mr. Mark Zuckerberg,Greetings from IndiaAt a time when we are all collectively battling a global pandemic, let me share my best wishes for you and your family members’ well-being.I am writing this letter to raise serious concerns, some of which we have also raised in the past with senior officials of Facebook. I have often heard you and your senior management talk about the general benefits of connectivity, and more specifically in the context of your products to the global community. Facebook’s stated mission is to give people the power to build communities and bring the world closer. The global scale achieved by the products of the Facebook group make it one of the prime movers in this goal of achieving connected communities across the world. However, what we have seen in the last few months goes contrary to achieving the stated goals of Facebook.I have been informed that in the run up to 2019 General Elections in India, there was a concerted effort by Facebook India management to not just delete pages or sub stantally reduce their reach but also offer no recourse or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of the right-of-centre ideology. I am also aware that dozens of emails written to Facebook management received no response. The above documented cases of bias and inaction are seemingly a direct outcome of the dominant political beliefs of individuals in your Facebook India team.As a transnational digital platform, Facebook must not only be fair and neutral, but also visibly seen to be so, to users of diverse beliefs and ideologies Individuals working in any organisation may have their individual likes or dislikes, but that must not have any bearing on the public policies and performance of the organisation. It seems from credible media reports that Facebook India team, right from the India Managing Director to other senior officials, is dominated by people who belong to a particular political belief. People from this political predisposition have been overwhelmingly defeated by the people of in successive free and fair elections. After having lost all democratic legitimacy, they are trying to discredit India’s democratic process by dominating the decision-making apparatus of important social media platforms. Facebook is the latest tool in their arsenal to stroke internal divisions and social disturbances.It is problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the Prime Minister and senior Cabinet Ministers of India while still working in Facebook India and managing important positions. It is doubly problematic when the bias of individuals becomes an inherent bias of the platform. And it is unacceptable when political biases of individuals impinge on the freedom of speech of millions of people.However, looking at recent media reports, it seems that these deeply entrenched vested interests aren’t satisfied with the shrinking space for one side of the spectrum in India and want to throttle it completely. The spate of recent anonymous, source-based re ports is nothing but an internal power struggle within your company for an ideological hegemony.No other logic can explain how facts are being spun by the selective leaks from within your company to try to portray an alternate reality. This interference in India’s political process through gossip, whispers and innuendo is condemnable. This collusion of a group of Facebook employees with international media is giving a free run to malevolent vested interests to cast aspersions on the democratic process of our great democracy. I would like to point out that there have also been multiple instances recently where Facebook has been used by anarchic & radical elements whose sole aim is to destroy social order, to recruit people and to assemble them for violence. However, we are yet to see any meaningful action against such elements. Is this action also held back by the same vested interest groups who have incentive in stoking political violence and instability in India?A major issue with Facebook is the outsourcing of fact-checking to third party fact- checkers. How can Facebook absolve itself of its responsibility to protect users from misin. formation and instead out-source this to shady organizations with no credibility. We have seen in india that right from the assessors for on-boarding fact-checkers to the fact checkers themselves, harbour publicly expressed political biases Regularly vigilant volun teers on social media have to fact-check the fact-checkers! Even after on-boarding so many fact-checkers, lot of misinformation related to COVID-19 and its aftermath went un checked. How can an organisation like Facebook be oblivious to these realities? A transnational digital platform with a wide user base cannot remain immune to local sensitivities either. A certain act which may be acceptable as per social norms in a par secular country but many not be conducive to the social norms of another country. Face book Community Guidelines must acknowledge this aspect of diversity and respect it To respect the social, religious, cultural and linguistic diversity of India, Facebook should put in place country specific Community Guidelines.Facebook has been a novel experiment in democratizing the expression of people and giving a platform to millions of ordinary citizens to freely express their views, connect, build communities, associate and communicate. I hope that you are cognizant that this experiment should not be allowed to be hijacked by a vested lobby that abhors free speech and tries to enforce one world view and rejects diversity.I wish you and your family the best of healthhearer wishYours trulyRavi Shankar Prasad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-writes-to-facebook-s-zuckerberg-read-full-text-here/story-Un4yaONsW897MyIU1JXK4M.html
01-09-2020||India||Over 9 lakh ineligible beneficiaries of PM-KISAN scheme detected in Assam||Over 9 lakh ineligible beneficiaries in Assam had availed benefits of Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), the federal cash transfer scheme meant for farmers, agriculture minister Atul Bora told the state assembly on Tuesday. Replying to a query by leader of opposition Debabrata Saikia, the minister informed that 9,39,146 people who were not eligible had been included as beneficiaries for the scheme, which was launched in February last year and provided income support of Rs 6,000 a year to farmers. In May this year, the union agriculture ministry had stopped payments to beneficiaries in Assam and asked the Assam government for a report and probe into a potential fraud in the PM-KISAN scheme. Following the directive, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had ordered an inquiry into the irregularities and entrusted additional chief secretary Jishnu Barua to detect ineligible beneficiaries and submit a report within a month. On Tuesday, Bora informed the assembly that among the 33 districts in the state, the highest number of ineligible beneficiaries were detected in Barpeta (1.51 lakh) followed by Kamrup (85,711) and Baksa (53,533). The minister said that initially over 39.39 lakh persons had registered as beneficiaries of the scheme, but over 8.19 lakh of them were declared ineligible by the Centre for discrepancies in bank account details. This reduced the number of beneficiaries to 31.20 lakh. Of these, the Centre termed another 3.17 lakh as ineligible bringing the number of beneficiaries to down further to around 28 lakhs. Following a detailed survey conducted across the state, around 18.67 lakh of the beneficiaries were found to be eligible while over 9.39 lakh found ineligible, Bora told the assembly. The minister said that efforts are underway to recover the sums already allotted the ineligible beneficiaries under the scheme and till date over Rs 94.26 lakh has been collected. On detection of their roles in inclusion of ineligible beneficiaries in the scheme, the state government has suspended two district agriculture officers and an agriculture development officer. A data entry operator has been dismissed for his role in the irregularities and several cases lodged, Bora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-9-lakh-ineligible-beneficiaries-of-pm-kisan-scheme-detected-in-assam/story-eeFICPwpW2OvfB9GbeATjJ.html
01-09-2020||India||GST collection fell 1% in August 2020 over the previous month||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in the month of August fell a little over 1% at Rs 86,449 crore compared to Rs 87,422 crore collected in the previous month, while the revenue mop up in August this year saw a 12% year-on-year decline due to the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdowns that had a devastating impact on the economy.The GST collection in August 2020 is 88% of the revenue collected in the same month last year, the finance ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. The GST collection in August last year was Rs 98,202 crore.The finance ministry said the decline is also due to the fact that many small businesses have not filed their monthly returns. “It may also be noted that the taxpayers with turnover of less than Rs 5 crore continue to enjoy relaxation in filing of returns till September,” the statement said. “During the month [August 2020], the revenues from import of goods were 77% and the revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) were 92% of the revenues from these sources during the same month last year,” it said.Out of the gross revenue of Rs 86,449 crore in August 2020, the Central GST (CGST) part is Rs 15,906 crore, State GST (SGST) is Rs 21,064 crore, Integrated GST (IGST) is Rs 42,264 crore (including Rs 19,179 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 7,215 crore, it said. The government has settled Rs 18,216 crore to CGST and Rs 14,650 crore to SGST from IGST as regular settlement, it added.“The total revenue earned by the Central Government and the state governments after regular settlement in the month of August, 2020 is Rs 34,122 crore for CGST and Rs 35,714 crore for the SGST,” it said. GST collection was badly hit in the beginning of the current financial year due to the 68-day hard lockdown across the country since March 25, which was imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. The collection in April 2020 had plunged 72% to Rs 32,172 crore compared to the same month last year.The collection had seen an annual fall of 38% in May 2020 at Rs 62,151 crore. The year-on-year fall in June this year came down to 9% at Rs 90,917 crore, mainly because of collection of past dues. The revenue in July 2020, however, saw a 14.3% year-on-year drop at Rs 87,422 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-collection-fell-1-in-august-2020-over-the-previous-month/story-S7jZRoDrqpV4RRWym7GsXK.html
01-09-2020||India||Punjab CM orders probe into attack on Suresh Raina’s relatives||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday a special investigation team of the state police will probe the attack on India cricketer Suresh Raina’s relatives in Pathankot, in which his uncle and cousin were killed. Raina, in a series of tweets, had sought the help of Punjab police in catching the culprits and also tagged the chief minister in one of them. “Condole the brutal attack on kin of @ImRaina in Pathankot. Have ordered SIT probe into the case and have asked @DGPPunjabPolice to identify & arrest the culprits at the earliest. Beta, my DC & SSP have met the family and we will make sure that the guilty are brought to justice,” Singh tweeted.Also read | ‘What happened to my family was beyond horrible’: Suresh Raina seeks helpRaina, who recently pulled out of IPL 2020 and returned home from the UAE citing ‘personal reasons’, has said that what happened to his family was beyond horrible.“My uncle was slaughtered to death, my bua & both my cousins had severe injuries… Unfortunately my cousin also passed away last night after battling for life for days. My bua is still very very critical & is on life support,” Raina tweeted.“Till date we don’t know what exactly had happened that night & who did this. I request @PunjabPoliceInd to look into this matter. We at least deserve to know who did this heinous act to them,” Raina posted.Police have said three to four members of the notorious Kale Kachhewala gang attacked Ashok Kumar and his family members at their house in Thariyal village near Madhopur of Pathankot late on August 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-orders-probe-into-attack-on-suresh-raina-s-relatives/story-YbV2PWmkySMMRa1ebOVsKK.html
01-09-2020||India||Centre should borrow to pay states GST compensation’, KCR tells PM Modi||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday strongly opposed the Central government’s suggestion that states should go in for additional borrowings to meet the shortfall in the Goods and Services Tax compensation payable by the Centre. In a strongly-worded letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rao suggested that the Centre itself should borrow loans to the extent of the entire shortfall amount based on the strength of the receipts into the cess amount. “The entire debt servicing - both principal and interest can be paid from the cess collected for such an extended period, beyond 2022, as the GST council may decide,” he said. Stating that Telangana had fully supported the introduction of GST regime keeping in view of the national interest, KCR reminded that the then UPA government had assured the states on payment of full compensation arising out of abolition of central sales tax (CST). “However, the states were denied CST compensation and Telangana was deprived of Rs 3,800 crore on account of revenue loss. Though the GST Compensation Act stipulated that full compensation for the loss of revenue, on account of implementation of GST shall be paid to the states on a bi-monthly basis, there have been long delays in the payment of compensation and the states have not been paid GST compensation since April, 2020,” he said. The chief minister said due to lockdown on account of Covid-19 pandemic, Telangana had suffered a revenue loss of 83 per cent, whereas Covid-19 pandemic related expenditure had gone up. “We are faced with the difficult task of meeting the expenditure through front loading of market borrowings, taking resort to ways and means advances and overdrafts,” he said. KCR refused to buy the argument that the additional borrowings by the Centre would influence yields on Central government securities and had other macro-economic repercussions. “The borrowings by the Centre as well as the States are from the same financial system and pool of investors and their impact on the macro-economic situation is not very different. Borrowings by the States will also push up the yields on government securities,” he said. He said with the introduction of GST, States are left with no major buoyant taxes of their own, while the Centre is still left with buoyant sources like income tax, corporation tax and customs duties. In addition, the Centre has access to more non-tax revenues such as dividends from the RBI, Central Public Sector Undertakings, etc. Thus, the Centre is endowed with more resources to help the states, he pointed out. KCR alleged that the Centre has violated the provisions of the GST Compensation Act by parking the surpluses in the Compensation Fund in its Consolidated Fund instead of parking them in the non-lapsable Compensation Fund in the Public Account and using the surpluses for meeting its expenditure in the years 2017-18 and 2018-19. Now that there is a deficit, States are being asked to borrow, he said.“Strong states make the nation strong. So far, all the decisions by the GST Council have been taken unanimously. I think we need to maintain this tradition in future too,” the chief minister said. On Monday, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman suggesting that the central government borrow and pay off GST compensation to states because that would be “a more practical and logical step”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-borrow-to-pay-states-gst-compensation-kcr-tells-pm-modi/story-KmSIfMVkF5qiNcrtUMzt5N.html
01-09-2020||India||India writes to Facebook, alleges it is the latest ‘tool’ to create social disturbances||In a strongly worded letter, India has raised the issue of free speech with social media giant Facebook, alleging that the platform is the “latest tool” being used to create “internal divisions and social disturbances” by vested groups. In a letter written by Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, India has raised the need for country specific community guidelines and said that as a transactional digital platform, Facebook must not only be fair and neutral, but also visibly seen to be so. Also read: India writes to Facebook, alleges it is the latest ‘tool’ to create social disturbancesThe letter comes in the wake of a controversy stoked by a report in the Wall Street Journal, alleging that Facebook showed a bias in not taking down content from the BJP supported pages or accounts that flouted norms and that its head of public policy in India, Ankhi Das, showed support for the BJP. “I have been informed that in the run-up to 2019 general elections in India, there was a concerted effort by Facebook Indian management to not just delete pages or substantially reduce to reach but also offer no records or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of the right of the Centre ideology. I’m also aware that dozens of emails written to Facebook management received no response,” the letter says. Also read: BJP alleges Cong-Facebook nexus, new report says Das took credit for ‘Modi’s campaign’The IT minister has also flagged the issue of FB employees running campaigns to discredit the democratic process of the country. “Individuals working in any organisation may have their individual likes or dislikes, but that must not have any bearing on the public policies and performance of the organisation. It seems from credible media reports that Facebook India team, right from the managing director to other senior officials is dominated by people who belong to a particular political belief,” the letter says. Following the WSJ report, the Congress also wrote to Zuckerberg seeking details on steps being taken to investigate allegations that the social media giant does not apply hate speech rules to posts by BJP members. Prasad in his letter has, however, hit out at the allegations and without taking names said that people from a particular “political predisposition have been overwhelmingly defeated in successive free and fair elections. After having lost all democratic legitimacy, they are trying to discredit India’s democratic process by dominating the decision making apparatus of important social media platforms.” The minister has also pointed out that it “problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers of India while working in Facebook India and managing important positions.” Alleging that the employee’s bias could impact free speech the letter says, it is “unacceptable when political bosses of individuals impinge on the freedom of speech of millions of people.” Also read: Report on Facebook’s leniency to BJP members’ communal posts causes rowWithout naming the report, the letter says that recent media reports suggest that “deeply entrenched vested interests aren’t satisfied with the shrinking space for one side of the spectrum in India and want to throttle it completely.” “… The spate of recent anonymous, source-based reports is nothing but an internal power struggle with within your company for an ideological hegemony… No other logic and explain how facts are being spun by the selective leaks from within your company to try to portray an alternate reality. This interference in India’s political process through gossip, whispers and innuendo is condemnable,” the letter said. WSJ report was based on internal emails and interviews with employees. The other issues that the minister has flagged include the platform being “used by anarchic and radical elements whose sole aim is to destroy social order, to recruit people and to assemble them for violence” and “outsourcing of fact checking to third-party fact checkers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-writes-to-facebook-alleges-it-is-the-latest-tool-to-create-social-disturbances/story-6DLyiMJY6dwajtyk61jklL.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Problematic when FB employees abuse PM on record’: Prasad to Zuckerberg||Accusing Facebook India of ‘bias and inaction’ on complaints lodged by ‘right-of-centre ideology’ people, Union minister for information and technology Ravi Shankar Prasad shot a three-page letter to Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday. Prasad also pointed out that “it is problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the prime minister and senior cabinet ministers while still working in Facebook India.”The union minister wrote, “I have been informed that in the run up to 2019 general elections in India, there was a concerted effort by Facebook India management to not just delete pages or substantially reduce their reach but also offer no recourse or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of right-of-centre ideology.”Prasad wrote that people from a certain “political predisposition have been overwhelmingly defeated by the people of in successive free and fair elections” and that Facebook is the latest tool in their arsenal to stroke internal divisions and social disturbances.“It is problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the Prime Minister and senior Cabinet Ministers of India while still working in Facebook India and managing important positions,” the letter to Zuckerberg read. “It is doubly problematic when the bias of individuals becomes an inherent bias of the platform. And it is unacceptable when political biases of individuals impinge on the freedom of speech of millions of people,” it stated. Citing “credible media reports”, Prasad also accused Facebook India team of being dominantly managed by people who belong to a particular political belief. The letter comes a before day the meeting of a Parliamentary committee where opposition parties are likely to raise the issue of Facebook India’s alleged bias towards BJP, and reports of its public policy head Ankhi Das supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and disparaging opposition in internal messages.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravi-shankar-prasad-writes-to-mark-zuckerberg-says-facebook-used-by-anarchic-radical-elements-to-destroy-social-order/story-o5YUWjXbdHn9bWdeSe1puL.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Give jobs, not empty slogans’: Rahul Gandhi’s latest jab over JEE, NEET||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the government is ignoring “genuine concerns” raised by candidates of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and students who have appeared for other exams.“Modi Govt is jeopardising India’s future. Arrogance is making them ignore the genuine concerns of the JEE-NEET aspirants as well as the demands of those who took SSC and other exams. Give jobs, not empty slogans,” Gandhi said in a tweet.Modi Govt is jeopardising India's future.Arrogance is making them ignore the genuine concerns of the JEE-NEET aspirants as well as the demands of those who took SSC and other exams.Give jobs, not empty slogans.#SpeakUpForSSCRailwayStudentsGandhi’s tweet comes on the day lakhs of students across the country took the JEE Main exam for admission to the country’s top engineering colleges amid the coronavirus outbreak. The exam, which had been deferred twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, started on Tuesday and will be held until September 6. NEET, the entrance exam for medical courses, will be held on September 13.The tweet by the former Congress president is in continuation with previous such instances where he had urged the government to take into account concerns of students, who have been demanding postponement of JEE and NEET.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-jobs-not-empty-slogans-rahul-gandhi-s-latest-jab-over-jee-neet/story-CE1l1OncUDG79AoIhYiV5L.html
01-09-2020||India||Gold smuggling case: NIA examines CCTV footage of Kerala secretariat to probe office fire||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Kerala gold smuggling case on Tuesday examined the CCTV footage of the secretariat and the room where some files were gutted in a mysterious fire last week. The examination will continue for a couple of days, people familiar with the probe said. After the NIA took over the smuggling probe it asked the chief secretary to provide CCTV footage from July 2019 to July 5, 2020. Initially officials manning the control room said some cameras were damaged in lightening, but later admitted that visuals can be retrieved. Later they said some of the visuals are quite heavy and difficult to copy and asked the NIA to mention a specific period and time so that they can copy them. In the midst of a tiff, a minor fire occurred at the general administration department and some “important files” were destroyed in it. While officials blamed it on a short circuit, opposition parties alleged that the fire was intentional in order to destroy evidence in the smuggling case. ALSO READ | Customs grilling Kerala CM’s former IT fellow in gold smuggling caseThere are reports that main accused in the smuggling case Swapna Suresh was a regular at the state secretariat and many officials helped her to get access to important people. The NIA sought the visuals to check her access to the seat of power. After the smuggling came to light on July 5, the government had suspended the CM’s powerful secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, for his alleged liaison with Suresh. Later the NIA, Customs and Enforcement Directorate had questioned Sivasankar. The NIA suspects that many officials had helped her. The smuggling case was discovered after the customs seized 30 kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consular office in Thiruvananthapuram. Later, the case was handed over to the NIA and main accused Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru a week later. At least, 20 people have been arrested in the case and many central agencies are helping the NIA in the ongoing probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-smuggling-case-nia-examines-cctv-footage-of-kerala-secretariat-to-probe-office-fire/story-eBJa00QWDwDx85w1CMLMWN.html
01-09-2020||India||Head constable found dead in Dantewada in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region||A 32-year-old head constable of the Chhattisgarh Armed Force, who went missing from his camp days after he was transferred to Left-wing insurgency-hit Dantewada district on August 28, was found dead on Monday. Police suspect Maoists may have killed Kaneshwar Netam.“...Netam’s body was found near the jungles of Bodli village on Monday. As per primary investigation, the constable was transferred to Dantewada on August 25 and on August 28, he went missing from his camp,” said Dantewada police superintendent Abhishek Pallava. “It seems the constable was killed by cadres of Maoists but we are investigating the case from all angles since no Maoist note was recovered from the spot.”Earlier, suspected Maoists abducted assistant police sub-inspector Nagaiya Kosa on Sunday from Kutru area of Dantewada district and killed him with sharp-edged weapons .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/head-constable-found-dead-in-dantewada-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar-region/story-d7YfMZNCRKjG0jOO8pY89N.html
01-09-2020||India||Mask use and social distancing may prevent 2 lakh Covid-19 deaths in India: Study||Widespread mask use and data-driven social distancing measures in India may help prevent over 200,000 Covid-19-related deaths in India by December 1, according to a modelling study which shows the disease will continue to pose a major public health threat in the country. The study by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in the US suggests that there is an opportunity to further limit the toll of Covid-19 in India. It highlights the critical need for people to comply with face mask use, social distancing, and other Covid-19 prevention guidelines as advised by the public health authorities. “India’s epidemic is far from over, as a large proportion of the population is still susceptible,” IHME Director, Christopher Murray, said in a statement. “In fact, our modelling shows there is a wide range of potential outcomes, depending on the actions that governments and individuals take today, tomorrow, and into the near future. Mask-wearing and social distancing are crucial to mitigate the spread of the virus,” Murray explained. Reacting to the findings of the modelling study, Gautam Menon, Professor, Departments of Physics and Biology, Ashoka University in Haryana said it is certainly true that mask wearing and distancing measures will significantly slow the progress of the disease while protecting vulnerable populations. “My first view is that the IHME model predicts a peak in infections only by early to mid-December, peak numbers of close to 6 million new infections per day and total deaths of about 500,000 in the ‘no intervention’ scenario,” Menon told PTI. However, he noted that these numbers appear inflated compared to other estimates and models which suggest a peak that should happen well before mid-December. “Given that, the estimate of lives saved (in the study) may be on the excessive side,” Menon noted. The researchers in the IHME study noted that India’s response to Covid-19 has produced some significant successes that highlight the opportunity to limit the pandemic’s toll in the country. Giving the example of some urban areas, including Delhi, they explained that containment measures which include intensive contact tracing, widespread testing, mask-wearing, and social distancing mandates have helped reduce the spread of the virus. Their modelling study found that, in the best-case scenario, India can expect approximately 291,145 total Covid-19 deaths by December 1, up from 60,000 in late August. This scenario assumes that face mask usage increases to near-universal (95 per cent) levels and that six-week, state-level lockdowns are re-imposed if the daily death rate exceeds 8 per million in the states. On the other hand, if lockdown restrictions continue to ease up and face mask usage remains at current levels, India can expect approximately 492,380 total deaths by December 1, according to the study. In this scenario, the researchers said, 13 states would each have over 10,000 total Covid-19 deaths by that time, while currently only Maharashtra has crossed this threshold. “India is at a tipping point. If hospitals in those states are unable to accommodate everyone needing Covid-19 care, the result will be more deaths and greater long-term harm to state and local economies,” Murray said. The researchers said until there is a widely available vaccine against Covid-19, much of India’s population remains susceptible to the disease. “Monitoring trends state-by-state, encouraging mask use, continuing social distancing and hygiene precautions, and using state-level or district-level lockdowns if needed can help save lives and minimise the impact of the pandemic on India’s health and economy,” the researchers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mask-use-and-social-distancing-may-prevent-2-lakh-covid-deaths-in-india-study/story-MH8DAdcimJLSnKYW9s485J.html
01-09-2020||India||Season’s first catch nets more plastic than fish in South Goa||Traditional fishermen in Goa, who ventured into sea for the first time as the monsoon rain and wind subsided, were in for a rude shock when they netted more plastic than fish.It also underlined how loads of trash is polluting the seas. According to a recent publication of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), out of the 300 million tonne of plastic produced in the world every year, around 8 million tonne end up in oceans and make up for 80% of the marine debris from surface water to deep sea sediments,Strong winds and currents bring the marine trash close to coasts, where the traditional fishermen fish and that is the reason that fishermen from villages from Benaulim to Cavelossim beaches in South Goa have returned with the huge quantity of marine trash. “I have been a fisherman for 47 years and never in my life have I seen the kind of garbage being drawn up in the nets as we have seen this year. It is as if someone is deliberately dumping truckloads of garbage into the rivers or the sea,” Pele Fernandes, a traditional fisherman, said. The traditional fishermen, or raponkar as they are called locally, use wooden canoes to venture out to sea either manually rowing them or using an outboard motor. “It is an occurrence now every other day. At this rate the fishermen will go hungry,” Fernandes added. Unlike previous years, this year, more youth because of loss of employment due to the Covid-19 pandemic and closure of the booming tourism industry, have opted for the traditional occupation to tide over the financial crisis. However, they are staring at losses owing to the plastic as well as the big trawlers encroaching on waters that are traditionally reserved for the traditional fishermen. “The trawlers that are by law banned from fishing within 5-kms from the shore are coming as close as 100 metres close to the shore. No action is being taken,” Fernandes said. Dixon Vaz the chairman of the biodiversity committee of the Cavelossim village, where the fishermen have also been drawing up more plastic than fish said it was the sea currents that were throwing back all the plastic that was discarded in the sea. “The government agencies tasked with cleaning up are not doing their job,” Vaz said. “The fish catch has been reducing every year and the plastic in catch is increasing,” he said. Scientists have explained that the sea throws back a lot of flotsam generally composed of organic material like twigs and seaweed but with increasing plastic in the ocean an increasing amount of plastic is finding its way back to the shore. With rivers emptying into the sea with greater force during the monsoon months the currents bring back to the shore all that floats with it. “This problem is only going to amplify in the years to come. It is noticed this time of the year because the winds blow perpendicular to the coast and the waves bring with it whatever floats. On days when the winds are strong and the waves are high, they will find a lot of garbage on the coast,” Dr Antonio Mascarenhas a former scientist with the National Institute of Oceanography. “This is only a small sample of what is actually in the sea. The real problem is much bigger and is only going to get worse,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/season-s-first-catch-nets-more-plastic-than-fish-in-south-goa/story-ANivurTZdlXRDnmTpruXVL.html
01-09-2020||India||India hardest-hit by Covid-19 in Asia, a nation-wide peak may still be some distance away: IPHA||India is the hardest-hit nation by coronavirus disease in Asia and is currently accounting for 30 percent of the daily reported new COVID-19 cases and 20 percent of daily deaths globally. However, a country-wide peak may still be some distance away, experts from Indian Public Health Association (IPHA) said.In a third joint statement on Covid-19 pandemic in India, a task force of eminent public health experts have opined that cumulative recoveries in India are an impressive 2.3 million, and the corrected case fatality ratio (CCFR) is steadily declining.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereIn April 2020, a joint task force of eminent public health experts of India was constituted by IPHA, and the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM) to advise the Union government for containment of Covid-19 pandemic in the country.“An active case pool of 700,000+ with an effective reproduction number (Rt) of 1.06 (16 August 2020) implies that a country-wide peak may still be some distance away,” experts said in the report.The count of daily new cases has increased dramatically from 9,472 (5 June) to 61,749 (23 August) in the two months of Unlock phase. Cases per million population in India are at 2,251.“Due to preoccupation of the entire health system with COVID-19 response, other national health programs have received limited attention,” the report noted.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Increasingly, COVID-19 positive persons are being reported from small-sized towns, as well as from rural areas. Sero- surveys have revealed that the disease has spread to most parts of the country indicating community transmission of COVID-19,” it said.“The sero-surveillance reports from various parts of India indicate that through the current strategy of ‘Test, Trace, Treat, and Isolate’ we are detecting less than 5 percent of the total estimated cases of SARS CoV-2 infection,” it added.So far, India has reported about 36 lakh Covid-19 cases with 64,469 deaths. Till date, India has conducted 4,23,07,914 tests for Covid-19, and at least 8,46,278 of those were done in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hardest-hit-by-covid-19-in-asia-a-nation-wide-peak-may-still-be-some-distance-away-ipha/story-4rvxuuGb9jCy9lJQ9qYQjO.html
01-09-2020||India||Of 43 million Covid-19 tests in India, 12 million conducted in last 2 weeks: Govt||India has tested more than 12 million samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last two weeks keeping in line with its “test, track, treat” strategy to prevent the virus from spreading, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.As many as 1,016,920 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry’s data. The country crossed the milestone of conducting one million tests daily on August 21. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In all, the country has conducted 43.3 million tests since January 22 when Covid-19 testing started with one lab at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) National Institute of Virology in Pune.As experts have suggested that aggressive testing is crucial to control the outbreak, states and Union territories are progressively increasing their testing capacity.The health ministry said in a statement Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra are among others contributing the maximum to the overall number of test. “These three states account for nearly 34% of the total testing,” the ministry said. “22 States/UTs have better TPM than the National Average. Goa, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are reporting a maximum number of tests in a day,” it added.There has also been sustained growth in the average weekly numbers of tests. The weekly average tests have multiplied by more than four times since the first week of January 2020, the government stated.The health ministry credited the “expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country” for the substantial boost. “The tests per million (TPM) have also seen a sharp increase to 31,394,” it added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageAs of Tuesday, there were 3,691,166 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in the country after registering nearly 80,000 infections for two days in a row. Of them, 785,996 were active cases while 2,839,882 people have recovered from the infection. The toll from the disease has climbed to 65,288.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-43-million-covid-19-tests-in-india-12-million-conducted-in-last-2-weeks-govt/story-OI0fcjDSczFSq9uu610ILO.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee passes away: ‘His presence was a support to family’, says son Abhijit||Bidding an emotional goodbye to his father and former president Pranab Mukherjee, Abhijit Mukherjee said on Tuesday his presence was a support to their family. “His presence was a support for our family, we’ll miss him. I had plans to take him to West Bengal but due to current restrictions we couldn’t do so,” Abhijit Mukherjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The veteran Congress leader, who died at the age of 84 on Monday, was cremated with full state honours on Tuesday. Abhijit Mukherjee performed his last rites and the family and relatives paid their last respects clad in PPE kits.Mukherjee died following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. He was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and was operated the same day for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for the coronavirus disease at the time of his admission. Mukherjee, India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017, later developed a lung infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-passes-away-his-presence-was-a-support-to-family-says-son-abhijit/story-e0yXJ3grgNgEGWHRH41cBO.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Ruining’ of economy began with demonetisation, govt introduced erroneous policies: Rahul Gandhi||The Congress on Tuesday attacked the Centre over the GDP slump, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi alleging that the “ruining” of the economy began with demonetisation and the government thereafter introduced one “erroneous” policy after another. The country’s economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 per cent as the coronavirus-related lockdown weighed on the already declining consumer demand and investment. “GDP -23.9. The ruining of the country’s economy began with demonetisation. Since then, the government introduced one erroneous policy after another,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also alleged that the government was responsible for the slump in the economy. Rahul Gandhi had spoken of an “economic tsunami” six months ago, while the government announced a package just for “show” and look at the condition now, Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The BJP government has caused the slump in the economy, she alleged. Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a tweet in Hindi, “Modi ji, at least now accept that what you hailed as masterstrokes were actually ‘disaster strokes’ -- demonetisation, faulty GST and lockdown.” The GDP contraction is the sharpest contraction since quarterly figures started being published in 1996 and worse than what was expected by most analysts. Chief economic adviser K V Subramanian, however, has said the economy is “experiencing a V-shaped recovery” after the lockdown eased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruining-of-economy-began-with-demonetisation-govt-introduced-erroneous-policies-rahul-gandhi/story-ktRjCpp5P48Hjw7d1Xr1cL.html
01-09-2020||India||Pulwama case accused seeks bail to give NEET exam||One of the accused in the Pulwama terror attack case, Waiz-Ul-Islam, has filed an application for bail to appear for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), news agency ANI reported on Tuesday.“His bail has been listed for September 3. We are opposing this application,” National Investigation Agency counsel Vipin Kalra was quoted as saying by ANI.The next hearing in the case to take place on September 15.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had filed a charge sheet on August 25 in the February 2019 Pulwama terror attack case in which it named 19 people who it said carried out the bombing at Pakistan’s behest. The 13,500-page charge sheet was filed before a special NIA court in Jammu.Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) chief Maulana Masood Azhar, his brothers Abdul Rauf Asghar and Ammar Alvi, and nephew Umar Farooq are among those named in the charge sheet by the agency. Farooq was the son of IC-814 hijacking accused Ibrahim Athar who was in India to execute the Pulwama conspiracy and was killed in March 2019 in an encounter by security forces.Forty Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed in the attack that brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-case-accused-seeks-bail-to-give-neet-exam/story-UlnCqU7tvPn78BTcpKfuuK.html
01-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: China in 70 years has not occupied an inch of foreign land, says Beijing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China in 70 years has not occupied an inch of foreign land: BeijingBeijing on Tuesday again blamed India for the latest bout of tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, saying China has never occupied an inch of territory belonging to another country and New Delhi should take its concerns seriously and contribute to peace and tranquillity at the border.Read more. The curious link behind China’s Ladakh moves and a looming food crisis | AnalysisPresident Xi Jinping launched ‘Operation Clean Plate’ last fortnight to prepare China for a potential food crisis, contributed in part by the diplomatic muscle-flexing he has pursued abroad to bolster his standing at home. But Beijing’s aggressive manoeuvres in Ladakh, the South China Sea and beyond - seen to have been prompted by a design to divert attention from domestic troubles - have cratered China’s relations with its neighbours and soured relations with its three important food suppliers - the United States, Canada and Australia.Read more. Nation bids tearful adieu to Pranab MukherjeeFormer President and Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee’s last rites were performed with full military honour at the Lodhi Road crematorium in south Delhi on Tuesday amid strict adherence to social distancing norms because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak that forced a limited presence of family and his friends.Read more. India China border row: Situation critical in Ladakh after PLA aggression in ChushulThe situation in East Ladakh continues to remain tense with the Indian Army matching the heavy weapon posturing of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Monday after pre-empting China from moving into the dominating heights south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30 night, people familiar with the development said.Read more.JEE Mains 2020: What students across India said after the examsJEE Mains 2020: The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2020 commenced on Tuesday, September 1 at 489 Centres across the country for B.Arch. and B.Planning aspirants. The B.Tech./B.E Joint Entrance Examination JEE(Main) will be conducted from September 2 to 6 at 605 Cent res across India.Read more. Honda announces realigned variant line-up of fourth-generation CityHonda Cars India on Tuesday announced the two variants - SV MT Petrol and V MT Petrol - that the fourth-generation City will continue to be sold in. The car will be available alongside the latest fifth-generation City that was launched earlier this year.Read more. Watch: After provoking at LAC, now China accuses India of violating consensusAfter trying to change the status quo in the southern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh, now the Chinese embassy in India has accused the Indian Army of violating the consensus reached during the talks between two sides. Responding to a media query by the Spokesperson of Chinese Embassy in India, Counselor Ji Rong said that India troops illegally trespassed the Line of Actual Control and conducted violations which stirred tension in the border areas. Read more. National Nutrition Week 2020: Different diets and how they facilitate your nutritional intakeThe first week of September marks the National Nutrition Week in India. It is an annual event which was launched by the Ministry of Women and Child Development’s Food and Nutrition Board in 1982.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-in-70-years-has-not-occupied-an-inch-of-foreign-land-says-beijing-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iiKia33mda6o5sRsR0KxMJ.html
01-09-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally set to rise by another lakh in only seven days||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally is likely to cross 8-lakh Covid-19 cases mark on Tuesday after the count reached 7,92,541 on Monday.The state is likely to reach another grim milestone in just seven days after it crossed the 7-lakh mark on August 25. The state continues to face a surge of fresh cases which is reducing the number of days before another lakh cases are added to the tally.Maharashtra recorded one lakh cases in 96 days. Since then the pace of infection has gathered speed with the state touching the 2-lakh mark in 22 days, the 3-lakh mark in 14 days, the 4-lakh mark in 11 days and the 5-lakh mark in 10 days. It crossed the 6-lakh mark in nine days and while it took only eight days to cross the 7-lakh mark.It had crossed 7-lakh cases mark on August 25 while the tally of 6 lakh was crossed on August 17.In August alone, the state reported 3,71,328 cases, highest ever in a month with an average of 11,975 cases daily.Maharashtra recorded 2,47,392 cases in July, 1,02,172 cases in June, 57,157 cases in May, 10,196 cases in April and 302 cases in March. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading the communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state said that the state may take months to reduce daily infections. “Going by the current scenario, it may take months to bring down daily cases until a vaccine arrives in the market. People are not ready to protect themselves. In that case, the state will have to make its surveillance more aggressive. This can be achieved by making Covid testing accessible to all. Like Mumbai, the mandatory condition of having prescription from a doctor for testing need to be removed from across the state,” he said.The death toll of the state also reached 24,583 after 184 deaths were reported on Monday. In August, the state reported 9,589 deaths, which is also the highest in a month so far. In July, a total of 6,988 deaths were reported, while in June, May, April and March, total number of deaths recorded were 5,638, 2,286, 449 and 10 deaths respectively||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-set-to-rise-by-another-lakh-in-only-seven-days/story-oVYv9uFHjxk81eMzEnLjVM.html
01-09-2020||India||Petrol rate hiked by Rs 1.65 a litre in a fortnight, no change in diesel prices||Petrol has become costlier by Rs 1.65 per litre over the last fortnight as fuel retailers have raised its rate to Rs 82.08 since August 15. The prices of diesel have remained unchanged over the last month at Rs 73.56 a litre.Also read: Jet fuel prices hiked 3%Initially, retail prices of both petrol and diesel remained frozen for the first 15 days of August at Rs 80.43 and Rs 73.56 in Delhi. Petrol prices started increasing from August 16 with 14 paise a litre hike that day. Thereafter, petrol rates increased gradually.Over the last fortnight, petrol prices were revised about a dozen times even as international rates did not fluctuate much as benchmark Brent crude remained in the range between $45.4 per barrel and $45.9 a barrel. On Tuesday, Brent crude opened at $45.60 per barrel and was trading at $45.86 a barrel, 1.28% up from Monday close of $45.28 per barrel.India, which imports over 80% of crude oil it processes, and pays in dollar, has also seen a marginal 0.8% softening of its cost of imports in the last one fortnight. India’s average crude oil purchase cost (the Indian basket) that also factors in rupee-dollar exchange rate, was at Rs 3,268.13 per barrel on August 31.An oil ministry official said diesel and petrol prices in the country are linked to the international prices of finished products, and not crude prices. The government has no role in the daily revision of petrol and diesel rates as they are deregulated products, he said requesting anonymity. The government had deregulated petrol pricing in 2010 and diesel in 2014.State-run fuel retailers – Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) – declined comments on the matter.SC Sharma, an energy expert and a former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission, said in August international diesel prices moved up by a marginal 0.05%, but petrol prices have seen volatility in the month on the upward side between about 5% and 7%. “Hence, diesel prices were kept constant without change, while the petrol prices were increased in line with volatility,” he said.“Rupee has also improved during the month (August). It is understood that the impact of rupee strengthening has been factored in petrol prices,” he added. As India pays oil import bills in dollars, appreciation of the rupee against dollar helps in reducing the import cost.The Delhi government in July reduced value-added tax on diesel by over Rs 8 per litre, making it cheaper than petrol. Dilip Khanna, transactions partner (oil and gas) at consulting firm EY, previously known as Ernst and Young said, while the excise component for both fuels is almost similar, the pump rates of the two fuels differ because of differences in state levies. He said that petrol prices have lower impact on the inflation compared to diesel.Gagan Dixit, vice president at equity research firm Elara Capital, said the 15-day average international petrol (gasoline) prices increased $2.5 per barrel that resulted the increase in gasoline cost to companies, which is passed to consumer. Unlike gasoline, 15-day average international diesel prices decreased $0.5 a barrel that resulted in Rs 0.45 per litre decrease in diesel cost to the companies, but they kept diesel prices unchanged, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-rate-hiked-by-rs-1-65-a-litre-in-a-fortnight-no-change-in-diesel-rates/story-oQozEHUM7smdX7IGXeH8VN.html
01-09-2020||India||Lok Janshakti Party to contest all 70 seats in 2022 Uttarakhand assembly polls||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), whose footprints are largely restricted to poll-bound Bihar, appears to have taken a cue from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and now seeks to make inroads into Uttarakhand. The party has decided to contest on all 70 seats in 2022 assembly polls in the hill state.The LJP has formed a core team that will look into the formation of all district and assembly-level segments in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state. The LJP is a BJP ally in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre.Kedarnath Pundit, who heads the LJP in Uttarakhand, said the party is seriously considering making inroads into the hill state politics, as it seeks to emerge as an alternative to both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress.“We are focusing on getting as many new members as possible in each one of the 70 assembly segments. Priority in ticket allocation will be given to those candidates, who get maximum members for the party in their respective constituencies. Besides our traditional vote bank of backward and minority community, we are focussing on hilly areas and rural cluster voters in the state,” said Pundit.Soon, a delegation of the party leaders will meet state chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and submit him a memorandum regarding local issues being faced by the public.“We want to play the role of a pro-active and constructive Opposition party. Issues related to both Kumaon and Garhwal regions will be effectively raised by our party in the coming days,” said Raghunath Kumar, state general secretary, LJP. Kumar said that the LJP would not enter any alliance with regional outfits such as the Uttarakhand Kranti Dal (UKD) because the latter failed to realise the aspirations of the public.It would not be a politically expedient move to forge a tie-up with the UKD, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-janshakti-party-to-contest-all-70-seats-in-2022-uttarakhand-assembly-polls/story-w27o0eoCTKySrPdzQOiV1J.html
01-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Madurai’s Meenakshi Amman temple opens after 165 days||As a part of the new relaxations under Unlock 4, Meenakshi Amman temple in Madurai re-opened on Tuesday after 165 days of closure due to Covid-19 pandemic.Several devotees queued up outside the temple while following social distancing norms to offer their prayers to the deity.Before entering the premises of the shrine, the temperatures of the people were checked and they were provided hand sanitiser.The children under the age of 10, pregnant women and people above the age of 60 years are not allowed to visit the temple. The devotees are also not allowed to offer any food items to the diety as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of the virus.“The devotees who come to visit the temple are allowed to enter following the social distancing norm. Coconut, fruits and garlands are not allowed to be taken inside the temple. I am happy that at least we are able to offer our prayers after so many months,” said Ambiga, a devotee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-madurai-s-meenakshi-amman-temple-opens-after-165-days/story-YJkWHBI9ikx9OcJTz2XCiK.html
01-09-2020||India||HC orders Dr Kafeel Khan’s release, sets aside detention under NSA||Setting aside the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act (NSA), the Allahabad high court on Tuesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to immediately release him. The court also termed the detention order of February 13, 2020, against Khan by the Aligarh district magistrate as ‘bad’. The bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Saumitra Dayal Singh passed the order on a petition filed by Dr Khan’s mother Nuzhat Parveen seeking his release.In the petition, it was alleged that earlier in February, Dr Khan was granted bail by a competent court. However, he was not released and three days later, the NSA was invoked against him, said the petition, adding that his detention was illegal. The plea challenged the detention of Dr Khan for three days before NSA was imposed on him even after he secured bail in all the cases registered against him.Also read: ‘UP Police will kill me,’ says Dr Kafeel Khan after arrest over anti-CAA remarksKhan has been behind bars since January 29 after he allegedly delivered a speech during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests at Aligarh Muslim University in December last year.His detention under the NSA was extended by three months on May 12 and then again on August 4 for three more months. “The speech given by Khan was not provocative. It was not intended to provoke religious sentiments among AMU students.” argued his lawyer.The counsel for the state government defended the detention order on the ground that under the NSA, a detention order can be passed on ‘subjective satisfaction’ of district authority and Dr Khan’s inflammatory speech disturbed public order and later, the protest turned violent.“The speaker was certainly opposing the policies of the government and while doing so, certain illustrations are given by him, but that nowhere reflects the eventualities demanding detention. A complete reading of the speech prima facie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also nowhere threatens peace and tranquillity of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. It appears that the District Magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent. The entire speech being a subject matter of a criminal case pending against Dr Kafeel Khan, therefore, it would not be appropriate for us to make much comments on that.”, observed the bench on the speech made by Dr Khan on AMU campus.“An important aspect of the matter is that the detenue addressed the gathering on December 12, 2019. At that time, the district administration, Aligarh, did not find the speech of Dr Kafeel Khan sufficient for preventive detention. Nothing has been said in the order of detention or the grounds for detention that district administration had any information within the period from December 12 , 2019 to February 13, 2020 about any effort made by the detenue to cause even a simple scar to the peace or tranquillity or the public order of the city of Aligarh. It is only after passing of the bail order by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Aligarh, the police officials and the District Magistrate, Aligarh initiated the process for detaining Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act, 1980 …. the detenue was roaming free and he had ample time to make all the efforts to damage public order in the city of Aligarh, if he was intending to do so”, observed the bench.Dr Kafeel Khan, a paediatrician, hit the headlines after the 2017 tragedy at Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, in which about 60 children died allegedly due to lack of oxygen cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-orders-dr-kafeel-s-release-sets-aside-detention-under-nsa/story-IoAR6XGUBO9DZdTkwxbqSP.html
01-09-2020||India||In Bengal, CSIR-CMERI scientists set up world’s largest ‘solar tree’||Scientists at the Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI) in West Bengal have installed a ‘solar tree’ that is likely to be the largest of its kind in the world. “This is the largest solar tree as per our knowledge producing up to 11,500 watts (11.5kw). The second largest tree has been set up in London and produces around 8.6kw,” said Harish Hirani, director of CMERI, the country’s apex research and development institute for mechanical engineering under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). A solar tree is a metal structure resembling a tree that has solar panels fitted on the branches. The solar panels connected through metal branches produces solar power. The CMERI solar tree has 35 panels each with a capacity of 330 watts. “Producing around 12,000–14,000 units of clean and green power in a year, the solar tree has the potential to save 10–12 tons of CO2 from being released into the atmosphere every year,” he said. One of the main hurdles while setting up solar panels on a large scale and for producing huge amount of renewable energy is availability of land. The inclination of the tree arms (tree branches) holding the panels can be adjusted to get the maximum output, a feature which is not available in roof top panels. The CMERI developed solar tree costs around Rs 7.5 lakh. “Solar trees because of their design use less space and hence can produce more power per unit area. But one of the major hurdles of solar tree is its capital investment. This pushes up the cost of one unit of electricity produced. The cost is almost double than that of solar roof top panels which takes around Rs 3.5 to produce one unit,” said SP Gon Choudhury, renewable energy expert and a Green Oscar awardee. The scientists at CMERI said that as the shadow area is minimum in solar trees they could be set up in agricultural farms to run pumps, e-tractors and tillers as an alternative to diesel. The excess power can be sent to the grid providing economic return to farmers. “This solar tree is a quantum leap towards making an energy reliant and carbon negative India,” said Hirani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-csir-cmeri-scientists-set-up-world-s-largest-solar-tree/story-azXMwE2EGe6Fd8ambi4FUP.html
01-09-2020||India||Kerala minister’s Mahabali vs Vamana tweet on Onam sparks row, BJP seeks apology||Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Issac sparked a controversy with a tweet saying Vamana, one of the 10 incarnations of Lord Vishu, was “a cheat”.Many saints and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have asked the Marxist minister to withdraw his tweet and apologize for hurting sentiments of Hindus. “We celebrate Mahabali who did not discriminate by caste or creed, not Vamana who cheated him,” the minister had tweeted on Monday.After his tweet triggered a row the minister, also an economist, re-tweeted saying he was only explaining a narrative from the scriptures. “To all those who have been upset about my Onam tweet: Accept there can be many narratives. I was referring to the one by Sahodaran Ayyappan, an ardent disciple of Sree Narayana Guru. If you are not convinced, read his Onapattu,” the minister tweeted. But many saints and BJP leaders did not accept his clarifications. “Issac has defamed Hindus. What right has he got to insult Hindu Gods like this? He should withdraw his tweet and tender an apology,” said Swami Chidanandapuri, seer of Adviatha Ashram. “I don’t know who gave him licence to insult Hindu gods. He should tender an apology,” said BJP state president K Surendran. Meanwhile Delhi Chief Minister Aravind Kejriwal also found himself in a controversy with a tweet on the occasion of ‘Vamana Jayanthi.’Vamana Jayanti is celebrated to mark the occasion of Lord Vishnu taking the form of Lord Vamana to defeat king Mahabali.The festival of Onam celebrates the yearly home-coming of mythical demon king Mahabali and his tweet glorifying Vamana hasn’t gone down well with Malayalis who flooded social media with memes and trolls targeting Kejriwal. For the people of Kerala, Mahabali remains an icon of equality, justice and honesty. They vouch they can’t rewrite tradition and history with the changing times. According to legend, after being checkmated by Vamana, Mahabali asked Lord Vishnu a boon to visit his people once a year. The boon was granted and people believe Mahabali visits them on ‘Thiruvonam’ day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minister-s-mahabali-vs-vamana-tweet-on-onam-sparks-row-bjp-seeks-apology/story-43pldn8iiLYDJOtQIxuChP.html
01-09-2020||India||Mumbai: Devotees bid farewell to Lord Ganesh in subdued manner||The immersion of idols of Lord Ganesh, which in previous years used to be an elaborate affair at the end of the 10-day Ganpati festival, was being conducted without any fanfare on Tuesday in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.More than 35,000 police personnel were deployed across the city and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation also made arrangements for incident-free immersion of idols on the occasion of ‘Anant Chaturdashi’, marking the culmination of the 10-day festivities.Till Tuesday noon, a total of 492 Ganesh idols, including 16 from public pandals and 476 installed by residents at home, were immersed at various visarjan points here, an official said.Out of these, 10 idols of the public mandals and 199 idols installed by people at their homes were immersed in artificial lakes set up for the purpose, he said, adding there was no any untoward incident so far during the immersion.Various wings of the police department are manning the streets and the security personnel are also keeping a close warch on the immersion with the help of about 5,000 CCTV cameras, the official said.In a bid to avoid crowding, police have appealed to people to not perform ‘aarti’ at the visarjan spots before immersion of idols.Instead, people have been asked to perform the ritual at their residences before stepping out, an official said on Monday.Mandals or groups that organise Lord Ganesh festival have been directed to strictly follow Covid-19 norms like maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-devotees-bid-farewell-to-lord-ganesh-in-subdued-manner/story-4Hd92nAeORXlZYe6vQvcCO.html
01-09-2020||India||Despite Chinese cameras and sensors, Indian troops managed to beat PLA in occupying height||Despite the presence of cameras and surveillance equipment deployed by the Chinese Army near the height close to Pangong lake southern bank, the Indian Army troops managed to occupy it before the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops.”The Chinese Army has deployed advanced cameras and surveillance equipment to monitor Indian activities near the dormant height but despite that, the Indian troops managed to occupy height there,” sources told ANI. The Chinese Army has installed such equipment all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and use them effectively to monitor Indian activities and respond quickly whenever they find Indian patrols on the areas claimed by them.Sources said the cameras and surveillance equipment has been removed after the Indian side occupied the dormant height within its territory. China has been claiming that the height belongs to them and wanted to capture it to get into an advantageous position all along the southern bank of Pangong lake area and the nearby Spangur Gap, an open territory where Chinese armoured regiments were deployed. Sources said the Indian side has prepared very well for responding to the Chinese reaction in view of the action by own troops including a Special Operations unit and Sikh Light Infantry troops there. One of the Indian Army jawans also lost his life in an anti-personnel mine explosion while patrolling in the area.The Indian side has done heavy deployment of armoured regiments including the BMP Infantry Combat Vehicles and different types of tanks flown in from armoured divisions from the plains.The preparation for the action had been done by the Indian Army recently as the heavy movement of logistics and equipment was done by the force. The Indian Army has preempted the Chinese action to occupy the strategic height on the intervening night of August 29-30 and thwarted a Chinese action to do so after an intense face-off there.The Chinese and Indian troops are engaged in a standoff for over three months after the PLA troops marched into Indian areas in Finger area and other parts of the Ladakh sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-chinese-cameras-and-sensors-indian-troops-managed-to-beat-pla-in-occupying-height/story-Gw4sfjLvYX09hyUU7vag9O.html
01-09-2020||India||Nation bids tearful adieu to Pranab Mukherjee||Former President and Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee’s last rites were performed with full military honour at the Lodhi Road crematorium in south Delhi on Tuesday amid strict adherence to social distancing norms because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak that forced a limited presence of family and his friends. The former President (84) died on Monday evening, 22 days after has admitted to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in south Delhi to undergo a surgical procedure to remove a brain clot from which he never recovered. He had also tested Covid-19 positive during his treatment in the hospital.Mukherjee’s mortal remains were brought to his residence at 10, Rajaji Marg earlier on Tuesday morning, where President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, former PM Manmohan Singh, BJP president JP Nadda, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, chiefs of the three services and a host of dignitaries paid their tribute. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal also paid his homage. “Paid tributes to respected Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He would be remembered by generations for his efforts towards India’s progress,” PM Modi tweeted after paying a floral tribute to the leader, who he considered to be his mentor and a father-figure. The Union Cabinet observed a two-minute silence in memory of Mukherjee, who had served as the Union minister for finance, defence and external affairs during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance’s (UPA) rule between 2004 and 2014, among his other portfolios and roles in his long and distinguished career in public life. “The cabinet expresses profound sorrow at the sad demise of Pranab Mukherjee, former President of India. In his passing away, the country has lost a distinguished leader and an outstanding parliamentarian,” the Cabinet said in a resolution. The former President was taken for the last rites in a hearse van instead of the gun carriage with the pall- bearers wearing personal protect equipment (PPE) kits as per the Covid-19 protocol.He was cremated in an electric crematorium and his son Abhijit performed the last rites. “His presence was a support for our family, we’ll miss him. I feel Covid-19 was not the main factor for his death rather it was the brain operation. I had plans to take him to West Bengal but due to current restrictions we couldn’t do so,” Abhijit told news agency ANI shortly after the cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-bids-tearful-adieu-to-pranab-mukherjee/story-qBaClt8UnYQedVDerVaHRL.html
01-09-2020||India||BJD lawmaker blew off river embankment that flooded villages, claims BJP||The opposition BJP in Odisha on Monday accused a BJD MLA of blowing off a river embankment in flood-affected Jajpur district with dynamite and sought stringent action against him.BJP state general secretary Lekhasri Samantsinghar alleged that the 300-feet breach in one of the embankment of Kelua river, a distributary of Brahmani river in Jajpur district, was deliberately created by blowing it off using dynamite.“BJD MLA Pranab Balabantaray and his maternal uncle Naren Jena alias Badal Jena, who is a junior engineer, are involved in the act. An amount of Rs 24.42 crore was spent to revamp the 20-feet wide embankment last year so that it can withstand any kind of floods. The embankment was breached to embezzle the money,” alleged the BJP leader.Neither BJD MLA Balbantray nor the party commented on the allegations even as HT sought their comments.Engineer-in-chief of water resources department Jyotirmaya Rath also admitted that the breach in embankment of Kelua river was an artificial one. “An FIR has been lodged in connection with creation of the breach in Kelua river embankment using dynamite. District administration will take action,” said Rath. He added that so far 36 breaches have been created in river embankments, including 5 breaches in Mahanadi river system.The floods in Odisha have left 17 people dead and over 10,000 houses damaged while affecting 1.4 million people in 20 districts. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik who made an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas on Monday, ordered distribution of 50 kg of rice and Rs 500 to all families in the villages that have been severely affected/inundated/marooned due to the current flood. Besides, one polythene sheet will be given to each deserving household whose house has been damaged.Demanding stringent action against the Balabantaray and Jena, the BJP leader said cases should be filed against them under the Explosives Act and National Disaster Management Act for putting public lives at risk. Meanwhile, police have launched an investigation into the matter after assistant engineer of Jaraka Irrigation department Kamadev Das filed an FIR in this regard. No arrests have been made so far.Water resources department officials said as many rivers are flowing above the danger level it will take at least 12-15 hours to get drained into the sea. “Since full moon day is on September 2, draining of the water into the sea will get halted and it will take four more days for this water to get drained,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-lawmaker-blew-off-river-embankment-that-flooded-villages-claims-bjp/story-wul3k0UVLfdcRHIzp8wxZM.html
01-09-2020||India||August receives 27 per cent more rainfall, fourth highest in 120 years||The country received 27 per cent more rainfall than normal in August, the fourth highest amount in the last 120 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The overall rainfall recorded in India from June 1 to August 31 was 10 per cent more than normal, the IMD said on Monday. The official rainfall season in the country is from June 1 to September 30. “August has recorded 27 per cent more rainfall than normal,” R K Jenamani, scientist with IMD’s national weather forecasting centre, said. In its forecast for August last month, the IMD had predicted rainfall of 97 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) with an error margin of plus or minus 9 per cent. Monsoon in the range of 96-104 per cent of the LPA is considered normal. “Rainfall recorded in August 2020 is the fourth highest in the last 120 years and highest in 44 years,” Jenamani added. This is also one of the rainiest months of August recorded. The August of 1926 saw 33 per cent more rainfall than normal, the highest precipitation recorded so far in the month; 1976 recorded 28.4 per cent more rainfall than normal, while the August of 1973 recorded 27.8 per cent than normal. This year saw 27 per cent rainfall.   Mahesh Palwat, vice president, Skymet Weather, said due to formation of five low pressure areas in Bay of Bengal in August, the month recorded excess rainfall. A low pressure area is a cyclonic circulation. It is also the first stage of a cyclone. However, it is not necessary that every low pressure develops into a cyclonic storm. Jenamani said five low pressure areas formed over Bay of Bengal brought heavy rains over central and north India. Of the five, four developed into a well-marked low pressure area. Several parts of the country witnessed floods last month due to incessant rainfall last month. Jenamani said the first low pressure area formed between August 4-10 off the Odisha coast. It moved across central India and Gujarat and entered into the north Arabian Sea and dissipated over the Oman coast. The second low pressure area formed between August 9-11 off the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast. It moved across Chhattisgarh to northeast Madhya Pradesh. Its remnant moved to northwest India, causing floods in Jaipur on August 14, he said. The third one was between August 13-18. It moved across Chhattisgarh to northeast Madhya Pradesh, but its remnant as circulation moved over to northeast Rajasthan and south Punjab during August 18-20.  This caused a major rain spell over northwest India. It was at the same time that the Delhi-NCR recorded flooding due to heavy rainfall. The fourth one formed between August 19-26 and it moved across central India to southwest Rajasthan and adjoining south Pakistan. The weather system also caused floods over Odisha on August 20-21, over Telangana including Warangal and part of Hyderabad on August 21, west Madhya Pradesh on August 22 and south Rajasthan and Gujarat on August 23 and 24. The last and the fifth system also formed between August 24-31. June had recorded 17 per cent more rainfall than normal while July ended with a 10 per cent rainfall deficiency. The IMD had predicted that July will get rainfall that is 103 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA), which falls in the “normal” category.  The LPA rainfall over the country for the 1961-2010 period is 88 centimetres. In its Long Range Forecast for rainfall in the second half (August-September) of the 2020 Southwest Monsoon released last month, the IMD said August was likely to receive rainfall that is 97 per cent of the LPA with an error margin of plus/minus nine per cent. “Quantitatively, the rainfall over the country as a whole during the second half of the season is likely to be 104 per cent of the LPA with an error margin of plus/minus eight per cent,” it had said. The northwest division of the IMD has an overall 9 per cent deficiency. It comprises Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and the Union territories of Chandigarh, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have recorded deficient rainfall. The central India division received 21 per cent more rainfall so far. The division comprises Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and the Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. Gujarat has recorded large excess rainfall while Goa saw excess precipitation.   The south peninsula meteorological division of the IMD has received 20 per cent more rainfall than normal. The division covers Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Kerala, Karnataka and the Union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Puducherry. Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu have recorded excess rainfall. The east and northeast India division has also recorded 2 per cent more rainfall than normal. The division comprises West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and the northeastern states.  Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram recorded deficient rainfall while Sikkim has witnessed large excess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/august-receives-27-per-cent-more-rainfall-fourth-highest-in-120-years/story-wheQzZ9nivSvoNTq7sgKBI.html
01-09-2020||India||BMP jawan shoots woman constable, self in Patna||A Bihar Military Police (BMP) constable shot dead a woman colleague and then turned the gun on himself in the BMP-1 campus Tuesday morning, police said.The incident took place early in the morning at around 7:30 am on the premises of the armoury. The gunshots woke up others who rushed to the spot. Police said that constable Amar Subba killed woman constable Varsha Tigga using his service rifle. Both the deceased were residents of Darjeeling in West Bengal. The incident occurred minutes after a change of guards in the BMP-1 headquarters. Both were in uniform. A senior BMP official stated that the cause of the incident is yet to be known. He suspects that Subba shot the woman twice on her back before shooting himself.According to the local police official, who is probing the case, there were issues between the two. “We received a call and by that time everything had happened,” a police official said. Amar had an argument with Varsha earlier, police said. Patna’s senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma said a FSL team was dispatched to the spot to collect evidence. A case has been registered at Airport police station and investigation is on. Six policemen have died by suicide in Bihar this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmp-jawan-shoots-woman-constable-self-in-patna/story-kXeJJEOTj3BHXKPrJzAiYL.html
01-09-2020||India||IPS Charu Sinha to become first woman head of CRPF’s Srinagar sector||For the first time, a female IPS officer has been appointed as Inspector General (IG) of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Srinagar sector, one of the terrorist-affected areas in Jammu and Kashmir. Charu Sinha, IPS officer of the 1996-batch Telangana cadre, will now be heading the Srinagar sector for CRPF as the Inspector General. This is not the first time when she has been assigned such a tough task, earlier also, she had worked as IG, the Bihar sector in CRPF and has dealt with Naxals. Under her leadership, various anti-Naxals operations were carried out. Later, she was transferred to IG Jammu in CRPF where she spent a long and successful tenure. On Monday, a fresh order came appointing her as the IG Srinagar sector.Current Director-General CRPF AP Maheshwari headed the Srinagar sector as IG in 2005.The sector, which started functioning in 2005 never had a female officer at the IG level. This sector involved in anti-terror operations and closely work with the Indian Army along with Jammu and Kashmir police.“Srinagar sector is located at Brein Nishat, Srinagar (J-K). It started functioning in 2005. Srinagar Sector has operational jurisdiction over three districts of J-K- Budgam, Ganderbal, and Srinagar and Union Territory of Ladakh,” the CRPF said.“It includes 2 ranges, 22 executive units, and 3 Mahila companies. Apart from it, Srinagar Sector has administrative control on Group Centre-Srinagar,” the paramilitary force added.Sinha will also be heading all operations involved in this sector.Besides this, 6 IPS officers and 4 senior cadre officers have also been transferred or inducted in CRPF. IPS officers Maheshwar Dayal (Jharkhand sector), PS Ranpise (Jammu sector), Raju Bhargava (Work) have been inducted into the CRPF.PS Ranpise will replace Charu Sinha as head of the Jammu sector.Similarly, Rajesh Kumar who was heading operations Kashmir in the J-K zone has been transferred and Sanjay Kaushik will head the Dehradun sector.Others who have been transferred are Rakesh Kumar Yadav, RNS Bahad, and Pramod Kumar Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-female-ips-officer-to-head-srinagar-sector-for-crpf/story-iExNOfyoZQt6defhlLsNZK.html
01-09-2020||India||Stickler for protocol: When Pranab Mukherjee snubbed Obama and Erdogan||Former President Pranab Mukherjee was a stickler for protocol. He stuck to not sidestepping procedure even if it meant turning down special requests, which could, in diplomatic subtext, be read as snubs. Consequently, there was a kerfuffle when he refused to visit the then Prime Minister of Turkey Tayyip Erdoğan during a visit to Istanbul in 2013. Erdogan had suggested that Mukherjee call on him instead of the other way round. “He was conscious of the fact that he was the President of India and the etiquette that had to be shown to his position could not be compromised. So when a senior officer of the Indian Foreign Service suggested that Mukherjee should put aside protocol and visit the PM; he was furious. He refused to call on the PM and asserted that the protocol of a PM calling on a President be followed. The officer got a dressing down for suggesting otherwise,” recalled Maj Gen Anil Khosla who served as Mukherjee’s military secretary. Mukherjee’s visit to Turkey came after a 15-year long hiatus, where he held long meetings on India-Turkey relations. In 2017, he hosted Erdogan, now the President of Turkey at Rashtrapati Bhavan and hosted the customary official dinner known as the Banquet in honour of the visiting President and First Lady Emine Erdoğan. Also Read: Pranab Mukherjee: A towering figure of Indian politics leaves behind an unmatched legacyThis was not the only time a foreign dignitary was given a taste of the famous Mukherjee temper. In 2015, when the secret service, known for its unmoving and impenetrable security cover for the US President, arrived at Rashtrapati Bhavan with an invitation for Mukherjee to join United States President Barack Obama in his ‘beast’ (the US presidential state car) , the answer was an emphatic and spontaneous “no”. Obama was the guest of honour at the Republic Day parade and, as per tradition, the two dignitaries were expected to show up for the regalia in the President’s car. While the US authorities insisted on Obama travelling in the beast that was specially flown to India; Mukherjee opted for the safety of his own Limousine. Also Read: ‘True friend’: Sheikh Hasina condoles Pranab Mukherjee’s death in letter to PM Modi“Eventually after a bit of back and forth, the two leaders travelled in separate cars and Obama reached a few minutes ahead of the President,” Khosla recalled. The absolute adherence to protocol, to laid-down strictures was hallmark Mukherjee, said former bureaucrat Thomas Mathew, who served as his additional secretary. Turning down mercy petitions had fetched the former President some unfavourable and uncharitable remarks by the commentariat. Those opposed to the death penalty, in particular, made snide remarks on social media. After he turned down the mercy pleas of Ajmal Kasab, accused of carrying out the attack of 26/1 and Afzal Guru, who was convicted for his role in the 2001 Parliament attack, they alleged that the President had turned the Mughal Garden into a hanging garden.“He wanted to be kind and he wanted to ensure that there is justice. If there were issues where he felt that the case had been considered in depth by the Supreme Court, he did not want to interfere. But in cases where he felt that the Supreme Court had looked at it legally and human accentuating factors had not been considered; and because of the authority vested in him to consider such cases by the Constitution, even after the Supreme Court had given its decision, he gave it to the home ministry for further consideration,” Mathew said. Also Read: Farewell, Pranab daDuring his presidency, Mukherjee cleared petitions that had been pending from 2000; rejecting 28 of the 32 mercy petitions. “While officials or politicians not knowing their history or facts would rile him; what upset him the most was not being able to complete his walk. He used to set a target to cover a certain distance in a specific time frame, and even if he missed it by a minute, he would be in a foul mood for slowing down,” Khosla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stickler-for-protocol-when-pranab-mukherjee-snubbed-obama-and-erdogan/story-yTpIoAltki6mbnSyRct89H.html
01-09-2020||India||Former president Pranab Mukherjee cremated with full state honours||Former president Pranab Mukherjee was on Tuesday cremated in New Delhi with full state honours. Earlier in the day, leaders from the entire political spectrum paid their last respects to the senior Congress leader at his Rajaji Marg residence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and defence minister Rajnath Singh were among the leaders who visited Mukherjee’s residence this morning. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi and members of the Congress party were also seen paying tribute to the veteran leader, who served as the president of the country from 2012 until 2017. The 84-year-old died on Monday at the Army Hospital Research And Referral in the Capital’s cantonment area. He had been admitted to the hospital on August 10 following a fall at his home. He underwent a surgery to remove a clot in his brain.He was since then in a coma and was on ventilator support. After the leader’s health condition declined in the morning, his son Abhijit Mukherjee later in the evening announced the news of his death on Twitter. The government has announced a seven-day mourning period for the Bharat Ratna awardee. The national flag will fly at half-mast at all buildings throughout the country through the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-cremated-with-full-state-honours/story-IpYWtKvqgFRMtkSP1ILIRP.html
01-09-2020||India||J&K govt set to conserve heritage value of 6 Mughal gardens of Kashmir||The Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) administration is all set to conserve the six Mughal gardens in a bid to empanel them as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) mandated world heritage sites. Also read: Amid masks and social distancing, Srinagar’s parks, gardens reopen for visitorsA meeting was held recently to formulate a plan for renovation and restoration of the Mughal gardens. The restoration work of these culturally significant landmarks needs continuous attention because of their fragile nature, said Sheikh Fayaz Ahmad, commissioner secretary, floriculture, gardens and parks, J&K.“The originality of the structures needs to be maintained in a bid to ensure recognition of these gardens as world heritage sites,” he added.All critical interventions that are necessary for restoration of these cultural monuments should be sent to the archives department for their suggestions and guidance, said Zubair Ahmad, commissioner secretary, tourism and culture, J&K.“The restoration work should be in line with the UNESCO standards. The archives department has been asked to provide their expertise and guidance while keeping the Mughal gardens’ cultural and historic ethos intact,” he said.The authorities have decided to form a committee of officers from all the departments concerned and consultants would also be roped in for the restoration project.At present, the six Mughal gardens --- Nishat, Shalimar, Cheshmashahi, Pari Mahal, Achabal and Veerinag -- are under UNESCO’s tentative list of heritage sites. Baseer Ahmad Khan, advisor to Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) of J&K, recently directed the floriculture, gardens and parks department to prepare a white paper for the preservation of the six Mughal gardens in the Kashmir valley.The J&K officials said a consultant has been hired to prepare a dossier for submission to UNESCO.Officials exuded confidence that the UNESCO honour would attract international tourists to the Kashmir valley and put these historic places on the global tourism map. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-govt-set-to-conserve-heritage-value-of-6-mughal-gardens-of-kashmir/story-AUcpLo5VHiF2rSLCfLJ8MP.html
01-09-2020||India||Cameras installed at Badrinath dham for ‘online darshan’ amid pandemic||The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board (CDMB) authorities in Uttarakhand have started work for online darshan of the Char Dham shrines for pilgrims in a bid to avoid overcrowding at the sacred temples because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, state government officials said. CDMB authorities will allow online darshan in the revered shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri in a bid to keep the viral infection at bay.Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer (CEO), CDMB, said, “Initially, online darshan will be available for the Badrinath shrine, where cameras are being installed.”Raman said the cameras and other equipment are being installed by a telecom company for free of cost. “The equipment is being installed by the company as per a CSR (corporate social responsibility) initiative, but they will be owned by the board. Work has started in Badrinath and it will be followed by the Kedarnath shrine. However, the process may take a while, as the heavy equipment needed to be lugged to a higher altitude at the height of the monsoon season,” said Raman.The CEO, an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) official, said that after the work is completed, images and videos of the four shrines would be live-streamed on several websites. “The live streaming will be done on the board’s or the chief minister’s website and also via social media platforms,” he said. Raman said the online darshan initiative would be reviewed after the viral outbreak subsides.“This is not a permanent arrangement. We will stop the online initiative after normalcy returns in a post Covid-19 world,” he added.The CDMB data showed that 21,670 pilgrims visited the Char Dham portals until August 30. The CDMB authorities said 10,899 and 6,491 devotees visited Badrinath and Kedarnath shrines, respectively, until August 30. Badrinath and Kedarnath portals were opened for the public on May 15 and April 29, respectively. While the Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines have reported 3,837 and 533 pilgrims, respectively, after their portals were opened on April 26. The authorities maintained that the virtual inflow of pilgrims is much less this year because of the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cameras-installed-at-badrinath-dham-for-online-darshan-amid-pandemic/story-u5PtYBhSuz8MF5iOqYVIgI.html
01-09-2020||India||Ola, Uber strike: Lukewarm response to protest; Delhi services not hit||A protest planned by a section of drivers of application (app)-based ride-hailing taxi services at Mandi House in central Delhi on Tuesday morning evoked a lukewarm response, as vehicles were largely available for commuters in the national capital.The protesting cab drivers are demanding an extension of the moratorium on loan repayment of their cars, which lapsed on August 31 (Monday) and also a hike in fare because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Though the stir was planned at 10 am on Tuesday, no cab driver or taxi union leader were present at the scheduled protest site outside Himachal Bhawan in Mandi House until 11.30 am. Kamaljeet Singh Gill, president of Sarvodaya Drivers’ Association of Delhi, said the union is trying to convince cab drivers to join the protest. The cab drivers’ tepid response to the protest was a blessing in disguise for commuters.Puneet Sachdeva, who arrived at Arwachin Public School in east Delhi’s Vivek Vihar for his Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main that started at 7:30 am on Tuesday, said he had pre-booked the cab through the ride-hailing app aggregator Uber and it arrived on time. “I had read about Tuesday’s cab strike in the media. I was worried that my cab booking would get cancelled. But, fortunately, the driver turned up on time for the pick up,” he said. Devika Kashyap, another commuter, said she was able to book a cab to go to her office in Green Park in south Delhi. “But the fare was a little higher than usual. I paid around Rs 50 more than what I usually pay for the same distance,” she said. Gill, a leader of one of the cab drivers’ associations, said, “Drivers are unable to pay their EMIs (equated monthly installments) because of the acute financial crisis caused due to the Covid-19-induced 68-day lockdown restrictions. The moratorium of loan repayment lapsed on August 31 and the banks are putting pressure on us to pay EMIs. Drivers are scared that banks will tow away their vehicles for default in the payment of their EMIs.”Tuesday’s protest, which some cab drivers claimed could turn into a strike, had also found support from the Delhi Taxi, Tourist Transporters and Tour Operators’ Association. Sanjay Samrat, president of the association, said cab drivers have also demanded the withdrawal of “heavy penalties” against them for the violation of the maximum speed limit. “The cab drivers will assemble near Himachal Bhawan at Mandi House on Tuesday to seek the Central government’s action on their demands,” he said.The ride-hailing app aggregators such as Ola and Uber refused to comment on the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ola-uber-strike-lukewarm-response-to-protest-delhi-services-not-hit/story-SRiVE1Lqfr3IGMphFQBt6K.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Economy is stressed’: Centre to SC on interest on loans during moratorium||Indian economy is “stressed”, the Central government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday, stating that issues relating to levy of interest on loans in moratorium and interest on such interest requires detailed consideration by the Centre, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Bankers Association.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the court that the Centre, the RBI and the Bankers Association should be allowed to “put their heads together” and come up with a solution.“There are issues. The economy is stressed. This requires some discussion. What I am suggesting is to allow the Centre, RBI and Bankers Association to put our heads together. We will have to identify the class of borrowers, sectors, etc which will take a hit,” Mehta said.The court was hearing a plea for waiver on interest charged by banks, citing the relief earlier announced by the RBI on the payment of equated monthly instalments (EMIs) between March and August 31 due to the pandemic.The plea by Agra resident Gajendra Sharma specifically cited the RBI’s March 27 notification announcing a moratorium on loan repayments while permitting banks to levy interest. The notification to the extent of allowing levy of interest was challenged by Sharma.Mehta told the court on Monday that the moratorium period is extendable by two years as per the RBI circular. The moratorium announced by the RBI had expired on August 31.During the last hearing, the Court had asked the Centre to file an affidavit in the matter instead of relying on the RBI’s affidavit and “hiding behind RBI”.The court was informed by Mehta that the Union government filed its affidavit on Monday.The matter was adjourned for detailed hearing tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-is-stressed-centre-to-sc-on-interest-on-loans-during-moratorium/story-KNyDlqEnY85b8aS0ganuPM.html
01-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: CBI to question Rhea Chakraborty’s parents in Sushant Singh Rajput death case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CBI to question Rhea Chakraborty’s parents in Sushant Singh Rajput death case The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has summoned the parents of actor Rhea Chakraborty, who is at the centre of a controversy regarding the alleged death by suicide of her friend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Read morePranab Mukherjee’s demise: Political fraternity pays last respects to the Bharat RatnaPrime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and defence minister Rajnath Singh were among those from the Centre who paid their final homage to Mukherjee at his Rajaji Marg residence in the national capital. Read more Kafeel Khan’s speech did not promote hatred, invoking NSA illegal, says HCThe Allahabad High Court on Tuesday ordered the release of Dr Kafeel Khan, detained in December last year for his speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). The court said that Khan’s speech did not promote any kind of hatred or violence. Read more India China border row: Situation critical in Ladakh after PLA aggression in ChushulThe situation in East Ladakh continues to remain tense with the Indian Army matching the heavy weapon posturing of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Monday after pre-empting China from moving into the dominating heights south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30 night, people familiar with the development said. Read more Holistic health: What are Acai berries, how to make acai bowls and can acai berries fight Covid-19Acai berries are high in antioxidants, vitamins and minerals that are necessary for the body and are also known to aid weight loss, reduce bad cholesterol, and promote a healthy heart. Read more CU Soon movie review: Fahadh Faasil’s experimental thriller is taut, genre-breakingCU Soon movie review: The Fahadh Faasil and Roshan Matthew starrer stands out because of its experimental tone and how it uses a set of digital screens to deliver a taut and genre-breaking viewing experience. Read more Alligator snapping turtles spotted in a river in Florida. ‘Welcome to Jurassic Park’, say netizensWhile some were shocked at the huge size of the turtles in Florida, others compared the creature to those shown in the popular Jurassic Park movies. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cbi-to-question-rhea-chakraborty-s-parents-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yecCOwFaJU1aaEXyiCwerI.html
01-09-2020||India||Suga leads Japan PM race as ruling party plans slimmed-down leadership vote||Japan’s top government spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, moved a step closer to becoming the next premier after the ruling party decided on Tuesday on a slimmed-down leadership vote that favours the long-time lieutenant of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.Suga has also won the backing of the largest faction of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), media reported, making him a strong front-runner to replace Abe, who abruptly announced on Friday he was stepping down for health reasons.Suga has not publicly announced his candidacy for leader of the LDP but has indicated privately that he intends to run, a source told Reuters. Media reported he would formally announce his intention to run on Wednesday.The party’s leader will almost certainly become prime minister because of its majority in the lower house of parliament. Suga, 71, is widely expected to stay the policy course set out by Abe, including the “Abenomics” strategy aimed at reviving the economy and keeping it afloat amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A self-made politician, Suga was chosen by Abe in 2012 for the pivotal role of chief cabinet secretary, acting as top government spokesman, coordinating policies and riding herd on bureaucrats.Suga’s most likely rivals for the top spot will be former defence minister Shigeru Ishiba and ex-foreign minister Fumio Kishida.The LDP general council’s decision to keep rank-and-file party members out of the leadership vote gives Suga, with his powerful backers, a leg-up in the race. Ishiba, who is more popular with voters, as well as hundreds of other party members had opposed the format.“I think that both for democracy and for the party, this is something that should not be,” Ishiba said on TV Asahi. AVOID POLITICAL VACUUMLDP Secretary-General Toshihiro Nikai, whose faction is backing Suga, said a simplified vote, by party MPs from both chambers of parliament and heads of local chapters, would be taken in the interest of speed.“We must elect a new leader as soon as possible to avoid creating a political vacuum,” Nikai told reporters.LDP General Council chief Shunichi Suzuki said the vote was unanimous, with some worrying that a prolonged process would place a burden on Abe’s health.“If we hold a full-spec election, it would take two months to complete,” he told reporters, adding that policymaking on budget and coronavirus measures would also suffer.On Monday, younger LDP legislators had met with Nikai to present a demand from more than 140 MPs and about 400 local party lawmakers for a full-scale vote. Several local chapters including Osaka had also demanded the same.The LDP is expected to hold its leadership vote on Sept. 14, with an official announcement due on Wednesday.Financial markets also favour and appear to have factored in a win by Suga.“He is considered to be a very effective policy leader within the party and bureaucracy ... and was key to Abe’s successful tenure,” said John Vail, chief global strategist at Nikko Asset Management.“Suga’s experience with the virus situation, including his appropriate push-back on complete shutdowns, is key, as this is Japan’s greatest concern right now,” he added.Other possible contenders are Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and Defence Minister Taro Kono, who both said on Tuesday they had not yet decided whether to run, while former cabinet minister Seiko Noda said she would not run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suga-leads-japan-pm-race-as-ruling-party-plans-slimmed-down-leadership-vote/story-mrEWGj4NEBAJacd6yguKWM.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Even cancer can be cured by consuming toddy regularly’: Telangana minister||Consumption of toddy, a beverage extracted from palm trees, can cure as many as 15 different diseases, including cancer, claimed Telangana excise minister V Srinivas Goud on Sunday.Addressing a gathering after unveiling the statue of Sarwai Papanna, a freedom fighter, at Mandalagudem village of Raghunathpalli block in Jangaon district, the minister said there were studies that proved that toddy, naturally extracted from palm trees, had medicinal value.“It can cure as many as 15 diseases. Even cancer can be cured by consuming toddy regularly. It was once considered to be poor man’s liquor, but now even people travelling in Mercedes Benz cars are showing interest in consuming toddy,” Goud said, adding that the Telangana government had been promoting toddy tapping as a profession.This is not the first time that the excise minister has pitched for the consumption of toddy. In May, Goud announced that toddy tappers would be permitted to sell toddy as an alternative to liquor in all the districts, in the wake of closure of wine shops during Covid-19 pandemic.In June, the minister announced the introduction of Neera, a palm-wine, which is an unfermented form of toddy, and its by-products manufactured by Telangana Palm Neera and Palm Products Research Foundation.“Neera helps dissolve kidney stones, help in dealing with diabetes and keep the urinary tract in perfect health. It will also help boost immunity and reduce constipation. Nutrients in Neera such as potassium and iron will help reduce pulmonary problems,” he said.Stating that Neera is helpful in treating migraine and reducing body heat, Goud said the government would encourage manufacture of more Neera by-products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-cancer-can-be-cured-by-consuming-toddy-regularly-telangana-minister/story-koFhTDTklpAiSDYeL2bsFP.html
01-09-2020||India||Manipur announces new guidelines for September; allows relaxations||The Manipur government has allowed resumption of inter and intra state public transport and functioning of all financial institutes with 66 % of the staff with social distancing norms in place as it announced new Covid-19 guidelines until September 30.Also read: Manipur social welfare minister tests positive for Covid-19In an order on Monday, chief secretary Rajesh Kumar, said,“There is a need to open up and allow more activities while balancing the need to check the spread of Covid-19 infection to provide livelihood to the people.”The state government also plans to allow functioning of skill and entrepreneurship training institutes from September 21 subject to safety norms. Weddings with number of guests not exceeding 50 and funeral gatherings of up to 20 will also be allowed.All shopping malls will be subject to regulated entry to prevent crowding. Gymnasiums have been asked to adopt rostered usage to prevent crowding.Barber shops and beauty salons have also been allowed to reopen for the first time since March.Local groceries, vegetables and fruits shops, milk booths, poultry meat and fish outlets will be allowed to function from 7am to 5pm throughout the week.The state imposed a lockdown from July 23 to August 31 following detection of Covid-19 infection among people with no travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-announces-new-guidelines-for-september-allows-relaxations/story-g6hm5xwT5FumeQENFE7GpN.html
01-09-2020||India||India China border row: Situation critical in Ladakh after PLA aggression in Chushul||The situation in East Ladakh continues to remain tense with the Indian Army matching the heavy weapon posturing of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Monday after pre-empting China from moving into the dominating heights south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30 night, people familiar with the development said.“The situation is very tense in the Chushul area with the PLA fully in aggressive mode and show-casing heavy-calibre weapons to force the Indian Army to give in. The Indian Army has also matched weapons and blunted the Chinese offensive both at south of Pangong Tso and Rezang La by a counter-offensive mounted by the Special Frontier Forces,” said a senior military official.As of now, both the armies are matching each other in strength with the Indian Army present in strength to repel any Chinese aggression along the 1,597 km Line of Control (LAC) in Ladakh.Also Read: Forget disengagement, China opens new front along LACThe Indian counter-offensive has ensured that its troops are now dominating heights along its side of the LAC and monitoring the Chinese movement. “The situation is dire and the possibility of escalation cannot be ruled out as Chinese PLA under instruction of Beijing is going all out to push the Indian Army,” said a second senior military commander.While military-to-military and diplomatic channels are open between the two countries, fact is India is now facing China which believes that it is a global superpower and wants to make its posturing in Ladakh to send a message to its adversaries elsewhere.“The Chinese president is in the Middle-Kingdom mode and will continue to deepen the difference on the LAC. It is deliberately trying to push the Indian Army into reaction without caring a damn that this might lead to serious blood-letting. The Chinese aggressive posture will continue till the November US Presidential elections as there is no other country which is willing to take on Beijing,” said a China watcher.There is a glimmer of hope for peace if the meeting between Foreign Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi happens on the side-lines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation ministerial meet in Moscow. But any further escalation from the PLA will end up scuttling any diplomatic initiative.Even as the PLA aggression in Ladakh is on, national security planners in Delhi are monitoring all moves with clear-cut directions that there should be no territorial compromise in Ladakh or anywhere along the 3,488 km LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-border-situation-critical-in-ladakh-after-pla-aggression-in-chushul/story-4zTfnLKDqoWFuKlkxOX8OJ.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s demise: Political fraternity pays last respects to the Bharat Ratna||India’s political establishment, irrespective of party lines on Tuesday paid their last respects to Senior Congress leader, Bharat Ratna recipient and former President of India Pranab Mukherjee.Mukherjee, 84, died on Monday afternoon at the Army Hospital Research and Referral in New Delhi. He was hospitalized on August 10 after he suffered a fall at his residence in Delhi and underwent a surgery to remove a clot from his brain. The former president had also tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.Also read: The repository of knowledge set high standards of bipartisanismPrime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and defence minister Rajnath Singh were among those from the Centre who paid their final homage to Mukherjee at his Rajaji Marg residence in the national capital. #WATCH Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi pays last respects to former President #PranabMukherjee at his residence, 10 Rajaji Marg. pic.twitter.com/m5nTXr4oOUFormer Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi and members of the Congress- the party from where Mukherjee began his political journey which spanned up to five decades- were also seen paying their last respects to the senior leader. Delhi: Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh pays last respects to former President #PranabMukherjee at his residence, 10 Rajaji Marg. pic.twitter.com/0qAxqS47iMDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too was among the leaders who paid their final tribute to Mukherjee before he was cremated.On Monday, Prime Minister Modi, union home minister Amit Shah along with several opposition leaders took to social media to condole the death of the seasoned statesman, who served the country with utmost dedication and was loved and admired by all political fronts of the country.Prime Minister Modi described him as a scholar par excellence adding that he has left an indelible mark on the nation’s development trajectory, while home minister Shah regarded his career as a matter of pride for India.Also read: 7-day state mourning announced for former president Pranab MukherjeeCongress president Sonia Gandhi recalled Mukherjee’s long association with the Congress and said the void left behind by his demise would be difficult to fill. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee described his demise as the end of an era.The government on Monday announced a week-long mourning during which the national flag will fly at half-mast at all buildings throughout the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-demise-political-fraternity-pays-last-respects-to-the-bharat-ratna/story-sQ5ipsOkc109rzA9hWlH6J.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Something is on’: Official on Maoist leader Ganapathi’s offer to surrender||Top Maoist leader Muppalla Laxman Rao alias Ganapathi, said to be in his 70s, who led the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) for over one-and-a-half decades has offered to surrender to the Telangana police, highly placed sources in the intelligence department said.According to sources, Ganapathi had offered to surrender to the police through some Telangana Rashtra Samithi leaders close to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. The surrender is likely to materialise in a couple of days.Incidentally, both Ganapathi and KCR are from the erstwhile combined district of Karimnagar in the northern Telangana. The Maoist leader carries a reward of Rs 1.50 crore on his head.It is learnt Ganapathi has decided to surrender owing to his ill-health. He is said to be suffering from asthma, diabetes and also severe joint pains. Though he is still part of the central committee of the Maoist party, he had not been very active in the movement and had been hiding in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, sources said.Senior police officers posted in Chhattisgarh also claimed that they had specific information about the surrender of Ganapathi. “We cannot confirm the surrender but something is happening. There is buzz about this surrender among the Maoist leaders of Chhattisgarh and we have been told something has happened in Telangana,” said a senior IPS officer on condition of anonymity.Ganapathi, who was instrumental in building the Maoist movement across the country, played a major role in the formation of CPI (Maoist) with the merger of CPI (ML-People’s War Group) and the Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCCI) in 2004. He had been the general secretary of the party since then till he stepped down to pave way for Namballa Kesava Rao alias Baswaraj, 63, to take over the reins of the party in November 2018. Baswaraj was heading the central military commission and People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army of the party then.Apparently, Ganapathi was asked to step down from the general secretary post as part of restructuring of the central committee and also because of age and ill-health.Hailing from an agriculturists’ family in Birpur village of Telangana’s Jagtial district (erstwhile part of Karimnagar), Ganapathi is a graduate in science and worked as a teacher before joining the Naxalite movement during the Jagtial peasants’ movement in the late 1970s.A close follower of Kondapalli Seetharamaiah, the founder of CPI (ML-People’s War Group), Ganapathi rose to the top ranks within a decade and established contacts with international Maoist organisations. He is seen as an ideologue of the Maoist movement in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/something-is-on-official-on-maoist-leader-ganapathi-s-offer-to-surrender/story-QQitoNaSZDZS9ou6IcEyfN.html
01-09-2020||India||Supreme Court gives telecom companies 10 years to clear AGR dues||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the telecom companies 10 years to repay Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) dues which run into about Rs 1.6 lakh crore.While reducing the time period, the bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra issued following directions: The telecom firms will have to pay 10 per cent of dues by 2021 due to Covid-19 and the rest can be paid in instalments by March 31, 2031.In the event of default, the company will be punishable for contempt of court, the bench said.On the point as to whether spectrum can be sold by the telecom companies facing proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), the bench asked the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to decide whether spectrum can be subject matter of resolution process.The top court had in October 2019 delivered the verdict on the AGR issue for calculating government dues of telecom companies, such as Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices, as licence fee and spectrum usage charges.Later, the department of telecommunications (DoT) had in March this year moved a plea seeking permission for staggered payment in a time period of nearly 20 years for the telecom companies. But the court had earlier observed that the request of telecom companies seeking 20 years for the payment of AGR dues in a staggered manner was unreasonable.On August 21, the top court had directed the DoT to apprise it the basis of spectrum sharing done by telecom companies and how much is the liability of the sharers.The top court asked the DoT secretary to file a specific affidavit apprising it about who was using the spectrum from the date of grant of license and from which date the respective sharing of spectrum has taken place.The Centre had earlier told the top court there was a difference of opinion between two of its ministers (DoT and the ministry of corporate affairs) on the issue of sale of spectrum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-grants-10-years-time-for-telecom-companies-to-clear-agr-dues/story-rqSmubVZ85AXXymNMC2oCO.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Kafeel Khan’s speech didn’t promote hatred’: HC orders his release, says invoking NSA illegal||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday ordered the release of Dr Kafeel Khan, detained in December last year for his speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). The court said that Khan’s speech did not promote any kind of hatred or violence.After his detention, the Uttar Pradesh government had invoked the National Security Act (NSA) against Khan. However, the court said that imposing the stringent act was illegal based on the grounds submitted by the authorities.The doctor has been in jail since January 29 for allegedly delivering a provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University on December 10, 2019, during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests.The high court bench comprising chief justice Govind Marhur and justice Saumitra Dayal Singh allowed the habeas corpus writ petition filed by the doctor’s mother Nuzhat Perween seeking his release and stated that Khan’s speech did not promote any kind of hatred or violence.“A complete reading of the speech also no where threatens peace and tranquility of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. It appears that the District Magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent,” the judgement read. Also, according to the habeas corpus petition, the doctor was granted bail by a competent court and was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and later the NSA was imposed on him. Hence, his detention was illegal as it was passed to nullify the effect of the bail granted by a competent court.Khan had earlier hit the headlines after the 2017 tragedy at Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, in which several children died due to lack of oxygen cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-high-court-orders-release-of-up-doctor-kafeel-khan-detained-under-nsa/story-UTEZKhovqJKHBTGVtbB5CI.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Negotiations should not be held hostage’: India, 3 others on UNSC reform||India has joined hands with Brazil, Germany and Japan to call for expediting the process for reforming the UN Security Council, with the four countries saying that inter-governmental negotiations on the issue have dragged on for more than a decade without substantial progress.The four countries, also known as G4, outlined their position in a common letter submitted to the President of the UN General Assembly, Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, on Monday. They demanded action for transforming the UN Security Council in line with “Common African Position”, and said negotiations shouldn’t be held “hostage, procedurally and substantially, by those who do not wish to bring about reform”.India’s letter, submitted by the deputy permanent representative to the UN, K Nagaraj Naidu, referred to the draft decision regarding roll-over of the inter-governmental negotiations on equitable representation and increase in the membership of the Security Council, and said this process “must capture clearly the tangible progress” made in two meetings held earlier this year.The letter said clear progress was made in the negotiations this year with member states backing the “Common African Position” as laid down in the Ezulwini Consensus and Sirte Declaration, and the “urgent need for transparency and application of the General Assembly’s rules of procedure to the inter-governmental negotiations”.The Ezulwini Consensus and Sirte Declaration, containing the common African position on reform of the UN Security Council, were developed by a committee on UN reform established by the African Union Summit in 2005. “The growing support for the Common African Position has, in fact, been reinforced not in one but multiple forums, and from multiple groups,” the letter said. The concept was also backed by the Non-Aligned Movement, comprising 120 states, in October 2019 and by G4 in a foreign ministers’ joint statement in September 2019. “Consequently, it is only correct and fair that the growing support expressed for the Common African Position in the two meetings of the [inter-governmental negotiations] earlier this year are captured in the body of the roll-over decision. Otherwise, we will be in the danger of endorsing an incorrect perspective of this year’s work and give an impression that nothing has transpired,” the letter said.The letter also emphasised the need to redress the “historical injustice against Africa” and to “ensure better African representation in a reformed Security Council in line with the Common African Position”. India and the three other countries also expressed their concerns about the inter-governmental negotiations since 2009, saying “there has been practically no progress in the discussions”. “Even the discussions are dubbed as informal and the UNGA rules of procedure do not apply. In eleven years, the situation has not changed. There has been no attempt to capture the discussions in a single consolidated text for negotiations,” the letter said. “In fact, the [inter-governmental negotiations] process has become a convenient smokescreen to hide behind for those who do not wish to see any reform in the Security Council. Consequently, there is a need to ensure that the process is not held hostage, procedurally and substantially, by those who do not wish to bring about reform in the Security Council,” it further said. “If this happens, and there are indications that this is already happening, those who demand reform will be forced to look for other ways to achieve the same end outside the [inter-governmental negotiations] process,” it added.The letter also noted UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres’ call on July 18 for reform of the Security Council. It quoted him as saying, “The nations that came out on top more than seven decades ago have refused to contemplate the reforms needed to change power relations in international institutions...Inequality starts at the top: in global institutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negotiations-should-not-be-held-hostage-india-3-others-on-unsc-reform/story-SrJ6YFBHWYjyqHVzM2W8zM.html
01-09-2020||India||Unlock 4 begins: Here’s a look at everything that has changed from September 1||The fourth phase of the relaxations in Covid-19 curbs came into effect from Tuesday (September 1). Called Unlock 4, this phase seeks to bring the normal life across the country to pre-coronavirus levels.In the guidelines announced for Unlock 4, the Centre has allowed resumption of metro services and cancelling the requirements for e-passes for inter-district travel.Schools and colleges too will remain closed. The Centre has asked the state governments to not enforce lockdown without prior consultation. But, some state governments have taken to extend the existing curbs.For example, the Delhi government on Monday decided to maintain status quo on prohibited activities till September 2 in the national capital.In an order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said the government reviewed the present Covid-19 situation and it has been considered to continue the restrictions on those activities which are presently not permitted in the city.While gyms have not been allowed to reopen in the city, weekly markets have been allowed to function on a trial basis till September 6.Maharashtra, which has seen the highest number of Covid-19 cases, lifted restriction on inter-district movement of persons and goods, and said e-pass will not be required for undertaking such a journey from September 2.At the same time, the government said the general lockdown in the state will continue till September 30 as part of efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19.The state government has also raised attendance in its offices and allowed hotels and lodges to operate at 100 per cent capacity from September 2, but schools, colleges, cinema halls and swimming pools will continue to remain closed till September 30.In Tamil Nadu, all the places of worship will open from today. “Under relaxed norms, no complete lockdown will be enforced on Sundays in September. E-pass system for inter-district travel will be discontinued. All places of worship, hotels and resorts have been allowed to re-open,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said.In Odisha, the state government on Monday lifted lockdown restrictions for September and announced its guidelines for Unlock 4. Open air theatres will be allowed to open in the state after September 21. The state government’s order said that no authority shall impose any local lockdown at district, sub-division, city or below levels outside the containment zones. However, whenever required in the interest of containment of the disease and prevention of the spread of infection, restrictions on mobility, congregation, operation of shops and establishments, offices and other activities may be imposed in consultation with the central government, Chief Secretary A K Tripathy said in an order.The places which will remain closed to the public in Odisha include religious places, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment complexes, auditoria and assembly halls. These will remain closed till September 30.Meanwhile, in West Bengal, the state government has taken a cautious approach in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Complete lockdown will be imposed across the state on September 7, 11 and 12 to contain the spread of the infection, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Monday.The order issued by Sinha also said lockdown will be extended in containment zones in West Bengal till September 30.The Madhya Pradesh government on Monday announced withdrawal of statewide lockdown on Sundays, but cinema halls and swimming pools will continue to remain shut till September 30.Covid-19 testing will not be mandatory for all those wishing to enter Goa from September 1 and the bars-restaurants can open although they will have to follow the guidelines issued by the Uniojn home ministry, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday.Here’s a look at things allowed by the home ministry during Unlock 4:• The Delhi Metro is expected to resume its services for public from September 7, in a ‘phased manner’, as per the Union home ministry’s guidelines. Further details on the functioning and usage of the metro by the public will be shared soon in detail. The authorities are working to ensure that all the Covid-19 protocols are in place before the operations resume. The passengers will be undergo thermal scanning before boarding the metro.• Bars, which have been shut since March, will also open from September 1.• In a significant directive, the home ministry said that state governments shall not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.• The latest guidelines will allow gathering with more number of people. All the social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 people, though this will come into effect from September 21.• However, the ban on international commercial passenger flights to and from India has been extended till September 30, barring exceptions mentioned by the government. The restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights, according to the office of Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).Schools and colleges will remain closed during the Unlock 4 period. However, students from Classes 9 to 12 will be allowed to visit schools in areas outside the containment zones only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-begins-here-s-a-look-at-everything-that-has-changed-from-september-1/story-f230gINeXdDEsAs888B5oI.html
01-09-2020||India||MHA asks states to create SOPs to combat crimes against weaker sections||The ministry of home affairs has asked all the states and union territories to formulate standard operating procedures (SOPs) for combating crimes against weaker sections of the society, including women, children and scheduled castes/scheduled tribes, and to prevent their victimisation. In a detailed communication, reviewed by HT, the states/UTs have been asked to evolve a coordination mechanism among various departments in their jurisdiction to strengthen the law enforcement response when it comes to vulnerable sections and sensitise officers at all levels. Issued with the approval of home minister Amit Shah, the MHA letter suggests some steps which states may take while forming the SOPs, such as setting up a response mechanism to promptly deal with incidents of crime against vulnerable, oppressed and deprived sections of society; identifying crime prone areas and then monitoring them constantly. The MHA has recommended that an adequate number of cops should be deployed in crime prone areas for vulnerable sections. It has said that there should be intensive patrolling in hot-spots; especially in the locality of the weaker sections, which should be visited by senior police officers periodically to instill a sense of safety and security among the people. The police patrolling should be increased during night; number of police help booths, especially in remote/lonely stretches should be increased and number of female cops be increased in mobile police vans. The home ministry also feels there is a need to sensitise the whole law enforcement machinery through structured training of cops at all levels.Importantly, state/UT governments have been asked to take adequate measures for the economic and social rehabilitation of the victims of crime particularly women, SCs/STs and other weaker sections. To stop child trafficking, bonded labour and domestic servitude, the MHA has asked states to ensure that all placement agencies are registered and conduct round the clock surveillance of railway stations and bus stands. The ministry, in March this year, released Rs 100 crore to all states/UTs for upgrading and establishing Anti-Human Trafficking Units (AHTUs). The police particularly have been asked to make sure there is no delay in registering an FIR in all cases of crimes against women, children and SCs/STs as well as widely disseminate the pan-India Emergency Response Support System helpline number 112 in schools, colleges, hospitals, taxi stands, cinema halls etc.“Cases should be promptly investigated and a chargesheet against the accused filed promptly,” the MHA note says. It has further asked states to sensitise the law enforcement agencies about amendments in the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in 2018, in which section 18A has been inserted to remove the clause where a preliminary enquiry was earlier required before filing an FIR. “Enforcement agencies should be instructed in unambiguous terms that enforcement of rights of the weaker and vulnerable sections including SC, ST, women and children should be ensured. Police should play a more proactive role in detection and investigation of crimes against women,” the ministry added. All the states/UTs have been asked to submit an action taken report (ATR) in this regard. Beena Pallical, General Secretary of Dalit Arthik Adhikar Andolan (DAAA), said - “It’s an excellent direction given by the Centre to states. This will really help in implementation of various legal provisions for vulnerable sections, particularly the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. We see thousands of atrocities against Adivasis and Dalits which should be controlled by the states after this notification. States will have to take responsibility towards the weaker sections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-states-to-create-sops-to-combat-crimes-against-weaker-sections/story-s0jSpzQrHQb87aShoRCk5K.html
01-09-2020||India||India records nearly 70,000 new cases of Covid-19, tally close to 3.7 million||The number of the coronavirus disease cases reached close to 3.7 million in India after 69,921 new cases surfaced on Tuesday.According to Union health ministry update, there are 7,85,996 active cases of the disease while 28,39,882 patients have been discharged.The country recorded 819 fatalities according to the health ministry data, which pushed the death toll to 65,288.The ministry had said on Monday that the country’s recovery rate has increased to 76.62 per cent, while the fatality rate has declined to 1.78 per cent.The last five lakh recoveries have been recorded in only eight days in comparison to preceding same number of recoveries, which were recorded in 10 and nine days respectively, the ministry said.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.Meanwhile, the Centre is focussing on the states which are witnessing a sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to the health ministry, central teams will be deployed in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, where spikes have been recorded.It asserted that the teams will support the states’ efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of positive cases.The teams will also guide the states in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up, the ministry said in a statement.Each of the multi-sectoral teams will comprise an epidemiologist and a public health expert.Of these four states, Uttar Pradesh has the maximum number of active cases, followed by Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-nearly-70-000-new-cases-of-covid-19-tally-crosses-3-7-million/story-Pmz8U8BzQrfsxQCQ4a07mO.html
01-09-2020||India||Mask use can prevent 200k Covid deaths in India: Study||Widespread use of masks and maintaining social distancing measures can prevent at least 200,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related deaths by December 1, shows a new modelling of the pandemic in the country. The new data, which was released last Saturday, has underlined the critical need for the public to comply with the use of face masks, maintain social distancing norms and other Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government to prevent the spread of the contagion. “Meta analysis of individual studies has shown that masks can reduce disease transmission by 40% for individuals and in aggregate at population level you can see results for India. The use of masks doesn’t impede any economic activity. Besides, it’s extremely cost-effective,” said Dr Christopher Murray from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington, which has done the modelling of the viral outbreak. “The masks don’t need to be high-end ones such as N-95. Cloth masks will do just fine,” he added. In the worst-case scenario, India may report 492,380 Covid-19 deaths by December 1 because of easing of lockdown restrictions and the use of masks at the current level, the modelling has forecast.If the healthcare crisis deepens, 13 states are staring at over 10,000 Covid-19-related deaths each by December 1, the modelling has warned.Now, only Maharashtra – the epicentre of the viral outbreak in the country – has reported over 10,000 deaths because of the contagion and it’s toll tally is 23,775. The data from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW) showed that 62,550 Covid-19 patients have succumbed to their viral infection.In the best-case scenario, the deaths can potentially come down to 2,91,14, the modelling has suggested. However, it has recommended certain dos and don’ts for the Covid-19-related toll tally to improve.To begin with, the use of masks must go up to 95% coupled with reimposition of a six-week lockdown in states if the daily death rate in a state exceeds eight per million population . In the best-case scenario, the model predicts at least eight states are likely to cross 10,000 Covid-19 deaths by December 1. Andhra Pradesh (19,685), Karnataka (31,001), Kerala (11,602), Maharashtra (85,686), Punjab (16,404), Tamil Nadu (24,592), Uttar Pradesh (21,524) and West Bengal (22,053) have been projected to report these fatalities due to the viral infection by December 1. The data scientists in the paper agree that India’s response to Covid-19 has produced some significant successes that highlight the opportunity to restrict the pandemic’s toll in the country. In some urban areas, including Delhi, containment measures such as intensive contact tracing, ramping up of daily testing mechanism, wearing of masks, and maintaining social distancing norms have helped reduce the spread of the contagion. Initially, IHME had started modelling the epidemic in the United States of America (USA) in March. Later, it was expanded to other countries in Europe and Latin America, and now they cover most nations in the world with epidemics of any size, including India. “In terms of average error for forecast, we have the smallest error, of about 20% at 10 weeks, among the models. We update our models every week, for every country, as it is important to understand many aspects of the epidemic. It’s important to stay on top of it,” said Murray. Epidemiologists said that these estimates are aligned with the available evidence on the use of masks. “Their estimates suggest that we might be saving at least 419 deaths per day from a month now, if we were to mandate universal use of masks. It is not only intuitive but aligned with overall evidence that we have so far,” said Dr Giridhar R Babu, head, life course epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH), Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mask-use-can-prevent-200k-covid-deaths-in-india-study/story-y525iKAHAJdJiZVz0wySwI.html
01-09-2020||India||JEE (Main) 2020 exam begins today: All you need to know||The National Testing Agency (NTA) is conducting the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) beginning Tuesday with slots scheduled till Sunday. Despite protests to postpone the examination, as many as 858,000 candidates were expected to take the test across 660 centres in the country. Candidates have been protesting on social media against the holding of the scheduled JEE (Main) and NEET exams in September. Their call was also backed by several opposition parties. However, the Centre decided against it so that “a crucial year of the students is not wasted.”While the NEET exam is set to be conducted on September 13, JEE (Main) started today. Here’s everything you need to know:*The JEE (Main), being held between September 1 and 6, is for admission to engineering colleges such as IITs, NITs, IIITs and other centrally funded technical institutes. *This is the first major nationwide entrance test being held since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) started spreading wider in early March. As many students reached the exam centres, they were seen sanitising their hands. They also underwent thermal tests before entering the exam hall. *States such as Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan have offered free travel to students appearing in the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), or JEE (Main), this week. Others such as Bihar and Odisha said they would deploy additional security forces outside examination centres to enforce social distancing norms.*Despite their reservations against conducting the exam, opposition-ruled states have made elaborate arrangements for the test.*The governments of West Bengal, Kerala and Punjab, which had opposed holding the JEE and other central entrance examinations, have also directed their transport departments to arrange buses for students to reach examination centres.*The NTA has issued detailed guidelines for conducting the exam that include sanitization of examination rooms, maintaining a minimum distance of two metres between two tables and mandatory temperature checks on each candidate.*Students are for the first time appearing for the examination with gloves on. Ashish Arora, head of academics at Jaipur-based Allen Career Institute says, they shouldn’t panic, must go through the guidelines in detail and remain careful. *“Traffic police personnel would be posted at crucial places for smooth flow of traffic so that students reach on time,” said Bhubaneswar municipal commissioner PC Chaudhry, adding that there would be no restrictions on inter-state traffic to help students reach their examination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-main-2020-exam-begins-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-w1WzPmE6ZbfnTw4mSQxvNI.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee to be cremated in Delhi today||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who died on Monday, will be cremated in New Delhi on today. Mukherjee died more than 20 days after undergoing a brain surgery to remove clot. He was on ventilator since the surgery.According to a release by the Ministry of Defence, Mukherjee’s body will be kept at his official residence in the morning hours on Tuesday for people to pay their last homage.The wreath-laying schedule for official dignitaries will be from 9:15 am to 10:15 am for official dignitaries and 45 minutes for other dignitaries, the MoD release said.This will be followed by an hour’s time for the general public to pay homage to the late President at 10 Rajaji Marg, it further said.The ministry also said that the mortal remains of the late President will proceed in hearse van instead of the normal gun carriage due to the Covid-19 related protocols in place.Mukherjee, a recipient of the country’s highest civilian award and a towering statesman admired across party lines, died at a hospital in Delhi on Monday, leaving behind a rich legacy he built in a five-decade-long public life that has cemented his place as a doyen of Indian politics and a troubleshooter par excellence for the Congress in its prime.Mukherjee, 84, died of multiple organ failure after he was admitted to New Delhi’s Army Hospital Research and Referral three weeks ago. He slipped into coma after the brain surgery on August 10, having also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Doctors said the seven-time parliamentarian died of a cardiac arrest at 4.30 pm on Monday. The government has announced seven-day state mourning from August 31 to September 6.Mukherjee, who received the Bharat Ratna in 2019, is survived by two sons and a daughter; his wife died in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-to-be-cremated-in-delhi-today/story-ZZYtDnbJiIkhPqFLtjcZtL.html
01-09-2020||India||Supreme Court judgment today on payment of AGR dues||The Supreme Court (SC) will pronounce its verdict on Tuesday on whether to allow telecom companies, or telcos, to makes staggered payment of their adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.The judgment will be pronounced at 11.30am by a three-judge SC bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra.Major telcos, including Vodafone-Idea and Bharti Airtel, owe substantial amounts to the Department of Telecom (DoT).The total liability on Vodafone-Idea is Rs58,254 crore out of which it has paid more than Rs7,000 crore, while over Rs50,000 crore is the outstanding amount. Bharti Airtel had a total liability of Rs43,980 crore, out of which it has cleared more than Rs18,000 crore and is yet to pay Rs25,976 crore.The apex court in its judgment delivered on October 24, 2019, had upheld the interpretation given to the definition of AGR by the DoT and included revenues from various heads for calculation of the dues while imposing a cumulative burden of over 1.69 lakh crore on 16 telcos.Review petitions against the judgment were dismissed by the apex court on January 16.Later, the DoT itself had approached the SC in March seeking permission to allow the telcos to pay outstanding AGR dues to the tune of 1.43 lakh crore in annual instalments over a period of 20 years.DoT had argued that if as a consequence of the judgement, any of the major service providers face the most drastic consequence of proceedings under the insolvency and bankruptcy code, then the consumers would be jeopardised because porting of mobile numbers from non-operational to operational service providers would take considerable time leading to disruption of services. It was submitted that competition in the telecom sector and quality of services given by mobile companies would be adversely impacted and it would lead to loss of direct and indirect employment besides negatively impacting foreign investment sentiment.During the course of the hearing, telcos sought 15 years to complete the payment.The SC had on July 20 reserved its verdict on whether to allow the prayer to make payment in instalments. Later, the court also heard the matter separately with respect to the companies under liquidation and the recovery of amounts from them.Out of 1.43 lakh crore outstanding dues, Rs38,959 crore are due from four companies which are under liquidation. Reliance Communication (R-Comm), which is one of the companies under insolvency, alone owes more than Rs25,000 crore out of the Rs38,959 crore due from the four bankrupt telcos.The court considered the question of whether spectrum could be sold or assigned under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). The court had during the hearing expressed its reservations that subjecting spectrum to resolution process under IBC could result in government dues being wiped out.The telcos have maintained that though they do not have ownership of spectrum, and they can transfer the same under contract.Spectrum sale is crucial for banks that are financial creditors under IBC since the value of teclos under insolvency will reduce greatly without spectrum.The court will consider whether spectrum-sharing agreements will cast additional obligation on Jio and Airtel. Jio had entered into spectrum-sharing agreement with R-Comm, while Aircel and Videocon had traded their spectrum to Airtel. The judgment on this aspect was reserved on August 24.The SC judgment is expected to clarify whether additional AGR liability will be fastened on Jio and Airtel on account of the past dues of Aircel, R-Comm and Videocon..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-judgment-today-on-payment-of-agr-dues/story-WRdjiuQDzkuX6exJ4EpPfL.html
01-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: JEE (Main) starts today amid strict coronavirus protocols and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid apprehensions and strict protocols, JEE (Main) kicks off todayThe National Testing Agency (NTA) has started conducting the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main for undergraduate engineering aspirants from Tuesday, despite protests over the safety concerns for students and others owing to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read moreLockdown phase took severe toll on economic activityIndia’s GDP contracted by 23.9% in the April-June quarter this year compared to the same period last year. This suggests that the lockdown’s toll on economic activity has been more severe than expected. Read moreThe repository of knowledge set high standards of bipartisanismFor the long years that he was in public life, Pranab Mukherjee burnished his political savvy with sharp intellect, an exceptional sense of history, and a memory that many among his peers considered photographic. Read moreAugust, third month of monsoon, ends with 10% excess rainMany parts of Gujarat have reported flooding after Madhya Pradesh (MP) following extremely heavy rainfall was recorded in these areas on Sunday and Monday. Monsoon rain from June 1 until August 31 is at 10% excess in the country. Read moreHong Kong begins mass-testing for Covid-19 amid public doubtsHong Kong began a voluntary mass-testing program for coronavirus Tuesday as part of a strategy to break the chain of transmission in the city’s third outbreak of the disease. Read moreHope this sparks a chess revolution like 1983 did for cricket: Viswanathan AnandViswanathan Anand had won almost everything chess has to offer: five world titles, six chess Oscars and multiple editions of many tournaments. But an Olympiad team medal had eluded him. Read moreGaurav Chopra’s father dies of Covid-19 ten days after the demise of his mother: ‘A void that no amount of time will ever fill’TV actor Gaurav Chopra’s father Swatantra Chopra died of coronavirus at a Delhi hospital on Saturday, 10 days after the death of his mother. The actor penned a heartbreaking note on Instagram, along with a few black and white pictures of his father, to talk about how “special” he was. Read moreElon Musk beats Mark Zuckerberg to become third richest person in the worldMusk passed Facebook Inc. co-founder Mark Zuckerberg Monday as shares of Tesla Inc. continued their unrelenting rally after undergoing a forward stock split. Read moreBollywood Dads: Celebrity fathers over 40 who are setting lockdown fitness goalsThe only way to achieve something in life, is through single-minded devotion to that particular goal, and constant hard work to help you reach it. A workout regime is no different. There is a reason why it is referred to as the ‘fitness lifestyle’ and not just a ‘fitness hobby’. Read more‘Our world needs more love, less hate’: How Buddy Gator is spreading happiness one post at a timeHappiness can come in any form and today it’s Buddy Gator who is here with his friends to wash away your blues. Who you ask? He is an adorable comic character alligator created by artist Chow Hon Lam who is spreading smiles among people, one Instagram post at a time. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-jee-main-starts-today-amid-strict-coronavirus-protocols-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8qeyWERcnp12kJV1gWtJrK.html
01-09-2020||India||2 lakh Ola, Uber drivers on strike, commuters in Delhi-NCR to face problems||The drivers of cab aggregators Ola and Uber in the Delhi-NCR region are on strike from Tuesday demanding extension of the moratorium on loan repayment and a hike in fare in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Around two lakh drivers of the cab services have given the strike call as their appeals have not led to any action by the government, said Kamaljeet Singh Gill, president of Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi, a union of Ola-Uber drivers.“Due to the acute financial crisis caused by lockdown, drivers are unable to pay their EMIs. The moratorium of loan repayment ended today and the banks are already putting pressure on us. Drivers are scared that banks will tow away their vehicles for not paying EMIs,” Gill said on Monday.The drivers are demanding withdrawal of e-challans issued against their vehicles for speeding, according to a pamphlet circulated by them. They also want a higher commission from the cab aggregators while travelling between Delhi and NCR destinations like Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurgaon.Both Ola and Uber have so far not reacted to the strike call given by the drivers.The strike call comes at a time when other public transport systems, like metro, are not operational and buses are working at reduced capacity.“Most of the drivers are finding it difficult to feed their families at this time and have no means to fulfil their financial obligations. Unless the government helps us, there is no way we can work without fear of losing our vehicles,” Gill said.As part of the protest plan, the cab drivers will assemble near Himachal Bhawan at Mandi House on Tuesday to seek government action on their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-lakh-ola-uber-drivers-on-strike-commuters-in-delhi-ncr-to-face-problems/story-vuryKxnAGQTmNerK8j8SzO.html
01-09-2020||India||Amid apprehensions and strict protocols, JEE (Main) kicks off today||The National Testing Agency (NTA) has started conducting the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main for undergraduate engineering aspirants from Tuesday, despite protests over the safety concerns for students and others owing to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Around 858,000 students will appear for the test at 660 centres across the country between September 1 and 6.Earlier on August 25, NTA had announced that besides JEE-Main, it would also hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate medical and dental aspirants on September 13. The JEE (Main) is for admission to engineering colleges such as National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and other centrally-funded technical institutes.The JEE-Main, which is being held in two shifts of morning and evening, started at 7.30am on Tuesday. The entrance exam for admission to an undergraduate degree in architecture will also be held on Tuesday.NTA and the Central government’s bid to conduct JEE-Main and NEET has sparked off a row, where the opposition parties have questioned the move amid the pandemic. However, the government has been adamant, as it has argued that the aspirants’ academic year would be in jeopardy.Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Monday appealed to all states to ensure candidates could appear for JEE-Main smoothly.“After my interactions with the chief ministers and administrative level officials of almost all the states, I can assure all the candidates and their parents/guardians that they will be provided all possible assistance. My best wishes for the bright future of all of you!” Pokhriyal tweeted on Monday evening.Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday also tweeted, saying that his ministry has allowed JEE-Main and NEET aspirants and their parents to travel by special suburban services in Mumbai on the days of the examinations. “Supporting students appearing for NEET and JEE examinations, Railways has permitted them, and their guardians to travel by special suburban services in Mumbai on exam days. General passengers are requested not to commute,” he tweeted.However, several candidates expressed apprehensions about their safety. Avya Sharma (18) a resident of east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar and a JEE-Main aspirant, said: “My father will pick and drop me to the centre since it’s unsafe to take private taxis. I will wear a mask and hand gloves, and carry a hand sanitiser. I am scared about my safety. My parents are asking me to maintain social distance norms. We cannot afford to miss the examination, despite the extraordinary circumstances.”NTA has prepared an elaborate protocol to ensure social distancing at examination centres. The authorities have increased the number of centres in a bid to maintain social distancing norms.Following are the SoPs issued by the NTA for the examination centres:Each examination centre will have the following additional inventory1) Gloves and masks for all staff on examination duty2) Gloves and masks for candidates in case they do not come with their own hand sanitiser at entry and inside the examination centres as needed.3) Spray bottles, sponges/cloth for disinfecting items such as desk/table, door handles, etc.4) Disinfectant liquid with 1% sodium hypochlorite for spraying in the examination centres5) Liquid handwash/soap in washrooms 6) Thermo guns to check temperature of candidates and all staff on dutyHow will the day begin at the examination centres?1) Examination centres’ floors and walls, doors, gates, will be cleaned with disinfectant backpack spray machines2) Candidate Seating Area to be thoroughly sanitized (desk and chair)3) All washrooms will be cleaned and sanitised4) Door handles, staircase railing, lift buttons, etc. will be disinfected 5) Wheelchairs, if present, at the examination centres will be sanitised6) Used gloves and masks will be disposed off at the end of the dayManaging candidates after entry into the examination centre:1) Staggered time slots for reporting in a bid to avoid overcrowding2) At the entry of registration room, body temperature will be recorded using thermal scanner3) Seating arrangement to comply with social distancing norm.4) An invigilator will not touch any document of the candidate.Items permitted into the examination room/hall for candidates:1) Masks2) Gloves4) Transparent water bottle5) Sanitiser6) Examination-related documentsPost-examination measures:1) The candidates will be permitted to move out in an orderly manner – one at a time.2) Volunteers will be present along the exit path to ensure orderly movement of candidates..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-apprehensions-and-strict-protocols-jee-main-kicks-off-today/story-OpfjJoC0EOFbCPb6ftIT9O.html
01-09-2020||India||‘Border not demarcated, there will be problems’: Chinese minister on LAC row||India and China need to manage and control their differences and not allow them to become conflicts, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi has told a foreign audience, adding that Beijing is committed to maintaining stability along the disputed Sino-India border.China is also willing to resolve differences with New Delhi through dialogue, Wang said, adding, at the same time, that India is to blame for the tension at the border. The problems between the two countries should be placed in “appropriate places” in bilateral ties, the Chinese foreign minister further said.Wang was speaking at the prestigious French Institute of International Relations in Paris on Monday, hours after the Indian army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had accused each other of triggering a new bout of tension at the south bank of Pangong Tso and the Reqin pass near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.India said on Monday that it had pre-empted “provocative military movements” by China to change the status quo along the LAC on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, a development that widened the trust deficit between the two sides and dealt a blow to efforts to reduce tensions.The incident followed the lack of forward movement in the disengagement and de-escalation process even after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks.Meanwhile, Wang, who is on a week-long five-country Europe tour, including stops in France and Germany, gave a speech and took questions from senior European politicians and executives on China, India and the world.“China-India relations have recently attracted the attention of all parties. What I want to tell you is that China has always been committed to maintaining stability in the Sino-Indian border areas,” Wang said according to a Mandarin transcript of the interaction released by the Chinese foreign ministry on Tuesday.“We will not take the initiative to complicate and expand the situation. Of course, we must also firmly safeguard our sovereignty and territorial integrity,” he said in the lengthy response.“The border between China and India has not been demarcated, so there will always be problems of this kind. We are willing to manage various problems through dialogue with the Indian side. At the same time, these issues should be placed in appropriate places in bilateral relations,” Wang, who is also the state councilor, told his audience at the institute.Wang mentioned the meetings between President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the consensus they had reached.“For example, instead of ‘dragon and elephant fighting’, ‘dragon and elephant dancing together’, ‘1 plus 1 is not equal to 2, but equal to 11’ and so on. These are all philosophical views,” he said.“For another example, the leaders of the two countries agree that cooperation between the two sides is greater than differences, and common interests are greater than contradictions. Differences must be managed and controlled, especially not allowing differences to become conflicts”.Wang said the two governments should implement the consensus reached between Xi and Modi.The two countries are “highly complementary” to each other, he said, adding: “China is willing to strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries to help India accelerate its own development.”“If both China and India can develop, 2.7 billion people will move towards modernisation together. This will be an unprecedented and spectacular sight in the cause of human progress. I hope India can also view and deal with problems from this perspective,” Wang said.Disengagement between border troops had begun after a conversation between Wang and national security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval on July 6 – both are also the special representatives for the ongoing border talks.Despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks following the Wang-Doval conversation, differences have remained, mirroring the trust deficit between the neighbours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-not-demarcated-there-will-be-problems-chinese-minister-on-lac-row/story-UAXSFMxhKfxm3EscQc4QOI.html
01-09-2020||India||All govt departments in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack to function at 50% strength in Sept||All state government departments and sub-ordinate offices in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack will function with 50 per cent strength during September while ensuring that office work does not suffer.All state government offices across Odisha will also remain closed on Saturdays, according to an order issued by the General Administration and Public Grievance Department, which has been taken in view of the Covid-19 situation in the state.However, the essential offices/services such as SRC and OSDMA offices, police, fire services, health services, municipal services, etc shall function in full strength, according to the order.The officers and staff will have to remain available to tend to office work of urgent nature.The Centre had earlier issued Covid-19 guidelines for Unlock-4, which will come into effect from today. The Centre has decided to open more activities outside the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-govt-departments-in-bhubaneswar-cuttack-to-function-at-50-strength-in-sept/story-kM1awfD3v5qOHwPmrQl5WO.html
01-09-2020||India||August, third month of monsoon, ends with 10% excess rain||Many parts of Gujarat have reported flooding after Madhya Pradesh (MP) following extremely heavy rainfall was recorded in these areas on Sunday and Monday. Monsoon rain from June 1 until August 31 is at 10% excess in the country.A region-wise break-up of the data shows rainfall is 21% and 20% excess over central India and southern peninsula, respectively; 9% deficient over the north-west and 2% excess over east and north-east India.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said rains would gradually reduce over flood-affected regions and start picking up over northern plains, north-eastern states and parts of southern peninsula. There is no likelihood of development of any low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal, and, as a result, monsoon is likely to be subdued for the coming week, it said.Parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan are affected by extremely heavy rain, measuring over 20 centimetres (cm), including Jamnagar (24 cm); Jodhpur (23 cm); Dwarka (21 cm); Botad and Morbi (20 cm) each . “But we are not expecting severe floods in Gujarat because it has rained only for a day instead of persistent rains for two-three days such as in MP and Odisha. There is a mid-latitude westerly trough (low-pressure area) that is moving eastwards, while the low-pressure is over western Rajasthan that is moving further west. The convergence of the two is likely to bring heavy rains in Punjab and the adjoining region in Pakistan,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre (NWFC), IMD.“There is no likelihood of any low-pressure area developing over the Bay of Bengal for the next 10 days. So rain will be limited to the northern foothills and southern peninsula, including Kerala and Karnataka, but remain subdued over central India, which is a good thing since the region is impacted by floods. Whenever the monsoon trough moves to the north, a convergence zone develops in the extreme south peninsular region. Hence, heavy rain is likely in Kerala over the next few days,” Jenamani added.The low-pressure area over western Rajasthan, which brought floods in MP, when it was over western MP, is very likely to move northwards during the next 24 hours and become less marked thereafter. The western end of the monsoon trough lies to the south of its normal position (from Ganganagar in Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal) and eastern end lies close to the Himalayan foothills.Due to these favourable conditions widespread to very heavy rainfall is very likely over western Rajasthan on Tuesday. Under the influence of interaction between south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea and mid-level westerly trough, widespread and heavy rain is also likely over northwest India and western Himalayan region on Wednesday and Thursday. “Under the influence of strengthening of the north-south trough along the east coast, rainfall intensity over peninsular India is very likely to increase from Tuesday. South Interior Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu are very likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain on Wednesday and Thursday, the IMD bulletin said.Persistently very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 20 cm, was recorded in two-three days—from August 25 to 27 in Odisha and from August 27 to 30 over MP. In MP’s Chhindwara district’s 12 weather stations recorded 20 to 41 cm of rain on August 28 to 29. While Chaurai in MP recorded 41 cm in a day, which is likely to be the highest ever recorded figure that the IMD is trying to ascertain. This spell triggered widespread flooding in MP. Eight dams in Odisha, Maharashtra, MP and Karnataka continue to be at over 100% storage capacity, according to the Central Water Commission (CWC).August received record rains at 26.3% excess, which is the highest in 44 years. The country has recorded 61.5% and 36.7% excess rainfall over central India and the southern peninsula, respectively; 19.1% deficient over east and the north-east; and 1.9% excess over north-west India.A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector on which at least 700 million people are dependent for a livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country, where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.The impact of good monsoon rain on farmers has not been that significant, said experts. “During the initial days of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, sowing was impacted due to labour shortage and market uncertainty. Now, vegetable growers are affected by severe rains that have damaged the crop in many parts of the country. Consequently, vegetable prices are likely to go up. How efficiently we have used rain water depends on how much harvesting has occurred locally. India doesn’t have large scale systems in place to harvest rainwater locally and run-off is rampant. Rainy days have reduced and extreme rainfall has increased that needs to be factored into a data analysis,” said Ramanjaneyulu GV, executive director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Telangana.Monsoon is likely to start retreating from September 17, as per the new normal onset and withdrawal dates issued by IMD in April, as compared to September 1 until last year. IMD’s new onset dates are based on analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based from 1971 to 2019 by its scientists in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/august-third-month-of-monsoon-ends-with-10-excess-rain/story-YIGMTCXquHuRYchWqiMx0J.html
01-09-2020||India||Ex-Assam CM Tarun Gogoi’s oxygen saturation dips; stable, say doctors||Veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, who has tested positive for coronavirus, had a sudden drop in his oxygen saturation level on Monday night. A senior doctor at the hospital told HT on Tuesday morning that the 85-year-old’s condition is stable and there’s no cause for immediate worry. “Ex-CM Tarun Gogoi who is admitted to Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) for Covid-19 had a sudden fall in oxygen saturation to 88% at 11:30 pm. The team of doctors supervising his health immediately decided to give 1 unit of plasma with 2 l of oxygen on mask. O2 saturation is now maintained between 96% and 97%,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Monday night. Gogoi, who was CM for three consecutive terms from 2001 till 2016, was tested as Covid-19 positive on August 26. The Assam government has constituted a eight-member team of doctors to monitor his health parameters regularly. “There is sometimes fluctuation in oxygen saturation levels as he is an elderly person. But right now his condition is stable and there’s no need of immediate worry. His health is being monitored frequently,” said a senior doctor at GMCH on condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-s-oxygen-saturation-dips-given-plasma-therapy/story-skJja9830iUZm863SHhoZK.html
01-09-2020||India||Prescriptions a hindrance to scaling up tests, say city labs||With the central and state governments pushing to scale up testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), diagnostic chiefs of approved laboratories called for the requirement of a prescription to be scrapped, arguing that a growing number of people are getting tests due to non-clinical reasons, such as for travel to other states. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research – which lays guidelines for the country’s testing strategy – RT-PCR (reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests should be conducted among nine categories such as symptomatic people with a history of travel, hospitalised patients who develop influenza-like symptoms, and asymptomatic high-risk contacts of a confirmed Covid-19 patient. Labs need a doctor’s prescription to perform an RT-PCR test, considered the gold standard to check for Covid-19. In contrast, a rapid antigen test can be performed outside laboratories and is recommended for residents of containment zones and in hospitals. Anybody can get the test, which does not need a prescription to be performed. Citing ICMR guidelines, the Delhi government has scaled up rapid antigen tests in the city, performing about 70% of the total tests done in the city by this method. On average, Delhi has tested over 17,500 samples a day in August. Experts say the antigen test is less sensitive than the RT-PCR method, and is likely to throw up false positives. Currently, a high proportion of the RT-PCR tests are also being availed by those who need it for “non-clinical” reasons such as travel or before a surgery. “Almost 50% of the tests we are performing are for persons in need of the test for non-clinical reasons. Why do they need a prescription? And an additional step discourages more people from the more accurate RT-PCR test. It is easier to avail rapid antigen test, and the government is doing a large proportion of it for free,” said Dr Vidur Mahajan, associate director of Mahajan Imaging.“When we are reporting 70,000 and 80,000 cases of Covid-19 each day, and the country is in the process of unlocking, anybody who wants to get tested should be allowed to get tested. What is the need for a prescription? Also, now there is no shortage of kits or qualified labs to perform the test,” said Dr Arvind Lal, chairman and managing director of Lal Pathlabs, one of the largest chain of laboratories in the country. Not only does it act as a hurdle, a need for prescription means people spending more for a doctors’ consultation. “For a person who needs to get the test done because they are travelling to states like Karnataka, Uttarakhand, or Jammu and Kashmir that insist on an RT-PCR test done 72 hours prior to travel, it makes no sense to go to a doctor. They do not have symptoms that need to be examined; they do not need medical attention. However, they are forced to pay for a doctor’s consultation either online or in person,” said Dr Deepak Sadhwani, head of Prognosis laboratories. Dr Nutan Mundeja, chief of the directorate general of health services, Delhi government, told the Delhi hight court on Monday that the city-state would re-strategise the policy/plan for Covid-19 testing. “The Delhi government has said it will scale up testing further, but there is a need to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests as well. If you see, antigen tests were approved for containment zones and healthcare settings but are being utilised everywhere,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious diseases at ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prescriptions-a-hindrance-to-scaling-up-tests-say-city-labs/story-E2ovlbD9RzKZN4qduIQ46M.html
01-09-2020||India||Need to relook Covid-19 testing strategy, experts advise Centre||Experts from Indian Public Health Association (IPHA) have recommended the Central government relook the Covid-19 testing strategy in such a way that it results in guiding the public health response and effectively limiting the spread of the disease.In a third joint statement on the Covid-19 pandemic in India, a task force of eminent public health experts has advised the government that the experience from other countries indicates that increased testing does not prevent the deaths from Covid-19.“A few countries like Japan, Sri Lanka with the lowest testing rates have the lowest fatality due to Covid-19. There is evidence from other countries too that the present testing strategies are unable to contain deaths and transmission of SARS-CoV-2,” it said.Dr Sanjay Rai, President of IPHA said: “The current benchmark for the adequacy of testing is 140 tests per million population per day, and sample positivity rate of less than five percent. In order to reach this target indiscriminate testing is being resorted to. Testing by itself is not a control strategy. Moreover, daily testing of more than one million, mostly ill-defined population, is imposing heavy economic cost without commensurate benefit for control effort.”“There is a need to relook at the testing strategy in a way that it results in guiding the public health response and effectively limiting the spread of the disease,” he said.So far, India has reported about 36 lakh Covid-19 cases with 64,469 deaths. Till date, India has conducted 4,23,07,914 tests for Covid-19, and at least 8,46,278 of those were conducted in the last 24 hours.“The testing strategies in densely populated urban areas, and the limited disease spread in rural areas must be different. In most cases, by the time the testing is done and the results are made available, the infection has already spread to close contacts. This is more pronounced in rural areas,” Dr Rai said in the report.The presence of a large number of asymptomatic cases in all states/UTs further compounds the problem of early detection as the current testing strategy does not allow for testing of asymptomatic persons unless they are close contacts of a diagnosed case, the report mentioned.A large number of tests e.g. RT-PCR, CBNAAT, TRUNAT, RAT, etc have been employed for the Covid-19 test. In order to achieve the pre-defined target, peripheral health functionaries are using whichever test is available, flouting the guidelines. For example, use of RAT in areas that are neither a containment zone nor a health facility.The strategy of “Test, Track, Treat, isolate” focusing on early identification of the cases to limit their transmission to others and also for effective clinical management is helpful when the epidemic is at its very early stage to avoid its foothold in the community.“Since the virus has already widely spread in the community in many geographical areas, the current strategy would not serve the intended objectives. Moreover, confirmed cases represent only a fraction of the total estimated cases as is indicated by sero-surveillance surveys. Hence, a greater number of tests being carried out will yield a greater number of detected cases without any benefit in reducing the deaths which should be the primary goal,” experts noted.“In areas with high incidence of laboratory-confirmed cases, all symptomatic cases should be treated on the lines of confirmed cases to isolate and treat to reduce the spread and mortality even without testing as the probability of being positive is quite high. This is the usual practice adopted during an outbreak situation. This brings efficiency in preventing the spread of infection and making it cost-effective,” it read.There is a need to re-assess the thrust on testing strategy and shift to syndromic management, especially in the high sero-prevalence states and districts for efficient management of resources.A pragmatic and differential testing strategy needs to address issues of testing high-risk populations, testing only in the early stages of the outbreak, and testing as part of monitoring. Universalization of testing may be an extremely expensive proposition and unlikely to yield any public health benefits for control strategy, the report said.A joint task force of eminent public health experts of India was constituted by IPHA, and the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM) in April 2020 to advise the Union government for containment of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-relook-covid-19-testing-strategy-experts-advise-centre/story-kwVjBJI7rWDlXnY5gtlL0L.html
01-09-2020||India||The repository of knowledge set high standards of bipartisanism||For the long years that he was in public life, Pranab Mukherjee burnished his political savvy with sharp intellect, an exceptional sense of history, and a memory that many among his peers considered photographic.The raconteur in him would be in full flow in leisurely “addas” at the Talkatora Road bungalow that was his home for years. An academician who strayed early into politics, his stories from the past afforded a rare peep into contemporary events. The cups of tea that came didn’t always cheer; the buffet of anecdotes did! That was the time when he smoked a pipe. He was a living specimen of what Albert Einstein wrote about the tribe: “I believe that pipe smoking contributes to a somewhat calm and objective judgment in all human affairs.”Pranab da was no Einstein, but could prove him wrong. His artful genius was evident as much after he quit smoking. When in a mood to talk, he left an abiding impression, be it public speeches or private conversations. He was outstandingly perceptive and statesmanlike when, as a minister, he addressed the Lok Sabha in a debate on Bangladeshi migrants; spoke while being the President at the relaunch of National Herald, a newspaper founded by Jawaharlal Nehru; or attended the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) function as ‘Citizen’ Mukherjee after his term at Rashtrapati Bhawan.Each of these speeches were replete with wisdom, reflecting the world view he had inherited, acquired and enriched through his innings in politics. Of particular interest in an unflattering way was his 2018 visit to the birthplace of Keshav Baliram Hedgewar before speaking at the RSS event in Nagpur. In his remarks in the visitors’ book, he called the Sangh’s founding sarsanghchalak a “great son of mother India”.That had several among his admirers shooting across the bow. His lesson in history to those who cared to ask was: Hedgewar, who died in 1940, was in the Congress till 1923, when he quit over the leadership’s approach to the Khilafat movement. He also had his hosts take him on as-is-where-is basis by not digressing from his Nehruvian convictions in his address at the RSS function.Ideology apart, Mukherjee was a deeply religious man. Yet it was difficult always to discern whether democracy’s highest temple, the Parliament, was his second or first halt.It was in fact an article on his stellar record as a parliamentarian that fetched this writer his indulgence that stayed. Highlighting the number of parliament sessions he attended without a break, HT ran the piece with the caption: “At 70, Pranab still debating”. He found apt the analogy from the gentleman’s sport of cricket. That wasn’t the least surprising. The House of Elders, where he learnt the art of debate and disagreement, was once a platform embellished by the parliamentary rigour of members such as Hiren Mukherjee, Bhupesh Gupta, and Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Mukherjee’s healthy regard for adversarial thought saw him break protocol as President to visit the ailing Vajpayee at his residence in 2015 to confer the Bharat Ratna. Reminiscing his rookie phase, he often talked about the Communist duo’s scholarly interventions, their rapier wit, the eye for detail, and the prowess to persuade. That Mukherjee could acquire those attributes over time was acknowledged by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sumitra Mahajan, then the speaker of the Lok Sabha. At the farewell ceremony for him as President, she said: “You are a guru from whom generations of parliamentarian have received lessons… You are respected for your impeccable knowledge of parliamentary rules and procedures and exemplary memory of events and precedents.” Mukherjee’s memory recall could indeed dazzle the best of minds. Having once joined in the middle of his conversation with a journalist researching for a book, I heard him recall names of Congress Working Committee members from the 1960s onwards.He was as good with dates as with names and events. Having authored several books, he was the go-to person for politicians, academia, researchers and media persons looking for meaningful perspectives and prescient thought. As the Congress’s man for all seasons, its chief troubleshooter, his was an enviable repository of knowledge. Starting with commerce, finance, defence and external affairs, he held most key portfolios barring home.For someone who was never home minister, Mukherjee set high standards of bipartisanism by cooperating with the Vajpayee regime as the chairman of the ministry’s parliamentary Standing Committee. His interface then with the government was Arun Jaitley, who often spoke of him in glowing terms. His institutional memory of the Congress made him an equally valuable party apparatchik. When asked once by this writer about Sonia Gandhi’s strong point as a leader, he described her as a person who “listened patiently and acted consensually”. He said that her willingness to take advice lent her the strength she needed to have her way when opinion was divided.Mukherjee’s role model, however, was Indira Gandhi - as an administrator and the party chief. In a troubled mood once over the BJP’s “celebratory posturing” over ordinary foreign policy gains, Mukherjee made a revelation. By his account, Pakistan’s Zia-ul-Haq had let Indian commandos operate on his country’s soil to free an Indian Airlines plane hijacked to Lahore in the 1980s. The secret wasn’t ever let out. Why? In statecraft certain things are kept under wraps to save the helper the opprobrium at home. That leaves room for Good Samaritan diplomacy in the future. On diplomacy, another incident comes to mind. During UPA-1 Mukherjee had assured the Left parties supporting the government from outside that they would be briefed before India signs the nuclear safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). That pact was among the prerequisites for setting into motion the Indo-US nuclear deal the Communist parties opposed.Then the minister for external affairs, he apparently was in the dark when our ambassador in Vienna signed the safeguards deal on February 2, 2009. This writer called him to ascertain his views, only to have the taste of his famous quick temper. He banged the receiver with a cryptic: “I’ve nothing to say… It’s not my job to save your job.” A couple of minutes later, a close aide of his was on the line, dictating his brief response — but not before apologising on his behalf for his angry first reaction. That Pranab da one will forever remember, and miss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-repository-of-knowledge-set-high-standards-of-bipartisanism/story-1V5Y6hFPysLf2wC7mApiyO.html
01-09-2020||India||Lockdown phase took severe toll on economic activity||India’s GDP contracted by 23.9% in the April-June quarter this year compared to the same period last year. This suggests that the lockdown’s toll on economic activity has been more severe than expected. A Bloomberg poll of 15 economists expected the contraction to be 19.2%. India was under an almost complete lockdown for the months of April and May. The lockdown was not the problem, but it is the manner in which it was implemented and the policy response which has followed that have made things worse, said experts. To be sure, the GDP numbers released on Monday are only the first estimates and they could be revised downwards further. This is because, the informal sector numbers, which are likely to have suffered more, will only become available at a later stage, Pranab Sen, India’s former chief statistician said. The economic contraction has affected the entire non-farm economy including the government sector. Agriculture was the only silver lining with a growth of 3.4%. Gross Value Added (GVA), which measures the value of production minus taxes contracted by 22.8%. Even the Public Administration, Defence and Other Services sub-sector, which captures spending by the government, has contracted by 10.3%. The contraction in government spending will only increase going forward as state governments are facing a severe resource crunch, said Himanshu, associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. This will only complicate the recovery going forward, he added.The expenditure side numbers suggest that both consumption and investment demand collapsed during the lockdown. Private Final Consumption Expenditure contracted by 26.7%. Gross fixed capital formation, which measures investment, suffered a contraction of 47.1%.Government Consumption Expenditure, however, grew by 16.4%. Even nominal GDP contracted by 22.6%, which means that the base of tax collection will shrink. ‘The fact that wholesale price indices are in contraction mode should have left no doubt that producer prices are declining. This is bound to show in nominal growth numbers, said Pranab Sen. Krishnamurthy Subramanian, chief economic adviser (CEA), ministry of finance said the economic performance in the April-June quarter is primarily due to an exogenous shock (Covid-19 pandemic) that has been felt globally, and India has already started a V-shaped recovery after the lockdown was eased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-phase-took-severe-toll-on-economic-activity/story-FlfxcGR15S7ehOSZ9YacLM.html
01-09-2020||India||Tributes pour in from across political spectrum for a colossus of public life||Political leaders cutting across party lines paid tributes to former President Pranab Mukherjee, who died at the age of 84 on Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi described him as a scholar par excellence and a towering statesman who was admired across the political spectrum. Modi said Pranab has left an indelible mark on the nation’s development trajectory.“As India’s President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee made Rashtrapati Bhavan even more accessible to common citizens. He made the President’s house a centre of learning, innovation, culture, science and literature. His wise counsel on key policy matters will never be forgotten by me,” the PM tweeted. Congress president Sonia Gandhi recalled Pranab’s long association with her party and said the void left behind by his demise would be difficult to fill. “He brought distinction to every post he held, he established a genuine rapport with colleagues across the political spectrum, and he served our country with utmost dedication.” West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee expressed deep sorrow over the 84-year-old’s death and said with his demise “an era has come to an end”. “So many memories. A visit to Delhi without Pranabda is unimaginable. He is a legend in all subjects from politics to economics. Will be forever grateful. Shall miss him immensely,” Banerjee tweeted. Kerala chief minister and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Pinarayi Vijayan said that Pranab was a politician “who played a significant role in upholding India’s prestige at the international level”. “He stood for the protection and empowerment of constitutional values and constantly strived to inculcate values in the society, including secularism,” he said. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat hailed the former president as “a great scholar and a patriot” whose loss cannot be compensated.“India’s former President Dr Pranab Mukherjee’s passing away is a huge loss for all swayamsevaks who had come in contact with him. I had met him twice when he was President and three to four times afterwards,” Bhagwat said in a video message in Hindi.Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina also expressed sorrow over the demise of Mukherjee.“His demise has caused an irreparable loss to the political arena of the sub-continent,” Hamid said, describing Mukherjee as a “real and sincere friend” of Bangladesh. Hasina, too, called Mukherjee a “true friend” of Bangladesh and a guardian-like figure to her family. “The news of Mr Pranab Mukherjee’s demise deeply saddened her . . . she became emotional and nostalgic as she reminisced her many memories with him,” state-run BSS reported, quoting the premier’s press secretary Ihsanul Karim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tributes-pour-in-from-across-political-spectrum-for-a-colossus-of-public-life/story-u2rr0l9hGmCiEwl9VhT9kI.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee: A towering figure of Indian politics leaves behind an unmatched legacy||For 50 years, till a few days before he was detected with a brain haemorrhage on August 10, Pranab Mukherjee kept a diary. It must make for compelling reading. For much of this period, Mukherjee was active in public life. He positioned himself as a reliable support system, a trusted vice-captain to at least three Prime Ministers. Then, as the country’s first citizen, he had a vantage view of politics at the highest level from Rashtrapati Bhavan. Mukherjee, 84, died 21 days after the surgery at the Army Research and Referral Hospital on August 10, leaving behind a rich legacy of old-school politics, three children, countless friends across parties -- and the diary. His death elicited an outpouring of grief across the political spectrum, a reminder of his brand of politics that placed a premium on personal equations—the reason why everyone called him Pranab da and not the distant Pranab babu. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose government awarded Mukherjee India’s highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna last year, said: “He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum...” Also read| Had Pranab da become PM in 2012, political events post 2014 would have been different: Venu RajamonyCongress President Sonia Gandhi, to whom his loyalty was never in question, said, “He brought distinction to every post he held, he established genuine rapport with colleagues across the political spectrum and he served our country with utmost dedication.”And former PM Manmohan Singh, a junior of Mukherjee who became his senior and boss, said: “He and I worked very closely in the Government of India and I depended on him a great deal for his wisdom, vast knowledge and experience of public affairs”. Mukherjee was born in Mirati, a nondescript village in undivided Bengal on December 11, 1935. His father Kamada Kinkar Mukherjee, was involved in India’s struggle for independence and would go on to serve in the West Bengal Legislative Council between 1952 and 1964 from Congress. Also read: Pranab Mukherjee was a workhorse who excelled at different rolesPranab da has spoken of how, as a young boy, he had to walk for miles, and during the monsoon swim across an overflowing river, to reach school. But he doggedly pursued education. For him, India’s Independence in 1947 meant simple dreams, better food and a footbridge across the river. By 1963, with degrees in political science and history (a Masters) and law, Mukherjee was teaching political science at Vidyanagar College and Howrah Chaitanya College in West Bengal. The young boy from Mirati might have thought he had arrived – but in truth, he was just getting started. In 1969, he was involved in VK Krishna Menon’s successful run in the Midnapore Lok Sabha constituency (Menon was contesting as an independent). The same year, Bangla Congress, a regional offshoot of the Indira Gandhi-led Congress, sent him to the Rajya Sabha (Two years later, it merged with the main party). He had four more terms in the Rajya Sabha (1975, 1981, 1993, and 1999) before he won 2004 Lok Sabha election in Jangipur. He retained his seat in 2009 and three years later, became President of India. Also read: A gentleman who had the memory of an elephantThrough these four decades , he was a key player in the political mainstream, expect for the period between 1984 and 1989, when he was sidelined by the late Rajiv Gandhi, who considered Mukherjee a rival for the PM’s post after Indira Gandhi’s assassination. In 1986, he even formed his own party, the Rashtriya Samajwadi Congress in West Bengal, but merged it with the Congress, after making up with Rajiv Gandhi, in 1989. While Mukherjee himself has said the Prime Minister’s office was not for him, it was widely believed that his biggest ambition was the country’s top elected office in the leafy corner of the South Block. It remained a distant dream, but he did ascend Raisina Hill, occupied various other corners of North and South Block, and finally settled for a tenure at Rashtrapati Bhavan. His first PM, of course, was Indira Gandhi. He was a junior minister of industry in her 1973 cabinet. In 1982, he rose to be finance minister in her government. Then came his brief stint in the wilderness. But he was soon back. Also read: Congress’s troubleshooter whose mark was on every UPA policyJairam Ramesh’s semi-autobiographical book “To the Brink and Back” narrates how Mukherjee prepared a draft roadmap of the new government and its economic priorities in 1991 before P V Narasimha Rao became the PM. Mukherjee was the chief architect behind India’s accession to the WTO in January 1995. While the prospects of India acceding to an all-encompassing multilateral trade regime met with strong domestic opposition, Mukherjee convinced Rao and later signed the WTO Trade Agreement. And a year later, when Rao—sidelined into oblivion—needed a Delhi resident to support his bail application, Mukherjee’s wife (she owned a house in GK 2) signed the documents in the police station. Mukherjee’s relationship with Manmohan Singh was perhaps the most complex and, at the same time, most rewarding. Having served under Mukherjee in various capacities, Singh initially continued to call his former boss “sir”, much to the latter’s discomfort. Finally, when Mukherjee announced it was untenable to be addressed as sir by his boss, Singh resorted to Pranab ji . He worked hard under Singh, but like most members of the UPA cabinet, his loyalty was tilted towards Sonia Gandhi. Mukherjee enjoyed unbridled power, led the defence, finance and foreign affairs ministries, headed more than 100 groups of ministers (GoMs; the UPA’s preferred tool for policy-making and trouble shooting) and had a say in every policy, right from the creation of an anti corruption ombudsman to the stimulus package of 2008 which saved India from economic ruin. To be sure, Singh and Mukherjee differed on quite a few issues. There was exasperation in the PMO at the way some Mukherjee aides tried to run the show in the ministry. But Singh never missed seeking out Mukherjee’s counsel on key issues of economy and foreign policy. When the Pakistan PM said he would come to Mohali to watch the world cup match between the two countries in 2011 with Singh, the latter asked Mukherjee what he should discuss. Mukherjee retorted, “anything under the sun except serious bilateral issues.” (The finance minister had little idea about one-day cricket and would praise Singh’s patience for spending a whole day in a stadium) Days after Singh’s retirement in 2014, this writer asked his principal secretary TKA Nair, why the PM, a progressive economic thinker allowed the controversial proposal on retrospective tax in the 2012 budget and Nair replied that the PM perhaps couldn’t tell Mukherjee anything considering the latter’s stature and experience. There was an effort to make him the President in 2007. The Congress proposed the names of Mukherjee, Shivraj Patil and Sushil Kumar Shinde to allies as possible presidential candidate. But there was no replacement for Mukherjee in the government in the early years of the UPA, and the party decided it couldn’t afford to lose him. Finally, in 2012, the chance came again. The party still wanted him, but eventually Sonia Gandhi, the party president had little option but to back Mukherjee; any other candidate would have meant a contest. In a farewell function for him, Gandhi quipped that she would miss Mukherjee’s tantrums. Pranab Mukherjee went to Rashtrapati Bhavan, a graceful exit from active politics. But soon, the customary equation between the President and the PM in the republic’s inner circle took a new turn when Narendra Modi, a man straight from state politics, met Mukherjee, a perpetual national player. Their bond grew quickly. The President often advised the PM on foreign affairs and other issues. Modi has publicly acknowledged Mukherjee’s contributions saying, “He held my hand in my initial days in Delhi.” The equation didn’t suffer in Mukherjee’s post-retirement life. Senior NDA ministers regularly queued up at Rajaji Marg for his counsel. A party colleague once described Mukherjee as the Shashi Kapoor of politics— always under the shadow of the bigger stars (PMs). But Mukherjee didn’t breathe his last as a loser. He didn’t have a godfather, yet he made it to the very top. From an ordinary background, he became a towering figure of contemporary politics. He wanted to be a teacher but life brought him to politics. He walked the long walk from Mirati village to corridors of power in Delhi, or from his first certificate of victory in Rajya Sabha in 1960s to the Bharat Ratna. Till days before his hospitalisation, he diligently maintained his diary, as he did for the last 50 years. What tales it can tell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-towering-figure-of-indian-politics-leaves-behind-an-unmatched-legacy/story-ltVQ5OuxBmsYmpwEYFmUGP.html
01-09-2020||India||Highest highway length in 3 years awarded during Covid-19 pandemic: NHAI||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Monday said it has awarded the highest length of projects during the months of April to August of financial year 2020-21, as compared to the projects awarded during the same period in the last three years.During April to August 2020, NHAI awarded 26 projects of 744 km length at a cost of over Rs 31,000 crore as compared to 676 km in FY 2019-20, 368 km in FY-2018-19 and 504 km in FY 2017-18.“Despite lockdown and the prevailing situation, NHAI took various initiatives to instill confidence in the bidders of the sector. To ease the liquidity crunch and ensure cash flow to the contractors, NHAI ensured that no payments are delayed due to closure of office and disbursed Rs 10,000 crore during lockdown in March 2020 using digital platforms,” NHAI said in a statement.“In the first quarter of current FY, NHAI disbursed more than Rs 15,000 crore to vendors. Additionally, steps such as monthly payments to the contractors were taken. Such moderations saw an encouraged participation from the bidders resulting in spiraling effect on the growth of the road sector. With the increase in awards and expanding highway construction, NHAI has got a good beginning for a year marred by the global outbreak of the pandemic,” it added.According to credit ratings agency ICRA, commercial vehicle movement on national highways recovered to near 90% of pre-Covid-19 levels in July. However, the movement in passenger vehicles is yet to recover fully and is still hovering at 60% of their pre-Covid-19 levels, it said in a report last week, adding that if the pace of recovery continues and holds, the year-on-year fall in toll collections can be limited to under 10%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-highway-length-in-3-years-awarded-during-covid-19-pandemic-nhai/story-GbAe3xmkZQs9TNT2IWnIBM.html
01-09-2020||India||Had Pranabda become PM in 2012, political events post 2014 would have been different: Venu Rajamony||Venu Rajamony – Ambassador of India to the Netherlands, who was Pranab Mukherjee’s Press Secretary for five years at the President House, remembers him as a leader who was not only an authority on parliamentary procedures and history but was also the principal troubleshooter for Congress during UPA I and II. During his presidency, Rajamony says, he believed defending the Constitution was his prime responsibility. Rajamony adds that one of Pranab Mukherjee’s most important reforms was to open up the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the public and make it a democratic institution. “He strongly believed that Rashtrapati Bhavan belongs to the nation and there should be greater participation by ordinary Indians in its activities. This is when regular tours of the public were started at the Rashtrapati Bhavan and its libraries and archives were thrown open to scholars,” Rajamony told HT over the phone from Netherlands. ALSO READ | Pranab Mukherjee dies: A look at his illustrious political career“This legacy of Pranab Da should be safeguarded and protected,” Rajamony adds. A scholar of politics, economics and foreign affairs, Pranab Mukherjee was admired by all, across political parties for his knowledge, experience and wisdom. “He was capable of uniting different political parties and finding common ground,” the Ambassador says. His first and last love, Rajamony describes, was Parliament. “It is in the Parliament that he was most happy and he believed it was the Parliament which made him who he was. On many occasions during his tenure as President, Pranabda would sit with longing in front of the television watching debates in Parliament and say, ‘I miss being in the House. I wish I was there, participating in those debates’,” Rajamony told HT. Recalling the former President’s sharp memory, Rajamony said, “He could remember events, dates and numbers and was considered a walking encyclopedia.” “Senior officials who had to brief him would do so with fear because he would always know more than them. Pranabda could easily cite budget figures going back to the earliest budget presented in Parliament after independence,” he adds. ALSO READ | Pranab Mukherjee: The vice-captain who went on to be refereeAsserting that the former President was “old-fashioned”, Rajamony said he believed that much of what he knew and had seen would die with him. “(The Then PM) Indira Gandhi once remarked that if anyone tried to make Pranabda cough up secrets, only smoke would come out.” “Pranabda maintained copious diaries throughout his life but was not interested in them seeing the light of the day for as long as he was alive,” the Ambassador added. The Indian Foreign Service officer, who also served with Pranab Mukherjee for two years in the finance ministry, said that Pranab Da deserved more. If Pranab Da had become the Prime Minister and Dr Manmohan Singh had moved to Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2012, political events post 2014 would perhaps have been very different, Rajamony adds. Paying tribute to Pranab Da, the Ambassador added that “his life and memory will inspire others in public life to emulate him and live up to his high standards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-pranab-da-become-pm-in-2012-political-events-post-2014-would-have-been-different-venu-rajamony/story-4mFuWqBKtiHsSg7kWXmUaM.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee was always ready and never said no to the party||I was elected in 1977 and met Pranab da within the first year of coming to Parliament. For 43 years, we were in touch constantly, and became especially close when I served as parliamentary secretary to Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. That was an eventful time; Pranab da had started a new party in Bengal and then later became the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief. I was junior to him but he’d always treat me like a colleague or even a younger brother.As PCC chief of Bengal, he had to handle several agitations. I remember once we visited the hospital to see those who were injured in one. Suddenly, things became quite tense. The thing that I most clearly remember about that incident is that he didn’t abandon me . He braved the stone-throwing to ensure that I sat in the car with him. He was known to be a tough person but whenever I called him for anything, he wouldn’t just hear me out, but get it done. I think it was either in the Bangalore plenary session or in Faizabad one that one minister who was supposed to address the party said that he wouldn’t be able to speak. I just asked Pranab da to give the speech ; with 10 minutes’ notice he spoke very well. He was always ready and never said no to the party.We then worked together in the time of Sitaram Kesri. Whether it was on Kesri’s appointment as the Congress president or his resignation, we worked together. Of course, he went on to play a major role in government. I remember during the vote on the Indo-US Nuclear deal (2008), we worked very closely to ensure that the vote of confidence went off very smoothly. That’s the reason we got exactly the kind of result that we wanted from it. In core group meetings, where we again worked together, he would often be stern with some minister or member; if they said anything wrong, he’d immediately respond. This was typical of him.The unusual thing about our meetings was that they were mostly held at night. I was usually his last visitor, dropping in at 11:30 pm or midnight or even later at least twice or thrice a week. He would finish that meeting, then shower and eat his dinner. Late night was the best time to talk to him, and it’s these exchanges where I got the best kind of guidance from him. He was an encyclopaedia of Indian politics and was well aware of all that was happening across the world. So, you’d always gain from these exchanges. Of course, I had a way of gauging his mood during these visits. If he said`Heralal, chai lao” (Bring some tea)’, then I’d know that he was in a good mood. If he simply said “Baithiye” (Sit)’ then I’d know that he was busy. This continued even when he took up a constitutional role.When he was chosen to become President, I was the one who went to inform him of the clearance of his name. He was very happy and immediately thanked Soniaji (Sonia Gandhi) and others. Yes, he had arguments with people and differences of opinion but when he was informed of the PM’s decision or Soniaji’s, he would accept it. This despite the fact that he couldn’t become the Prime Minister, and that regret stayed with him. He never said it openly and it wasn’t that huge a source of bitterness for him. His goal didn’t stop him from doing a stellar job as a cabinet minister or the other assignments that he was given. For instance, when the United Progressive Alliance came to power in 2004, he wanted to be home minister. However, that wasn’t to be and he really worked hard at the defence portfolio. My visits to him as President weren’t just official ones. When he was writing his book or even otherwise, if we didn’t meet each other for a week or 10 days, he’d call me and ask where I was and that I should drop in. When he was invited to visit the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarter in Nagpur, he took a long time to decide if he should go. He told me, “If I don’t go, then it will be a problem ; if I go, it will be a problem. It’s better that I go there and give my message.’’ And that’s what he did.He had a big heart. I remember that I wanted him to inaugurate a hospital in my constituency. It wasn’t a big hospital at all but just because I asked him, he came all the way to Gujarat for its opening. I just think that I’m very lucky to have had the opportunity to have worked with him so closely. He taught me all the things I couldn’t learn from books-- history of the party, what happened when the Congress split twice.... He was very clear in his mind about what was right and he followed his principles. He said whatever was in his heart. He shared so much with me but some of them are things that I will never share with others. These are things that went with him and will also go with me to my grave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-da-was-always-ready-and-never-said-no-to-the-party/story-Dmo3nltnNuKkZQgV90QAkN.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee was a workhorse who excelled at different roles||Pranab Mukherjee faced and triumphed over several challenges during his eventful five decades in public life. His passing has left a void in our public life; he was a consummate politician with multifaceted contributions to his credit. Pranab da is entitled to a certain space in the history of post-Independence India.After he laid down the highest office of our country in 2017, I had a few meetings with Pranab da. Though I had a fairly good idea of his multifaceted personality, my personal interactions revealed much more than I knew of him. His deep understanding of our country, including its history and evolution and the current and future challenges, was amazing. At the end of every meeting, I used to walk away with an impression that he was nothing short of an encyclopedia. His number crunching ability and sharp memory at his age was bewildering. In his death, the country has lost a statesman at a critical time. On a couple of times, when I had run into tough situations presiding over the Rajya Sabha, he called to put me at ease. His thoughtful gestures were comforting and useful. His sage words will remain in my memory. I often quoted him in the House, urging members to “debate, discuss and decide” and not disrupt proceedings. Pranab da had the rare honour being the Leader of the House both in the Rajya Sabha and in the Lok Sabha, a distriction he shared with Lal Bahadur Shastri and VP Singh. As his colleague in the Rajya Sabha, I was witness to the seriousness with which he took his role. He had a thorough grip of the rules and procedures of the House. On a few occasions, he used to get worked up. When Shri LK Advani, as the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, raised an issue, Pranab da was harsh on him. Soon thereafter, I walked up to him and politely submitted that he should not have dealt with Shri Advani the way he did. Pranab da quickly realised it and met Shri Advani to make amends. He even thanked me for bringing it to his attention. It was this rare quality that endeared him to all across the political spectrum. Since entering the Rajya Sabha in 1969 and becoming member of the council of ministers in 1973 and demitting office of the President of India in 2017, Pranab Da had been a part of the journey and transformation of our country. He played an important role as a politician, legislator, negotiator and administrator, leaving a mark of his own. His meteoric rise from a clerk to the highest office of India was not fortuitous. It was a natural culmination of sustained manifestation of his deep reserves of knowledge, wisdom, ability and understanding of the men and women around. He proved himself to be a useful and reliable aide to all his benefactors whenever needed. His deep understanding of the contours, the fault lines and functioning of our polity lent solidity to his inputs and advice. Pranab da was a relentless workhorse. The number of groups of ministers and empowered groups of ministers he chaired during 2004-14 speaks eloquently of his wide acceptance and ability to reconcile differences. I used to wonder about his stamina and capacity to take so much of a workload upon him and do justice to every job he handled. Pranab Mukherjee held about a dozen ministerial assignments for about 25 years, handling about 10 ministries besides being the vice chairman of the Planning Commission. While the sheer scale and range of such important responsibilities do speak for the ability of the man, his contributions do so even more. Pranab da had a deep understanding of the pitfalls and challenges facing our society but also the limitations of the finances of the country. As the minister of finance for the first time in 1980, he proved to be an early reformer and worked hard to improve the financials of the country and introduced fiscal deficit targeting. As defence minister, he signed Indo-US defence framework deal in 2005 and scripted the first anti-terror games with Russia in the same year. India became a full dialogue partner of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) in 1996, when he was the external affairs minister. As talented as he was, he nursed the ambition of, and even came close to, becoming the Prime Minister twice but missed out. He handled these misses in his own way. His actions during the Emergency also came under scrutiny. I hold Pranab da in the highest esteem for his sweep of knowledge, including the cultural traditions and ethos of our society and the nationalist philosophy of our motherland. He had an abiding faith in the pluralism and diversity of our country. Much against the advice of many, Pranab da, as the former President of India, addressed the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s training camp at Nagpur in 2018. When he spoke there, he did so for India ,outlining its core philosophy of inclusivity, peace and harmony. He stressed that our nationalism flows from our Constitution and it is neither exclusive nor aggressive nor destructive. That is what statesmen are made of. The five-decade-long public life and journey of Pranab da ran parallel to the transformation of our country. He had his own role to play in it. The passing of such a legend is an irreparable loss to the nation. My tributes to this great son of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-was-a-workforce-who-excelled-at-different-roles/story-QvrNIstGPoddCa8Gqt4thN.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee: A gentleman who had the memory of an elephant||With the death of Pranab Mukherjee, Pranab da as we all addressed him, India and Indian politics are left with a void. He served the Indian parliament and many Indian governments in leading positions in his five-decade-long political life. He entered the Rajya Sabha when I was still in school. Despite his seniority, he never treated people like me in a condescending manner. As far as I am concerned, he had always treated me as an equal, never expressing any acrimony over our differences.Right from the 1970s, there were occasions when l had to confront Pranabda, as Indra Gandhi’s trusted cabinet colleague, during the Emergency. Differences continued all through my association with him for nearly four decades. Though not in parliament, in various political delegations I had to confront him when he, as the commerce minister, was negotiating the formation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and drawing India into supporting the Dunkel Draft. We were protesting on the streets of Delhi while Pranabda was presiding over India’s role in the WTO’s formation.However, it was during the period of the Vajpayee government and the efforts for uniting the secular opposition parties to defeat that government in the 2004 general elections that I had the opportunity to interact with him closely. During these discussions, particularly concerning the simultaneous assembly elections in Andhra Pradesh over seat adjustments, Pranabda was leading the Congress delegation. During the course of one of these often contentious discussions, he suddenly took me aside to ask my opinion on whether he should contest the Lok Sabha election. He had never entered the Lok Sabha as an elected MP till then. I recollect telling him that I am too junior to give someone like him any advice and refused. He, however, insisted. I told him that he should contest only if he was more than confident of victory. In those crucial elections, when we were working for the defeat of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Pranabda losing would send a very wrong signal. Eventually, he contested and won from Jangipur and then emerged as the main pointsman of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) and the coalition government that was formed. He was indispensable for the UPA government, serving on every committee with the coalition partners, particularly, UPA-Left coordination committee.He had always insisted that I should come to parliament. When the Party told me to, I entered the Rajya Sabha in 2005 and felt very touched by the manner Pranabda received me, giving me valuable tips about something that I had very little knowledge of, i.e. parliamentary proceedings. All through those years, till he was elected President of India, we had been having almost daily interactions. On one occasion, claiming success for insulating India from the 2008 global financial meltdown, Pranabda told the Rajya Sabha that the Indian banking and financial system was spared thanks to Indira Gandhi’s bank nationalisation. This was soon after the Left withdrew its support from the UPA in 2008 following the disagreements over the Indo-US civilian nuclear deal. I recollect my interrupting him and urging him to yield to allow me to make a point which he graciously did. Such parliamentary decorum and dignity has now become a thing of the past. I had then told the house that bank nationalisation was one of the conditions that the Left parties had then put before Indira Gandhi in return for their support to her presidential candidate V.V. Giri. In addition, the Left had also asked for coal nationalisation. Pranabda had a memory of an elephant. He recalled the details of the talks, of which I knew very little, and went on to say that one more demand was the abolition of privy purses. I was till then under the impression that this demand was raised by others whom Indira Gandhi had approached for support. Nonetheless, I recollect saying then that whenever the Congress Party heeded the advice of the Left, it not only helped its government but, importantly, benefited the country. However, unfortunately, this is not being followed with regard to the Indo-US nuclear deal. There was the usual merriment and interruptions in the proceedings but not for a minute did Pranabda lose his cool, having to contend with a person very junior to him in politics. He maintained that decorum of treating everyone on an equal footing, giving the highest priority to the culture of debate, discussion and decision in parliamentary proceedings. The first official visit Pranabda undertook after becoming the President of India was to Bangladesh. He received a rousing welcome as the son-in-law of Bangladesh as his wife Surva migrated from this part of undivided Bengal. His knowledge of Bengal, its culture, the partition, the agonies and tribulations was phenomenal. He was a person who was deeply engrossed in the culture and life of the Bengalis. All this was magnified, peppered with nostalgia, when we had visited Shilaidaha, the ancestral home of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore. He would regale us with many an anecdote and stories about Tagore’s life and work which I had never known before.  I can go on narrating many such personal experiences, but these shall be cherished for a future occasion. Pranab da will be missed. My heartfelt condolences to his son Abhijit and daughter Sharmishta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-gentleman-who-had-the-memory-of-an-elephant-yechury-on-pranab/story-WybLXArrlOdVpfLTI1EUqO.html
01-09-2020||India||Congress’s troubleshooter whose mark was on every UPA policy||Two senior ministers had taken exactly opposite stands amid a looming economic crisis. It was 2008 and the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh quickly formed a group of ministers—the UPA era’s favourite tool of settling policy troubles—to suggest a solution. At the GoM meeting, one minister maintained that the Indian corporate sector must be given some relief. The other and more powerful one took a stand that the government must not intervene in matters of private business. Mukherjee finally intervened and declared that the government has to take a “political decision” and not an “economic one”. A few days later, India announced its first stimulus package to tackle the global slowdown triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers in the US. In 2004, when the UPA came to power, Mukherjee had initially hoped for the home ministry portfolio. He even started brushing up the standing committee reports on home, the panel which he headed for a long time. But less than an hour before the swearing-in function, he was asked to take over the defence portfolio. The home portfolio went to Shivraj Patil. Mukherjee initially felt somewhat sidelined in the stiff hierarchy of power but soon he would assume immense power—only next to the Prime Minister in the government--thanks to his towering presence in nearly all groups of ministers. Between 2004 and 2012, every major policy of the UPA government had the imprint of Pranab Mukherjee as he headed dozens of GoMs or Manmohan Singh’s kitchen cabinets.“Between 2004-2012, Shri Mukherjee was instrumental in spearheading critical decisions of the Government on a range of issues such as Administrative reforms, Right to Information, Right to Employment, Food Security, Energy Security, Information Technology and telecommunication, setting up of UIDAI, Metro Rail, etc through Chairmanship of over 95 Groups of Ministers constituted for the purpose,” reads his official profile in the Rashtrapati Bhavan archive. He got so engrossed in shaping India’s policies and the GoMs got such prominence that many people started lovingly calling Pradeep Gupta, a fine, upright officer entrusted with his GoM files, as “GoM Gupta”. And it was these GoMs that highlighted his prowess to solve intricate problems and structural issues and help him consolidate his brand as an ace troubleshooter for the UPA. He was entrusted with delicate political situations—the demand for Telangana in the early UPA years, the threat of a DMK withdrawal, Anna Hazare’s movement for a Lokpal—and critical policy issues such as financing Air India, setting up a Direct Benefit Transfer mechanism framework and many pieces of rights-based legislation, which would ultimately become the hallmark of the UPA’s success story.It was not an easy task. He handled conflicting views, diverse interests and major ego trips before a GoM or an empowered group of ministers would arrive at a decision. Things would often get out of hand. During a GoM meeting on Air India, a furious minister stood up and announced his resignation, leaving everyone in the room speechless. Mukherjee held the minister’s hand and announced a break for 15 minutes. After the meeting reassembled, the proceedings went on smoothly. To be sure, there is an indelible imprint of Pranab Mukherjee in the world’s largest unique identity programme, the Aadhaar framework. Even as UIDAI chief Nandan Nilekani enjoyed excellent rapport with both Rahul and Sonia Gandhi, it was Mukherjee who gave him the crucial administrative and policy backing in the UIDAI versus NPR tussle. Mukherjee never learnt how to use a computer but he had the vision of a technology-driven unique identity network that would one day change the landscape of India’s targeted welfare programmes and a large part of income tax and other financial structures. Manmohan Singh’s success as the finance minister had much to do with the political support of PV Narasimha Rao. As Prime Minister, many of his flagship programmes and policies found administrative and political backing of Pranab Mukherjee. Mukherjee got so used to spending hours browsing files that after he was nominated as President, P Chidambaram rightly predicted that he would get bored in the highest office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-cong-s-troubleshooter-whose-mark-was-on-every-upa-policy/story-hB2N47NVZ6aC5dGR0wQU3M.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee: Intergenerational mentor in politics||Pranab Mukherjee was a unique entity in our political firmament. In a sense, he was an intergenerational link. He never allowed the present to become hostage to the past or the vision of the future to be blurred by the complexities of today when he had said, “As Indians, we must of course learn from the past; but we must remain focused on the future.”I first came in contact with Pranab da, as he was affectionately called, when I was working as special assistant to Professor DP Chattopadhyaya (1973-1981). I had no inkling at that time that political fortunes would take a full turn and I would be working as his special assistant too (1980-1981).He had a memory which could challenge any modern computer and leave the listener dumbstruck by its phenomenal precision. He was often described as a living computer. This always gave him a vantage position in public life, for political entities are invariably short on memory and ensuing political dynamics.While his contemporaries had strayed into different configurations, he remained fiercely loyal to Indira Gandhi. Her unquestioned dependence on Pranab da and his advice had made him an unofficial major power centre and held many in awe. When he asked me for the names of people who could possibly be appointed as Mrs Gandhi’s principal secretary, I had given a panel of names which included Dr PC Alexander. His advice was finally accepted in selecting Alexander as the new principal secretary.In recognition of his ability, he assumed the office of the finance minister (1982-1984). Our paths would cross again during this period when I was posted to Japan as minister, economic and commerce (1981-1984) and we were seeking access to the borrowings from the Asian Development Bank and securing the iconic Maruti-Suzuki agreement.Pranab was an early liberaliser. While holding the dual responsibilities of deputy chairman of the Planning Commission (1991-1996) and commerce minister (1993-1995), he recognised that the Licence Raj had done India enormous economic harm. The early efforts at trade liberalisation were initiated by him. His audacious step to have the first large aluminium project as a joint venture with Aluminium Pechiney took place when he was serving dual responsibilities of minister, commerce, and minister, steel and mines. Subsequently, he served a second stint as finance minister (2009-2012) under Manmohan Singh. In his second stint, Pranab undertook the bold decision for the first time to explicitly cut public debt as a proportion of the GDP. During this period in 1984, Pranab was rated as the best finance minister in the world according to a survey by Euromoney, and, subsequently in 2010, he was also awarded “Finance Minister of the Year for Asia” by Emerging Markets. When I was a Member of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha (2008-2014), Pranab was the finance minister. I sometimes excited the jealousy of my colleagues that he would entertain my comments out of his affection and generosity.Many names were under consideration as to who would be Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam’s successor. He had expressed some disappointment to me in passing that he must exit from North Block and clearly since there was no room in South Block, he would certainly hope and wish to occupy the Raisina Hills. I could not do much, except that perhaps I did speak to one of the important partners of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Nitish Kumar, who had a great liking for Pranab da, given his dignity and equanimity in conducting multiple public offices.During his presidential swearing-in speech, he had remarked that, “I have seen vast, perhaps unbelievable, changes during the journey that has brought me from the flicker of a lamp in a small Bengal village to the chandeliers of Delhi.” He brought dignity, grace and decorum to the President’s office. He was unswerving in the emphasis that India’s destiny lay in its innovative capabilities and had remarked, “For us, democracy is not a gift, but a sacred trust.” He was respected across the political spectrum for his fair, rational and appropriate advice. Given his strong cultural interests, his late wife Suvra Mukherjee was a vibrant person in Delhi circles, organising lessons in Indian classical music and dance; these values have been inculcated in his children, Abhijit and Sharmistha.For a long time, he was inseparable from a pipe and had perhaps the most treasured pipe collection anybody could dream of.Pranab Babu was a prolific reader and writer. When he was working on his own autobiography, published in several volumes, he had told me that he could do so with felicity because he had kept a detailed diary of events. Even though some parts of it were lost, this did not deter him in any way given his memory recall. Pranab da consented to write a foreword to my autobiography. When the release had been planned before it got delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, he had kindly consented to grace the occasion for a few minutes and speak about the Indian economic growth process. While his foreword would remain as a coveted piece, I would greatly miss the supreme privilege of having him as the guest of honour.NK Singh is the chairperson of the 15th Finance Commission and a former Member of Parliament||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intergenerational-mentor-in-politics-nk-singh-on-pranab/story-8zAYKUKHj9J7xDHg4zOaiP.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee: Master of anecdotes, both in their creating and retelling||New Delhi: Chaudhary Charan Singh brandished sheets of paper in the Lok Sabha, read out what he termed the forthcoming Union budget speech and accused then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of leaking the sovereign document to the International Monetary Fund (a three-letter abbreviation but a four-letter word back at the time). This was 1983. Gandhi panicked momentarily and summoned her finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, who was in the other House of Parliament. Mukherjee came, heard Singh for a few seconds and turned to Gandhi to reassure her that things were under control. After Singh’s tirade ended, Pranab spoke briefly: “What you read is correct, but you didn’t see the date of the speech. It is my last year’s speech,” the young finance minister quipped and the Congress benches erupted into laughter.Mukherjee, India’s politician for all seasons was close to Gandhi, but his decision to contest the 1980 Lok Sabha polls irked her. After the results came out (and Mukherjee lost miserably) a furious Indira Gandhi dialled him at Kolkata to say, “Everyone knew that you will lose. Even Geeta (as friends called Mukherjee’s wife) knew it. But still you went ahead and created trouble for me.”Two days later, another call came. This time, Sanjay Gandhi spoke: “Mummy is very angry with you. But she also said, ‘There can’t be any cabinet without Pranab’. Take a flight for Delhi tomorrow.”In later years, when the rest of Lutyens’ Delhi was asleep, Mukherjee would narrate these stories -- immaculate portraits of his past with minute details (he even remembered what Gandhi ate when she met Margaret Thatcher for the first time).Gandhi, Mukherjee’s political mentor, also told him to appoint a teacher to improve his English accent. He refused saying, “Madam, what is done cannot be undone. Don’t try to make a square out of a circle.” His Hindi was worse, even after spending five decades in Delhi. Mukherjee’s adversaries in Congress once approached then PM Narsimha Rao to shunt him to a gubernatorial role in UP. Rao told them, “As it is half of our vote base has gone to Mulayam Singh Yadav. If Pranab goes to UP, the remaining voters will also run away when they hear his Hindi.”An avid reader, and history lover (World War 2 was his favourite part of history), Mukherjee was a foodie till he turned 40 and resorted to a diet -- chapatis that were only slightly larger than drink coasters.But when then railway minister Lalu Prasad boasted about the mangoes and lychees of Muzaffarpur at a UPA cabinet meeting, Mukherjee couldn’t remain silent. “You are wrong. The best mango and lychee are found in my electoral district of Murshidabad,” he announced. And as proof of the pudding, he started gifting specially packed mangoes and lychees to all his ministerial colleagues, allies— even key opposition leaders—every year to build a consensus on Murshidabad mangos.In the Congress, his favourite juniors were Shashi Tharoor, Kapil Sibal, Jairam Ramesh, Kamal Nath and Ghulam Nabi Azad. When Tharoor landed in trouble over his “holy cow” tweet, Mukherjee came to his rescue but also cautioned him : “This is the Congress party, not circus party”. He disliked socializing in the Delhi circuit and listed that he had attended just one personal dinner in Delhi -- hosted by Sibal. He backed Kamal Nath on several key issues but when Nath argued for almost 15 minutes at a cabinet meeting for adding Chhindwara to the Aspirational Districts’ list, an exasperated Mukherjee stopped him, “Kamal, this is the Union cabinet, not your gram panchayat meeting.” He called Ramesh “Joyram” and Pawan Bansal, his junior minister in finance, as “a boy”.For the chief trouble-shooter of the party, number 13 was, surprisingly, a lucky number. He got married on July 13; both his residence at Talkatora Road and parliament office were number 13; and he was the 13th person to become the President of India.Mukherjee’s wife put her foot down to proposals to shift home after he became defence minister. But the small bungalow at 13, Talkatora Road was the big world of strategies and policies. Left-UPA meetings on the Indo-US Nuclear Deal, phone calls with world leaders, interacting with top industrialists and even drafting key party documents like amendments of the Congress’s Constitution—all happened in that bungalow. Mukherjee was famous for working till late at night, but once told Montek Singh Ahluwalia, “I can read files till 2 am but as soon as I start reading Planning Commission reports, I fall asleep.”Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was once his next-door neighbour when they both lived near Safdarjung Road. In an interview to HT after Vajpayee’s death, Mukherjee described how Vajpayee asked his late wife, Suvra Mukherjee, to oversee all preparations for Vajpayee’s foster daughter Namita’s marriage. The late Biju Patnaik would at times drop in to relish Hilsa fish at the Mukherjee household and even offered a recipe for Hilsa. Pranabda couldn’t use a computer. His pastime revolved around books. And Aamir Khan’s Rang de Basanti was the first Hindi film he watched. Then censor board chief Sharmila Tagore was hesitant as the film involves revenge on India’s defence minister. She wanted Mukherjee to watch it first.Mukherjee, then defence minister, watched the first half and left the Mahadev Road theatre, telling a bewildered Khan and Tagore: “My job is to protect the country, not give censor certificate to films.”The next, and possibly his last, Hindi film was Piku. He invited Lal Krishna Advani, a film buff, to Rashtrapati Bhavan to watch the film that revolved around the relationship between an aged father and his daughter—a theme that played out in both the leaders’ daily lives too. Over 18 years since this writer’s first meeting with Pranab babu, he was the source of many everlasting memories, some avuncular raps on the knuckles, and a witness to a deeply embarrassing moment — the rendition of a lesser-known Rabindra Sangeet by the author mid-air in the Presidential flight. Always eager to pursue knowledge, Pranab Mukherjee called this writer to his suite on the return flight and announced that he had got someone to download the song so that he could memorize its lyrics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-master-of-anecdotes-both-in-their-creating-and-retelling/story-PjiyHsixMFafCchS3cTnRP.html
01-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand tells power companies to repair cables after death of 2 elephants||The Uttarakhand forest department will write to all power companies asking them to tighten suspension of high tension cables after two elephants died of suspected electrocution in the state in the past 10 days failing which action will be taken against them, forest officials said.The state forest department will give one month’s time to the companies for the repair work.JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department said that as per norms the height of the wires should be checked every year, which is not being done due to which sagging cables touch the bodies of the elephants. “Organisations like Power Transmission Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited (PTCUL) are supposed to check the height of high-tension wires passing through forest areas every year. The suspension of the wires changes over time and it lowers due to which it touches the elephants and other animals passing through those areas, leading to electrocution of the animals,” said Suhag. He added that the state forest department will give one month’s time to the industries to repair the wires after which action will be taken against them. “In the past ten days, two elephants have died likely due to electrocution. The post mortem reports are still awaited. But many such cases have been reported in the past three years,” added the chief wildlife warden. An elephant was found dead in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar forest division on Sunday. This was the seventh elephant death to be reported from the state in the last nearly three months. The chief wildlife warden on Sunday had said that it appeared that the elephant “died due to a natural cause or could have been electrocuted as a high-tension wire is passing through that area”. In the third week of August (August 20 and August 19), two elephants were reported dead from Lansdowne forest division of Uttarakhand within 24 hours. Sant Ram, divisional forest officer for Lansdowne forest division had said that both the elephants were adolescents and the deaths were reported from Kotdwar and Laldhang regions. Of these two elephants, officials had informed that one could have died due to electrocution as a high tension line goes through the place where its carcass was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-tells-power-companies-to-repair-cables-after-death-of-2-elephants/story-AY0ymQeBXmUTPhHI7sSInM.html
01-09-2020||India||Indian economy sees a record fall||The Indian economy declined by a record 23.9% in the first quarter of 2020-21 (April-June), reflecting the economic cost of the complete lockdown imposed to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that was in place in April and May, the first two months of the period. The contraction, the worst on record, was sharper than estimated by economists and could mean that the full year gross domestic product (GDP) for 2020-21 contracts by around 10%. That’s because most experts expect the GDP numbers to be revised downwards as more data from smaller companies, hit hard by the pandemic, and, eventually, data on the informal sector are factored in. Gross Value Added, which measures the value of production minus taxes, declined 22.6%. “With nominal GDP also showing a negative growth of about -23% in the quarter, tax revenues are likely to contract sharply in the year,” said DK Srivastava, chief policy adviser, EY India. However, Krishnamurthy Subramanian, the chief economic adviser, claimed that “India is experiencing a V-shaped recovery after the unlocks have been announced”, citing the declining trend in core sector contraction, freight traffic growth (6% higher in the first 26 days of August compared to a year ago), and power consumption and E-Way bills (almost at last year’s levels) to buttress his point. “We should expect better performance in subsequent quarters,” he said. Other data released on Monday showed that the core sector shrank by 9.6% in July, better than the 12.9% decline in June. Still, the number marked the fifth straight month of decline for eight core industry sectors. The sharp fall in growth could encourage the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), currently holding interest rates, to consider a rate cut when it meets in October, although high inflation may hold its hand. “The RBI still has its focus on growth. This slightly improves chances of a rate cut in October. Unless the inflation comes below 5% in the next reading, RBI might still postpone the rate cut to December,” Reuters quoted L&T’s chief economist Rupa Rege Nitsure as saying.Among sectors, construction was hit the hardest, contracting by 50.3%, matched only by the trade, hotel, transport and communication sector, which declined 47%. Manufacturing contracted 39.3%. The agriculture sector provided the only silver lining, growing by 3.4%. Private consumption as well as investments fell, indicating the hit on both the supply and demand side. Private consumption fell 26.7% and gross fixed capital formation, 47.1%. Government consumption, which grew 16.4%, the highest in five quarters, prevented a sharper fall. Still, the government, which announced a ₹20 lakh crore economic stimulus and relief package in May, which also included credit guarantees and liquidity enhancing measures, will have to do more, experts said. “The Indian economy has clearly landed in a severe vicious cycle with the need for stimulating demand becoming paramount while the capacity to support demand by the government is at its weakest,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-economy-sees-a-record-fall/story-VjgOVaM42tHqzccwXqKh1I.html
01-09-2020||India||China provokes again, tries to alter status quo||India said on Monday that it had pre-empted “provocative military movements” by China to change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, a development that widened the trust deficit between the two sides and dealt a blow to efforts to reduce tensions.The incident followed the lack of forward movement in the disengagement and de-escalation process even after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. India has insisted that China should deliver on agreed actions for redeploying troops towards their regular posts along the LAC. China has been obdurate about this. People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops violated the consensus reached during military and diplomatic engagements and “carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo” on the night of August 29-30, Indian Army spokesperson Col Aman Anand said in a statement. “Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground,” he said, without elaborating on the nature of the Chinese provocation and how Indian soldiers blocked PLA’s actions. More than 200 Chinese soldiers were involved in the attempt to occupy Indian territory on the lake’s southern bank but sufficient number of Indian troops — armed with accurate intelligence about PLA movements in the sector — were able to thwart the threat, officials familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity. The confrontation didn’t escalate into a physical clash, they said. Until now, tensions in this sector were confined to the Finger Area on Pangong Lake’s northern bank.The movement of Chinese troops from their base towards Indian territory on the lake’s southern bank was detected at around midnight on August 29, said one of the officials cited above. Indian troops at forward positions on the LAC have been in the highest state of alert since tensions erupted in early May to deal with any adventurism by PLA. “Inputs provided by intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance platforms made it clear the Chinese troops were on their way to occupy strategic heights on our side of the LAC. We had no doubts about their intention and were fully prepared,” said a second official. As soon as the Chinese movement was detected, Indian commanders ordered their troops to deploy to the heights from where the Chinese soldiers were planning to make ingress into Indian territory. “We took the heights before the Chinese could reach them. Our presence there pre-empted the PLA from coming in. China is now claiming the heights are on their side of the LAC. We are still holding those heights, which are on our side of the LAC,” the first official said. The multiple heights that the army is now holding on the lake’s southern bank will allow the army to dominate the area, officials said. Senior colonel Zhang Shuili, spokesperson of China’s western theatre command, claimed in a statement that the Indian Army “broke the consensus” reached at talks and “illegally crossed the line again near the south bank of Pangong Lake and Reqin Pass, making a blatant provocation and causing tension”. The Indian move “violates China’s territorial sovereignty, seriously undermines peace and stability” in border areas, he said in the statement issued in Mandarin. “We solemnly request the Indian side to immediately withdraw its illegal occupation and control forces, strictly control and restrain its frontline troops, earnestly abide by its commitments and avoid further escalation of the situation,” he added. In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a news briefing: “Chinese border troops always strictly abide by the LAC. They never cross the line. Border troops on the two sides have been in close communication regarding the issues on the ground.” A flag meeting of brigade commanders was held at Chushul to resolve the issue but its outcome was not immediately known. “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect its territorial integrity,” Col Anand said. People familiar with developments said PLA’s latest action amounted to a serious transgression, especially in light of India’s repeated assertions that there should be no attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC while the two countries worked on disengagement. “Our side was prepared and took care of things, but this is a serious development,” said one of the people cited above. Experts said the military and diplomatic talks or economic measures against China haven’t led to any change in PLA’s behaviour in the Ladakh sector. Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said: “[This is] the new normal. The good news is Indian forces seem to be able to stop the bleeding with a deterrent force and manoeuvres. The bad news is the Chinese are still there and show no signs of leaving, and India still has few good options to reverse the initial faits accomplis. “The fact that China attempted to keep poking suggests that their long-term strategy may, in fact, be to force India to commit a large number of forces to the LAC to defend large swathes of land at all times, at great cost to the Indian Army.” But Hu Xijin, editor of state-run Global Times, contended on Twitter that Indian troops had “again pulled a stunt at [the] border” while thinking “China will make concessions to provocative actions”. He added, “Don’t misjudge the situation anymore. If there is a conflict in Pangong Lake, it will only end in new defeat of Indian Army.”In another tweet, he said, “The south bank of Pangong Lake is under actual control of China. In 1962, the Chinese army beat the Indian Army there. This time it is the Indian Army that tried to break the status quo. I hope India will not make the same mistake.”In an interview to HT, chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat said earlier this month that a military option to deal with PLA’s transgressions was on the table, but it would be exercised only if diplomatic and military talks were unproductive.The gap between the situation all along the LAC and a skirmish confined to Ladakh sector appears to be closing, said former Northern Army commander Lt Gen (retired) BS Jaswal. “We need to stay prepared for an intense skirmish that could lead to a limited war. China’s actions are a part of its strategy to retain escalation dominance,” he said. Former army vice chief Lt Gen (retired) AS Lamba said: “China’s intention to escalate the situation from denial to confrontation to attempting to change the status quo is unmissable.” While the army can work for peace on the border, a military option — as mentioned by Gen Rawat — may emerge as the plausible new strategy to guide future posturing in the Ladakh sector, Lamba said. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains an area of key concern for the Indian Army. The Finger Area — a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong — has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in Gogra area. The overall ground situation remains unchanged in the Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. Last week, India pulled out of a multilateral military exercise being hosted next month by Russia in which around 20 countries, including China, are expected to take part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-provokes-again-tries-to-alter-status-quo/story-48uZYMNv24NKd0YhVfKGVK.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab da, Bharat’s bipartisan Ratna||Former president Pranab Mukherjee, a recipient of the country’s highest civilian award and a towering statesman admired across party lines, died at a hospital in Delhi on Monday, leaving behind a rich legacy he built in a five-decade-long public life that has cemented his place as a doyen of Indian politics and a troubleshooter par excellence for the Congress in its prime.Mukherjee, 84, died of multiple organ failure after he was admitted to New Delhi’s Army Hospital Research and Referral three weeks ago. He slipped into coma after an emergency surgery for a blood clot in his brain on August 10, having also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). His health deteriorated after a lung infection resulted in septic shock.Doctors said the seven-time parliamentarian died of a cardiac arrest at 4.30pm. His family announced his death in the evening, triggering an outpouring of grief across the political spectrum. Mukherjee, who received the Bharat Ratna in 2019, is survived by two sons and a daughter; his wife died in 2015. “During his political career that spanned decades, Shri Pranab Mukherjee made long-lasting contributions in key economic and strategic ministries. He was an outstanding Parliamentarian, always well-prepared, extremely articulate as well as witty,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote on Twitter, mourning Mukherjee’s death. “As India’s President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee made Rashtrapati Bhavan even more accessible to common citizens. He made the President’s house a centre of learning, innovation, culture, science and literature. His wise counsel on key policy matters will never be forgotten by me,” Modi said in a series of tweets.The government announced seven days of state mourning for Mukherjee. “During the period... the national flag will fly at half-mast on all buildings throughout India, where it is flown regularly, and there will be no official entertainment,” a home ministry statement said.President Ram Nath Kovind, who succeeded Mukherjee, said his death is the passing of an era. “...A colossus in public life, he served Mother India with the spirit of a sage. The nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons. Condolences to his family, friends & all citizens,” Kovind tweeted.The Congress parliamentary party, too, offered its condolences to Mukherjee’s family. “Pranabda (as he was fondly called) had been such an integral and prominent part of national life, the Congress party and the central government for over five decades, it is hard to imagine how we can do without his wisdom, experience, sage advice and deep understanding of so many subjects,” a statement signed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi said.“...His life over the past 50 years mirrored 50 years of the history of India, for he played a crucial role both in shaping the course of events as well as actively participating in them...,” it added.Born in Mirati, a village in undivided Bengal, on December 11, 1935, Mukherjee entered Parliament in 1969. A former college teacher with degrees in political science and history (a Masters) and law, he became a protege of the then PM, Indira Gandhi, and remained loyal to her — even during the Emergency (1975-77).He lost the finance portfolio after Indira Gandhi was assassinated in 1984 and her son, Rajiv Gandhi, took over as the PM. He formed his own party but returned to the Congress in 1989 after reconciliation with Rajiv Gandhi, who was assassinated in 1991. Mukherjee joined the cabinets of his successors in the Congress party, PV Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh, and emerged as a consensus builder.Between 1973 and 2012, Mukherjee held the portfolios of external affairs, defence and finance, among other departments, for three PMs and also helped the Congress navigate the tricky corridors of coalition politics. From 2012-2017, he served as the 13th President of India. Mukherjee served in the Rajya Sabha for five terms and in the Lok Sabha for two terms. He was India’s only non-Prime Minister who was the leader of the Lok Sabha for eight years. He was the leader of the Rajya Sabha from 1980-85.Before he became the President in 2012, Mukherjee, who is credited with having a sharp memory and deep intellect, was heading 24 of 39 GOMs (groups of ministers) in the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime, an indication of his importance. While Mukherjee himself said the country’s prime ministership was not for him, it was widely believed that it was his biggest ambition. It remained a dream in the end, but he finally got a tenure at Rashtrapati Bhavan, from where he often acted as a conscience keeper of national polity. In 2018, a year after Mukherjee demitted the office of President, his visit to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters in Nagpur — a testimony to his bipartisanship — triggered a row with a section of Congress leaders questioning the move. At that June event, Mukherjee talked about the celebration of diversity and tolerance, and underlined how India’s identity had taken shape after a “long-drawn process of confluence, assimilation and co-existence”. The speech eventually drew praises from all quarters. On Monday, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat described Mukherjee as a “guide” for the Sangh who didn’t believe in political untouchability. ‘Citizen Mukherjee’, as his Twitter profile described him, did not lose touch with his roots despite his long walk through the alleys of power and prominence. Every year, he would visit his ancestral home during Durga Puja and perform prayers in traditional attire. “In his death, our country has lost one of its greatest leaders of Independent India... I depended on him a great deal for his wisdom, vast knowledge and experience of public affairs,” former PM Manmohan Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-da-bharat-s-bipartisan-ratna/story-m4saOyxtIzLmhXxtvaWqeP.html
01-09-2020||India||In 2019, a person died by suicide every four minutes: NCRB data||Last year, 139,123 people died by suicide and 421,104 were killed in accidents in India, according to the Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India report for 2019 released by the National Crime Records Bureau on Monday. Between 2018 and 2019, the number of people dying in accidents increased by 2.3% while for suicides, this number was 3.4%. Traffic accidents were the single-biggest contributor to accidental deaths in India, amounting to 43% of all such fatalities. Sudden deaths, drowning and poisoning were other major causes of accidental deaths. These together led to 24% of accidental deaths. Forces of nature, such as natural disasters, killed 8,000 people, or 2% of all accidental deaths. Eighty-five percent of deaths caused in traffic accidents were reported in road accidents while railway accidents and accidents at railway crossings caused the remaining 15% of these deaths.Road accidents kill even those not travelling in a vehicle. Of nearly 155,000 people who died in road accidents, nearly 12,000 or 7.7% were pedestrians. Among motorised vehicles, two-wheelers were the deadliest with nearly 59,000 or 38% of all deaths being of those who were on a motorcycle or a scooter.One in every three of the 140,000 people who died of suicide in 2019 took the step due to family problems. Being ill, and substance abuse were the other major known causes (together accounting for 23%). Bankruptcy or indebtedness, unemployment and poverty led to at least 11,500 suicides, about 8.2% of all such fatalities.The report added that 10,281 farmers – cultivators and farm labourers – committed suicide in 2019, only 68 less than the number of farmers who committed suicide in 2018. Farmers comprise 7.4% of all people who died due to suicide in India. Suicides among daily wage earners was higher — about 32,500. They comprised 23% of those who died due to suicide.The NCRB has not been publishing reason of suicides among farmers since 2015, when it last showed economic distress to be the biggest factor in most states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-2019-a-person-died-by-suicide-every-four-minutes-ncrb-data/story-UIHU9FXeRmk0OlYWjUASfM.html
01-09-2020||India||China opens new front along LAC amid de-escalation talks||China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has opened a new front along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with its “provocative military movements” on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to alter the status quo in the area, people familiar with developments said on Monday. So far, Chinese aggression in this sector in eastern Ladakh was confined to the lake’s northern bank – the Finger Area that has emerged as the toughest part of the disengagement process. “The PLA’s intentions stand exposed. Instead of carrying out disengagement and restoring status quo ante in the existing friction areas, China is bent on changing the status quo in new areas,” one of the officials cited above said, speaking on condition of anonymity. In a statement on the latest Chinese provocation, the Indian Army said PLA has violated the consensus reached during military and diplomatic talks to reduce tension in eastern Ladakh, where the two sides have been locked in a tense confrontation since early May. Experts concurred that PLA was attempting to change the status quo in new areas and stressed that India has to stay prepared to thwart such moves. “While there are areas on the northern bank where the Indian Army only carries out patrolling, the southern bank is strongly held by us. The PLA is fully conscious of it. Any transgression by the PLA in this area is a clear indication that China is trying to change the status quo and open a new front,” said former Northern Army commander Lt Gen (retired) DS Hooda. The lake’s northern bank has been at the centre of the current border tensions, as PLA has refused to withdraw from the Finger Area, a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking the lake. Before PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4, overlooking Indian deployments, the Indian Army would patrol up to Finger 8, which New Delhi considers an integral part of its territory. The new positions held by PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. PLA is likely to intrude into other areas to exert pressure on the Indian Army and build its bargaining power, and the Depsang sector is one such vulnerable area, said Lt Gen (retired) BS Jaswal, also a former Northern Army commander. PLA’s forward deployments in Depsang have hindered the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PPs) 10, 11, 11A 12 and 13. The military buildup in this sector includes the deployment of tanks and artillery by the two sides. The Indian Army has to keep a strict vigil all along the disputed border with China – from Ladakh and Uttarakhand to Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, said Lt Gen (retired) Rakesh Sharma, a former commander of Leh-based 14 Corps headquarters. “China is flexing its military muscles to show it can do whatever it wants and not expecting any reaction. But our troops were fully prepared on Pangong Lake’s southern bank and reacted promptly,” Sharma said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-opens-new-front-along-lac-amid-de-escalation-talks/story-LgfHYPIwQIdRicZfLWCFHM.html
01-09-2020||India||GDP estimates a matter of shame for Modi government, says Chidambaram||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Monday said the GDP estimates should be a matter of “surprise and shame” to the government that was seeing ‘green shoots’ on several days during the first quarter and did nothing to cushion the fall by taking suitable fiscal and welfare measures. “But we know that the Modi government has no shame and will not acknowledge its mistakes. All these had been anticipated,” Chidambaram said, addressing a joint virtual press conference with party colleague Supriya Shrinate after the provisional estimates of GDP were released for the quarter April-June 2020.  India’s GDP shrank by the steepest ever 23.9% in the April-June period as the coronavirus-induced lockdowns battered an already slowing economy, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSP). ALSO READ | India’s economy contracts by 23.9%, worst in decadesChidambaram said the Congress and other opposition parties had warned and urged the government to take preventive and pre-emptive measures. “Our pleas fell on deaf ears. The country, as a whole, is paying a heavy price, the poor and the vulnerable are in despair. It is only the Modi government that was nonchalant and uncaring. The government peddled a fake narrative, but that narrative has been exploded today by the estimates,” he added. The senior Congress leader said the GDP in the first quarter has declined by a whopping 23.9%. “That means, about one quarter of the gross domestic output as on June 30, 2019 has been wiped out in the last 12 months. Another way of looking at it is, since the end of 2019-20, the gross domestic output has fallen by about 20%.” Chidambaram said the only sector that has grown is agriculture, forestry and fishing at 3.4%. “The Finance Minister (Nirmala Sitharaman) who blamed an ‘Act of God’ for the economic decline should be grateful to the farmers and the gods who blessed the farmers,” he said. Chidambaram said every other sector of the economy has declined sharply, some precipitously as manufacturing is down 39.3%; construction by 50.3%; and trade, hotels, transport and communications by 47.0%. “The estimates do not come as a surprise to us. They should be a matter of surprise to the government that was seeing ‘green shoots’ on several days during the first quarter. They should also be a matter of shame to the government that did nothing — literally nothing — to cushion the fall by taking suitable fiscal and welfare measures,” he said. Chidambaram said the “economic tragedy” was foretold by many close observers of the Indian economy, most recently by the RBI in its annual report released a few days ago. RBI had pointed out the contraction in the first half of 2020 is widely regarded as deeper and more destructive than the Great Depression and the Global Financial Crisis (of 2008), he added. “Turning to India, high frequency indicators that have arrived so far point to a retrenchment in activity that is unprecedented in history; the total stimulus package (liquidity and fiscal measures) for G-20 countries averaged 12.1% of GDP (5.1% of GDP for EMEs and 19.8% of GDP for AES); the shock to consumption is severe, and it will take quite some time to mend and regain the pre-Covid-19 momentum; and a majority of respondents reported pessimism relating to the general economic situation, employment, inflation and income,” he said. “Let me say with regret: it will take many months before the economy turns the corner and registers positive growth. The inaction and ineptitude of the government gives us no hope that we will see light at the end of the tunnel at any time soon,” Chidambaram further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gdp-estimates-a-matter-of-shame-for-modi-government-says-chidambaram/story-mpPiVVE3Zc4YgD2OENFThK.html
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee: The vice-captain who went on to be referee||India’s former President, Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee, whose public life spanned more than 5 decades, died after battling a brain surgery at the Army Research and Referral Hospital on August 31, leaving behind a rich legacy of old-school politics, three children, countless friends across parties and a diary—the only chronicle of his life from a nondescript village in undivided Bengal to the ultimate edifices of federal power. He held ten ministerial portfolios, signed historic agreements such as GATT and Indo-US Nuclear treaty, positioned himself as a trusted support system to at least three Congress presidents and a reliable vice-captain to as many Prime Ministers. Then, as the country’s first citizen, he had a vantage view of politics at the highest level from Rashtrapati Bhavan and often acted as a conscience keeper of national polity. Also read| ‘Passing of an era’: President Kovind condoles Pranab Mukherjee’s deathHis death elicited an outpouring of grief across the political spectrum, a reminder of Pranab Mukherjee’s brand of politics that puts a premium on personal equations—the reason why everyone called him Pranab da and not the distant Pranab babu.Mukherjee was born in Mirati, a nondescript village in undivided Bengal on December 11, 1935. His father Kamada Kinkar Mukherjee, involved in India’s struggle for independence, would go on to serve in the West Bengal Legislative Council between 1952 and 1964 from Congress. Senior Mukherjee was also a member of the All India Congress Committee. Pranab has spoken of how, as a young boy, he had to walk for miles, and during the monsoon swim across an overflowing river, to reach school. But he doggedly pursued education. For him, India’s Independence in 1947 meant simple dreams; a footbridge across the river and better food. From the archives | Pranab Mukherjee recalls how Rajiv Gandhi became PM after Indira’s deathBy 1963, with degrees in political science and history (a Masters) and law, Mukherjee was teaching political science at Vidyanagar College and Howrah Chaitanya College in West Bengal. The young boy from Mirati might have thought he had arrived – but in truth, he was just getting started.In 1969, he was involved in V K Krishna Menon’s successful run in the Midnapore Lok Sabha constituency (Menon was contesting as an independent). The same year, Bangla Congress, a regional offshoot of the Indira Gandhi-led Congress, sent him to the Rajya Sabha (Two years later, it merged with the main party). He had four more terms in the Rajya Sabha (1975, 1981, 1993, and 1999) before he won 2004 Lok Sabha election in Jangipur. He retained his seat in 2009 and after three years, he became President of India. Through these four decades, he was a key player in the political mainstream, expect for the period between 1984 and 1989, when he was sidelined by the late Rajiv Gandhi, who considered Mukherjee a rival for the PM’s post after Indira Gandhi’s assassination. In 1986, he even formed his own party, the Rashtriya Samajwadi Congress in West Bengal, but merged it with the Congress, after making up with Rajiv Gandhi, in 1989. While Mukherjee himself has said the Prime Minister’s office was not for him, it was widely believed that his biggest ambition was the Prime Minister’s office in the leafy corner of the South Block. It remained a distant dream, but he did ascend Raisina Hill, occupied various other corners of North and South Block, and finally settled for a tenure at Rashtrapati Bhavan. His first PM, of course, was Indira Gandhi. He was a junior minister of industry in her 1973 cabinet. In 1982, he rose to be finance minister in her government. Then came his brief stint in the wilderness. But he was soon back.Jairam Ramesh’s semi-autobiographical book “To the Brink and Back” narrates how Mukherjee prepared a draft roadmap of the new government and its economic priorities in 1991 before P V Narasimha Rao became the PM. Mukherjee was the chief architect behind India’s accession to the WTO in January 1995.While the prospects of India acceding to an all-encompassing multilateral trade regime met with strong domestic opposition, Mukherjee convinced Rao and later signed the WTO Trade Agreement. And a year later, when Rao—sidelined into oblivion—needed a Delhi resident to support his bail application, Mukherjee’s wife (she owned a house in GK 2) signed the documents in the police station. FROM THE ARCHIVES | ‘Pranab, I know of the consequences’: Indira on storming Golden TempleMukherjee’s relationship with Manmohan Singh was perhaps the most complex and, at the same time, most rewarding. Having served under Mukherjee in various capacities, Singh initially continued to call his former boss “sir”, much to the latter’s discomfort. Finally, when Mukherjee announced it was untenable to be addressed as sir by his boss, Singh resorted to Pranab ji while the adamant Bengali called him Dr. Singh.He worked hard under Singh, but like most members of the UPA cabinet, his loyalty was tilted towards Sonia Gandhi. Mukherjee enjoyed unbridled power, led the defence, finance and foreign affairs ministries, headed more than 100 groups of ministers (GoMs; the UPA’s preferred tool for policy-making and trouble shooting) and had a say in every policy, right from the creation of an anti corruption ombudsman to the stimulus package of 2008 which saved India from economic ruin.To be sure, Singh and Mukherjee differed on quite a few issues. There was exasperation in the PMO at the way some Mukherjee aides tried to run the show in the ministry. But Singh, never missed seeking out Mukherjee’s counsel on key issues of economy and foreign policy. When the Pakistan PM said he would come to Mohali to watch the world cup match between the two countries in 2011with Singh, the latter asked Mukherjee what he should discuss. Mukherjee retorted, “anything under the sun except serious bilateral issues.” (The finance minister had little idea about one-day cricket. Later he would praise Singh’s patience for spending a whole day in a stadium) Days after Singh’s retirement in 2014, this writer asked his principal secretary TKA Nair, why the PM, a progressive economic thinker allowed the controversial proposal on retrospective tax in the 2012 budget (a budget is always approved by the PM days before introduction), and Nair replied that the PM perhaps couldn’t tell Mukherjee anything considering the latter’s stature and experience. There was an effort to make him the President in 2007. The Congress proposed the names of Mukherjee, Shivraj Patil and Sushil Kumar Shinde to allies as possible presidential candidate. But there was no replacement for Mukherjee in the government in the early years of the UPA, and the party decided it couldn’t afford to lose him. Finally, in 2012, the chance came again. The party still wanted him, but eventually Sonia Gandhi, the party president had little option but to back Mukherjee; any other candidate would have meant a contest. In a farewell function for him, Gandhi quipped that she would miss Mukherjee’s tantrums.Pranab Mukherjee went to Rashtrapati Bhavan, a graceful exit from active politics. But soon, the customary equation between the President and the PM in the republic’s inner circle took a new turn when Narendra Modi, a man straight from state politics, met Mukherjee, a perpetual national player. Their bond grew quickly. The President often advised the PM on foreign affairs and other issues. Modi has publicly acknowledged Mukherjee’s contributions saying, “he held my hand in my initial days in Delhi.” The equation didn’t suffer in Mukherjee’s post-retirement life. Senior NDA ministers regularly queued up at Rajaji Marg for his counsel. A party colleague once described Mukherjee as the Shashi Kapoor of politics— always under the shadow of the bigger stars (PMs). But Pranab Mukherjee didn’t breathe his last as a loser. He didn’t have a godfather, yet he made it to the very top. From an ordinary background, he became a towering figure of contemporary politics. He wanted to be a teacher but life brought him to politics. It’s been a long walk from Mirati village to corridors of power in Delhi, or from his first certificate of victory in Rajya Sabha in 1960s to the Bharat Ratna. Till a few days before he went to hospital for the final time, he diligently maintained his diary, as he did for the last 50 years. What tales it can tell now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-the-vice-captain-who-went-on-to-be-referee/story-6FcWin4MbTt2iD2qv1WY9J.html
01-09-2020||India||Kolkata lockdown enters last day, over 4,000 arrested past week for violating norms||The West Bengal government is enforcing the sixth and last day of complete state-wide lockdown this month in a bid to break the chain of Covid-19 that has already infected nearly 1.6 lakh people till date in the state.Even though the Mamata Banerjee-led administration had announced three lockdown days in September - 7, 11 and 12 of the month - the ‘unlock 4’ guidelines released by the union government says that states will have to consult the centre before enforcing such lockdown restrictions. “We will discuss the matter with the union government. The state had declared the lockdown days before the ‘unlock 4’ guidelines were released,” said a senior state government official. The state government had been enforcing biweekly lockdown since July. In August, five state-wide complete lockdown days have been enforced and the sixth and last one was being enforced on Monday. The government had changed the dates multiple times and had even reduced the number of days from nine to six. More than 4000 people have been arrested in Kolkata alone in the last five lockdown days for violating restrictions, while over 2,500 people were booked for not wearing masks. Also read: Uttar Pradesh’s ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines - What’s new and what remains unchanged“If arrest figures, over the five lockdown days, are considered, Kolkatans seem to be showing no restraint on lockdown days. On every lockdown day, the number of people arrested for violating lockdown numbers varied between 700 and 900, while the number of persons booked for not wearing masks varied between 350 and 500,” said a senior police officer.Since Monday, morning police barricades have been put up on roads across the city, naka checking was being done, vehicle owners were being checked and people were being questioned and either sent back home or arrested if they failed to provide valid reasons for being on the roads. Kolkata has registered around 40,000 Covid-19 cases - highest among all districts in West Bengal. North 24 Parganas has reported around 33,000 cases. The city has registered 1,280 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-lockdown-enters-last-day-over-4-000-arrested-past-week-for-violating-norms/story-VvMHk4MwBuWlwqbpYCZARL.html
01-09-2020||India||“He asked me to strip, said that’s the only way to get modelling assignments”||In a shocking case, National Commission for Women recently sent out notices to celebrities such as Mahesh Bhatt, Urvashi Rautela, Rannvijay Sangha, Esha Gupta, Mouni Roy and Prince Narula in connection with an alleged sexual assault case against Sunny Verma, promoter of IMG Ventures, a modelling agency. After several girls including minors asked activist Yogita Bhayana for help, Bhayana approached National Commission for Women with her complaint. When summoned by NCW, the celebs clarified that they were unaware about Sunny Verma’s alleged criminal background. “Verma used to ask girls for completely nude pictures and videos. He threatened them to submit to his sexual desires. After establishing physical relationship, he used to blackmail girls for regular sexual favours. What is most appalling is that Verma used the name of known actors and filmmaker to trap aspirants. Famous faces were seen promoting his company. A simple Google search on this person should have alarmed them as this person has been arrested in a molestation case in the past,” says Bhayana, founder, People against Rapes in India.Rekha Sharma, chairperson, NCW urges young people to be vigilant. “Modelling aspirants must do a thorough background check of the agency they desire to work with. In this case, many got fooled because Sunny Verma used top names to promote himself,” she says.Sharma also says that the onus lies on public figures to not promote racketeers. “These celebrities seemed to be only concerned with money. People look up to them and such conduct on their part leaves one aghast. One of the Bollywood celebrities that endorsed Verma’s show told me that she had not taken any money to promote Verma while Verma produced evidence before the commission — records of paying her an amount of Rs 8 lakhs.” Sharma says that this case also involves minor girls and the agency got no NOC signed by their parents.“There was no written permission from the parent of these 15-16 year old girls,” she says. Now, the commission is preparing a report for the police to take further action. “We had no idea about such activities”The celebs who had been seen promoting Verma’s event have said that they themselves were taken for a ride by Sunny Verma. Filmmmaker Mahesh Bhatt said in a Tweet, “I have neither entered into any agreement or received any monetary considerations for the event. Unfortunately, my name and images were picked up from social media and misused in relation to the event without my consent and authority. When I confronted them on this, they have apologised profusely and withdrew all my images in association of the event. As a father of three girls, I have the highest regard for the cause taken up by Ms Yogita and NCW,” said Mahesh Bhatt in a tweet.Actor Urvashi Rautela denied on social media any collaboration with Sunny Verma. “My official association with the client was purely centered on rendering my services towards the on-ground finale event happening in November as the scope of a celebrity jury. I was in no capacity involved with the selection process, operations of the event, and neither is the knowledge of the same. Owing to the collaboration of many of our respected industry friends with this event, my business manager took the plunge and went ahead with the association. We are saddened to learn about the allegations made on the ownership of the event that surfaced recently on social media and was highly condemned for such inhumane acts and behavior,” she says.However, Bhayana says that such carelessness if the parts of public figures is not done. “They have a full fledged team to handle collaborations and endorsements. I just don’t understand how could Bollywood stars be so careless to promote someone without verification. Due to the use of such big names by Verma, so many gullible girls fell into his trap and were exploited by him. I am glad that at least they have realised where the lapse happened and they are cooperating now. I hope these girls get justice” It’s so easy to lay a trapCon men, smooth-talking fraudsters , social media-savvy racketeers, lecherous agents - the glamour world is brimming with them. Starry-eyed small towners desperate to make it big are their perfect victim. Abroad, while you have regulatory bodies such as MAMA (Managers And Models Association), there’s no such body in India, which makes it easy for criminals to operate.Rate kya hai tumhara?Model Renee Kujur recalls the time when she came to Delhi from Chhattisgarh at the age of 19. “Agents asked, what’s my rate for one night. When I got upset, they said, ‘All models sell their bodies. Some charge ₹500, some charge ₹2 lakh. That’s how they achieve success,” she shares. Shattered, Renee gave up her modelling dreams until she met genuine agents that got her shoots for reputed brands.Shockingly, even today agents demand a nude web chat in return for work. “They make you believe that sleeping for work is the norm, this is how the industry works. They say when big names can compromise, what’s your problem.”Sir ke saath room mein chali jaanaModel Devika Das, a print model based in the Capital says agents and clients often expect sexual favours and they don’t hesitate from propositioning even established models. “Once an agent called me home for a meeting. When he offered me wine, I refused. He then went inside his room and closed the door. His associate told me, ‘sir ke saath room mein chali jao.” I understood what was the purpose of this meeting. I immediately left from there and blocked their numbers,” says Das.“He asked for nudes, said that’s the only way to enter the industry”I saw an ad for a beauty pageant on Facebook. I paid ₹2950 as fees to participate. The organizers told me I was among the 8000 girls shortlisted from across India. I was added to a Whatsapp group that had about 200 girls from Bangalore. We were not supposed to talk to each other. Soon, online auditions began. There was a category called ‘Bold’. I was told by the organiser that if I don’t share fully exposing pictures, I won’t qualify. When I protested, he threatened me. He said he had big contacts and the police won’t take any action against him. I quit the competition, broken. Later, I reported the matter to the police when I got to know that this man was pressurizing many other girls into sending nudes, including minors. I hope the authorities take strict actions against him, or else he will go on destroying lives. Dhanya Kurup, 24, Kerala (name changed to protect privacy)“He groped me, I felt so helpless and scared”In October, I came across a Facebook ad for wild card entries in a reality show called Survivors. The organiser claimed it was to be aired on a leading TV channel. I paid an entry fees of ₹40,000 to take part in the show. There were about 65 participants - 6-7 girls and the rest, guys. We went to a village called Nanauta in Saharanpur, UP where the shooting started. We were given tasks such as walking through mud and cow dung, our feet tied with rope. A very well known TV star attended the finale of the show. The organizer made me pay ₹58 k to fly the celeb.There was a party in the night and everyone had drinks. I was not feeling well, so I went to the girls room to rest. The organizer followed me and started forcing me to join the party. He tried groping me and he was so aggressive that it left marks on my arms when he pulled me. In the morning, he started forcing me to come along with him in his car, but I refused. I somehow escaped with the help of a few guys. It has been two years and the show has not been aired anywhere. I have been duped. I never suspected anything fishy because the organizer seemed to be associated with big names from the world of entertainment. I wish I knew that it was all a sham.  Parmita Thanvi, 23, Gwalior (name changed to protect privacy)Red flags to watch out forFake agencies make it clear that no work can happen without “compromise”. Genuine agencies never make such offers. Fake agencies ask you to provide bold, revealing pictures. They insist that skin show is in demand. Genuine agencies do not ask you to get deliberately provocative pictures clicked.Fake agencies ask you to pay for auditions. Genuine agencies arrange for auditions and take care of the expenses involved.Fake agencies tell you to pay for model/artist card. They also ask for registration/membership fees which could be anywhere between ₹ 2,000-50,000. Genuine modelling agencies do not ask for any fees. They take a percentage from your payment after you get some work.Fake agencies take names of successful films and serials where they have placed their artists but have no proofs. They also promise to launch you with the support of celebrities. Genuine agencies do not make such claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/fashion-and-trends/i-was-asked-for-nudes-he-said-that-s-the-only-way-to-get-work/story-l1nG4i0UryVNQEjLqMYrnL.html
01-09-2020||India||Congress writes to Mark Zuckerberg again, questions him on probe into Facebook India’s hate-speech bias||The Congress party on Saturday has written to Facebook’s chief executive officer Mark Zuckerberg, the second time in a fortnight, asking him to specify the steps being taken by his company to investigate the charges against its operations in India.In a tearing allegation, Congress has claimed that WhatsApp, has been willingly allowed by Zuckerberg’s India team, to be appropriated for hate speech and the consequent tearing of India’s fabric of social harmony.Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal also asked him to explain a global media report claiming that even WhatsApp, used by 400 million Indians, is compromised and controlled indirectly by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also read | Rahul Gandhi says demonetisation, ‘flawed GST’, ‘failed’ lockdown hurt Indian economyThe congress leader said that the party is “compelled to write again in such short span of time because of further information and revelations made public” through a new article in a media publication, which makes “three points that are alarming and violate both the spirit and the law of operations of foreign companies in India”.The senior Congress leader had written to Zuckerberg on August 18, asking him to probe allegations that the social media company’s India team dispensed favourable treatment towards the ruling BJP.Venugopal, citing the news article in his letter, claimed the BJP has been allowed to exercise control of WhatsApp’s India operations in return for a possible license for its payment operations, which is critical for the future of the messaging app in India.Congress has also claimed that “more than just one person in his company’s leadership team in India is biased and partisan in favour of ruling BJP in their professional endeavours”. The problem, Venugopal, said is larger, deeper and more pervasive than initially assumed. Also read | ‘Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake, hate news needs to be questioned’: Rahul GandhiThe WSJ report cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders and claimed the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana lawmaker Raja Singh, whose posts targeted the Muslim community. It said Das told staff members that punishing violations by BJP politicians would damage the company’s business prospects in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-writes-to-mark-zuckerberg-again-questions-him-on-probe-into-facebook-india-s-hate-speech-bias/story-kUfIjzRLGl3yAiOb3lX5AK.html
01-09-2020||India||‘No human being can be a do-gooder always…’||Actor Sanjay Gagnani is enjoying the moment he waited for months that is to get back to the sets of his show. “What a relief it has been to be back to work. For me work is worship. I have reached here with a lot of effort as acting is and has been my passion. Lockdown was a blessing in disguise in a way as I got ample time to spend with my family after so many years. Also, we shot a few episodes from our respective homes and that truly gave all the actors a confidence that the work can be done this way too. I was thrilled when informed the we will now shoot on sets,” he said.Talking about the new normal on the shoot location, Sanjay said, “As an actor it’s our job to entertain people so we had to go back to work. With new normal, things are very different with regular sanitization of sets. Of course, each and every one on the sets are undergoing certain measures to make sure we are virus free. These steps make you much confident to freely work on sets. Also, I have been a person who loves to keep fit and maintain my immunity. I have been into sports since my school days so this has again helped me to maintain my fitness and health, as that’s important for us to keep this virus at bay. It is high time that we need to take chances as none of us can just sit at home forever. I feel if we fear anything it does affect our performance and it will show on our face so that needs to be kept in check.”Sanjay had his fair share of struggle and is finally getting the recognition he always wanted. “Born and brought up in Gujarat I loved to act and play sports. Later I moved on to Mumbai, I tried modelling, featuring in numerous shows to finally playing a character whom most TV audience love to hate. I remember when I got this show, ‘Kundali Bhagya,’ it was a cameo role that was supposed to go on for two-three months but the way it shaped up was unbelievable, it has been three years now and I am the negative lead now. I’m enjoying playing a baddie on prime-time show that has been getting high TRP ratings,” said Sanjay during his webinar interaction in Lucknow.The young actor has been part of the shows like ‘Bairi Piya,’ ‘Hamari Devrani,’ ‘Encounter,’ ‘Veera,’ ‘Pyaar Ka the End,’ and films like ‘Rakhtbeej’ and ‘Heroine.’ He is open to roles that are thrilling and at the same time has number of emotions to portray. “I love doing characters with different shades as no human being can be do-gooder always so it’s natural to be good and bad in the same life. So, I awaiting for more such roles coming my way across mediums.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/no-human-being-can-be-a-do-gooder-always/story-CaVHW5DfBbTWSuPZOCw6DM.html
