02-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi reports over 2,500 new cases,19 deaths in last 24 hours||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi reached 1,79,569 after it recorded more than 2,500 cases in the last 24 hours. The death toll increased to 4,481 after 19 fresh fatalities, according to the daily health bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs many as 1,858 patients were recovered and discharged from hospitals, taking the cumulative number to 1,58,586. There are 16,502 active cases in the city as of Wednesday.So far authorities have tested 16,36,518 samples for Covid-19, the bulleting stated. Delhi’s test per million stands at 86,132. While the recovery rate stands at 88.31 per cent.Delhi has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 infections for the past few days, triggering fear of the second wave.Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday directed officials to significantly augment the city’s testing capacity by taking measures like ‘testing on demand’, testing at the national capital’s border points and at major construction sites to check the spread of Covid-19.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-reports-over-2-500-new-cases-19-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-72y1cMw2j7uqgiwZK6O6oO.html
02-09-2020||India||Cabinet appointments panel approves restructuring of Railway Board, names first CEO||The appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) on Wednesday formally approved the restructuring of the Railway Board and approved the appointment of VK Yadav, the current chairman of the Railway Board as its first CEO.In December 2019, the Union Cabinet in a major move to reform the 150-year-old railway board of the Indian Railways approved the restructuring of the apex body of the Indian Railways by trimming its strength to half, and unifying its eight railways services into a central service called the Indian Railway Management Service.While Yadav has been appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Pradeep Kumar has been appointed Member, Infrastructure, PC Sharma has been appointed Member, Traction and Rolling Stock, PS Mishra has been made Member, Operations and Business Development. Manjula Rangarajan has been appointed Member, Finance.With this rearrangement, three apex level posts -- Member (Staff), Member (Engineering) and Member (Materials Management) in Railway Board have been surrendered and the post of Member (Rolling Stock) has been utilised for creation of the post of Director General (HR) in apex grade as per the Cabinet Decision, the ACC said.Indian Railways will now have only a five member railway board; who will act as “Chief Executive Officer (CEO)” along with four members responsible for Infrastructure, Operations & Business Development, Rolling Stock and Finance respectively.The Railway Board is the apex body of the Indian Railways which reports to the Parliament via the ministry of railways. It will now consist of four members and a chairperson. At present, the railway board includes eight members; member (rolling stock), member (traction), member (traffic), member (engineering), member (staff), member (material management), members (signal & telecom) and financial commissioner.According to the new structure, the Chairman shall be the cadre controlling officer responsible for Human Resources (HR) with assistance from a Director General level officer. Three apex level posts shall be surrendered from Railway Board, and all the remaining posts of the Railway Board shall be open to all officers regardless of the service to which they belonged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-appointments-panel-approves-restructuring-of-railway-board-names-first-ceo/story-8h1TUAvLewJEavpWze83hN.html
02-09-2020||India||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reaches Russia for SCO meet||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday arrived here on a three-day visit to Russia to attend a crucial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and hold talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu on further boosting bilateral defence cooperation.The defence ministers of all eight SCO member nations are expected to deliberate on regional security challenges like terrorism and extremism and ways to deal with them collectively here on Friday, officials said.The meeting is taking place under the shadow of a fierce border row between India and China, both members of the influential bloc.The SCO comprises eight member states -- India, Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.Chinese Defence Minister Gen Wei Fenghe and Pakistan’s Pervez Khattak are expected to attend the SCO meeting. Asked about the possibility of a bilateral meeting between Singh and Wei on the sidelines of the SCO event, officials said there is no such plan.Before departure, Singh in a tweet said that issues of mutual interest will figure in his talks with Shoigu.“India and Russia are privileged Strategic Partners. Looking forward to further this partnership during my visit,” he said.In his meeting with Shoigu, Singh will press for expediting supply of a number of weapons systems, ammunition and spares to India by Russia under contracts which were concluded earlier, officials said.In the talks, both sides are expected to officially finalise a long-pending proposal to produce AK 203 rifles in India.The officials said Singh is also likely to request the Russian side to ensure the timely delivery of the S-400 missile defence systems to India. The delivery of the first batch of S-400 surface-to-air missile systems to India is scheduled by the end of 2021.It is Singh’s second visit to Moscow since June. He had represented India at the Victory Day Parade in Moscow on June 24 that commemorated the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War.The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations which accounts for almost 44 per cent of the world population stretching from the Arctic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and from the Pacific Ocean to the Baltic Sea.The aim of the SCO is to maintain peace, stability and security of the region. India became a member of the SCO in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-reaches-russia-for-sco-meet/story-DQHK6zhbvNpRLau7PI37AP.html
02-09-2020||India||India ranks 48th in global innovation index||India has joined the group of top 50 countries in the global innovation index for the first time, moving up four places to the 48th rank and keeping the top position among the nations in central and southern Asia. According to the Global Innovation Index (GII) list, 2020 released jointly by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Cornell University and INSEAD Business School on Wednesday, the rankings show stability at the top but a gradual “eastward shift in the locus of innovation” as Asian economies like China, India, the Philippines and Vietnam have advanced considerably in the innovation ranking over the years. Switzerland, Sweden, the US, the UK and the Netherlands lead the innovation ranking, and the top 10 positions are dominated by high-income countries, WIPO said in a statement. About India, the statement said it has become the third most innovative lower middle-income economy in the world, thanks to newly available indicators and improvements in various areas of the GII. India ranks in the top 15 in indicators such as ICT (Information and Communication Technology) services exports, government online services, graduates in science and engineering, and R&D-intensive global companies. “Thanks to universities such as the Indian Institute of Technology in Bombay and Delhi and the Indian Institute of Science in Bengaluru, and its top scientific publications, India is the lower middle-income economy with the highest innovation quality,” it said. A total of 131 countries were analysed under the GII before arriving at the rankings. The metrics include institutions, human capital and research, infrastructure, market sophistication and business sophistication, knowledge and technology outputs and creative outputs. Meanwhile, an official statement said WIPO had also accepted India as one of the leading innovation achievers of 2019 in the central and southern Asian region, as it has shown a consistent improvement in its innovation ranking for the last five years.  “The consistent improvement in the global innovation index rankings is owing to the immense knowledge capital, the vibrant startup ecosystem, and the amazing work done by the public & private research organization,” the statement said.  It further said bodies like the Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology and Department of Space have played a pivotal role in enriching the national innovation ecosystem. The statement noted that NITI Aayog has been working tirelessly to ensure optimisation of national efforts in this direction by bringing policy-led innovation in different areas such as electric vehicles, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space and alternative energy sources.The India Innovation Index, which was released last year by NITI Aayog, has been widely accepted as a major step in the direction of decentralisation of innovation across all states of the country, it said.  “The call for Aatma Nirbhar Bharat by the Prime Minister could only be realized if India punches above its weight class and compete with global superpowers in developing scientific interventions. It is time that India brings a paradigm shift and aims to be in the top 25 countries in the next global innovation index rankings,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ranks-48th-in-global-innovation-index/story-Xabmv7sZV88djyRvwcCLrJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Focus on ‘Made in India’ now, says IT minister after govt bans 118 apps||India on Wednesday banned more than 100 mobile application, mostly Chinese, in the country. Speaking at a virtual forum, Information and technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad cited security and surveillance issues behind the reason for banning those apps. He also said that India is focussing on “Made In India” apps now, news agency PTI reported.“Today we have also banned 118 more apps which were a problem for your security, surveillance...data,” Prasad said at the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum.India is a country which sees the highest number of mobile application downloads and now the government has started focussing on ‘Made in India’ apps, news agency PTI reported the minister as saying.After banning 59 mobiles applications earlier this year, the ministry of information and technology banned 118 mobile applications on Wednesday, including the hugely popular mobile gaming app PUBG. Also Read | IT ministry bans 118 more Chinese apps including PUBG: Here is the full listThe apps were banned citing concerns regarding data security after fresh tensions between India and China in the border area in eastern Ladakh.The banned mobile applications are prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity, defence of India and public order, the ministry said in an official statement.The banned apps include Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun, besides PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite, the statement read. According to some reports, there are nearly 33 million active PUBG players in India, making it one of the most popular apps downloaded in the country. PUBG reportedly clocks 13 million users per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-made-in-india-now-says-it-minister-after-govt-bans-118-apps/story-tFTE2CQsWtUae4fSxmvYiP.html
02-09-2020||India||Shiv Sena’s former chief in Madhya Pradesh shot dead, wife and daughter injured||A former president of the Madhya Pradesh unit of the Shiv Sena was shot dead while his wife and daughter were injured in an attack in their house in Indore by unidentified persons in the early hours of Wednesday, police said. “The deceased Ramesh Sahu, 70, who was a dhaba owner, his wife Geeta Sahu, 65, and daughter Jaya Sahu, 42, were asleep in their house adjacent to the dhaba at Tejaji Nagar locality when three assailants entered the house around 2 am on Wednesday and shot at Ramesh Sahu with a country made pistol. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said RNS Bhadoriya, inspector of police, Tejaji Nagar police station. Geeta Sahu told the police that she heard some noise and opened the door to see three persons with their faces covered and armed with a pistol, sharp-edged weapons and sticks. They pushed her aside, entered the house and snatched her gold chain. They started looting ornaments and cash. When she resisted they attacked her and her daughters with sticks. They demanded that they be handed over all ornaments and cash. The three men then entered the room where Ramesh Sahu was asleep after which there was the sound of gunfire. The assailants then left the house. “When my daughter and I entered the room we found my husband with bullet injury in his throat. With the help of driver and others working at the dhaba we rushed to MY Hospital where doctors declared him dead,” Geeta Sahu told the police.Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Indore Harinarayanchari Mishra said, “Though it appears to be a case of loot and murder, we are investigating matter on other angles too as the deceased faced about one and a half dozen FIRs lodged with different police stations, related to property disputes. The accused are yet to be identified.” Mahesh Sharma, district unit president of Shiv Sena in Indore, said, “Ramesh Sahu was state president of Shiv Sena for about a decade from 1991 to 2000. Then he was a member of the party’s national executive for 4 years but later he was not active as a member of the party. We demand a high-level inquiry into the murder and immediate arrest of the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-s-former-chief-in-madhya-pradesh-shot-dead-wife-and-daughter-injured/story-nexcgPJYJTe5Ntj3D9uKiJ.html
02-09-2020||India||PUBG Mobile App Ban: Controversies surrounding the game||The Centre on Wednesday banned 118 more Chinese mobile apps as they were “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity and defence of India”. PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, popularly known as PUBG, was one of them.In 2019, discussion around the controversial game resulted in several states expressing their concern about the side effects of the game. It was called ‘addictive’, ‘harmful’, and ‘distracting’. Here are a few controversies surrounding PUBG:• PUBG was banned temporarily in Rajkot and Ahmedabad as it was a distraction from studies for the children. • Punjab-based lawyer HC Arora, in January 2020, filed a PIL seeking a ban on the app. He compared the app to drugs and described it as ‘addictive’. “Children are losing interest in studies have become addicted to the game. The parents of such children are helpless. In case they insist the children to stop playing it, they become aggressive,” the PIL had argued.• In the same month, the Jammu and Kashmir Students Association sought a ban on the app due to poor board examination results. • A fitness trainer in Jammu and Kashmir was reported to have started hitting himself while playing the game. He had to be admitted to a hospital after the self destructive act. • Schools in Bengaluru warned parents about the ill-effects of playing the game for hours at a stretch after cases of addiction were reported to the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pubg-mobile-app-ban-controversies-surrounding-the-chinese-app/story-SjLhIsFXNmQUblkrjIXjzL.html
02-09-2020||India||Foreign secretary Shringla recalls Pranab Mukherjee’s contributions to foreign policy||Former president Pranab Mukherjee played an instrumental role in articulating and realising several of India’s foreign policy priorities, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said in a condolence message to the late leader’s family. Mukherjee, who died on August 31 at the age of 84, had two stints as external affairs minister during 1995-96 and 2006-09. He took a keen interest in issues related to the neighbourhood and played a key role in shaping foreign policy as a member of several previous governments. In a message sent to Mukherjee’s daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee, Shringla said the former president’s contributions and achievements in the service of India need no recounting. “He had a tremendous influence on the entire gamut of governance. As external affairs minister, he was instrumental in articulating and realising several of our foreign policy priorities. The Indian Foreign Service was greatly enriched by his stellar leadership and instinctive understanding of international affairs,” he said. Shringla also recalled his personal association with Mukherjee and the benefit of his guidance and advice. “I had the privilege of working under his guidance while he headed different high offices in the government of India. I also benefited from his insights and advice on Bangladesh as the joint secretary in the ministry of external affairs and later as high commissioner there,” said Shringla, who was India’s envoy to Dhaka during 2016-19. “I fondly recall his 2018 visit to Bangladesh on which you accompanied him,” he added. Expressing great sadness at the passing of Mukherjee, Shringla extended condolences on behalf of the external affairs ministry to the former president’s family. “With the passing of Shri Mukherjee, we have lost a great statesman and an inspirational figure in our public life. We pray for his soul to rest in peace,” he said. Tributes have poured in from all over the country and across the world for Mukherjee. One of his key achievements as external affairs minister was the signing of the civil nuclear agreement with the US in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-recalls-pranab-mukherjee-s-contributions-to-foreign-policy/story-mJXafVbTyZGHfOdzaGY23N.html
02-09-2020||India||India bans PUBG, 117 other mobile apps: All you need to know||In its third such move, the government on Wednesday banned 118 more mobile apps, including the massively-popular game PUBG, over information that these were being used for activities ‘prejudicial to the sovereignty of India, defence of India and security of state and public order’.Today’s move follows an earlier ban announced on 59 and 47 mobile apps in June and July respectively.Here’s all you need to know about the Centre’s ban on these 118 apps:(1.) The Ministry of Information and Technology invoked its powers under Section 69 A of the IT Act, with relevant provisions of the IT Rules 2009 to ban the apps, adding that it had received complaints from various sources with regard to the misuse of the apps.(2.) The ministry in its order further said that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had also sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these ‘malicious’ apps. It further said that there are also concerns raised by public representatives, as well as a strong public demand to act against the apps.(3.) PUBG, which stands for Player Unknown’s Battlegrounds, is an online multi-player game developed and published by PUBG Corporation, which is a subsidiary of South Korean video game company Bluehole.(4.) It is massively popular in India, where it has over 50 million (5 crore) downloads and 33 million (3.3 crore) active users.Also read: PUBG loses battle for India, among 118 Chinese mobile apps banned by Centre(5.) The move comes in the backdrop of the ongoing India-China tensions in the mountainous area of Ladakh. The two countries have been engaged in a military standoff in the region since the first week of May.(6.) On June 29, amid vociferous demand across India to take action against China in the wake of the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in action, the government announced a ban on 59 Chinese apps, including popular video-sharing app TikTok.(7.) A month later, on July 28, the government banned 47 more apps, taking the total number of apps banned to 106. With today’s announcement, a total of 224 mobile apps have been banned since June.(8.) In its order today, the government also called its decision a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace. The move, it further said, will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users.(9.) The ban will apply on both mobile and non-mobile internet-enabled devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bans-pubg-117-other-mobile-apps-all-you-need-to-know/story-XWDPnSwTgHT6aS2hkLCu3I.html
02-09-2020||India||Another 6-8 weeks needed to douse Baghjan gas well fire, says Assam minister||It might take another six to eight weeks to douse the fire at a natural gas well in Assam’s Baghjan, industry minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told the state assembly on Wednesday. The well operated by Oil India Limited (OIL) in Tinsukia district of Assam, which had a blow out on May 27, caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters. Though the well was capped last month, the fire continues to blaze. Replying to a zero hour notice by Congress’ Durga Bhumij, Patowary said efforts are on to bring a team of experts from Canada to ‘kill the well’ with help of snubbing technology. “Experts from Canada are coming to Baghjan in a chartered aircraft carrying equipment to kill the well with snubbing technology. It could take another 6 to 8 weeks to complete the operation,” Patowary told the assembly. Snubbing is a process to install or remove tubular (types of pipes used in gas and oil wells) from a well while the well remains pressurized (alive). This technique is used when it is not possible or desired to kill a well using a mud-sludge called ‘kill fluid’, a technique which was tried unsuccessfully earlier. Patowary said 12 families whose houses were completely burnt by the fire will be given Rs 24 lakhs each. Another nearly 1,484 families living near the well have been provided Rs 30,000 each and 1,197 families living a bit far away will be given Rs 25,000 each. A sum of Rs 10 lakh would be given to 57 families affected by the fire and 561 families who had partial impact would be given Rs 2.5 lakh each according to a relief and rehabilitation plan prepared by the district administration. On August 17, foreign experts engaged by OIL were able to cap the well by placing a blow out preventer (BOP) stack over the wellhead. But the problem surfaced two days later when attempts were made to douse the fire by ‘killing the well’. The operation was suspended on August 19 following rupture of a casing valve. The setback has forced the experts to plug all technical glitches before making another attempt to douse the fire. OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika had said last week that with the first attempt to douse the fire failing, other options like cutting the entire damaged portion of the casing pipes and replacing with new ones or to digging up a relief well, which is used to intercept and kill a blow out well are being looked into. “Since we have already placed the BOP, we are also considering producing gas from the well partially. If we are able to do that, then the killing operation will be slightly easier because the pressure of the gas will be reduced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-6-8-weeks-needed-to-douse-baghjan-gas-well-fire-says-assam-minister/story-bo7Noj5gr799muTwdWzKzM.html
02-09-2020||India||PUBG loses battle for India, among 118 Chinese mobile apps banned by Centre||India on Wednesday banned 118 mobile applications linked to China including the widely popular game PUBG Mobile Lite, saying there were reports that these apps were ‘stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner. The government said these apps promoted activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.“This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY) said on Wednesday afternoon, announcing the ban that could hurt some of China’s technology giants such as Tencent Holdings Ltd, the country’s search engine leader Baidu Inc, Xiaomi’s ShareSave and online payments giant Ant Group Co.’s platform Alipay.India accounts for over a quarter of PUBG Mobile’s lifetime installs though revenues from the country are still minuscule, a Bloomberg report said citing data from research firm Sensor Tower. PlayerUnknown’s BattleGrounds, popularly known as PUBG, had seen its user numbers rocket in India as the coronavirus-related lockdowns boosted gaming. The banned versions of PUBG included PUBG Mobile Lite, a leaner version of the app suited to inexpensive smartphones, as well as PUBG Mobile Nordic Map: Livik, a newer game played on a Nordic terrain.Also Read: IT ministry bans 118 more apps including PUBG, AppLock: Here’s the full listPUBG was developed by a South Korean company, but the mobile version that has taken off around the world was developed by Chinese tech giant Tencent, news agency AFP said.Officials said there had been reports by parents, civil society activists and other stakeholders about PUBG’s ‘violent’ content. “The apps have been banned to ensure there is no data theft,” said the official. The official added that the Indian alternative to PUBG, Scarfall, may now gain more traction. This is the third round of bans after India decided to take down Tik Tok and 59 other applications on June 29. The second round of blocks came on July 23, when the ministry decided to take down mirror applications that were functioning despite the ban. These applications were also banned for being a ‘threat to the sovereignty of the country and national security’. IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had then called the order a ‘digital strike against China’. Wednesday’s fresh order comes in the wake of border tensions with China spiraling in the sensitive Ladakh sector after China’s People Liberation’s Army (PLA) made an abortive bid to grab Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. The Indian army, however, preempted the PLA and occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.The PLA made a second provocative move on August 31 but the Indian Army took “timely defensive action” to thwart the Chinese attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo in the sector, the ministry of external affairs said on Tuesday.The third round of ban on China-linked mobile applications was ordered against this backdrop and is widely seen as an effort by New Delhi to send a message to Beijing that its aggressive posturing along the Line of Actual Control would come with costs elsewhere. India’s ban on TikTok had prompted several other countries to take a hard look at the company earlier and led to US President Donald Trump’s decision to ban the mobile app from carrying out any transactions in the United States from mid-September.The IT ministry, however, did not allude to the border situation. Instead, it cited a report from the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre located within the Ministry of Home Affairs that had sent an exhaustive recommendation “for blocking these malicious apps”.A MEITY official, who did not wish to be named, said that the ban had been affected under the ‘emergency provisions of the IT Act.The ministry invoked its power under section 69A of the Information Technology Act read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009 and in view of the emergent nature of threats has decided to block 118 mobile apps ‘since in view of information available they are engaged in activities which is prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’, the public statement said.“We got a report of the violations yesterday and have immediately ordered blocking the applications,” he said, explaining that notices are being sent to mobile apps to give their counter to the decision.The same process was followed for the previous round of bans. “They will be given a chance to put forth a representation on their behalf,” he added.“The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has received many complaints from various sources including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India,” the ministry said in a statement.“The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pubg-loses-battle-for-india-among-118-chinese-mobile-apps-banned-by-centre/story-2x7onuA44KVIDwjzMTKsQO.html
02-09-2020||India||Civil aviation ministry raises domestic flight operations to 60%||The civil aviation ministry on Wednesday announced increasing the limited domestic flight operations from 45% to 60%. “After the review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demands for air travel in terms of purpose specified in the initial order (01/2020) dated 21.05.2020, condition laid down....is modified as under: 45% capacity may be read as 60% capacity. This order shall take effect from the date of issue of this order. The other terms and conditions shall remain the same,” the ministry said in an order. Jitender Bhargava, former executive director of Air India said the decision was in line with a growth in the number of passengers.“It is a good move considering that there is steady growth in the average number of passengers lying on domestic sectors. Hence, to ensure that the growing demand of the passengers is met this increase appears to be a part of well thought of strategy,” he said.Civil aviation minister Hardeeo Singh Puri highlighted the rising number of domestic flights over the past few months.“Touching new heights! 1121 domestic flights carried 1,20,725 passengers in a single day on 1st September 2020, Day 101 of recommencement of domestic operations. It began with 30,550 passengers on 418 flights on 25 May 2020,” he tweeted.The government had resumed domestic flight operations on May 25, two months after the national lockdown was announced to stop the spread of Covid-19. The operations were announced to begin in calibrated manner with a 30% capacity to ensure social distancing was followed. While this step enabled stranded people to return home, the number of passengers opting for air travel remained low till mid July. The government had, however, increased the limited flights to 45% by June end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-aviation-ministry-raises-domestic-flight-operations-to-60/story-zu4HNxw0qADFG3aKHOTo3H.html
02-09-2020||India||Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare civil servants for future: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday hailed the “Mission Karmayogi”, a skill-building programme for country’s civil servants, saying that it will radically improve the government’s human resource management practices.“National Program for Civil Services Capacity Building approved in today’s cabinet will radically improve the Human Resource management practices in the Government. It will use scale and state of the art infrastructure to augment the capacity of Civil Servants,” PM Modi said in a tweet. #MissionKarmayogi - National Program for Civil Services Capacity Building approved in today’s cabinet will radically improve the Human Resource management practices in the Government. It will use scale & state of the art infrastructure to augment the capacity of Civil Servants. pic.twitter.com/RNl3uDS7ILHe also said that the program aims to prepare civil servants for the future.“The iGOT platform will enable the transition to a role-based HR management and continuous learning. Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare Civil Servants for the future by making them more creative, constructive and innovative through transparency and technology,” PM Modi also said. The iGOT platform will enable the transition to a role-based HR management & continuous learning. Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare Civil Servants for the future by making them more creative, constructive & innovative through transparency and technology. #CivilService4NewIndia pic.twitter.com/NxGBcAxUGoDubbed as the “biggest Human Resources Development reform in the government”, the Union cabinet approved “Mission Karmayogi” initiative. Under the program, an integrated government online training platform, iGOTKarmayogi, will be set up for the mission.The initiative is aimed at capacity building of government employees to make them more “creative, proactive, profession and technology-enabled”, the government said.At the top will be an HR council, chaired by the prime minister, and consisting of select Union ministers and chief ministers. It will also have eminent thought leaders (noted academics, and global leaders) and civil services leadership.The schemes will be accessible for all, from section officers to secretaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mission-karmayogi-aims-to-prepare-civil-servants-for-future-pm-modi/story-F7eDWrsyoCG0gNg8U56ncM.html
02-09-2020||India||Telangana migrant stranded in the UAE, reunited with family after 16 years||It was an emotional reunion for 47-year old Neela Yellaiah, a migrant worker from Telangana with his wife and daughter at Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Tuesday after being stranded in the UAE for 16 years.Yellaiah, who lost his passport and was suffering partial memory loss all these years, returned to Hyderabad from Dubai in an Air India flight in the early hours of Tuesday. He was received by E Chittibabu, special officer of NRI cell in the Telangana government and his family members. “His wife Rajavva broke into tears on seeing her husband after 16 years. His daughter Sunanda, who was a breastfeeding baby when he went to Dubai in 2004, was also emotional on seeing her father for the first time,” Mandha Bheem Reddy, president of Telangana Gulf Migrants’ Forum, who coordinated the entire process of bringing Yellaiah back to India, told Hindustan Times. Though it was mandatory for Yellaiah to be in institutional quarantine for a week as per the Covid-19 protocol, the Telangana government permitted him to be taken straightaway to his native village Chinthamanpalli in Domakonda block of Kamareddy district in view of his physical weakness and memory loss. He will have to be in home quarantine for two weeks. Bheem Reddy said Yellaiah went to the United Arab Emirates in 2004 to work as a labourer in a construction company on a temporary visa. However, he was forced to quit the company for some reasons. He lived in Dubai and Sharjah for the last 16 years doing odd jobs. “During this period, he suffered ill-health. He lost his passport and. He was stuck there because did not have a passport. Having come under severe mental and physical strain, he also lost his memory partially,” Reddy said. Apparently, Yellaiah lost touch with his wife and other family members, who had no clue about his whereabouts. In the last 16 years, he might have spoken to his wife four or five times and according to his wife, there had been no word from him in the last 10 years. Rajavva, who started working as an agriculture labourer on daily wages, brought up her daughter Sunanda. “A couple of years ago, she even got her daughter married and Sunanada now has a one-year-old son,” Reddy said. Recently, Rupesh Mehta, a volunteer from the ‘Jain Seva Mission’ (JSM), a social service organization in the Gulf countries, noticed Yellaiah’s condition while distributing provisions for Indian migrants in Sharjah. “On coming to know about Yellaiah’s plight, Mehta arranged an Emergency Certificate (Temporary Passport) from the Indian Consulate in Dubai for him. But it was not so easy, as there were no details of his old passport,” he said. Rajavva, with the support of Gulf Migrants’ Forum, made a request with the Hyderabad Passport Office, which searched its data base and found the passport details of Yellaiah. The same details were shared to the Consulate General of India (CGI), Dubai which made it easier to issue temporary passport. “Jitender Singh Negi and Harjeet Singh, Labour Consuls at CGI, Dubai, helped him in getting the passport. The consulate also provided a free air ticket from Dubai to Hyderabad,” Reddy said. According to UAE immigration regulations, those whose visa expires and residing illegally have to pay an overstay fine of 25 UAE Dirhams (Rs 500) per day. This carries a hefty fine of 1.46 Lakh Dirhams (Rs 29 lakhs) for 16 years. “Thanks to the efforts of Rupesh Mehta and Indian Consulate, the Dubai immigration officials waived this fine and gave him exit permit,” Reddy said. He appealed to the state and central governments to provide rehabilitation for Yellaiah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-migrant-stranded-in-the-uae-reunited-with-family-after-16-years/story-TC88PDqSmK4Iy300Jq4H8L.html
02-09-2020||India||Foreign and defence ministers of India, Australia, Indonesia to meet amid concerns over China||India, Australia and Indonesia are set to hold two virtual meetings of their foreign and defence ministers to bolster regional cooperation and maritime security in the Indo-Pacific region, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The meetings will be held against the backdrop of China’s increasingly aggressive actions across the region, ranging from the border standoff with India to territorial claims in the South China Sea backed by the concentration of military assets. The meetings have been in the works for some time and the video conference of the foreign ministers – S Jaishankar, Marise Payne of Australia and Retno Marsudi of Indonesia – is expected later this month, and will be followed by the meeting of defence ministers, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. “This is a fast moving trilateral with the defence and foreign ministers expected to meet over the next couple of months. All three countries have a shared interest in an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific,” one of the people said. The foreign ministers will focus on working collaboratively to strengthen regional institutions such as the East Asia Summit (EAS), which includes Asean states and their dialogue partners, and the 22-member Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA), the people said. The defence ministers will focus on maritime security cooperation at their subsequent meeting, the people added. Officials working on the initiative have coined the term “minilateral” to describe the coming together of the three countries. “With the world’s biggest democracy, India, Asia’s oldest democracy, Australia, and the largest Muslim-majority democracy in the form of Indonesia, we think this could be one of the region’s most important minilaterals,” said the person cited above. The final schedules for the meetings are yet to be locked down but Indonesian foreign minister Marsudi tweeted last week she had discussed the upcoming trilateral meet with her Australian counterpart Payne during a phone call on August 26. Indonesian defence minister Prabowo Subianto’s visit to New Delhi in late July provided an opportunity for the two sides to discuss expansion of security cooperation and China’s activities in the region, the people said. Subianto was one of the rare foreign leaders to visit India amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The possible sale of the BrahMos cruise missile to Indonesia had figured in talks. A statement issued by India’s defence ministry said both ministers agreed to take defence ties to the “next level of deliverables”. Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell, while delivering a speech at India’s National Defence College in April, had said the three countries should identify new ways in which they can collaborate to be the “best possible custodians of the Indian Ocean”. Rear Admiral (retired) Sudarshan Shrikhande, a strategy affairs expert who focuses on the Indo-Pacific, described the planned meetings as a good development, especially in view of growing concerns about China. “An increasing number of nations globally, but even more so across the Indo-Pacific are seriously concerned about China’s claims, belligerence and arm-twisting while recognising the potential of its powerful military,” he said. “A coming together of Australia, Indonesia and India could be a key contributor to stability, freedom of the commons and mutual understanding and respect,” Shrikhande said, adding the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad will have greater heft if it expands regional security cooperation to involve Indonesia, Vietnam and the Philippines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-and-defence-ministers-of-india-australia-indonesia-to-meet-amid-concerns-over-china/story-uEAcjcKPKFgKIrrShPCCrJ.html
02-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kashmiri couple, techie from Hyderabad among 5 charged by NIA for ISKP links and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kashmiri couple, techie from Hyderabad among 5 charged by NIA for ISKP linksThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against five operatives of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), including a Kashmiri couple - Jahanzaib Sami and Hina Bashir Beigh for allegedly conspiring to utilize the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests to instigate Muslims against the Indian government and planning to indulge in arson to provoke riots. Read more.Hoping for peaceful resolution of India-China border dispute, says US Secretary of State Mike PompeoThe United States hopes for a peaceful resolution to the border dispute between India and China, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday. “More missile tests were done in China last year than all western nations combined. If you’re going to be serious, you’ve to use those in a way that is consistent with how nations undertake obligation under nuclear proliferation treaties,” Pompeo said while addressing a press conference at the State Department. Read more.India bans 118 more mobile apps including PUBGIndia on Wednesday banned more than 100 mobile applications including the hugely popular mobile gaming app PUBG, after banning 59 Chinese apps in the first round earlier this year. The apps were banned citing concerns of data security after fresh tensions between India and China in the border area in eastern Ladakh. Read more.Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer says sister got SSR a prescription for anxiety medication, legallySlamming ‘malicious’ campaigns by certain TV channels to project actor Sushant Singh Rajput as mentally unstable, his father’s lawyer Vikas Singh has said that the family was not aware of any such psychological issues. Vikas Singh addressed leaked chat messages that seemed to suggest that the family was aware of Sushant’s alleged depression, and even took it upon themselves to find medication for him. Read more.Metros to resume from 7 September but won’t stop at overcrowded stationsMetro trains will resume services in a graded manner and metros having more than one line should open different lines starting from September 7 onwards in a staggered manner so that all corridors become operational by September 12, according to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on Wednesday for restarting Metro services under the Unlock 4 guidelines. Read more.East Bengal finally get an investor, all set to play ISL 7With help from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, East Bengal landed an investor thereby removing the biggest hurdle in the 100-year-old club’s path to play in the Indian Super League (ISL), India’s top football league. ISL is expected to start in November behind closed-doors in Goa. Read more.Watch: Ram Temple map approved by Ayodhya Development AuthorityA major step has been taken in the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The Ayodhya Development Authority has approved the map of the proposed Ram Temple. The Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra had submitted the layout of the Ram temple to Ayodhya Development Authority for approval. Watch video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kashmiri-couple-techie-from-hyderabad-among-5-charged-by-nia-for-iskp-links-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wIS1XqyMRqJMo97Ybfi8SP.html
02-09-2020||India||Pak national living in Vrindavan for 16 years held for rape of minor from Ukraine||A Pakistani national was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping a minor girl from Ukraine in Mathura’s Vrindavan town, the police said.The girl lives with her father in an apartment in Vrindavan, which the accused, also a resident of Vrindavan, used to visit frequently. “The father of the girl lodged an FIR at Vrindavan Kotwali on Tuesday blaming Anand Kumar, 24, a Pakistani national, for raping his 14-year-old daughter on the night of August 31 when he was away,” said Avdesh Pratap Singh, officiating in-charge of Kotwali, Vrindavan. The accused was arrested on Wednesday and will be presented before a court in Mathura. The medical examination of the survivor has been conducted, said Singh.The police officer said the accused was from Karachi in Pakistan and has been living in Vrindavan on a tourist visa for the past 16 years. “The mother and brother of the accused also live with him in Vrindavan,” said Singh.The father of the survivor who is from Ukraine has been living in Vrindavan for the past five years as a Lord Krishna devotee. His wife lives separately in Vrindavan.“The case has been registered under section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code. As the victim is minor, section ¾ of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has also been included,” the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-national-living-in-vrindavan-for-16-years-held-for-rape-of-minor-from-ukraine/story-53jXdCFx8PAJRRkkgfkF1M.html
02-09-2020||India||Jagan govt withdraws subsidy to Discoms, to directly transfer power bill amount to farmers||In a major change in free agriculture power supply policy, the Andhra Pradesh government has decided to withdraw subsidy to power distribution companies towards agriculture power supply every year. Instead, the government will pay money directly to farmers for the power consumed by them in their fields and they, in turn, could pay the power bills to the Discoms. An order to this effect (GO Ms No. 22) was issued by state energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikanth on Tuesday. The free power supply to agriculture was introduced in combined Andhra Pradesh during the regime of late Y S Rajasekhar Reddy. Until now, farmers have been enjoying unlimited free power supply there was no measure of how much power they are consuming. The state government has been bearing this loss being incurred by Discoms by extending free power supply to farmers in the form of power subsidy every year. According to Srikanth, there are 17.55 lakh agriculture power connections in Andhra Pradesh consuming an average of 12,232 million units of power as per the 2020-21 estimates. The government has been incurring an expenditure of nearly Rs 8,354 crore every year for supplying this power to farmers free of cost. This amount is being paid to Discoms in the form of power subsidy. According to the latest decision, the government will not pay this subsidy amount to Discoms with effect from the next financial year 2021-22. Instead, it will credit the amount for the power bill directly into the account of farmers in the beginning of the month so that they, in turn, would pay the bill for the Discoms. “Like in the past, the farmers will not have to pay a single rupee for the power they consume for their agriculture operations. This will help the farmers know how much subsidy they are getting from the government every month and they will get a right to demand quality power supply from discoms,” Srikanth said. However, there is a condition. The farmers will have to install meters for their agricultural power connections, so that they know how much power they consume every month and the Discoms would be able to bill for the power consumed. Srikanth said decision to introduce direct benefit transfer (DBT) for agriculture power consumers was taken in view of the condition imposed by the Centre as part of performance-linked reforms under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan in order to avail of additional borrowing. The government said it would open fresh bank accounts for farmers to credit the power subsidy directly every month. It proposed to constitute committees at village, block, division, Discom and state-levels for the smooth implementation of the new policy. These committees, besides creating awareness and redressing grievances, will also be responsible to conduct enrolment for new connections. The opposition parties strongly resisted the government’s decision to do away with power subsidy to Discoms and introduce direct benefit transfer to farmers. Telugu Desam Party legislator Anagani Satyaprasad alleged that the state government was trying to shift the burden of power subsidy to farmers. “Why should it transfer the money to farmers and ask them to pay the bills to Discoms again? The government can anyway pay the Discoms directly,” he said. He wondered when the government was not in a position to pay salaries to the employees on time, how it would pay the farmers towards power bills. He also opposed the installation of meters for agriculture power connections. CPI state secretary K Ramakrishna also demanded that the government withdraw the new agriculture power policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-withdraws-subsidy-to-discoms-to-directly-transfer-power-bill-amount-to-farmers/story-hfn4LO18EBKaMPA5q78reK.html
02-09-2020||India||After killing of DYFI activists, 140 Kerala Congress offices vandalised in 2 days||After the murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists, Kerala has been witnessing a series of violent incidents in the last two days. State Congress president Mullappally Ramachandran said at least 140 party offices and memorials were vandalised and he asked the CPI (M) leadership to restrain its workers.Former Youth Congress state general secretary and PCC member G Leena and her minor son received minor injuries after an alleged group of CPI (M) workers attacked her house on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram in the early hours of Wednesday. Later, former chief minister Oommen Chandy and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala visited her house.Tension gripped many parts of the state after the murder of two DFYI activists, Midhilaj (30) and Mohammad Haq (28), on Sunday. While the Congress disowned the murder saying it was part of a gang rivalry between two groups the ruling CPI (M) insisted that it was a political murder. But later the Congress released CCTV visuals which showed the deceased also carried lethal weapons and resisted the attack which continued for 15 minutes.“The state is witnessing government-sponsored violence. Police remain, mute spectators, while CPI (M) workers target Congress offices. More than 140 party offices were vandalized,” said PCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran. He reiterated the youngsters were killed in a gang rivalry and the CPI(M) conveniently put the blame on the party to distract attention from the gold smuggling case and other ‘corrupt’ deals. He said at least two dozen party workers were injured in the attack and even busts of Mahatma Gandhi and other Congress leaders were vandalised.However, the CPI (M) said it was a well-planned and executed murder and many leaders including Attingal MP Adoor Prakash knew about it. “Adoor Prakash has a role in the double murder. We have information that some assailants called him after the murder,” said state Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-killing-of-dyfi-activists-140-kerala-congress-offices-vandalized-in-2-days/story-4hcY1q0ukdfhq2k7lO46AK.html
02-09-2020||India||Malicious campaign by channels to defame Sushant’s family, benefit Rhea: Lawyer||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh Wednesday said a malicious campaign was being run by few channels to defame his family and benefit actress Rhea Chakraborty, who has been accused of abetting the actor’s suicide.The senior advocate told the media that Sushant’s three sisters -- Priyanka, Mitu and Rani -- told him that they are extremely pained by the negative and false campaign related to his mental health which has been started by some news channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malicious-campaign-by-few-channels-to-defame-sushant-s-family-benefit-rhea-lawyer/story-A6bZ2Nan1BYxtQN63CM9RN.html
02-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput was cut off from family, they were unable to help him with his problems: Lawyer||Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput was cut off from his family and therefore despite wanting to help him with his problems, they were not able to assist him, advocate Varun Singh, briefing lawyer of the family, said on Wednesday.“It has never been our case that the family was unaware. We have always said that there seemed to be a lot of problem and for which we (family) wanted to eventually rescue Sushant at an opportune time,” Singh told ANI here.He said a look at the FIR in the case clears what the case has been made out.“Because he (Sushant) was cut off, the family was unable to assist him and help him tide over the problem, which is why unfortunately things have happened the way they have,” Singh said.“To dispel rumours and bring some clarity about the family’s stance and their case, Mr Vikas Singh (lawyer of Sushant’s father) will address media today,” he added.Speaking about the recently registered drug case registered in the matter, Singh said that the family’s FIR has nothing to do with the drug angle.“The credible investigative agency has taken note of the fact that these situations had occurred and there is something worthwhile to investigate. However, we as complainants have not really stressed up or made that a basis for our case,” he said.When asked about the questioning of Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the lawyer said he cannot reveal the information as it is a matter of investigation. He also said that he cannot release what his three sisters discussed with their lawyers when they came to meet them today, without their consent.It was also recently reported that Sushant’s sister Priyanka knew about his mental health condition.This comes as the CBI, Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are probing the death case, money laundering angle and drugs angle in the matter respectively.The case had come to light after the dead body of Sushant Singh Rajput was found at his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Police had, at the moment, said that it prima facia appeared to be a case of suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-was-cut-off-from-family-they-were-unable-to-help-him-with-his-problems-says-lawyer/story-uvOZhJuW4Ur0XzRwc9X1GM.html
02-09-2020||India||NDA gets a boost in poll-bound Bihar as Jitan Manjhi’s party joins it||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar will now be a coalition of four parties after former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM-S on Wednesday announced that the party is joining the NDA. The other members of the NDA are the BJP, JD (U) and the LJP. “We have forged an alliance with Janata Dal (United) and have become a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). There has been no discussion about seat-sharing in the next Bihar Assembly elections,” said Manjhi who is also the party president.The former chief minister and one of the prominent Dalit face of Bihar made it clear that he has joined as an alliance partner and there was no merger of the HAM-S with JD (U). “My party will work for the victory of each alliance candidate,” he said and clarified that he has joined the NDA without any terms and conditions. “I have very old relations with Nitish Kumar. How many seats we will get, it is a matter between the JD (U) and HAM-S,” he said. HAM-S sources claim the party might contest on 10 assembly seats. An NDA source said that JD (U) national president Nitish Kumar wanted Manjhi to contest against former assembly speaker Udai Narain Chowdhary of RJD but he had shown his reluctance to fight the elections. “There is a possibility of Manjhi going to Rajya Sabha at the earliest opportunity,” said a HAM-S leader. Manjhi’s party had contested 20 assembly seats in 2015 assembly polls and won only one. The JD (U) sources said that Manjhi could be a Dalit face of the party after the exit of Shyam Rajak. Manjhi has a big following in the Maha Dalit and Dalit communities, which form 16% of Bihar’s population of 104.1 million as per the 2011 census. “Seat-sharing is not at all an issue for us. The party decided to be with the development agenda of the NDA,” said HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan. Soon after announcing his party’s decision to ally with NDA, Manjhi criticized the RJD and rued his decision to join the Grand Alliance. “I fell in the trap of Lalu Prasad and that is why I joined GA. RJD is full of corruption and neck deep into scams,” said Manjhi. Countering the RJD allegations that the party made his son MLC, Manjhi countered, “He got the membership through merit. He is not a seventh pass but a MA, Ph.d.” Welcoming Manjhi’s decision to join the NDA, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi tweeted, “Manjhi’s leaving GA goes on to prove that a party run from jail cannot do justice to Dalits and Backwards. Welcome Manjhi ji.” The JD (U) also welcomed the move. “The NDA is going to benefit from his experience. It is a great setback for the GA,” said JD (U) spokesperson, Rajeev Ranjan. The LJP did not react to the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-gets-a-boost-in-poll-bound-bihar-as-jitan-manjhi-s-party-joins-it/story-xRQKPuRqD8aQh3xptAABnM.html
02-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Metro services to remain shut in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided not to resume metro operations in the state during September. The order comes as the Centre allowed resumption of metro services across the country in Unlock 4 guidelines.As per the order by state government, Mumbai Line-1 and Maharashtra Metro operations shall commence from October or “as the state government may decide further.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest ease of restrictions, the Central government allowed metro trains to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while political, social and religious gatherings of up to 100 people will be permitted from September 21.In Maharashtra, restriction on inter-district movement of persons and goods has been lifted and e-pass will not be required for undertaking such a journey from September 2.At the same time, the government said the general lockdown in the state will continue till September 30 as part of efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19.The Covid-19 caseload in Maharashtra surpassed 8 lakh on Tuesday as the infection continued to spread in the state. Maharashtra is among the worst-affected state from the Covid-19 in the country.The number of total confirmed cases stood at 8,08,306, according to the figures published on Tuesday by the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-metro-services-to-remain-shut-in-maharashtra/story-VrAwfOiOpsT5I7yDfgZlsL.html
02-09-2020||India||Kashmiri couple, techie from Hyderabad among 5 charged by NIA for ISKP links||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against five operatives of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), including a Kashmiri couple - Jahanzaib Sami and Hina Bashir Beigh for allegedly conspiring to utilize the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests to instigate Muslims against the Indian government and planning to indulge in arson to provoke riots. The agency said the couple was conspiring to create unrest during anti-CAA protests by coining seditious slogans and making graffiti at public places and highlighting the same on social and international media. The couple, along with others, had also conducted reconnaissance at prominent places in Maharashtra frequented by foreigners and attempted to make an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) for carrying out mass killings, the agency said in a statement. Jahanzaib Sami (36) and his wife Hina Bashir Beigh (39), both from Srinagar, were the first ones to be arrested in the case in March this year by Delhi Police’s Special Cell from Okhla after which the probe was handed over to the NIA. Hyderabad-based Abdullah Basith, a key ISIS handler in India, and two others from Pune - Sadiya Anwar Shaikh (20) and Nabeel Siddick Khatri (27) were subsequently taken into custody by the central agency. NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang said in a statement – “Investigation has revealed that Jahanzaib, a B.Tech from Ferozpur, Punjab, got radicalised and inclined towards ISIS/ISKP by reading about it on the internet. He established contact with ISIS handler Huzaifa-al-Bakistani and latter’s father-in-law viz. Abu Usman-Al-Kashmiri (Head of Indian affairs of ISKP) in 2017 on a secure messaging platform.” “Huzaifa-al-Bakistani further introduced him to Abdullah Basith, another ISIS operative, who is already in judicial custody in Tihar jail in connection with another NIA case (ISIS Abu Dhabi Module 2018 case),” Narang said. “Hina Bashir, who had her higher education from Pune, also got radicalized since 2014-15 by reading ISIS-related content on social media. Jahanzaib and Hina got married in 2017 as both supported the ideology of ISIS,” she added. The agency said Jahanzaib, Hina Bashir, Abdullah Basith and Ms Sadiya were continuously in contact with ISIS operatives based in Khorasan and Syria. “On receiving instructions from ISKP Head viz. Abu Usman-Al-Kashmiri, accused Jahanzaib and Abdullah Basith prepared a magazine titled ‘Voice of Hind’ inciting Muslims against non-Muslims and exhorting them to rise against the government of India and join ISIS. The magazine eulogises ISIS/ISKP terrorists including Huzaifa-al-Bakistani who was killed in July 2019 in a drone strike in Afghanistan and denigrates the Indian constitution and democratic system,” Narang said. “Jahanzaib, Hina Bashir, Abdullah Basith and Sadiya were conspiring to utilize the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests to instigate Muslims against the Indian Government by coining seditious slogans and making graffiti at public places and highlighting the same on social and international media. They were also provoking some gullible youth to participate in anti-CAA protests actively. In case these protests failed to provoke the Muslims, they were planning for arsoning of government buildings and public property so that riots could happen and they could exploit the sentiments of Muslims,” she added. “Jahanzaib, Hina, Basith and Nabeel Siddick tried to make an improvised IED and were planning to carry out mass-killings in crowded places to further the activities of ISIS/ISKP in India. Reconnaissance was got conducted by them of certain sensitive locations in Maharashtra which are frequented by foreigners,” agency said. The agency last month arrested another person - Abdur Rehman alias Dr Brave from Bengaluru in the case, who was in contact with Jahanzaib as part of the conspiracy to promote the activities of ISIS/ISKP and had also visited ISIS medical camp in Syria in 2014. He will be chargesheeted later. M S Khan, Kashmiri couple’s lawyer, said – “The agency is making a mountain out of a molehill. There is no evidence in the case. It’s all a bundle of lies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmiri-couple-techie-from-hyderabad-among-5-charged-by-nia-for-iskp-links/story-CUv4ELPnwlcFGam0lwYbpO.html
02-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh sees highest single-day spike of 1,884 Covid-19 cases||Chhattisgarh’s highest single-day spike of 1,884 fresh cases on Tuesday took the state’s Covid-19 tally to 33,387 while 10 more casualties took the death toll to 287, the health department said.The state currently has 15,163 active cases of Covid-19 while 17,567 people have recovered, a health department official said.Chhattisgarh has added over 23,500 cases of Covid-19 and 232 deaths in the last one month alone. Raipur district has the highest number of Covid-19 cases with 11,787. The district has also seen 150 deaths till now. Raipur district recorded 660 new cases on Tuesday, followed by Durg district (226) and Rajnandgaon district (149), tally, he said. Other districts where fresh cases were detected are Bilaspur (103), Raigarh (103), Janjgir-Champa (68), Koriya (52), Balodabazar (39), Dantewada (37), Balod (34), Bijapur (34), Korba (26), Surguja (26), Dhamtari (25), Bemetara (20) and Mungeli (20), the official said. Among the 10 fatalities, three patients were from Raipur, two from Bilaspur, one each from Jashpur, Jangri- Champa, Balrampur, Sukma, Durg.Meanwhile, two cabinet ministers are on home isolation while a senior IAS officer tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is also in home isolation since Monday after one of his PSOs (Personal Security Officer) and OSDs (Officer on Special Duty) tested positive for Covid-19. The two ministers who are in home isolation are home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu and agriculture and parliamentary affairs minister Ravindra Choubey. “Being the parliamentary affairs minister, I have to meet everyone and hence as a precaution, I will be in home isolation for eight days,” Choubey wrote on Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-1-884-covid-19-cases/story-nyrSPZIJvFbWwlWQkZS4KL.html
02-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro to operate between 7am-11am and 4pm-8pm in first phase, normal services from Sept 12||In the first phase, Delhi Metro services will operate in two shifts, said Mangu Singh, Managing Director of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation.“The trains will run from 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm, and normal operations from Sept 12,” he said.“In phase 1, on 7th Sept, we are planning to start Yellow Line from Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre. In phase 2, on 9th Sept we will start three more lines, Blue Line, Pink Line & Gurgaon Line,” he added.The government on Wednesday released standard operating procedures (SOPs) for resuming the metro services under Unlock 4.0. “Daily hours of operations may be staggered initially, which needs to be increased gradually with resumption of full revenue service by 12th September, 2020. Frequency of trains to be regulated to avoid passenger crowding at stations and in trains,” the guidelines read.While Delhi, Noida, Chennai, Kochi, Bangalore, Mumbai Line-1, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Maha Metro (Nagpur) Kolkata, Gujarat and UP Metro (Lucknow) have prepared their SOPs, Government of Maharashtra has decided not to resume operation of metro during September, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-metro-to-operate-between-7am-11-am-and-4pm-8-pm-in-first-phase-normal-operations-from-sept-12/story-GroAAhcjFCEduH7cZ4Y8wI.html
02-09-2020||India||Metros to resume from Sept 7 but won’t stop at overcrowded stations||Metro trains will resume services in a graded manner and metros having more than one line should open different lines starting from September 7 onwards in a staggered manner so that all corridors become operational by September 12, according to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on Wednesday for restarting Metro services under the Unlock 4 guidelines.The guidelines issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs state stations coming under containment zones will remain closed.“Daily hours of operations may be staggered initially, which needs to be increased gradually with resumption of full revenue service by September 12, 2020. Frequency of trains to be regulated to avoid passenger crowding at stations and in trains,” the SOP said.The government of Maharashtra has decided not to resume operation of the metro during September, 2020. “Hence, Mumbai Line-1 and Maharashtra Metro operations shall commence from October, 2020 or as state Government may decide further,” union housing minister Hardeep Puri said in a press conference. Based on the guidelines issued by the Centre the metro corporations of Delhi, Noida, Chennai, Kochi, Bangalore, Mumbai Line-1, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Maha Metro (Nagpur), Kolkata, Gujarat and UP Metro (Lucknow) have prepared their SOP, the ministry said.The SOP has been finalised following discussions with the managing directors of 15 Metro rail corporations on Tuesday. The Union home ministry has cleared the guidelines.The home ministry had allowed Metro services in a graded manner from September 7 under its Unlock 4 plan issued on Saturday.According to the SOP, metro authorities will ensure there are suitable markings at stations and inside trains. It will be mandatory for passengers and staffers to wear a mask at all times. Those who come without a mask will have to buy one at the station.Officials said the metro authorities had also been told that the trains should not stop at stations where passengers do not maintain social distancing norms.“There will be marking across stations for maintaining social distancing and even inside the trains on the seats. Passengers must ensure that they adhere to it, we are monitoring each and every location through video cameras through central control rooms and if at any station these norms are violated or crowding takes place the instructions are that metro trains will not stop at those stations. We have even added this in the SOP,” housing affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said.Puri said the government may have to review the arrangements if resumption of services leads to crowding at stations where passengers are found violating social distancing norms.“Emphasis has to be on review and caution. We are very clear in our minds that this opening up in a graded and calibrated manner will need to be reviewed. If we find that the resumption of operations is not resulting in social distancing either at the metro stations or if there is crowding or trains are getting congested…we might have no option but to review all these arrangements. So I am appealing through the media to all the consumers that while we welcome the resumption of metro services, a decision which was been taken after very careful and deep consideration, the buzz word is ‘caution’ and ‘care’…resumption of economic activity is imperative but it has to be done in a careful and calibrated manner,” Puri said. Only asymptomatic persons to be allowed to travel after thermal screening at entry into the stations. “Symptomatic persons should be advised to go to nearby Covid Care Centre/Hospital for testing/medical attention. Use of Aarogya Setu App will be encouraged,” the SOP said.The guidelines said that the use of Smart Cards and cashless/online transactions will be encouraged but tokens can also be used with proper sanitization.“Adequate dwell time at stations will be provided to enable smooth boarding and deboarding ensuring social distancing. Metro rail corporations may also resort to skipping of stations to ensure proper social distancing,” Puri said.Provision of sanitizers will be made at entry into the stations for use by passengers. Passengers will be advised to travel with minimum luggage and avoid carrying metallic items for easy and quick scanning, the SOP noted.“Operation of Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning (HVAC) system as per the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) & Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE) guidelines. Intake of fresh air in the air-conditioning system to be increased to the extent possible,” the SOP said.Metro rail corporations will maintain close liaison with state police and local administration for regulating crowds outside stations and to deal with contingencies, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-sop-for-metro-rails-to-resume-operations-from-sep-7/story-feL2rDCahgc7N0fBYj0D5I.html
02-09-2020||India||Woman e-rickshaw driver ferries Covid-19 patients free of cost in Bengal’s Siliguri||At a time when news of ambulance drivers refusing to carry Covid-19 patients and charging exorbitant rates from families are common, a 48-year-old woman e-rickshaw driver in north Bengal has been braving all odds and ferrying such patients to hospitals for free.Munmun Sarkar, the first woman e-rickshaw driver of Siliguri in Darjeeling district, who now heads the association of women e-rickshaw drivers in the town. She is lovingly called ‘Muniya Didi’ by all. “Initially when I started ferrying Covid-19 patients, even the local councillor asked me to stop while neighbours tried to ostracize me and my family. But I was determined and my family members supported me throughout. They were ready to face the consequences,” she said. Sarkar started driving the e-rickshaw, popularly known as Toto, almost six and half years ago. She also delivers food and other relief materials to those in need. Her family members including her husband Ananda Sarkar, son Subhankar who works in the State Bank of India, daughter Suparna Poddar have been a support throughout. “I was ready to face all consequences to support the work of my wife even if that meant staying out on the roads,” said Ananda Sarkar, her husband. A resident of Shaktigarh area, Munmun who could not pass class 12, was always into social service and wanted to empower women folks. That’s why she started driving an e-rickshaw and set an example for other women. There are now 118 women Toto drivers in Siliguri town. Stating that money was never an attraction for her, she said that when the pandemic started, she stopped ferrying normal passengers and started carrying only Covid-19 patients to hospitals and those who have been released from hospitals back to their homes. “Till date I have carried a few hundred Covid-19 patients. So far only one has died,” she said. Her work has won her accolades and she has been felicitated by many organistions including Siliguri Journalists’ Club. “Munmun didi has done an exemplary work, fearlessly attending Covid-19 patients at a time when most others fear to go near such patients,” said Anirban Roy a dental surgeon who is the first plasma donor of North Bengal and a nodal person of Covid Care Network – a voluntary organization. She always puts on PPE and the driver’s seat of her Toto is covered with a plastic sheet. But Sarkar said that she never bought any PPE. “I never bought any PPE. Various organisations gift them to me to provide me support. I just make sure that I regularly sanitise the vehicle. That cuts deep into my pocket,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-e-rickshaw-driver-ferries-covid-19-patients-free-of-cost-in-bengal-s-siliguri/story-TQRfdHwN437c8m7ndobExL.html
02-09-2020||India||India bans 118 more mobile apps including PUBG||India on Wednesday banned more than 100 mobile applications including the hugely popular mobile gaming app PUBG, after banning 59 Chinese apps in the first round earlier this year. The apps were banned citing concerns of data security after fresh tensions between India and China in the border area in eastern Ladakh.A total of 118 apps have been banned by the ministry of information and technology, according to an official statement. The banned mobile applications are prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity, defence of India and public order, the ministry said. WATCH | Explained: India bans PUBG, 117 more Chinese apps amid fresh border tussleThe banned apps include Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun, besides PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite, the statement read. According to some reports, there are nearly 33 million active PUBG players in India, making it one of the most popular apps downloaded in the country. PUBG reportedly clocks 13 million users per day. The ministry of electronics and information technology received several complaints from various sources, including reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on the Android and iOS platforms. The complaints alleged stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which possibly had locations outside India. Also Read | IT ministry bans 118 more Chinese apps including PUBG: Here is the full list“The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” the statement said.The Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre, under the Ministry of Home Affairs also sent a recommendation for blocking these controversial apps. In the public domain too, there has been a strong demand for some time to take strict action against mobile applications that harm India’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of citizens.The move will also safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. The decision is a targeted one meant to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace, the statement said.Earlier in June, the Centre had banned 59, mostly Chinese, mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat, citing concerns that these are ‘prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-118-more-mobile-apps-including-pubg/story-BJqtksETjNxMLJbBLrodPP.html
02-09-2020||India||Bar president Dushyant Dave alleges he was not allowed to speak at Justice Mishra’s farewell||President of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), Dushyant Dave wrote a strongly-worded letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on Wednesday, condemning the treatment meted out to him during the ceremonial farewell of Justice Arun Mishra of the Supreme Court.Dave alleged that though he was invited by the Supreme Court to attend the event through video conference and had logged in using the web link sent by the registry, his microphone was deliberately muted by the registry officials preventing him from giving his speech.It is customary for the president of the SCBA, the representative body of lawyers practicing before the Supreme Court, to deliver a speech during the farewell of Supreme Court judges.“I wish to place on record my strong disappointment and condemnation at what happened today in the Supreme Court of India during the farewell to Justice Arun Mishra. The entire episode leaves much to be desired on the part of this great institution. The whole attempt was to prevent me from addressing on behalf of the SCBA and its Executive Committee, after having been invited and the invitation having been accepted. This was clearly an affront to the Bar and to me personally,” Dave said in his letter.When a Supreme Court judge retires, the retiring judge sits along with the CJI on his/ her last working day and Bar leaders including the Attorney General, SCBA President and senior lawyers gather to bid farewell.A separate elaborate farewell function is also organized by the SCBA in the Supreme Court lawns. After Covid-19 broke out and physical functioning of the court ceased, the SCBA had been organising its farewell functions through video conference. Justice Mishra had, however, declined to participate in SCBA’s farewell citing Covid-19 and stating that his conscience does not permit him to participate in a farewell function at a time when the world is reeling under the effects of the pandemic.The ceremonial bench was thus the only opportunity for Bar leaders to bid farewell to Justice Mishra.Dave, in his letter to the CJI, stated that he had received a link from the concerned registrar at 10.06 am to join the ceremonial Bench of the CJI at 12.30 pm where Justice Mishra was to bid farewell.Dave had joined the conference at around 12.20 pm before the bench assembled and was seen engaging in casual conversations with the Attorney General (AG) KK Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who were also present to wish Justice Mishra on the occasion of his retirement.Dave alleged that after the bench assembled and heard all cases, it invited AG KK Venugopal and Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association President, Shivaji Jadhav to speak but Dave got disconnected frequently.“I persisted and rejoined each time. I saw and heard Shri Jadhav fully and at the end of his address again I was not requested to speak though Shri Jadhav acknowledged my presence in his address. After that Your Lordship spoke which I saw and heard and then invited Justice Mishra to speak. At that stage, realising the game plan I exited in the larger interests of the dignity of the Bar and myself,” the letter said.Dave also said that he contacted Secretary General Sanjeev Kalgaonkar demanding why he was being muted but did not get any response on time.“Only at 1.02 pm, he responded saying he is instructing Registrar to look into it, by which time it was too late and so I messaged him informing that I had exited,” Dave said.Dave has been a vocal critic of the Supreme Court in recent years and has engaged in heated exchanges with Justice Arun Mishra on more than one occasion. The most recent of such instances was when he was appearing on behalf of advocate Prashant Bhushan in the contempt case initiated against Bhushan for his tweets criticizing the court and CJI Bobde.What was Dave proposing to say during farewell?Dave in his letter to the CJI also stated that he might have been prevented from speaking due to the fear on the part of the bench that he might say something unpleasant. He went on to highlight what he was proposing to say at the farewell.“Let me tell you exactly what I was to say which I had written down: On behalf of the SCBA, the EC and myself, I wish you, Justice Mishra, happiness and bliss in the remainder of your long life which by all accounts will be as fruitful and rewarding as it has been. May I pray to Lord Mahabaleshwar to bless you with strength to introspect and stir up your conscience,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bar-president-dushyant-dave-alleges-he-was-not-allowed-to-speak-at-justice-mishra-s-farewell/story-Qv3NPfcCHUdOqWkWl5jFdP.html
02-09-2020||India||Scribe dies of Covid-19 at Pune facility after allegedly waiting for ambulance||A journalist with a Marathi news channel succumbed to Covid-19 at Pune’s Jumbo facility early Wednesday morning after the family allegedly had to spend much time trying to find an ambulance.Pandurang Raykar, 42, was working with TV9 Marathi and was brought to the jumbo facility in Pune from Ahmednagar where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19.Following the incident, the Pune Union of Working Journalists (PUWJ) has demanded the inquiry into Raykar’s death. Health minister Rajesh Tope has assured a detailed probe into the incident. “What happened was tragic and I have sought a report from Pune divisional commissioner. As part of government, we will try and help Raykar’s family in every possible way,” Tope told reporters in Mumbai. According to family members, Raykar was admitted to a newly set up jumbo facility at the College of Engineering on Tuesday where his health deteriorated in the absence of ventilator support. After struggling to get a bed at a private hospital, when family and friends were ready to shift him, they were not able to get a cardiac ambulance despite trying for a few hours, Raykar’s sister Akshara Shendge said. “The government claimed to have spent crores of rupees but my brother did not get an ambulance,” said Shendge. One ambulance that was made available did not have oxygen support and another one had a non-functional ventilator, the family alleged.The jumbo facility which became operational in August, has 600 oxygenated and 200 ICU beds. “It is clear negligence on part of administration that the jumbo facility did not have a cardiac ambulance to transfer any patient. PUWJ has written the letter to the chief minister, deputy chief minister, health minister and all the top bureaucrats and demanded an inquiry in Raykar’s death and initiate necessary action against those responsible,” said PUWJ president Prasad Kulkarni. Raykar’s family members said he had been ill since August 20. His first Covid-19 test came negative on August 27 though he again complained about discomfort and underwent another test which came positive. Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital sent an ambulance at 5 am morning but the jumbo hospital announced that Raykar had passed away. Raykar’s sister also blamed authorities for mismanagement in the jumbo facility. She claimed that despite sending medicines and tiffin, he did not receive because even the hospital administration was not able to identify his bed. Reacting to the journalist’s death local legislator Siddharth Shirole of the BJP said, “The 800-bed centre does not have adequate medical staff, and there are complaints that patients and their relatives are being mistreated here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scribe-dies-of-covid-19-at-pune-facility-after-allegedly-waiting-for-ambulance/story-BLHjSZOvyGgDVlFpvbOOcN.html
02-09-2020||India||Govt stops physical printing of diaries, calendars and coffee table books||The Union government on Wednesday asked all ministries and departments to stop printing wall calendars, desktop calendars, diaries and greeting cards in their physical forms in a bid to encourage usage of digital format.There would be no activity towards printing of wall calendars, desktop calendars, diaries and other such materials for use in the coming year by any ministry, department, public sector companies, state-run banks and all other organs of the government, the finance ministry said in a statement.Also read: Don’t collect levy charges on electronic payments, says finance ministry“All such activity shall go digital and online,” it said. The department of expenditure, an arm of the Union finance ministry, issued an order on Wednesday emphasising that the decision has come into force with immediate effect.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his governance model have always seen technology as an enabler. “Integrating technology into our work is in line with his (PM’s) vision,” it said.“There is to be a concerted effort towards incorporating innovative methods in such matters. Using technological innovations for planning, scheduling and forecasting is well known to be economical, efficient and effective,” it added.The order also banned publication of coffee table books in physical form to encourage appropriate use of e-books, it said.“Innovative digital and online solutions which will achieve the same result as physical calendars or diaries are to be prioritised and to be put into practice,” it said. Government officials and executives working in public sector companies said the decision would stop the practice of distributing diaries and calendars by government departments, public sector banks and state-run companies before the beginning of every new calendar year.The department of expenditure said the decision has been taken as “the world is increasingly moving towards adopting digital force multipliers for productivity and given the fact that using technological innovations for planning, scheduling and forecasting is known to be economical, efficient and effective”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-stops-physical-printing-of-diaries-calendars-and-coffee-table-books/story-m6FQnYJNEJSY8aYHI6PNvN.html
02-09-2020||India||No OPD admissions in AIIMS for 2 weeks to cater to ‘seriously ill’ Covid-19 patients||All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Delhi has decided to stop Outpatient Department (OPD) admissions for two weeks in view of the need to optimise usage of available inpatient beds for hospitalisation of seriously ill Covid-19 patients. A review of this suspension will be done after two weeks, a circular issued by the hospital read.Emergency patients who require inpatient hospitalisation in general wards or patients who are advised hospitalisation to private wards owing to emergency/semi emergency condition will be admitted, the circular read.EHS patients will continue to be hospitalised as clinically warranted.The OPD services had resumed on June 25 after the hospital on March 24 had closed all its non-emergency departments, including surgical departments and specialty clinics, stopped seeing all new and follow up patients, and left only its emergency open for non-Covid 19 patients. “It will be the prerogative of the departments to call patients directly or screen them through tele-consultation before giving a physical appointment…,” AIIMS had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-opd-admissions-in-aiims-for-2-weeks-to-cater-to-seriously-ill-covid-19-patients/story-SPL4btlaac3CtSPVdAq5QP.html
02-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: With hundreds of Oximeter centres, AAP gets ‘closer’ to people in Bihar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With hundreds of Oximeter centres, AAP gets ‘closer’ to people in BiharNot a big player in Bihar politics, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has adopted a unique way of drawing peoples’ attention in the state. In the midst of Covid-19 pandemic and scourge of flood in nearly half the state, out of box thinking is what is driving the political parties in Bihar to connect with the masses in the interiors, where online connectivity may not be easily possible. Read moreCabinet approves Karmayogi scheme for government officials, Javadekar calls it biggest HRD reformThe union Cabinet on Wednesday approved Mission Karmayogi, a skill building programme, for its civil servants, which it said will help them in the future. Read moreWorld champion PV Sindhu pulls out of Uber Cup in DenmarkWorld Champion PV Sindhu has decided to skip the Uber Cup, in Aarhus, Denmark starting from Oct 3-11. The prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals is supposed to restart international badminton after a gap of six months. Read moreXiaomi India launches Redmi 9A, prices start from ₹6,799Xiaomi has announced the latest Redmi 9A as a part of their Redmi A series of smartphones today. The Redmi A series are a part of Xiaomi’s budget offerings that aim to get users the best of the specs without having to splurge. Read moreVolkswagen opens bookings for Polo and Vento BS6 with auto transmissionVolkswagen India on Wednesday announced the start of bookings for BS6 Polo and Vento’s automatic variants. While the former has been priced at ₹9.67 lakh, the later is priced at ₹12.99 lakh (all prices are ex showroom and are introductory). Read moreHina Khan’s rainbow-hued eye make-up game is perfect for masked fashion amid Covid-19Hina Khan’s fashion game has got to be the strongest when it comes to telly actors. From her choice of clothing to her unique styling, be it her hairdos or her make-up, the Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai fame starlet is constantly experimenting and setting new fashion goals. Read moreAmid tiff with China, Rajnath Singh heads to Russia for SCO meet: Key detailsAmid tension with China at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is headed to Russia for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-with-hundreds-of-oximeter-centres-aap-gets-closer-to-people-in-bihar-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NjIfOvE8tOgp79h3Vn5qiP.html
02-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: NIA probe shows Rabins Hameed ran racket in UAE||Rabins Hameed, a Dubai-based businessman, allegedly ran a racket that is now believed to have been involved in the smuggling of 30 kg of gold, which was recovered at the Thiruvananthapuram airport in July, people familiar with the investigations into the matter said. The gold was being smuggled in baggage addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.Hameed’s name surfaced during a National Investigation Agency team’s visit to Dubai last month in connection with the probe into the case. He allegedly used different couriers to smuggle gold to India, the people added. Also read: Customs grilling Kerala CM’s former IT fellow in gold smuggling caseFazil Fareed, another Dubai-based accused in the case, was earlier believed to have masterminded the smuggling. The NIA team’s probe revealed Fareed was just another courier for Hameed. The two are under the custody of UAE authorities.“Rabins Hameed is a businessman based in Dubai, who used different modus operandi to smuggle gold to India. He contacted Fareed for the last consignment of 30 kg gold, which was intercepted in diplomatic baggage on July 5. He used other methods as well which we are verifying,” said an NIA official, who did not wish to be named.NIA raided Hameed’s house in Kerala’s Ernakulam in August and recovered hard disks and other incriminating material. The people cited above said Hameed coordinated the smuggling from the UAE, while another arrested accused Ramees K T, who is from Kerala’s Perinthalmanna, allegedly ran the racket in Kerala. They added efforts were being made to have both Hameed and Fareed deported from the UAE.A second NIA official said another team of the agency will visit Dubai again to complete formalities regarding the deportation.Two more suspects, Sidhiqul Akbar and Ahammed Kutty, are also based in Dubai but they have not been arrested yet. NIA has obtained non-bailable warrants against all the accused“We believe there are suspects linked to gold smuggling scam in other countries as well who need to be identified to unearth the whole terror conspiracy,” said the second officer on condition of anonymity.NIA has so far arraigned 25 people in the case and arrested 20 of them.The agency has said the accused persons “conspired to damage the monetary stability of India by destabilising the economy by smuggling a large quantity of gold from abroad and it is suspected that they had used these proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means”.The Enforcement Directorate is also conducting a money-laundering probe related to the smuggling.The UAE embassy in July said an investigation was launched after the recovery and added “the culprits who not only committed a major crime but also sought to tarnish the reputation of the UAE mission in India will not be spared”. It said they remain committed to cooperating with Indian authorities in getting to the root of the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-nia-probe-shows-rabins-hameed-ran-racket-in-uae/story-AZwfOERlrJ2WAgA9YdmpZL.html
02-09-2020||India||Hindi, Kashmiri and Dogri to become official languages of J&K||The Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved the Jammu and Kashmir Languages Bill 2020 which will make five languages—Urdu, Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English—the officials language of the region.Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, flanked by Union minister Jitendra Singh, told reporters about the decision at a cabinet briefing.“We have decided to introduce the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill 2020 in Parliament, under which five languages—Urdu, Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English—will become official languages. This has been done based on demand by the people,” said Javadekar.The I&B minister said more details of the bill would emerge once it is brought to the parliament.Union minister Singh thanked the Prime Minister for the step.“I want to thank the Prime Minister for giving his consent for the inclusion of Dogri, Hindi and Kashmiri in addition to the other two existing languages as official languages for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Suffice to say that it is not only a fulfilment of a long-pending public demand of the region but also in keeping with the spirit of equality which was ushered after August 5, 2019,” said Singh.The Centre, on August 5, had announced the nullification of Article 370 of the Constitution that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindi-kashmiri-and-dogri-to-become-official-languages-of-j-k/story-kT28MomKQE7Kysvq7hXiYI.html
02-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 fatality rate slides to 1.76 percent, one of the lowest globally: Health ministry||India has been reporting one of the lowest Covid-19 fatality rates in the world with the figure further declining to 1.76 per cent as on date against a global average of 3.3 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday.It also said that Covid-19 deaths per million population in India is one of the lowest in the world.“While the global average is 110 deaths per million population, India is reporting 48 deaths per million population. The comparative figure for Brazil and the UK is 12 and 13 times higher, respectively,” the ministry highlighted.India’s Covid-19 tally of cases galloped past 37 lakh on Wednesday with 78,357 new instances of the disease reported in a day, while the number of recoveries crossed 29 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 76.98 per cent, the Union health ministry data showed.The death toll climbed to 66,333 with 1,045 more fatalities reported in 24 hours. India has so far reported 37,69,523 cases of the viral disease, according to the data updated at 8 am.As part of the Covid-19 management and response policy, the Centre’s sharp focus has been not only on containing the coronavirus-related fatality, but also to reduce deaths by providing quality clinical care to the critical and severe patients, it said.Collaborative efforts of the Centre, states and union territories have resulted in strengthening of the health facilities across the country, the ministry said.As many as 1,578 dedicated Covid hospitals are providing quality medical care. The Central government has also issued the standard of care guidelines incorporated in the Clinical Treatment Protocol.The AIIMS, New Delhi, has been conducting e-ICU sessions to build the capacities of the ICU doctors in clinical management of critical patients towards reducing the fatality. Knowledge and domain experts have been holding tele- or video-consultation sessions twice every week from July 8 for the doctors manning ICUs in state hospitals.Till date, 17 tele-sessions have been held and 204 institutions have participated in them, the ministry said.To further build the ICU, clinical management capacities of doctors for treatment of critical patients, AIIMS, New Delhi, in collaboration with the Health Ministry, has developed frequently answered questions (FAQs).One of these clarifies that Remdesivir and tocilizumab are experimental therapies and should not be used as empirical therapy for suspected cases. They should be used only in proven Covid-19 patients, where clinically indicated, the ministry said, underlining that there is no evidence to support the use of these two drugs in asymptomatic patients with comorbidities.In one of the answers, the ministry said, Tocilizumab is an experimental therapy, has a limited role, and should be used only in patients with cytokine syndrome after ruling out active infections.As for the role of Favipiravir, the ministry said studies have used this drug mainly in mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, claiming to prevent progression, whereas the majority of this cohort recover with just supportive care and monitoring and usually require no specific therapy.Evidence is weak for the use of Favipiravir and is currently not recommended in national guidelines, it said.According to the FAQs, depression is a common finding in patients with Covid which may be because of a number of reasons including staying in isolation, anxiety related to disease, social stigma, among others. Such patients need empathy and psychological counselling preferably by a trained healthcare worker like a psychologist / psychiatrist, it said.The ministry said that sudden deaths have been reported both at presentation to emergency department as well as in hospital. Reasons that have been proposed include a sudden cardiac event/ACS, preceding silent hypoxia that went unnoticed or due to a thrombotic complication such as pulmonary thromboembolism.  “Patients with risk factors to develop severe Covid-19 or with prior comorbid conditions such as CAD or chronic lung disease should be strictly monitored for their saturation. They should not be allowed to move unattended. Anticoagulant should be used on all at-risk patients who do not have any risk factors of bleeding,” the ministry elaborated.As far as the role of plasma therapy is concerned, the FAQs said that convalescent plasma collected from ABO matched donors with high neutralizing titers can be given to patients at risk of developing severe Covid in early stages of the disease. However, it should also be considered an experimental therapy and should be used with caution, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-fatality-rate-slides-to-1-76-percent-one-of-the-lowest-globally-health-ministry/story-8WgWBW9J8lwsFNopkvEvJL.html
02-09-2020||India||Effective governance priority as cabinet launches Karmayogi scheme||The Union cabinet on Wednesday launched a capacity building scheme, Mission Karmayogi, to help streamline the training and competency building of civil servants. At the apex of the scheme will be the Prime Minister’s HR Council that will comprise select Union ministers, chief ministers, international leaders and civil servants. The Council will determine the “right person for the right role” and decide assignments accordingly. It is a major transition for the bureaucracy, as civil servants’ training will now become a “continuous process”. A dashboard will also monitor and audit the capacity building scheme, and a report will be submitted annually to ascertain its success. The Department of Personnel and Training under secretary C Chandramouli has been working on the scheme for a nearly a year now. The capacity building resources will be available to all civil servants, from section officers to secretaries. Two separate ways to engage with the scheme have also been developed. The guided path will provide the necessary resources for a civil servant to adapt to the role that they occupy. Officials had earlier told Hindustan Times that at once an officer shifts to a new division, they will provided with the prerequisite wherewithal to effectively perform their functions. “A deputy secretary who takes charge as director, will be given a detailed manual on the functions of the new job,” a DoPT official had said on the condition of anonymity. “There will also be an evaluation at the end. This will help select civil servants, whose interests and aptitude align, for the right roles.” Although not the only determining factor, the official said that doing well in the capacity building programme will go a long way in furthering job growth and opportunities for bureaucrats. The officials will also be provided with the interest path, wherein they can the subjects and areas of interest that want to pursue. A Capacity building commission, with a view to ensure a uniform approach in managing and regulating the ecosystem, will also be set up to assist the PM’s HR council. “Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare the Indian Civil Servant for the future by making him more creative, constructive, imaginative, innovative, proactive, professional, progressive, energetic, enabling, transparent and technology-enabled. Empowered with specific role-competencies, the civil servant will be able to ensure efficient service delivery of the highest quality standards,” the DoPT said in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/effective-governance-priority-as-cabinet-launches-karmayogi-scheme/story-iYdy0FSgvdeSEPqBn33jOP.html
02-09-2020||India||With hundreds of Oximeter centres, AAP gets ‘closer’ to people in Bihar||Not a big player in Bihar politics, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has adopted a unique way of drawing peoples’ attention in the state. In the midst of Covid-19 pandemic and scourge of flood in nearly half the state, out of box thinking is what is driving the political parties in Bihar to connect with the masses in the interiors, where online connectivity may not be easily possible. Taking the message from Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, party workers have fanned out with oximeters and are testing and counselling people to take precaution or approach the nearby hospital should their oxygen count be lower than 95%.A pulse oximeter is a device that measures blood oxygen level. Coronavirus patients need to be hospitalised if their oxygen level reaches 90 per cent or below, according to health guidelines.“The healthcare facilities and truth of testing in Bihar is not hidden for anyone anymore. We have opened hundreds of oximeter centres at the booth level to let people at least know their health condition so that they could act in time,” said Bihar AAP chief Sushil Kumar Singh, adding that AAP workers’ gesture had drawn people closer, as they were also concerned about Covid, but did not know where to go.Kejriwal had in August appealed to AAP volunteers across the country to distribute oximeters in every village, as it had helped save lives in Delhi. He also urged people to donate oximeters. The strategy has been adopted in poll-bound Bihar in a big way. “Many people have donated it, while our volunteers also buy it. We are also simultaneously carrying out our ‘hum badlenge Bihar’ yatra and rendering our service to the people in getting tested for oxygen saturation level, which falls if a person is infected,” said Sushil Singh, adding Covid-19 management in Bihar and the way the state tackled the migrants’ issue would certainly be a big poll issue in the state, as it has affected the people.Amid the hype surrounding alliances, party hopping and seat adjustments in the two big coalitions, NDA and the Grand Alliance (GA), Singh said that the AAP was working quietly to get closer to the people by “talking about their issues in their language”.AAP’s banners and posters promise free education, free healthcare, employment to youth, corruption-free system and happiness to farmers to build a new Bihar, citing the Delhi model.“We are working on over 100 seats and we are aware we won’t be able to fit in any of the two alliances due to inherent contradictions. We will decide later how many seats we should zero in on. Our message is clear ‘Hum badlenge Bihar’ (We will change Bihar), just as AAP did in Delhi. We ask the people to compare the change with Delhi - be it in Covid management or in dealing with people’s basic needs. People from different walks of life have associated with us,” he added. The AAP leader said that party’s Bihar affairs in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh was constantly in touch with the party leaders and cadres in the state and once the election is announced, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s virtual meetings would also be planned. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the AAP had contested three seats of Kishanganj, Bhagalpur and Sitamarhi without any success. In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the AAP had contested 39 of the 40 seats in Bihar, but could win none. In the 2015 assembly election in Bihar, it did not contest, but backed the anti-BJP group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-hundreds-of-oximeter-centres-aap-gets-closer-to-people-in-bihar/story-q1Y2Qsvv4e0qH8qR6GefNJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM goes into self-isolation for second time after OSD tests Covid-19 positive||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has gone into three-day self-isolation from Tuesday after his officer on special duty (OSD) tested Covid-19 positive. This is the second time he has self-isolated himself within a week, said Madan Kaushik, a state Cabinet minister and Uttarakhand government spokesman. “Rawat has isolated himself at this residence after his OSD tested positive for Covid-19. The chief minister, however, has tested negative, but taking precautions he will be in isolation for another three days.”He said due to the self-isolation, a cabinet meeting scheduled on Wednesday has been cancelled and is now likely to take place next week. Earlier on August 26, Rawat had gone into self-isolation after three of his staffers tested positive for Covid-19. “As a precaution, all the staffers and security officers deployed at CM residence were tested for Covid-19. I along with my family members also took the test and with the grace of God tested negative,” he tweeted last week. “However, as a precautionary measure I will be going into self-isolation and will carry the works related to public and administration through phone and virtual platforms.”On June 1, Rawat and two of his cabinet ministers quarantined themselves after their colleague Satpal Maharaj tested positive for Covid-19. Rawat tested negative five days later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-goes-into-self-isolation-for-second-time-after-osd-tests-covid-19-positive/story-OOtWgAecsFg4gUamQcDdYI.html
02-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand: Tigress kills cow in Corbett buffer zone||Kankati, a tigress, killed a cow in the buffer zone of Uttarakhand’s Corbett National Park (CNP) on the bank of the Kosi river on Sunday afternoon. The animal has been staying in the area with its three cubs for the past few months.Also read: Wildlife dept begins ‘individual monitoring’ of tigers in MHTRThe tigress signalled its cubs to hide behind a bush and then pounced on a herd of cattle that locals had left behind for grazing. The herd of cattle went into a tizzy after Kankati hunted down a cow and killed it instantly.However, the tigress failed to take the kill away, as alert locals raised an alarm. Soon, Kankati escaped into the tall grassland with its cubs. Locals came back at the dead of night and took the dead cow away.Kankati has been on the prowl in the area for the past few months and has killed at least eight cows to date, locals added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-tigress-kills-cow-in-corbett-buffer-zone/story-m6VmAXY1nkq4O3V7mpTfAI.html
02-09-2020||India||Doctor in Assam allegedly pours hot water on 12-yr-old domestic help||Police in Dibrugarh district of upper Assam have lodged a case against a doctor for allegedly pouring hot water on the family’s 12-year-old domestic help. According to a member of the district child welfare committee, the incident took place on the night of August 27 when the minor, who had been employed as a domestic help for over a year, was sleeping on the floor late last month. The minor was working at the residence of Dr. Siddhi Prasad Deori, a Dibrugarh-based doctor and his wife Mitali Konwar, principal of Moran College. “Based on information about a domestic help being employed at the house, a team of district child welfare committee accompanied by members of Childline rescued the minor on August 29,” said Sudipta Ghosh Biswas, member of Dibrugarh child welfare committee on Wednesday. “The minor, who was traumatized, told us that the doctor poured hot water on him while he was sleeping on the floor of the couple’s bedroom. There were injury marks on the child’s hands, cheek etc. A medical examination has been conducted and he is at present in our care,” she added. According to Biswas, the child told them that he used to do domestic chores, wash vehicles etc. and was frequently beaten with a cane. On August 31, the child welfare committee has filed a police case against the doctor who is yet to be arrested. “We have already registered a case and will take strict action. No one will be spared. I am yet to get the complete details. We are in the process of collecting evidence, medical reports etc. Action will be taken within 24 hours,” said newly appointed Dibrugarh superintendent of police Prateek Thube, who joined duty on Tuesday. “The doctor is in his mid 60s and is yet to be questioned as his family is claiming that he is a cancer patient. We are verifying that. He will be questioned and action initiated soon,” he added. Though some local reports said that the accused is associated with Assam Medical College Hospital (AMCH), Dibrugarh, superintendent of the hospital Dr. Indra Nath Sutia told HT that Dr. Deori is not associated with the organisation in any manner. Dr. Deori was in the news in 2006 when he was suspended from the post of store in-charge of AMCH as he was running a private nursing home in violation of government rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-in-assam-allegedly-pours-hot-water-on-12-yr-old-domestic-help/story-ddzca8UVj0y6MnVH9ZannJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Bombay HC allows Parsis to pray for their dead on Farvardin Roj with restrictions||In a limited relief to members of the Bombay Parsi Panchayat (BPP), the Bombay high court has permitted them to hold prayer meetings at the Doongerwadi Tower of Silence at Kemps Corner on September 3 from 7 am to 4.30 pm on the occasion of Farvardin Roj.The court has said that only six persons, not below the age of 10 years and not above the age of 65 years, would be permitted at a time to be present in each of the five prayer pavilions in the premises along with two priests.The court also said that in the case of a violation of SOPs laid down by the centre and the guidelines issued by the state government with regards to Covid, the petitioner trustee would be personally held liable for contempt and punishment.A division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition filed by Viraf Mehta, a trustee of the BPP, was informed by advocate Prakash Shah that after the meeting with the principal secretary home and secretary disaster management department, as directed by the court on Monday, they had filed an additional affidavit with a modified itinerary for September 3. Shah submitted that around 200 members of the community would reach Doongerwadi and the trustees would ensure that all Coved-related protocols were followed. On Farvardin Roj, Parsis offer prayers for the souls of their departed loved ones. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh and advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni had submitted that since congregation of people was not allowed, hence BPP should ensure that all the 200 members do not reach the venue at the same time. Also Read: Maharashtra launches ‘Mission Begin Again’ today with further relaxationsShah and Mehta have accordingly assured the court that the members would come only at the appointed time given to them and would leave after praying for half an hour. They also submitted that not more than six members would be present along with two priests in each of the five pavilions in the expansive property; hence there was no question of a congregation. Also Read: Courts can’t relax the terms of Insurance policy: National consumers’ bodyAfter hearing the submissions, the court accepted the undertaking of BPP and directed the state to make arrangements for smooth flow of traffic outside the venue and also said that Mehta would be held personally liable for violations of the undertakings given to the court.The court also reiterated that BPP should ensure that members below the age of 10 years and above the age of 65 years were not allowed. The court disposed of the petition stating that it was allowing the community considering the peculiar facts of the case and hence it should not be treated as a precedent and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-allows-parsis-to-pray-for-their-dead-on-farvardin-roj-with-restrictions/story-6vbtBs9COkRshccT224MBO.html
02-09-2020||India||India conducts a million Covid-19 tests for second straight day||India conducted one million tests for Covid-19 in a single day for the second consecutive day for the first time with 1.01 million tests being done till Tuesday midnight, data from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) shows. With the increase in the number of tests, the number of cases is also on the rise with India recording 78,622 cases on Tuesday, according to HT dashboard data. “If you plot the number of tests that are done and the number of cases reported, it is almost the same. The more you test, the higher number of cases you will detect. India is a densely populated country and just the sheer number of our population means that we will record a high number of cases,” said Amit Singh, associate professor at Centre for Infectious Disease at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Data released by the Union health ministry on Wednesday shows over half of all the deaths due to Covid-19 in India were people above the age of 60 years, even as they accounted for only 12% of the total cases.The number of deaths was disproportionately high among those between the ages of 45 and 60 years as well. Even as the age group accounted for only 26% of all the cases, they accounted for 36% of the country’s total death toll. The highest number of infections – 40% of the total cases – was reported among those in the age group of 26 to 44 years. This age group, however, accounted for only 11% of the total deaths. Deaths were also low among children and young adults, with both age groups accounting for only 1% of the deaths each. Eight per cent of the total cases were recorded in those below the age of 17 years and 14% among those between the ages of 18 to 25, the data released by the health ministry shows. India recorded over 1,000 deaths in a day on Tuesday, according to HT dashboard data. A total of 1,028 deaths were reported taking the country’s total Covid-19 toll to 66,451. This puts India’s case fatality ratio – fraction of deaths among those who test positive -- at 1.76%, much lower than the global average of 3.3%. “Cases can only be controlled if people take the responsibility, if they follow safety measures such as donning a mask in public, maintaining social distancing, and practicing good hand hygiene. The government cannot ensure this,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-a-million-covid-19-tests-for-second-straight-day/story-vQkiueSFRw8gb1po6HMkAM.html
02-09-2020||India||5 returning from birthday party killed in car-lorry collision in Telangana||Five people who were returning from a birthday party were killed when the car they were travelling in collided head-on with a truck in Telangana’s Warangal district in the early hours of Wednesday, the police said. The deceased were identified as Mekala Rajesh, Mekala Praveen, Medi Pavan, Rohit and Rahim - all in the age group of 22 to 25 years. The incident happened at Oorugonda village of Damera block at around after 2 pm. According to Parkal assistant commissioner of police P Srinivas, the deceased had celebrated the birthday party of one of them, Medi Pavan, in Warangal town, where they had allegedly consumed liquor. “At around 1.45 am, they started off in a Maruti Ciaz car (registration no. TS03 EQ 1414) to Mulug town on National Highway No. 163 to drop one of the friends. As they reached the outskirts of Oorugonda village, they tried to overtake a vehicle and rammed a sand-laden rally coming in from the opposite direction,” the ACP said. All five died on the spot and the car was a mangled mess due to the impact. The lorry driver escaped from the scene soon after the accident. On receiving the information, the ACP, along with inspectors of Shayampet, Atmakur and Damera rushed to the spot and shifted the bodies to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Warangal for post mortem. The police traced the addresses of the five victims based on an ID card of Pavan lying in the car. “Investigation is on,” ACP Srinivas said. 3 Pawan Kalyan Fans Electrocuted in Andhra Pradesh In a separate accident, three fans of Tollywood actor-turned-politician Pawan Kalyan were electrocuted and four others were injured while erecting a flex cut-out of the actor at Shantipuram area in Chittoor town of Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday night. According to the Chittoor police, the victims came in touch with live electric wire while putting up banners and flex cut-outs of Pawan Kalyan as part of the latter’s birthday celebrations being held on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Somasekhar (30), his brother Rajendra (32) and their friend Arunachalam (28). Four others, who were also at the spot received minor injuries and they were admitted to the local government hospital for treatment, the police said. The police registered a case under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code for death due to electrocution and are investigating the case. Expressing deep anguish over the accident, Pawan Kalyan said it was unfortunate that three of his fans had to face such a tragic death. He assured that he would stand by the bereaved families and provide them all necessary assistance. Sri Venkateshwara Creations, a production house which is making a film “Vakeel Saab” with Pawan Kalyan, announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the bereaved families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-returning-from-birthday-party-killed-in-car-lorry-collision-in-telangana/story-Gjog5uoRW6cQfpqSxWH6SI.html
02-09-2020||India||Rajnath leaves for Russia for SCO meet, has no plans to meet Chinese minister||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday left for Russia on a three-day visit to attend a crucial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and hold talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu on further boosting bilateral defence cooperation.The defence ministers of all eight SCO member nations are expected to deliberate on regional security challenges like terrorism and extremism and ways to deal with them “collectively” in Moscow on Friday, officials said.The meeting is taking place under the shadow of a fierce border row between India and China, both members of the influential bloc.Chinese Defence Minister Gen Wei Fenghe and Pakistan’s Pervez Khattak are expected to attend the SCO meeting. Asked about the possibility of a bilateral meeting between Singh and Wei on the sidelines of the SCO event, officials said there is no such plan.Also read: Chushul aggression is part of China’s plan. It wants to provoke India | Analysis“Heading to Moscow. During this visit, I shall be attending the combined meeting of Defence Ministers of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) & CIS members in commemoration of the 75th Anniversary of victory in the World War II,” Singh tweeted.He said issues of mutual interest will figure in his talks with Shoigu.“India and Russia are privileged Strategic Partners. Looking forward to further this partnership during my visit,” Singh said, In his meeting with Shoigu, Singh will press for expediting supply of a number of weapons systems, ammunition and spares to India by Russia under contracts which were concluded earlier, officials said.In the talks, both sides are expected to officially finalise a long-pending proposal to produce AK 203 rifles in India.Officials said Singh is also likely to request the Russian side to ensure timely delivery of the S-400 missile defence systems to India.The delivery of the first batch of S-400 surface-to-air missile systems to India is scheduled by the end of 2021.In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions Singh will depart for India from Moscow on the evening of September 5, they said.The SCO defence ministers’ meeting is taking place in the wake of fresh tension between India and China following the Chinese army’s unsuccessful attempts to change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh.The two sides held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks to end the border standoff which began on May 5. The fresh attempts by China to change the status quo in the Pangong lake area escalated the tension further.On Saturday, India announced withdrawal from a multilateral war game in Russia this month after it emerged that Chinese and Pakistani troops will also be part of it. However, officially it was announced that India is not joining it due to the COVID-19 pandemic.It is Singh’s second visit to Moscow since June. He had represented India at the Victory Day Parade in Moscow on June 24 that commemorated the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War.Russia has also invited External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to attend the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10.The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations which accounts for almost 44 per cent of the world population stretching from the Arctic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and from the Pacific Ocean to the Baltic Sea.The aim of the SCO is to maintain peace, stability and security of the region. India became a member of SCO in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-leaves-for-russia-for-sco-meet-has-no-plans-to-meet-chinese-minister/story-Rn7iVKdCHd8Z27iVwVRtHM.html
02-09-2020||India||Cabinet approves Karmayogi scheme for government officials, Javadekar calls it biggest HRD reform||The union Cabinet on Wednesday approved Mission Karmayogi, a skill building programme, for its civil servants, which it said will help them in the future.“This is the biggest Human Resources Development reform in the government,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said at a press briefing on the Cabinet’s decisions.At the top will be an HR council, chaired by the prime minister, and consisting of select Union ministers and chief ministers. It will also have eminent thought leaders (noted academics, and global leaders) and civil services leadership.“This scheme is based on the government’s vision on how a civil servant should be. A civil servant of today, in order to meet the challenges of the world, will have to be imaginative and innovative, proactive and polite, professional and progressive, energetic and enabling, transparent and tech enabled, and constructive and creative,” said C Chandramouli, Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). He was also addressing the press conference along with Javadekar.He added that Mission Karmayogi focuses on individual (civil servants) and institutional capacity building.The schemes will be accessible for all, from section officers to secretaries.It will have two paths, self driven, where the official can choose field of interest, and guided, where official will be provided with the wherewithal to perform their jobs effectively.The Union Cabinet also approved three memorandums of understanding, Javadekar said. These include MoUs between textile ministry and Japan for quality evaluation method, between mining ministry and Finland, and between ministry of new and renewable energy and Denmark||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-karmayogi-scheme-for-government-officials-javadekar-calls-it-biggest-hrd-reform/story-eZ145H66hsiwJGBWHfXY1M.html
02-09-2020||India||In Jammu and Kashmir, rapid antigen tests proving to be a game changer||The introduction of rapid antigen test (RAT) in Jammu and Kashmir, particularly for testing incoming air and road passengers and for contact-tracing in containment zones, is proving to be a game changer in disease containment efforts in the Union Territory.The RAT gives results within 15 minutes as against the RT-PCR, which normally takes at-least one to two days, creating difficulties both for the travellers and the administration due to the provision of mandatory quarantine for incoming passengers till their test results come out.Since its introduction in Kashmir some eight days ago, the authorities have conducted some 87,334 RAT tests in comparison to 3, 61,770 RT-PCR tests conducted till September 01. Many of these rapid tests have been conducted on air and road travellers since it takes less time to give a result.“Normally we are doing the antigen tests on 4,500 to 5,000 people daily, of which, around 1,200 are done at the airport. Others include land-travelers who are tested by our teams at various points on Srinagar-Jammu Highway, besides, there are people getting tested in containment zones and brick kilns,” said Dr Qazi Haroon, an officer on special duty with the health department to assist the government’s corona mitigation efforts in Kashmir division.Jammu and Kashmir was among the first places in the country to make testing of incoming passengers mandatory, which was done using RT-PCR technique. In Jammu division, Haroon’s counterpart, Dr A D S Manhas said that the RAT has been introduced in all the districts.“Daily, we are conducting 6,000-7,000 antigen tests. Sometimes it goes up to 8,000. Similarly, 700-800 tests are conducted daily on air passengers,” Manhas said.“It takes only 15 minutes for the results to appear and this has been a game changer owing to its speed,” he said.Haroon said that the Antigen test has made the process easy and simple. “On Tuesday, we had 20 incoming flights including four international flights. With RT-PCR tests, we would have to quarantine them all and wait for their test results, which would take 3-4 days. Now, it takes 1.5 hours. Those who are negative are allowed to move immediately while those found positive are quarantined,” he said. Haroon said that the authorities at the helm were earlier reluctant to introduce the rapid tests. “We had a lot of backlog for RT-PCR. It took time for the people at the helm to understand RAT’s efficacy. Now, it is everywhere,” he said.He said it was also helping in contact tracing in red zones.“Within 15 minutes you can know the positive or negative status of say 500 people, allowing a medical officer to immediately trace out the infected and stop them from spreading it further,” he said. However, aware of the low-sensitivity drawback associated with rapid testing, Dr Haroon said the RT-PCR test is mandatorily used for those who are discharged from hospitals.Prominent pulmonologist and head, chest medicine, government medical college, Srinagar, Dr Naveed Nazir Shah said that though RAT sensitivity was low as compared to RT-PCR, it was a good option for testing a large population.“If we compare it with RT-PCR, its sensitivity is low but specificity is better. That means that if the test is positive, then the patient is indeed positive. But if the test is negative and the patient is showing symptoms, then the test has to be repeated using RT-PCR,” he said.“However, for a large population, the rapidity of the Antigen test is a good thing,” Shah added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jammu-and-kashmir-rapid-antigen-tests-proving-to-be-a-game-changer/story-mVhCq34MpjDLXtXt2dPamK.html
02-09-2020||India||PM Modi, Amit Shah pay tribute to social reformer Sree Narayana Guru on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah paid their tributes to spiritual leader and social reformer Sree Narayana Guru on his 164th birth anniversary on Wednesday. The PM called him a “farsighted visionary” whose ideals give strength to many across India.The leader’s life and works epitomised the “perfect blend of spirituality and social reform”, he tweeted.“I bow to the venerable Sree Narayana Guru on his Jayanti. His life and works epitomised the perfect blend of spirituality and social reform. He emphasised on education and empowerment of women. He was a farsighted visionary whose ideals give strength to many across India,” PM Modi’s tweet read.Amit Shah called the departed spiritual leader a “strong advocate of equality and brotherhood”.“Tributes to venerable Swami Sree Narayana Guru ji on his Jayanti. As a social reformer, spiritual leader and strong advocate of equality & brotherhood, he played an instrumental role in setting up the foundations for social reform in Kerala against discrimination and injustice,” Shah tweeted.Sree Narayana Guru was born in 1864 in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram. He led a reform movement against the injustice in the caste-ridden society of Kerala in order to promote spiritual enlightenment and social equality. He laid great emphasis on the idea of ‘one caste, one religion and one god.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-amit-shah-pay-tribute-to-social-reformer-sree-narayana-guru-on-birth-anniversary/story-8mkmwP8JPyGgoFiWqvXjJI.html
02-09-2020||India||Rape violates fundamental right under Article 21, rules Gauhati HC||The Gauhati high court (HC) has termed rape as a violation of the victim’s fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution while upholding conviction by a trial court in an 11-year-old case.Also read: 9-year-old found dead in Patna; rape suspectedIn an order passed on Monday (August 31), Justice Rumi Kumari Phukan held that the statement of the rape survivor could be accepted as the true version of the crime, if supported by other evidence on record. “The courts are sensitised that rape is a violation of victim’s fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution and a rape survivor is placed on a higher pedestal than an injured witness,” the court stated in its order. The rape survivor (20) was sexually assaulted by the accused in a bathroom of a swimming pool in Digboi town in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district on the night of November 26, 2009. The incident had occurred, when the rape survivor was returning from her workplace. She worked on a daily wage basis at a hospital in Digboi.A case was lodged and the accused, Nasir Uddin Ali, was nabbed a day after the incident. Ali was held guilty by a trial court and was sentenced to nine years of rigorous imprisonment. Filing an appeal in HC against the verdict, Ali’s counsel argued that the rape survivor had changed her statement during trial and the conviction by the trial court on the basis of her sole testimony is in poor legal light.Appearing on behalf of the state, the counsel for the rape survivor argued against the appeal.The prosecutrix argued that her statement could not be discarded as evidence, as because her medical examination was not conclusive. It was also established that the accused was present at the place, where the crime was committed, she added. “The rape survivor has withstood the lengthy cross-examination without any vital contradiction to raise suspicion,” the HC order stated.“The evidence of the prosecutrix in the given facts and circumstances give no room for any doubt and her evidence is akin to the ‘sterling witness’ ”, it added. The HC upheld the trial court’s conviction under Section 376 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), but commuted Ali’s sentence from nine years to seven.The convict’s sentence was commuted, as he has five children and has been lodged in jail from the day he was convicted on July 12, 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-violates-fundamental-right-under-article-21-rules-gauhati-hc/story-CY7pIej2spHfuNPPsZ6MCJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Missing minor girl’s mutilated body recovered in Jamshedpur; stepfather detained||The body of a minor girl (5), who was reported missing since Monday, was recovered from a bush on the bank of the Subarnarekha river under the jurisdiction of Sonari police station in Jharkhand’s Jamshedpur town on Wednesday.Also read: Minor drugged, gang-raped, forced into prostitution in VaranasiThe young girl’s mutilated body, including a severed hand and without any clothes, carried several injury marks of purported cigarette burns, the police said. Her mother had lodged a complaint with the police on Monday, alleging that her daughter might have been raped before being killed.“A mutilated body of a five-year-old girl has been recovered by Sonari police station authorities from the Subarnarekha river bank near Marine Drive on Wednesday morning. We are interrogating her stepfather, who has been detained. She was last seen with him three days ago. Prima facie, abrasion marks on her neck indicate that strangulation may have caused her death. The body has been sent for a post-mortem examination. The autopsy will conclusively ascertain whether she was raped before her murder,” said Dr M Tamil Vanan, senior superintendent of police (SSP), East Singhbhum district. Police said the girl’s stepfather was picked up after preliminary investigation found that she was last seen with him three days ago. “He had a dispute with the girl’s mother over her custody. We are confident of cracking the case and the perpetrator will be arrested soon,” the SSP added. The victim’s maternal uncle Santosh Kumar said the girl and her mother had been staying with him. “I had gone out for work, when she went missing on Monday. Her mother had filed the complaint on the same day. The body belongs to my niece,” he said. This was the second case of a minor girl being murdered and dumped in a secluded place with her body parts cut off in Jharkhand’s Kolhan administrative division. Earlier on August 28, the beheaded body of another minor girl (15) was recovered from Jharkhand’s Seraikela-Kharsawan district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-minor-girl-s-mutilated-body-recovered-in-jamshedpur-stepfather-detained/story-ia45NrgmfpHefvyeI5O9dL.html
02-09-2020||India||Full moon day slows flood water release, Odisha villages fight waterlogging||The flood situation in Odisha continued to remain grim as thousands of villages in Jajpur, Kendrapara and Khurda continued to remain waterlogged as the tidal waves in Bay of Bengal due to full moon day kept repelling the floodwaters from entering the sea.Engineer-in-chief of water resources department Jyotirmaya Rath said water level in major rivers was not coming down due to high tidal conditions. “As today is a full moon day the discharge of floodwater from Mahanadi river system and Brahmani river into the Bay of Bengal has not been fast and swift. As the sea is unsteady due to the natural impact of the full moon, the steady discharge of river water into the sea will begin only by Thursday. It will take another three to four days for the situation to improve,” Rath said.The flood has affected at least 1.4 million people across 20 districts of the state, but the districts of Jajpur, Kendrapara and Khurda have been the worst hit.So far, 22 people in the state have died due to the flood. A total of 3256 villages under 896 gram panchayats in 112 blocks were hit due to the massive flood resulting in the wake of incessant rainfall due to back to back low pressures in the Bay of Bengal.In Jajpur and Kendrapara districts, several villages continued to remain dark as electricity substations were submerged in floodwater. Jajpur district, which was fighting the rage of Baitarani river and its tributaries for the last few days, is gradually getting back to normalcy. However, 13 out of the 29 flood affected panchayats are still fighting to stay afloat in this terrible flood situation.Villagers whose houses were washed away by floodwaters have been forced to stay in temporary huts on river embankments. With handpumps and ponds contaminated by flood water, villagers have little drinking water. As many don’t have an LPG connection, villagers are finding it difficult to arrange dry firewood to cook their food.“If the initial flood was bad, the waterlogging has made it worse. We have to wade in deep water to defecate in some dry place as latrines are waterlogged. We are scared of snakebites at night,” said farmer Ajay Nayak of Bari block in Jajpur district. In Bari block a woman bitten by a snake was carried through the flooded village roads in a large aluminium vessel to the hospital.In Kendrapara district, the anger over government apathy in reaching out to the flood-affected people boiled over when angry villagers heckled BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty over his alleged negligence in visiting the people of his constituency. Mohanty, who was on a visit to flood-ravaged Alapua village under Pattamundai block of the district on Monday, was gheraoed by locals over alleged negligence on part of the actor-turned-MP citing that he is seldom seen in the worst-hit areas.Villagers in Kendrapara said they never expected the flood to linger for so long and are now wary of an outbreak of waterborne diseases. “While we somehow manage in the daytime, the nights are unbearable due to lack of electricity. We have to either burn candles or lamps to get by,” said a villager in the Rajkanika block of Kendrapara. Kendrapara district emergency officer Sambit Satpathy said 2.6 lakh people in this district have been affected by the flood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-moon-day-slows-flood-water-release-odisha-villages-fight-waterlogging/story-m93Z1pJS1LpLJUbsfIo2YK.html
02-09-2020||India||Bhopal homeopath arrested for illegal termination of minor rape survivor’s pregnancy||The Madhya Pradesh police have arrested a homoeopath in Bhopal for allegedly terminating a 14-year-old girl’s pregnancy illegally in 2018 at the behest of a vernacular daily’s owner, who is accused of raping and sexually harassing minor girls, an investigator said on Wednesday.Also read:Rape accused stripped, thrashed in Madhya PradeshHemant Mittal, 48, the homoeopath, was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act and the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act after his arrest on Tuesday night.The alleged abortion came to light after the owner of the vernacular daily, Pyare Mian, 68, was arrested on July 17 days after five minor girls were spotted in an intoxicated state in Bhopal. During counselling, the girls alleged Mian, who had been allegedly abusing them for years, had invited them to a party and allegedly raped one of them. Four minor girls from Bhopal and Indore later registered a rape and sexual harassment case against Mian.Inspector Anil Bajpai said Mittal runs a hospital and Mian paid him Rs20,000 for the illegal abortion. “The girl, who is now 16, lodged a complaint...against Pyare Mian on July 16 that he and his friend, Ubez Khan, raped her three times. Mian had taken the girl to Srinagar, where she came to know about her three-month pregnancy.” He added Mian got the girl’s pregnancy confirmed at a hospital in Indore after returning from Srinagar and sought to terminate it. Bajpai said the doctors he approached for abortion refused to do so, citing the girl’s age and its illegality without the due process.“Mian asked his assistant...to look for a doctor in Bhopal to abort the foetus. ...[the assistant] took the girl to the hospital of Mittal for abortion and Mittal aborted the foetus,” said Bajpai. He added police were interrogating Mittal and further investigation was on.The district administration was planning to get the hospital sealed for illegal medical practices.“Mittal had also conducted sonography of the girl before conducting the abortion,” said deputy inspector general Irshad Wali.Police said Mian’s assistant, Sweety Vishwakarma, would allegedly lure girls from underprivileged families to Mian in the name of getting jobs, then invite them to parties and sexually abuse them after offering them liquor.Activist Sarika Sinha said under POCSO Act, a doctor in such cases is required to report pregnancy to police, chief medical and health officer of the district concerned. “Mittal should have informed the authorities,” said Sinha. “MTP Act allows only registered and qualified doctors to terminate pregnancy resulting from rape. As he [Mittal] is a homeopath and does not have qualification to terminate pregnancy, so he has violated MTP Act too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-homeopath-arrested-for-illegal-termination-of-minor-rape-survivor-s-pregnancy/story-UrUD0kWgOK4jgQA417QTMO.html
02-09-2020||India||500 experts write to environment ministry, seek withdrawal of draft EIA||Five hundred scientists, researchers, and academics from India’s leading institutions like Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) wrote an open letter to the Union environment ministry on Wednesday urging it to withdraw the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, saying it is likely to seriously threaten the country’s ecological and environmental security.Also read: Chhattisgarh CM raises objection over draft EIA notification, writes to union environment ministerThe ministry has received around 1.7 million letters and emails with suggestions, comments, and objections to the draft. The draft was released on March 23 as part of the process to overhaul environmental regulations for infrastructure projects. Environmental groups have opposed it citing its contentious clauses. The clauses include the one pertaining to the regularisation of projects, which violated the EIA Notification, 2006, by starting constructions before environmental clearance or by expanding their capacity. The draft also proposes a shortening of the time for public hearings, which offer people affected by projects the opportunity to understand them and give their consent for them.“Overall, we have come to the conclusion that the Draft Notification, in its current form, is likely to seriously threaten our country’s ecological and environmental security. The Draft Notification neither adheres to the fundamental objectives of its parent legislation, the Environment (Protection) Act, 1983 nor does it align with our country’s commitments under various international agreements and conventions,” the letter said. HT has seen a copy of the letterThe letter highlighted flaws in the draft saying it legitimises ex post facto environmental clearances and thereby encourages industries, with no prior clearance, to commence operations. It added the draft reclassifies many potentially ecosystem-damaging and even some highly polluting Red Category industries as ‘ B2’ category thereby exempting them from public consultation and scoping. The letter said the draft allows only project proponents and government authorities to officially report cognisance of violations.Sayan Banerjee, a PhD scholar at Bengaluru’s National Institute of Advanced Studies, said some of them in different institutes like the Indian Institute of Science (Bengaluru) are concerned with this draft notification. “We compared the EIA Notification, 2006, and draft EIA Notification, 2020, and found several discrepancies and issues. We reached out to other institutions like IITs, ATREE [Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment], IISER [Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research], etc and also discussed with faculty members in various institutes. Before releasing our open letter, we also discussed and shared our thoughts with various policy scholars that is how we put this together,” said Banerjee, one of the signatories of the letter.Environment ministry officials did not respond to HT’s queries on the open letter.Union environment ministry secretary RP Gupta, in an interview to HT last month, said the ministry has set up a committee to assess all the comments and objections to the draft. He added the panel will compile and come up with a summary of issues raised.The letter said the existing EIA Notification, 2006, has been deemed insufficient in meeting its stated aims. It added flouting of environmental safeguards by non-compliant and unmonitored industries and practices often leads to environmental disasters like the Vizag gas leak and the Baghjan oil well blowout in Assam.Eleven people were killed in the gas leak at Visakhapatnam’s LG Polymers chemical plant on May 7. The oil well in Assam caught fire on June 9 days after the blowout, or an uncontrolled release of gas or oil. The blowout triggered fears about environmental damage to nearby Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the ecologically-sensitive Maguri Motapung wetland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-experts-write-to-environment-ministry-seek-withdrawal-of-draft-eia/story-ew6WWTOxuFiwoQUtFShsiI.html
02-09-2020||India||Delhi high court refuses to stay streaming of Gunjan Saxena movie||The Delhi high court (HC) on Wednesday refused to grant a stay on the telecast of the movie Gunjan Saxena—The Kargil Girl on Netflix, an over-the-top (OTT) streaming media service, after the Ministry of Defence (MoD) and the Indian Air Force (IAF) had moved the court to stop it from being aired.Justice Rajiv Sakdher told additional solicitor-general (ASG) Sanjay Jain that the MoD has moved the court very late and an interim injunction on the telecast of the movie cannot be granted, as it has already been released. The court sought the response of Dharma Productions, who has produced the film, and Netflix on the plea and posted the matter for the next hearing on September 18.The MoD’s plea stated that the makers of the film had represented to the IAF that the movie was based on the life of Gunjan Saxena, an IAF officer, and wanted the force’s assistance for an authentic portrayal of the facts. The plea alleged that the makers kept the IAF in the dark about the intent of the movie, which was a negative portrayal of the air force based on misleading and manipulative facts. It cited that the makers also avoided entering into a formal agreement, or a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), with the IAF. The plea argued that the pact was a prerequisite under the 2013 guidelines and the “in-principle” approval accorded to the makers of the film was at all times subject to the execution of the said MoU.The plea stated that the makers had assured that they would proceed with the release of the film after a formal approval is obtained from the IAF. However, all of a sudden, one of the makers informed the IAF that they had completed the filming of the movie, except for the section on the passing out parade, it said. One of the makers had also sought the permission of the IAF to film the “December 2019 passing out parade at the air force academy”, the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-refuses-to-stay-streaming-of-gunjan-saxena-movie/story-4paneCcC0vF3J1BQ0o8s3L.html
02-09-2020||India||Courts can’t relax the terms of Insurance policy: National consumers’ body||Observing that courts cannot alter the terms of an insurance policy, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) last week struck down an order of the Maharashtra State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directing an insurance company to pay the claim amount of Rs 55.19 lakh to a diamond trader from Surat.“A consumer forum or any court for that matter, does not have power to relax the warranty clause or any terms and conditions of an insurance policy,” said NCDRC bench of presiding member Prem Narain and member C Vishwanath, after finding that the state commission had tried to bypass the warranty clause in the policy drawn by Surat based diamond trader, M/s. Dharmanandan Diamonds Private Limited.The firm had on June 10, 2002, handed over 418 carat polished diamonds worth Rs 78.62 lakh to one of its commission agents, Arjanbhai Mangukia, who was supposed to show the diamonds to some prospective clients in Mumbai. Arjanbhai then came to Mumbai along with the diamonds.On the next day, he, however, was found murdered at his rental premises in Mumbai, and since police did not find the diamonds with him, the firm lodged a claim of Rs. 78.62 lakh with its insurer, New India Assurance Company Ltd.The insurance company appointed a surveyor to assess the loss, which came to be assessed at Rs 55.19 lakh. The company, however, repudiated the claim on the ground of breach of the warranty clause - the polished diamonds were not secured in a standard safe, as required under the terms of the policy. There was no standard safe at the rental premises of the firm’s commission agent.The firm then filed a consumer complaint with the state commission, which allowed the complaint on October 30, 2015, and directed the insurance company to pay the firm--the loss assessed by its surveyor--- Rs 55.19 lakh. Also Read: Panje: Contrary to forest report, complainants unearth 66 hacked branchesBoth the diamond trader and the insurance company had challenged the order before NCDRC. While the insurance company was aggrieved by the order of payment, the firm sought full amount of claim, Rs 78.62 lakh, instead of Rs 55.19 lakh awarded by the state commission.NCDRC upheld the stand of the insurance company that in view of the breach of terms of the policy, the claim was rightly repudiated and no amount was payable to the firm.Also Read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 8-lakh mark, death toll nears 25k markIt seems that the State commission has agreed with the assertion of the complainant that the condition of the warranty was impractical and could not be observed as main work of the commission agent was to show the diamonds to prospective buyers and therefore, it was not possible to keep the diamonds in standard safe all the time, said NCDRC.It said the argument did not hold good in the case, as the diamonds were given to the commission agent at Surat, from where the precious stones were brought to Mumbai, where the agent was to stay for the whole week. Clearly, when the diamonds were to be kept at a residence, they were required to be kept under locked safe of standard make as per the warranty condition of the policy, but there was no safe at Mumbai premises of the deceased agent, it added.“We are of the considered opinion that the warranty mentioned in the policy has been breached and therefore, the insurance claim is not payable,” it concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-can-t-relax-the-terms-of-insurance-policy-national-consumers-body/story-Ei2xQRM6Ec0vO1pvj3kyXI.html
02-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: CBI calls Rhea Chakraborty’s father for another round of questioning||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, called Rhea Chakraborty’s father for the second round of questioning on Wednesday. Chakraborty’s father Indrajeet reached the DRDO guest house in Mumbai’s Kalina where the CBI team is stationed around 10:25 am this morning. Chakraborty, her brother and mother have not been summoned on Wednesday so far, an official said.Indrajeet and Chakraborty’s mother Sandhya were grilled by the central agency for about nine hours on Tuesday.The investigation agency has so far interrogated Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, roommate and creative director Siddharth Pithani, his former business manager Shruti Modi and house manager Samuel Miranda.The 34-year-old actor was found dead at his Bandra apartment on June 14 following which the Mumbai police had registered a case of accidental death and recorded statements of nearly three dozen people.Rajput’s father KK Singh the filed an FIR in Patna accusing Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting Rajput’s alleged suicide and misappropriating his money that led to a war of words between Maharashtra and Bihar Police. The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of the FIR lodged in Patna to the central agency.Apart from CBI, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are also probing the case from the money laundering and drugs-related angles respectively. The NCB made its first arrest in the case on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-cbi-calls-rhea-chakraborty-s-father-for-another-round-of-questioning/story-ashmcLollnCHdnVmjTrZDL.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Hundreds of accounts banned’: Trinamool complains to Facebook||Alleging that hundreds of Facebook and WhatsApp accounts of Trinamool party supporters were banned online, the party has written to the social media giant urging “immediate action”. Spotlighting that the banning of accounts comes months ahead of the election in the state, the Trinamool said it points to a link between “Facebook and the BJP”.“I want to bring to your attention the removal of hundreds of Trinamool Congress supporters’ pages and accounts on both Facebook and WhatsApp for ‘community standards violations’. In the run up to the pre-announced foundation day event of the Trinamool Chhatra Parishad (TMCP), the students’ wing of All India Trinamool Congress, on August 28, numerous Facebook and WhatsApp accounts were banned,” wrote Derek O’ Brien, TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader, in a letter to Facebook on August 31.The MP, in his letter, also attached a list of the blocked accounts and numbers and urged Facebook to take immediate action and remedial measures. In another letter to the company, O’Brien alleged that the development before the polls suggested a link between the ruling party at the Centre and the BJP. “With the election in the Indian state of West Bengal just months away, your company’s recent blocking of Facebook pages and accounts in Bengal also points to link between Facebook and the BJP. There is enough material now in the public domain, including internal memos of senior Facebook management, to substantiate the bias,” O’Brien wrote in the second letter.  On September 1, Union minister Ravi Shankhar Prasad also shot off a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, raising the issue of free speech, accusing it of being the “latest tool” used by vested interests to create “internal divisions and social disturbances”. This comes days after senior TMC lawmaker Mahua Moitra raised questions over hate posts. The Wall Street Journal had reported that Facebook did not apply its hate speech rules to some BJP leaders. The BJP and the Congress too had engaged in a war of words over the issue.Earlier, the Congress wrote to Facebook, accusing its India team of “interfering” with the country’s electoral democracy and demanded an inquiry. The Congress and the CPI(M) had even demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee into the charges against Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-of-accounts-banned-trinamool-complains-to-facebook/story-6ZAjKpvKrFll5uksAH7J6H.html
02-09-2020||India||Jammu’s Dugg-Dugge Brahmins living in inhumane conditions, await domicile certificates||Brought to Jammu and Kashmir from Rajasthan about 170 years ago during the reign of Maharaja Gulab Singh, Dugg-Dugge Brahmins not only continue to live under inhumane conditions but have not been issued domicile certificates as yet. Dugg-Dugge classification is for the Brahmins who accept Shani Daan. Their scattered population lives in Ramban and other parts of the Jammu region. Though Valmiki and Gurkha communities were among the first to be issued domicile certificates by the BJP leaders following the revocation of Article 370 and 35-A last year, the Dugg-Dugge Brahmins are yet to get them. Till now, the administration had been dragging its feet claiming the community, which had never been issued Permanent Resident’s Certificates (PRCs), had no land records and ration cards to stake a claim on domicile certificates. The impoverished community of 27 families, consisting of 136 members, has been living at Maitra in Ramban district. “Our forefathers came here 170 years ago. We vote here in assembly and parliamentary elections but we were never issued PRCs because we had no land here. Now, we are being denied domicile certificates,” said Ambri Devi, a member of the small community. In 1953, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, the then Prime Minister of J&K had allotted a piece of land at Phelti Maitra in Ramban to nine families of the community. Also Read: 12.5 lakh domicile certificates issued are to apply for jobs: J&K administrationAnother woman Satya Devi said that in 2012, the government issued them ration cards but they were cancelled in 2015-16. This impoverished and miniscule community accepts alms, mustard oil and other donations in kind on Saturdays as “Shani Daan” and many among them worked as roadside palmists and astrologers as well. According to the community elders, their forefathers were reportedly invited by Raja Gulab Singh from Rajasthan to accept “Shani Daan” and work as priests for performing “Shani Dev Pooja” as none of the Hindu priests during that period accepted “Shani Daan”. The community lives in squalor in shanties without drinking water and toilet facilities but they do have electricity connections. It has been named Bakshi Nagar after GM Bakshi. Also Read: IPS Charu Sinha to become first woman head of CRPF’s Srinagar sectorAmong the entire community in Ramban, only two boys are matriculates and one girl is studying in eighth class. 22 year old Vinod Sharma, one of the matriculates, said he couldn’t continue studies due to poverty and now works as a plumber. “We vote in assembly and parliamentary elections and do have Aadhar card, electricity connections. The administration has now assured us to issue domicile certificates,” he said. When contacted, Tehsildar, Ramban, Rafiq Ahmad said, “I have asked them to give whatever documents they have with them. There are 27 families comprising 150 people. We will go to their locality to give them on the spot domicile certificates. Patwari will be requisitioned to the locality for his report”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-s-dugg-dugge-brahmins-living-in-inhumane-conditions-await-domicile-certificates/story-0oR3eN3wPoB7ZPAs66M7YJ.html
02-09-2020||India||‘You should have come sooner’: Delhi HC refuses to stay streaming of Netflix movie ‘Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl||The Delhi High Court refused to stay the streaming of Netflix movie ‘Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl’ on Wednesday. Justice Rajiv Shakdher refused to pass an interim injunction order at this stage and stated that the plea should have been filed sooner as the film has already been released. The court has sought responses from Dharma Production and Netflix on the plea and posted the matter for further hearing on September 18.Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the Centre, argued that the movie has dented the image of the Indian Air Force as it showed that the force is gender biased, which is not correct.The court was hearing a plea by the ministry of defence that alleged the movie the makers of the film sought the assistance of IAF in making the film on the actual life of an Air Force officer but kept the IAF in dark about the real intent of the movie i.e. to “show them in negative light based on misleading and manipulative facts.”The court said it was of the view that former flight lieutenant Gunjan Saxena should also be made a party to the suit and issued notice to her, seeking her response. The movie was released on Over The Top (OTT) platform on August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-to-stay-streaming-of-netflix-movie-gunjan-saxena-the-kargil-girl/story-um1smG8Xr9IcdfUMj02oMK.html
02-09-2020||India||Showdown likely as Parliament’s IT panel meets over WSJ report on Facebook||A showdown is on the cards on Wednesday at the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology chaired by Congress’s Shashi Tharoor, where Members of Parliament (MPs) will hear allegations made by Rupert Murdoch-owned publication The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) in recent reports against the social media company, Facebook.California’s Menlo Park-headquartered Facebook overlooked hate speeches posted by leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and other right-wing groups, as it would have hurt the company’s business interests in India, its biggest market, the WSJ report had alleged in its first report in August. The House panel has 30 members, out of which at least 15 belong to BJP and its allies, who are a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The Congress has three members, while other regional parties such as the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Telangana Rashtriya Samity (TRS), Shiv Sena, Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) are represented by an MP each.Also Watch l RS Prasad writes to Facebook; alleges political bias, slams ‘selective leaks’ Most opposition parties such as the DMK, the TRS, the TMC and the CPI(M) have backed Tharoor’s bid to seek an explanation from Facebook about the WSJ reports. However, BJP MPs such as Nishikant Dubey have contended that Snehlata Shrivastava, the secretary-general of the 17th Lok Sabha, is only empowered to summon a witness. The panel’s meeting on Tuesday was cut short in honour of late President Pranab Mukherjee, whose last rites were performed following his demise the previous day. The panel was slated to hear from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) and officials about internet shutdowns, especially in the union territory of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K).According to members of the panel, who did not wish to be named, both the BJP and the Congress are poised to corner Facebook about its policy decisions.A BJP MP said that Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad’s letter had set the tone for the BJP’s attack on Facebook. On Tuesday, Prasad had attacked Facebook for its biases against right-wing groups and demanded a probe into the conduct of an employee of the social media company for making alleged uncharitable remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “So many people on Facebook are associated with the Congress. We intend to take that matter up in the meeting,” said an MP, requesting anonymity. A second MP from the opposition camp asserted that they would push for the removal of Ankhi Das, the public policy director for Facebook for India, South and Central Asia. Das has been at the centre of the raging controversy ever since the first WSJ report was published that had questioned her pro-BJP actions. She had allegedly opposed applying hate-speech rules to T Raja Singh, the lone BJP lawmaker in the Telangana assembly, despite his provocative and incendiary Facebook posts had repeatedly targeted the Muslims, the report had said. According to a new report in the WSJ published on late Sunday evening, Das had also praised PM Modi as the “strongman”, who had broken the Congress’s socialist hold in the country. Though the comment was made in a Facebook group designed for its India employees, it was open to a global audience. The Congress and CPI (M) have demanded a criminal investigation into Facebook’s actions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/showdown-likely-as-parliament-s-it-panel-meets-over-wsj-report-on-facebook/story-wvvNtSyuy55vppVM92M0gI.html
02-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: CPI leader calls no Question Hour move ‘unjust’ in letter to Rajya Sabha chairman||Ahead of the beginning of Parliament monsoon session, the Communist Party of India’s (CPI) Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam has written a letter to House chairman Venkaiah Naidu, over dropping of the Question Hour.“Given that the duration of time of Parliamentary sittings is the same as it has always been, suspension of Question hour and Private Members business is unjust and must be reinstated immediately,” Viswam has said in his letter.“Question Hour and Zero Hour are integral to the democratic functioning of Parliament and have never been done away with in the history of independent India. By introducing these changes, the government has effectively ensured that its accountability to Parliament and to the people is done away with,” he further said.Also Read: No weekend break for MPs during monsoon sessionIn a notification issued on Tuesday, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said that there will be no question hour and private members’ business during the monsoon session of Parliament in the wake of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Those who attend the session would be required to follow the necessary coronavirus protocols, including getting tested for Covid-19 within 72 hours, it further said.The monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to begin from September 14 and conclude on October 1.On its part, the government has reached out to the Opposition, explaining its decision to not include the Question Hour in the list of business, people familiar with the development said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh spoke on the government’s behalf to Opposition leaders, like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress and Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress.Also Read: New protocol for Parliament’s upcoming monsoon sessionCongress leader Chowdhury later said that Singh informed him about the modalities involved him in holding the session of Parliament at a time when the coronavirus pandemic has gripped the country. Ahead of the beginning of the session, both the House of Parliament have made elaborate security arrangements and put in place Covid-19 protocols, and that would require the presence of a large number of officials in Parliament to brief ministers, Singh said according to Chowdhury.Singh assured him that the government will try to accommodate the Opposition’s demand for the Zero Hour to continue so that members can raise urgent matters .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-of-question-hour-unjust-cpi-leader-writes-to-rajya-sabha-chairman/story-zqiX0WaTvxiBxboCEvTAHK.html
02-09-2020||India||No weekend break for MPs during monsoon session, House to function on Sat, Sun too||In the upcoming monsoon session, the Parliament will function on Saturdays and Sundays as well, meaning the MPs will get no weekend break, according to an internal circular accessed by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. The session that usually begins in July was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and will be held between September 14 and October 1.While Parliament has earlier seen special sessions on Saturday, this would be the first time that a routine session will see lawmakers working on both Saturdays, and for the first time, on Sundays, as well. Doorstep Covid-19 tests, the freedom to deliver a speech in the House while seated, options to undergo real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at their constituency before heading to Delhi, and one-way movement in the Central Hall and key corridors -- these are some of the new measures for Lok Sabha MPs in the upcoming monsoon session, following Speaker Om Birla’s meeting with health sector experts last week. Also read: New protocol for parliament’s upcoming monsoon sessionThe Rajya Sabha too, is likely to follow the same schedule. On the first day, the Lok Sabha will start at 9am and continue till 1pm. After a gap of two hours, the Rajya Sabha will start at 3pm and continue till pm. However, for the next 17 days or the remaining part of the session, the Rajya Sabha will meet in the morning and the Lok Sabha in the afternoon schedule. This has been done to efficiently transact business between the two Houses as bills need to be cleared by the other House after one house gives its approval. HT was the first to report that the monsoon session would see daily shifts to ensure that lawmakers spent the minimum required time in Delhi amid the Covid-19 pandemic. It has also been decided to do away with the Question Hour- the one hour slot for lawmakers to pose questions to different ministries, and private members’ bills to keep the maximum time for legislative business and discussion on key issues. While the government needs to clear 11 ordinances—including the key ones on agriculture and banking—the Opposition wants to raise the India-China border tension, economic situation and alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic by the government. Last week, Lok Sabha Speaker met union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, ICMR chief Dr. Balaram Bhargava and DRDO and Delhi government officials on Friday for a brainstorming session where he was quick to approve some new ideas, a top functionary aware of the proceedings at the meeting said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-weekend-break-for-mps-during-monsoon-session-parliament-to-function-on-saturdays-and-sundays-too/story-szWl212khsBRj4ez5ioy7I.html
02-09-2020||India||Rajasthan: ‘Khap’ forces man, woman to bathe in front of hundreds in Sikar||A man and a woman belonging to the Sansi community from Rajasthan’s Sikar district were allegedly made to bathe in front of hundreds of people by a khap panchayat -- a community organisation representing a clan or a group -- on August 21 as atonement for their purported sins.Also read: Delhi man bludgeoned to death in front of wife in property disputeThe khap members made the man and the woman, who are related to each other as nephew and aunt, cough up Rs31,000 and Rs22,000, respectively, following which they were accepted back into the social fold. However, the Sikar district police authorities said the charges against the khap members are yet to be proven, even though nine people have been booked for the offence and a probe is in progress.“The charges are yet to be proved. However, the probe is in progress. We are recording the statements of the villagers, where the incident took place. We are also trying to obtain the videos or pictures of the incident that were taken by the villagers on their mobile phones,” said Gagandeep Singla, superintendent of police (SP), Sikar.The matter came to light after members of the Sansi community, a nomadic tribe that traces its origin to Bhati Rajputs from erstwhile Rajputana in the medieval era, submitted a memorandum to the Sikar district police administration on Tuesday.The memorandum narrated the incident and sought action against the accused. It alleged that an objectionable video of the man and the woman was circulated among the locals following which members of the khap panchayat from four districts in the desert state took law into their own hands.Though hundreds were purportedly present as the man and the woman ‘atoned for their sins’ on August 21, not a single person spoke out against the alleged heinous punishment. The crowd watched the spectacle in silence and many curious onlookers also filmed the incident on their mobile phones and some others also took pictures of the alleged punishment meted out by the members of the khap panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-khap-forces-man-woman-to-bathe-in-front-of-hundreds-in-sikar/story-wN4kSqejtOpGNehTYAZtaK.html
02-09-2020||India||Airlines pitch in amid Covid: IndiGo flies plasma, SpiceJet launches portable ventilator support||Low-cost airline IndiGo on Tuesday flew two bags of blood plasma a person in Bengaluru donated after recovering from Covid-19 for convalescent plasma therapy for a critical 60-year-old woman infected by the disease in Srinagar. The plasma was delivered in over eight hours via Delhi to a hospital in Srinagar, around 3,000 km away, in the first such delivery in the country across two cities during the pandemic.IndiGo officials said the airline is only the second in the world to have transported plasma like this successfully.“The creation of the first air corridor in India to transport blood plasma can have a huge positive impact on the treatment of Covid-19 patients through plasma therapy,” said IndiGo‘s chief executive officer Ronojoy Dutta.Also read: Goa CM Pramod Sawant tests positive for Covid-19Bengaluru’s HCG Cancer Hospital associate dean, Dr Vishal Rao, said plasma therapy is one of the promising lines of Covid-19 treatment. “The creation of a successful air corridor opens up new possibilities for the treatment of patients with Covid-19 with plasma from anywhere in the country. We would like to thank Captain Rahul Srivastava, IndiGo CarGo team and BIAL [Bangalore International Airport] in helping us save lives by making this possible.”The therapy has long been used to treat diseases and involves taking antibody-rich plasma from patients, who have recovered from Covid-19, and giving it to those with severe infection for fester recovery from the disease.SpiceJet, another low-cost airline, has separately launched a portable ventilation device SpiceOxy for patients with mild to moderate breathing issues. It has also introduced a fingertip pulse oximeter that can measure blood oxygen levels. Airline officials said the light weight device can be used at home, in an ambulance, on in hilly terrain.SpiceJet’s chairman and managing director Ajay Singh said: “I am sure these non-invasive, portable ventilators will greatly help patients with breathing issues and other chronic problems, and can be easily used at home and taken along during travel.”SpiceJet Technic, a subsidiary of SpiceJet, has designed SpiceOXY to provide non-invasive ventilator support to treat adult and paediatric patients with obstructive sleep apnea or respiratory insufficiency. The device can be used for maintaining oxygen levels and ventilation in patients. It can be of help for symptomatic Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate breathing symptoms to maintain oxygen saturation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-pitch-in-amid-covid-indigo-flies-plasma-spicejet-launches-portable-ventilator-support/story-ucqRwLb5mcq3jdCCZJhMhL.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Not a penalty’: All you need to know about govt’s latest performance review order||The central government last week issued a notification tweaking the rules of performance review to weed out inefficient and corrupt officials from the system. The notification, issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), asked all departments and ministries to maintain a register of officers attaining 50/55 years of age or completing 30 years of service.The notification said that the government has taken this decision in “public interest” to ask officials with “doubtful integrity” and “ineffectiveness” to take early retirement.Here are some of the steps taken by the government in its latest order:• The notification states that the register is to be scrutinised at the beginning of every quarter by a senior officer in the ministry/department/cadre who will undertake a review of the same to decide on pre-mature retirement or retention of an officer.• The employees’ performance review is conducted under the Fundamental Rule (FR) 56 (J) and 56 (I), and also under Rule 48 (1) (b) of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, that gives “absolute right” to the appropriate authority to retire a government servant, “if it is necessary to do so in public interest”.• The performance review will be done in January to March, for July to September of the same year. Similarly in April to June, the review will be done for October to December of the same year. July to September, will be reviewed from January to March of the next year and October to December quarter performances will be done from April to June of the next year.• No government servant should ordinarily be retired on ground of ineffectiveness, if, in any event, he would be retiring on superannuation within a period of one year from the date of consideration of his case, reads the criteria mentioned in the order.• However, in case where there is a sudden and steep fall in the competence, efficiency or effectiveness of a government servant, it would be open to review such a case also for premature retirement, it said. The entire service record, in addition to the Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR), of a government servant should be considered at the time of review, the order said.• “It is clarified that premature retirement of government servants under these rules is not a penalty. It is distinct from ‘compulsory retirement’, which is one of prescribed penalties under Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965,” the order said.• The DoPT has also mentioned composition of a review committee and broad criteria to be followed by it while conducting assessment of the employees’ performance. For Group A officers, the review Committee shall be headed by the Secretary of the concerned CCA. Where there are boards (like CBDT, CBEC, Railway Board, etc), the chairman will head the review committee. For Group B officers, an additional secretary/joint secretary-level officer shall head the review committee.• In the case of non-gazetted employees, an officer of the level of joint secretary will head the committee. However, in case the appointing authority is lower in rank than a joint secretary, then an officer of the level of director/deputy secretary will be the head. In the case of non-gazetted employees in other than centralised cadres, head of department/head of the organisation shall decide the composition of the review committee.• The government order also said that there is no bar on to review any such case again where it had decided earlier to retain the officer.• Instructions have been issued from time to time for undertaking periodic review of performance of government servants with a view to ascertain whether they should be retained in service or retired prematurely, the ministry said.The latest order has been issued in order to bring in better clarity to the existing instructions and enable uniform implementation, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-penalty-all-you-need-to-know-about-govt-s-latest-performance-review-order/story-n44fvrWg87k0hdb7WXVTmK.html
02-09-2020||India||Weekend lockdowns lifted from Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur, Reasi districts||Weekend lockdown has been lifted from Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur and Reasi districts of Jammu and Kashmir following revised guidelines governing the containment measures for Covid-19, said state officials on Wednesday. The weekend lockdown, being imposed from Friday 6 pm to Monday 6 am including Saturdays and Sundays as per the decision of the respective district administrations in these four districts stand withdrawn, said officials. They further informed that no district magistrate can now enforce lockdown at their own outside the containment zones.Deputy commissioner, Jammu, Sushma Chauhan, said, “the weekend lockdown has been removed under the new guidelines”.Udhampur district commissioner Dr Piyush Singla said that weekend lockdown stands withdrawn from Udhampur district with immediate effect.Also Read: 12.5 lakh domicile certificates issued are to apply for jobs: J&K administrationKathua DC OP Bhagat also informed that weekend lockdown has been lifted from Kathua district. Under the new order, all establishments will be open seven days a week while the non-compulsory activities will not be allowed from 10 pm to 5 am.Also Read: IPS Charu Sinha to become first woman head of CRPF’s Srinagar sectorThe changes have been announced after the country progressed into the stage 4 of unlocking the economy with more relaxations from restrictions clamped to prevent the spread of coronavirus coming into force. The Centre has also asked the state governments to not enforce lockdown without prior consultation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weekend-lockdowns-lifted-from-jammu-kathua-udhampur-reasi-districts/story-mHWyRoNxIDAaPrv0x2sf0O.html
02-09-2020||India||India reeling under Modi-made disasters: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday stepped up his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the steepest decline in the GDP since independence, Chinese transgressions in Ladakh, rising unemployment and job losses, GST dues to states and a significant increase in Covid-19 cases across the country. “India is reeling under Modi-made disasters: 1. Historic GDP reduction -23.9% 2. Highest Unemployment in 45 yrs 3. 12 Crs job loss 4. Centre not paying states their GST dues 5. Globally highest COVID-19 daily cases and deaths 6. External aggression at our borders,” he tweeted. India’s GDP shrank by the steepest percentage ever—23.9%—in the April-June period as the coronavirus pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown battered an already slowing economy, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSP). Gandhi has been attacking the government over the present state of economy, alleging that its “ruining” started with demonetisation, which was followed by a series of “erroneous” policies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre. Also watch: ‘How Modi govt destroyed Indian economy’: Rahul Gandhi’s new video series trailerOn Tuesday, former finance minister P Chidambaram had said the GDP estimates should be a matter of “surprise and shame” to the government that was seeing ‘green shoots’ on several days during the first quarter and did nothing to cushion the fall by taking suitable fiscal and welfare measures. “But we know that the Modi government has no shame and will not acknowledge its mistakes. All these had been anticipated,” Chidambaram had said, addressing a joint virtual press conference with party colleague Supriya Shrinate after the provisional estimates of GDP were released for the quarter April-June 2020. Gandhi, on Monday, released the first part of his series of videos on the state of economy, alleging that the BJP government has destroyed it by repeatedly assaulting the informal sector. “There is an attempt to turn you into a slave,” he had said in the 3.38-minute video. In 2008, Gandhi said, the world was hit by an economic storm, affecting the entire world, including the United States, Japan, Europe, China. In the US and Europe, banks collapsed, corporations companies shut down their businesses, but India remained unaffected, he added. “India had a UPA government at that time. I went to the Prime Minister and asked him, Manmohan Singh ji, what is the reason that when the entire world has suffered an economic crisis India has remained unaffected?” the former Congress chief said. “Manmohan Singh ji replied, Rahul, if you want to understand India’s economy, you will have to understand that India has two economic structures. One is the formal economy and the other is the informal economy,” he added. Also Read: To revive the Congress, leaders must return to the grassrootsPriot to Gandhi’s fresh series on economy, he had released a five-part series on Chinese incursions in Ladakh. Soon after the release of the video, the BJP had taken a jibe at Gandhi, saying he should release a video about the “G-23”, a reference to 23 dissenters who wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking complete overhaul of the party organisation. “People are trying to seize his house. There are talks of election, selection, inability to have a president... He (Rahul) should worry about it. The country is very much in safe hands. He should worry about his party,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reeling-under-modi-made-disasters-rahul-gandhi/story-ALXw1FNxq4COgMGyi8yXLL.html
02-09-2020||India||Assam Police carries out drug raid, catches on ‘Rasode mei kon tha’ trend||The Assam Police on Tuesday caught up on the ‘Rasode mei kon tha’ trend that has gone viral on social media over the past two weeks. The Nagaon police unit has seized drugs from peddlers who were hiding it in a carton of Livsaf and vitamins, it claimed. The police took to Twitter to announce the seizure and did it in a style that has gained a lot of popularity on social media. “RASODE ME KAUN THA ? Rasode me do drugs peddlers tha. Carton me se Livsaf and vitamins nikal diye aur CODEX and drugs chhupa diya. Itne me Team Nagaon ayi aur dono ko utha liya,” they wrote on Twitter.  RASODE ME KAUN THA ?Rasode me do drugs peddlers tha.Carton me se Livsaf and vitamins nikal diye aur CODEX and drugs chhupa diya. Itne me Team Nagaon ayi aur dono ko utha liya.@assampolice @gpsinghassam @lrbishnoiassam pic.twitter.com/UIV7Wrih0pThe tweet comes after 24-year-old engineer-music producer Yashraj Mukhate recently uploaded a video musical spoof on Instagram featuring TV show Saath Nibhana Saathiya’s characters Kokilaben, Rashi and Gopi Bahu. The clip, which was posted on August 20, has so far got 9,133,103 views and is being shared across all social media platforms.   First World Problems • Made Kokila Ben sing this time • I love doing harmonies, enjoyed this one a lot • Kahi share karoge toh credits zaroor dena. Aapke pyaar ke liye bohot saara dhanyawaad!♥️♥️♥️ #dialoguewithbeats #kokilaben #gopibahu #rashi #cooker #saathnibhanasaathiya #yashrajmukhate #ymstudiosA post shared by  Yashraj Mukhate (@yashrajmukhate) on Aug 20, 2020 at 8:51am PDTThe Nagaon police’s drug seizure comes at a time when a Special Narcotics Cell has been set up under the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) to deal with the drug trafficking situation in the state, according to Director General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said.Mahanta told news agency PTI that the recovery of psychotropic tablets in Assam has gone up by 274% in the past two months due to sustained drive against drug trafficking. The number of drug-related cases reported with the police this year is 601 with 200 of them being reported from June 26 to August 30, the DGP said at a press conference in Guwahati. Altogether 1,032 people were arrested in such cases this year and 338 of them were nabbed since June 26, he added.Mahanta said that a database of 80 repeated offenders has been prepared by the CID and a proposal for preventive detention has been sent to the government by the police in Nagaon, Hojai, Hailakandi, Golaghat, Dibrugarh, Bishwanath Chariali districts.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-carries-out-drug-raid-catches-on-rasode-mei-kon-tha-trend/story-oNiokzM93FDz0HqMObSdiO.html
02-09-2020||India||Goa CM Pramod Sawant tests positive for Covid-19, to remain under home isolation||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. He said he is asymptomatic and under home isolation.“I wish to inform all that I have been detected COVID19 positive. I am asymptomatic and hence have opted for home isolation. I shall continue to discharge my duties working from home. Those who have come in my close contact are advised to take the necessary precautions,” he tweeted. I wish to inform all that I have been detected COVID19 positive. I am asymptomatic and hence have opted for home isolation. I shall continue to discharge my duties working from home. Those who have come in my close contact are advised to take the necessary precautions.Goa on Tuesday recorded its highest single-day spike with 588 people testing positive for coronavirus, taking the state’s Covid-19 count to 18,006, while two deaths took the toll to 194, an official said.The number of people discharged so far stood at 13,577, including 273 during the day, he added.“Out of 3,762 samples tested, 2,683 were negative, 588 returned positive while 491 reports are awaited,” he added.Goa’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 18,006, new cases 588, deaths 194, discharged 13,850, active cases 3,962, samples tested till date 2,02,730. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-tests-positive-for-covid-19-to-remain-under-home-isolation/story-siaM2fmm5gvbM1yzskjF0I.html
02-09-2020||India||Pak firing along LoC kills another army officer in Jammu’s Rajouri district||A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) was killed along the Line of Control (LoC) in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday at Keri area of the Nowshera sector in Jammu’s Rajouri district.Also read: Centre to withdraw 100 companies of paramilitary forces from Jammu-Kashmir“A Naib Subedar posted at a forward location in Keri sector sacrificed his life in the line of duty, when Pakistan resorted to unprovoked firing from across the LoC,” said a defence official. The Indian Army has retaliated to Pakistani firing, he added. “We are awaiting more details,” said the official. On August 30, a JCO was killed in Pakistani shelling along the LoC in the Nowshera sector. The martyred JCO is identified as Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh, who belonged to Khadur Sahib tehsil of Punjab’s Amritsar district. Last Saturday, the Border Security Force (BSF) had detected a trans-border tunnel, which originated from Pakistan and went 150 metres into the Samba sector of the union territory (UT) of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K). Pakistan has been regularly opening unprovoked heavy fire on the LoC and the international border (IB) since the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-firing-along-loc-kills-another-army-officer-in-jammu-s-rajouri-district/story-8DAWHOQuaHJZxSMocNq1cO.html
02-09-2020||India||7 BJP leaders test positive for Covid-19 in Jammu-Kashmir||Seven Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from Jammu have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past five days even though the party’s headquarters in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) was shut last Saturday, for 10 days, as a precautionary measure against the contagion.Also read: India again records over 78,000 new Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 3.76 millionBJP Member of Parliament (MP) Jugal Kishore; party vice-president Narinder Singh; general secretary Sunil Sharma; general secretary (organisation) Ashok Koul; former lawmaker Shakti Raj Parihar; general secretary Vibodh Gupta and Mahila Morcha president Sanjita Dogra have been found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19.Most of the BJP leaders are undergoing treatment at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super speciality hospital at Kakryal in Jammu’s Reasi district.Last Saturday, the BJP’s J&K unit had shut its headquarters at Trikuta Nagar in Jammu for 10 days as a precautionary measure after two of its leaders – Koul and Gupta --- had tested Covid-19 positive.“We have decided to close our headquarters for 10 days in compliance with Covid-19 protocol,” said a party spokesman.Earlier, BJP’s Lok Sabha member Sharma, his wife and personal secretary had tested Covid-19 positive.Koul and Gupta had returned from Srinagar recently after attending party meetings presided over by Ram Madhav, national general secretary, who was on a two-day tour to the Kashmir valley.Ravinder Raina, the president of the BJP’s J&K unit, had also recently recovered from his viral infection that he had contracted during his visit to Kashmir following the killing of the party leader Waseem Bari, his brother and their father by terrorists.Raina said the party headquarters in Jammu was decided to be closed for 10 days from last Saturday onwards because of the rapid spread of the contagion.Uday Bhan Chib, president, Pradesh Youth Congress (PYC), J&K, took a swipe at the BJP leaders who are undergoing treatment at the super speciality hospital. “BJP leaders are getting the best of healthcare facilities at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super specialty hospital, where doctors in PPE (personal protective equipment) gears are singing songs for them. However, a common man is left to fend for his life in the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) in Jammu,” Chib alleged.On Monday, the PYC activists had staged a protest outside the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super specialty hospital, accusing the authorities of admitting only dignitaries and refusing treatment to common people.“An old woman, who had been hospitalised at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super specialty hospital for another ailment, was referred to GMCH, Jammu, after she had tested Covid-19 positive. Her family members were also slapped with a hefty bill by the hospital authorities,” Chib further alleged. “I took up the matter with the hospital’s North Head, Colonel Bali and apprised him about the ill-treatment of an elderly woman patient,” he said. Col Bali has assured Chib and other PYC activists that such an incident would not be repeated in future. “Col Bali assured that the woman will be compensated by providing free treatment at the hospital. Besides, if any patient undergoing treatment in the hospital tests Covid-19 positive, the patient will be attended to and won’t be shifted to GMCH,” he added. Chib also alleged that the hospital authorities had expressed their helplessness about admitting Covid-19 patients, who were not recommended by people in the higher echelons of power.“They claimed to me that they were asked to admit only those patients, who had the approval from the chief secretary,” he further alleged. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-j-k-bjp-leaders-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-8Hk1QNFVgMMtCHJvPzC3XJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB arrests Abdul Basit, links him to Rhea Chakraborty’s brother||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested two people in connection with the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput case.The agency said on Wednesday that it has arrested Abdul Basit Parihar from Mumbai’s Bandra. “He had connection with Samuel Miranda. Miranda is accused of procuring drugs on instructions of Showik Chakraborty (the brother of prime accused and Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty),” news agency ANI quoted NCB as saying.Also Read: 14 people facing CBI probe in Sushant caseMiranda is Rajput’s former housekeeping manager. He was appointed by Rhea Chakraborty in May last year. He used to manage all the household expenses. Rajput’s family has made serious allegations against Miranda - of helping Chakraborty in siphoning off his money and supplying the drugs.The NCB has also arrested Zaid Vilatra from Mumbai in connection with the case, ANI reported. Zaid is understood to be involved in the supply of narcotics like bud or curated marijuana to the high-end party circles of Mumbai, news agency PTI reported quoting NCB officials.Agency sleuths claimed he was arrested after they obtained some “vital leads” into the narcotics case registered against Chakraborty and others, according to PTI.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also probing the case. It has called Chakraborty’s father for second round of questioning on Wednesday. The agency had questioned Rhea Chakraborty’s parents for the first time in connection with Rajput’s death on Tuesday.Her father Indrajeet Chakraborty and mother Sandhya reached the DRDO guest house in suburban Kalina, where the CBI probe team is stationed, around 11 am and left in the evening after nearly eight hours of interrogation.The CBI continued the interrogation of her brother Showik, who was called for questioning for the first time last week, on Tuesday also, an official said.Rhea Chakraborty and her parents are among those named in the FIR registered by the Patna Police after a complaint from Rajput’s family who has accused her of abetting his suicide and misappropriating the actor’s money.The 28-year-old actress has been questioned for around 35 hours by the CBI in the last four days.Rajput (34) was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of the FIR lodged in Patna to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-arrests-abdul-basit-says-he-procured-drugs-on-instructions-of-rhea-s-brother/story-dbCE4L8ufbgcSrl3OqRKRP.html
02-09-2020||India||Maharashtra launches ‘Mission Begin Again’ today with further relaxations||As Maharashtra launches its ‘Mission Begin Again’ with further relaxations coming into force on Wednesday, authorities are apprehensive about a spike in Covid-19 cases across the state. A day ago, the state had already shot past the 800,000-mark with 15,765 new patients taking the Covid-19 case tally to 808,306.Also read: What’s allowed, what’s not in Maharashtra’s Unlock 4As part of relaxations, the state government allowed inter district travel, more workforce in private and government offices, operation of hotels and lodges at the full strength. Officials feel the spread of coronavirus in rural Maharashtra could increase with more inter-district movement. However, the state government has directed the local administration to adopt ‘Chase the Virus’ programme in September. The campaign calls for increased surveillance to trace and track high-risk contacts.“We anticipate a spike in cases with freer movement between districts. We saw jump in cases after major relaxations were provided in May with opening up of industries and businesses. But the administrations have been asked to ramp up medical infrastructure beforehand. Besides, ‘Chase The Virus’ programme will be adopted to break the chain of transmission,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Under the campaign, 15 people who come in close contact with a patient will be strictly put in institutional quarantine. The campaign has yielded good results in Mumbai, Malegaon and a few other locations.Meanwhile, the state is inching towards the grim landmark of 25,000 fatalities due to Covid-19. The state, which has recorded 24,903 deaths so far, is expected to breach 25,000-mark on Wednesday.On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 1,142 cases and 35 deaths, though Pune district remained on the top in cases and fatalities. Pune city saw 1, 738 cases and 40 deaths, rural part of the district reported 776 cases and 7 fatalities, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 979 cases and 5 deaths. Nagpur, Satara and Solapur districts were key contributors in new cases on Tuesday with 1, 491(22deaths), 780(17 deaths) and 467 (15 deaths) cases respectively. The state’s active caseload stood at 198,523 as on Tuesday. The total of recovered patients reached 584,537 after 10,978 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 72.32%, against national rate of 76.63%. The number of recovered and discharged patients in Mumbai was 1,18,859 with a recovery rate of 80.88%, and active cases stood at 20,067.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-launches-mission-begin-again-today-with-further-relaxations/story-S2MOh6ly67D0D459o2OSGJ.html
02-09-2020||India||DDA to start public consultation for Delhi’s master plan from today||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will start public consultation for the preparation of Master Plan of Delhi-2041, a vision document for the city’s development in the next two decades, from September 2.The meeting is scheduled to start at 11 am.The first round of consultation to finalise the contours of the vision document will be done with the resident welfare associations of unauthorised colonies in the national Capital. The Centre, last year, had started the process of giving ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies.A senior DDA official said, “To begin this process, an online meeting will be held on September 2 with RWAs of unauthorised colonies of Delhi. This is to understand the issues in their localities and discuss possible solutions to improve the quality of life of residents in these areas.”DDA has roped in the National Institute of Urban Affairs, an advisory body under the Union minister of Housing and urban affairs, for the preparation of the MPD-2041.DDA started the process to confer ownership rights to residents in unauthorised colonies in December 2019. Just days before the model code of conduct for the Delhi assembly elections was put in force, the Centre had handed over ownership rights documents to 20 property owners under Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY).The DDA official said that for the consultation process, RWAs of these colonies can register themselves by sending an e-mail to mpd2041@gmail.com. The land-owning agency has also launched an interactive microsite ‘Public Engagement Portal for MPD-2041’ to disseminate information about the consultative process, said an official.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “We look forward to active participation from the people of Delhi and seek their support towards shaping a shared vision for Delhi.”The DDA official said that the land-owning agency plans to hold large-scale consultative meetings with various groups. But due to the Coronavirus disease pandemic, these meetings will be held online.After unauthorised colonies, DDA will hold meetings with various stakeholders and citizen groups such as RWAs, market and trader associations, industry associations, informal sector, women, children and youth, professional bodies and associations, etc. in the next two months.The NIUA has been asked to submit the draft MPD-2041, an official said, by December this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dda-to-start-public-consultation-for-delhi-s-master-plan-from-today/story-0XyjQ2pAv1aqyvJF4uwGCI.html
02-09-2020||India||India again records over 78,000 new Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 3.76 million||India on Wednesday recorded 78,357 new cases of the coronavirus disease which pushed the nationwide tally to 3,769,524, according to Union health ministry dashboard.The number of active cases reached 8,01,282, and those discharged from hospitals stood at 29,01,908 - a gap of 21,00,626.The death toll reached 66,333 after 1,045 people died due to the disease in the last 24 hours.Five states - Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh - have accounted for over half of the total Covid-19 cases and close to 60 per cent of the recoveries, the minittry said on Tuesday.These five states have also reported the maximum number of patients that were cured and discharged, cumulatively accounting for 58.04 per cent of the total 65,081 people who have recovered till Tuesday.While the recovery rate has risen close to 77 per cent, the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.77 per cent, the health ministry said. The number of recoveries is 3.61 times the active cases of the viral infection.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative 4,33,24,834 samples have been tested up to August 31, with 10,16,920 of them being tested on Monday.Three states - Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra - account for nearly 34 per cent of the total tests, according to the government.India’s daily testing capacity has crossed 10 lakh and the tests per million too have seen a sharp increase, reaching 31,394, the health ministry highlighted. Twenty-two states and union territories have tests per million better than the national average, it said.The guiding principle within the Centre-led strategy of ‘test, track and treat’ has been aggressive testing by the states and union territories. Sustained high levels of testing lead to early diagnosis and enhanced recoveries, the health ministry said, adding that 1,22,66,514 tests were done just in the last two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-records-over-78-000-new-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-3-76-million/story-vanfr3zCeBLEpHMz0KNwxH.html
02-09-2020||India||100-year-old tribal woman from north Bengal defeats Covid-19||A tribal woman, believed to be 100, who had tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive and was undergoing treatment in a hospital in north Bengal, was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. Also read: Kolkata Metro may resume services from Sept 8“She had multiple ailments. We had never thought that she would recover. The doctors and nurses gave her new life. I don’t have words to thank them. She has become an example of positivity and optimism amid these hard times,” said the woman’s son. The tribal woman, who belongs to Jaigaon, a town on the Indo-Bhutan border, was admitted to the Alipurduar district hospital on August 17. She was suffering from a fever and respiratory problems. Her rapid antigen detection (RAD) test report came positive and on the same day she was shifted to Tapasikhata Covid-19 Hospital in Alipurduar district. “We kept her on high oxygen supply and administered anti-viral treatments, as per Covid-19 protocols. Her condition had stabilised by Monday and her oxygen saturation level went up to 95%. We released her on Tuesday,” said Subarna Goswami, deputy chief medical officer of health, Alipurduar district. As the woman was suffering from several ailments and she was very old and infirm, the authorities had decided to admit her to the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU). “The woman’s recovery will give more energy and enthusiasm to the medical staff, who are treating patients suffering from the viral disease,” said Chinmoy Barman, superintendent, Tapasikhata Covid-19 hospital. The doctors and nurses gave the centenarian a warm send-off on Tuesday afternoon. Later, the district authorities dropped the old tribal woman at her residence in Jaigaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-year-old-tribal-woman-from-north-bengal-defeats-covid-19/story-JLxXHEuvnLLwB7Tf8OsoQJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Varanasi’s 350 boatmen families need ration. ‘Last hope’ Sonu Sood steps in||The newest beneficiaries of actor Sonu Sood’s now widely talked about generosity are the boatmen of Varanasi. Just an hour after Varanasi-based social activist Divyanshu Upadhyay informed the actor about the shortage of ration being faced by 350 families of boatmen, the actor, taking note, promised to deliver ration to all those families.“Families of 350 boatmen, who ply boats on the River Ganga in Varanasi, are running short of ration. They are in need of grain. You are the last hope of these families. Due to floods in the Ganga, the difficulties of boatmen have increased further,” Upadhyay tweeted to Sood and his associate Neeti Goel.The actor did not disappoint. “No member of these 350 families of Varanasi Ghats will sleep hungry after today,” he said.Sood’s associate, Neeti Goel, called Upadhyay and assured him that ration kits will be made available to them in the city itself within an hour. A big thanks to @SonuSood & @NeetiGoel2 from kumahrs of #Kashi.They were thrilled that the ration sent by you.Pottery, their only livelihood was first threatened by plastic cups and now #lockdown.Let’s not lose the skills with this generation due to starvation. #SpreadHope pic.twitter.com/XP9vhH8gnvShortly thereafter, 350 ration kits were made available by the actor, said Upadhyay. Each kit contained 5 kg flour, 5 kg rice, 2 kg gram, a packet of spice and other eatables. Out of 350, 100 kits were distributed among the families of the boatmen by Upadhyay and his team of social workers. The rest will be distributed on Wednesday.The overwhelmed boatmen, said Upadhyay, thanked the actor profusely. Presently, plying of boats has been suspended following the rise in the water level in the Ganga.Earlier, Sood played a stellar role in helping migrant workers reach home by arranging buses for them. He also helped many Indians stranded abroad reach home by arranging special flights for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-s-350-boatmen-families-need-ration-last-hope-sonu-sood-steps-in/story-fWpbFnalpF8oesH0LW1QXL.html
02-09-2020||India||Canada enhances air bubble with India, 56 more evacuation flights till October 24||Even as Canada is keeping its borders closed for international travelers till the end of September, the air bubble with India will be enhanced as it will now continue into the foreseeable future. Meanwhile, the number of evacuation flights operated for Indian nationals stranded in Canada due to the Covid-19 pandemic, under the Vande Bharat Mission, will cross 100 in September.The air bubble was introduced in mid-August with the two national carriers, Air India and Air Canada, flying back and forth between the two countries. Under Phase 6 of the Vande Bharat Mission, 56 more flights will be operated till October 24 between Toronto and Vancouver and destinations in India. With 73 flights already taking passengers back to India since May 20, when they first left Vancouver, the total will cross 100 by the end of the month. More than 13,000 Indian citizens, including international students, have been repatriated so far, according to India’s high commissioner in Ottawa Ajay Bisaria.Canada is keeping restrictions in place with regard to international travellers, only permitting citizens and permanent residents into the country, with some exemptions like for immediate family members of those allowed into the country. Minister of public safety and emergency preparedness Bill Blair announced these will remain till the end of September “to limit the introduction and spread of Covid-19 in our communities.” These measures were introduced in March when the initial coronavirus cases were reported in the country.Also Read: 153 stranded Indians depart from Thailand for New Delhi in Air India flightThose entering Canada will have to undergo a mandatory quarantine of 14 days and no exemptions are being made for those who have recovered from Covid-19 or have tested negative for it. The guidelines in this regard explained that this was being done because “it’s not yet certain how long the virus is contagious” and a negative test “doesn’t prove that a traveller is Covid-19 free.”Also Read: Canada abandons clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine after China blocks shipmentThe Air India flights to India will head to New Delhi and connect multiple destinations including Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Cochin, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai and Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-enhances-air-bubble-with-india-56-more-evacuation-flights-till-october-24/story-x5k2L72O1SwKainEZZLopL.html
02-09-2020||India||Delhi man held for raping and threatening widow, breaching her trust||Delhi Police on Wednesday said they have arrested a 44-year-old man for allegedly raping a widow, threatening her, and trying to usurp a flat that he got registered in his name after it was purchased using her money. The woman and the arrested man knew each other for more than two decades, officials associated with the case said. Also read: Man kills roommate after tiff over paying rentThe man, identified as Harjeet Singh, was caught from south-west Delhi’s Sagarpur area, nearly a month after a case under Sections 376 (rape), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 506 (criminal intimidation) was registered at the Rajouri Garden police station on the complaint of the 40-year-old woman, said a senior police officer privy to the development in the case, requesting anonymity. Singh is in garments business, the police said. The woman, the officer said, in her complaint told the police that her husband died in a road accident in 2018 and she had got Rs 22 lakh as insurance claim against his death. She alleged that Singh, whom she knew for the past 23-24 years, persuaded her to invest the money in buying a property, the officer said. “The woman agreed and gave him around Rs 17 lakh to buy a flat in Delhi’s Dwarka area. However, Singh got the flat registered in his name. When the woman learnt about it, she confronted him and asked him either to transfer the property in her name or return her money,” the officer said, quoting the woman’s complaint. The woman has alleged that on August 5, Singh came to her house, took her to the terrace and forced himself on her. Before leaving the house, he also threatened her with dire consequences if she reported the matter to the police. The woman, however, approached the police and filed a case against him, said an investigator, who is not authorised to speak to media. “The man was absconding from his home. We raided the places he frequented but could not locate him. Our team kept collecting information about his whereabouts and on Tuesday, we caught him from Sagarpur area on specific information,” the investigator added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-man-held-for-raping-and-threatening-widow-breaching-her-trust/story-E111vocYFXeqUdLC35F5AJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Maharashtra Unlock 4 kicks in today: Here is what’s allowed, what’s not||The guidelines for the fourth phase of relaxation from Covid-19 lockdown issued by the Maharashtra government come into effect on Wednesday, a day after the conclusion of Ganpati festival. Even as the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has announced major relaxations in this phase (called Unlock 4), the general lockdown in the state will continue till September 30 as part of efforts to contain the virus outbreak, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said in a statement on Monday. Here’s is everything that changes from September 2:--Inter-district movement eased: The state government has allowed inter-district movement of persons and goods, including those for cross-land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries, beginning Wednesday. People do not require an e-pass to carry out such a trip anymore. --Travel on long distance trains: Passenger reservation system has been enabled and starting September 2, people can travel in long-distance trains only on reserved tickets, an official said. But this travel will be restricted to special trains, which are being plied to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states, he said, adding that the railways is currently running 32 such trains and there will be no change in the frequency. Unlike earlier, these trains will now stop at various stations in the state along the way depending on their scheduled stops.--Hotels can operate with full staff: The hotels, guest houses and lodges in Maharashtra can now resume their operations with 100% staff strength, up from a third of their capacity since July 8. -- Private buses can ply: Private passenger buses and mini buses have been allowed to operate too. --More people allowed in offices: The Thackeray government has permitted increased attendance in offices during Unlock 4. Private offices can now operate at 30% of their strength (or 30 employees, whichever is more), according to the notification. The cap was earlier put at 10%. In government offices, all officers in Class A and B category have been asked to attend the office daily while the attendance of those in category C and D has been increased to 50% or minimum 50 employees in areas, excluding the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Metropolitan Region.--Gyms, worship places may open later: “From operations of the gymnasium to opening of the religious places are on the cards. Even the Centre has given relaxations in a phased manner and some of them come into effect from September 21. We have ample time to think over more relaxations till then,” said a senior government official.What remains unchanged-- Inter-state travel remains suspended: Even as the state has allowed the resumption of inter-district movement, the inter-state travel travel still remains suspended.--Ban on operations of Metro services in Mumbai: Although the Centre has allowed metro trains to resume operations from September 7, the Maharashtra government has decided to continue with the ban on operations of Metro services in Mumbai at least for one more month, according to the notification. -- Frequency of long distance trains: While restrictions have not been eased for local trains, frequency of special long-distance trains, which are currently being plied, also remains unchanged, an official said. --Schools, colleges shut: Schools, colleges, educational institutions, theatres, swimming pools, bars will remain closed till September 30, the notification has stated.-- Restrictions on gathering to continue: The restrictions on social, political, cultural gatherings, too, continue, the notification has stated. The Centre, however, has allowed academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions with a ceiling of 100 people September 21 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-unlock-4-kicks-in-today-here-is-what-s-allowed-what-s-not/story-CYF6aeU4S6bA55M67jLLcO.html
02-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: South and northwest India likely to receive heavy rain in next 2 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rain likely over south and northwest India during next 2 daysMany parts of peninsular India, north-western parts of the country, particularly Uttar Pradesh (UP), and a portion of the north-east, including Assam and Meghalaya, are likely to record heavy rainfall on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreFifth of Chennai residents exposed to Covid: SurveyA fifth of the population of Chennai has been exposed to the Covid-19 disease causing Sars-CoV-2 virus, a serological survey conducted in the capital city, has found. Read more‘Who owns chest bump?’ Leander Paes, Mahesh Bhupathi on Bryan Bros“Chest-bumps? Oh, all the time. We always have a laugh about who owns it, who started it, who should patent it,” Leander Paes says with a chuckle, while talking about his conversations with the Bryan brothers over the renowned doubles celebration. Read moreHow police pilots flying a helicopter made a kid smile. WatchPolice officials, all over the world, always stay ready to answer the call of duty. They also go above and beyond their roles to help someone or simply make a kid’s day. This tale, which is both sweet and heartening, is a perfect example. It showcases how a police department took it upon themselves to make a helicopter loving four-year-old smile. Read moreNational Nutrition Week: Coconut oil can help you lose weight, build immunity and also get great skin and hair, here’s howLosing weight may seem almost as daunting as keeping the weight off, which requires regular exercise, a healthy diet, and most importantly, the motivation to stay fit and follow a healthy lifestyle. Read moreSushil Modi: If Lalu Yadav campaigns, will help us win | Bihar assembly electionsIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to Bihar’s Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi over assembly elections in the state and the Covid-19 pandemic. In the interview, Modi said that Lalu Prasad Yadav’s leadership could benefit the NDA in the upcoming Bihar elections. Modi said, “The left is hardly a force in Bihar, they are a spent force. So RJD aligning with any other party doesn’t mean anything. There is a huge gap in the vote share between BJP and these parties. The credibility of these parties- the RJD, the Congress, they don’t have a leadership. And leaders like Lalu Prasad Yadav- we can’t help him come out of jail but if he comes out of jail, and he campaigns, it will benefit NDA more.” Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-south-and-northwest-india-likely-to-receive-heavy-rain-in-next-2-days-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uBhUAHy5rGHywCtZ6HJTTK.html
02-09-2020||India||Kafeel Khan detained under NSA released from jail, says UP govt indulging in ‘Baal Hatth’||UP doctor Kafeel Khan, who was detained under the National Security Act (NSA) for his speech during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) last year, was released from the Mathura jail late on Tuesday night.After his release around midnight, Khan said the Uttar Pradesh government instead of doing ‘Raj Dharma’ was indulging in ‘Baal Hatth’ or childlike-stubbornness and could frame him in another case. “I will always remain thankful to all my well-wishers, who raised their voice for my release. The administration was not ready for release, but because of the prayers (duaa) of people, I have been released,” he told news agency PTI. Khan claimed that he and his family had to face many hardships as the state government was “after” him because of the oxygen issue in BRD Medical College.The Allahabad High Court had on Tuesday morning ordered the release of Khan and stated that his speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on December 10, 2019 did not promote any kind of hatred or violence.The court also set aside his detention under the NSA saying that the February 13 order against Khan by the Aligarh district magistrate was illegal. Also read| ‘Kafeel Khan’s speech didn’t promote hatred’: HC orders his release, says invoking NSA illegal“A complete reading of the speech also no where threatens peace and tranquility of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. It appears that the District Magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent,” it said.Also read| ‘Privacy, Migrants’: How judge who freed Kafeel Khan bats for fundamental rightsThe court was hearing a plea filed by the doctor’s mother Nuzhat Parveen that sought his release on grounds that Khan was granted bail by a competent court but wasn’t freed and three days later, the NSA was invoked against him. Khan was in lodged in the jail since January 29 for his alleged provocative speech at the AMU.His detention under the NSA was extended by three months on May 12 and then again on August 4 for three more months.Khan said he now wants to help flood-affected people in Bihar and Assam.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kafeel-khan-detained-under-nsa-released-from-jail-says-up-govt-indulging-in-baal-hatth/story-IB27Bngjo9Omz0rxCOWiDI.html
02-09-2020||India||Rumblings in Uttarakhand BJP as MLA questions government||BJP MLA and former party state president Bishan Singh Chuphal has alleged that the government officials and bureaucrats in Uttarakhand are not listening to party MLAs making them face a difficult situation in their constituencies. Chuphal, who is a legislator from Didihat constituency in Kumaon, has reportedly been in touch with other party MLAs who are not happy with their voices not being heard. This development has come at a time when the party has started its preparation for the assembly elections scheduled in 2022. The rumblings within the party were evident a few days back when BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat stated that party MLAs themselves need to work hard in their constituencies and not just bank on PM Narendra Modi’s name for getting votes. When it sparked a controversy with Opposition Congress leaders saying that it meant the Modi wave had ended, Bhagat later tried to clarify by stating, “PM Modi is the greatest and the most influential leader of the world and the party will make people aware of projects being carried out in the state with his blessings.” Chuphal, speaking about the fresh developments, said, “We are unhappy that the officials are not listening to us. They are not ready to address our issues or resolve them.”On dissent against the party leadership and his efforts to gather like-minded party MLAs from the Kumaon region, Chuphal said, “We have no issues with the party leadership but the officials.” “As far as meetings are concerned, I am meeting all kinds of people who come to me with their different issues. As a public figure, it’s my job to resolve their issues. However, the government should do something on the issue of officials not listening to us as public representatives,” said Chuphal. The political experts, meanwhile, claim that the development involving some sort of a dissent among the party MLAs, especially Chuphal has much to do with the Cabinet expansion, as there are three ministerial berths yet to be filled. Political analyst SMA Kazmi, who has been keeping an eye on state politics for over a decade, said, “Chuphal is using pressure tactics considering the Cabinet expansion regarding which there were reports that it was going to happen soon.” “Being a senior MLA, he was unhappy since he was not made minister in the Cabinet after the party came to power in 2017. Now, when only less than a year is left, he is trying to pressurise the party leadership for getting a ministerial berth,” said Kazmi. He said that the issue of officials not listening to the party MLAs is also significant as ‘MLAs have to face the public in their area.’ The Opposition Congress has meanwhile found an opportunity to attack the BJP, which often takes a dig on ‘factionalism and differences in the state Congress.’ Also Read: Lok Janshakti Party to contest all 70 seats in 2022 Uttarakhand assembly pollsLeader of Opposition in the state, Indira Hridayesh, said the current developments show that all was not well in the ruling party. “MLAs are complaining that neither development is being done nor the officials are listening to them. The public is not happy with this too,” she said. “Despite a heavy majority, the government is not able to deliver. If it’s not focused on development even now, then the public will soon come out in protest on the roads,” said Hridayesh. Also Read: JEE main 2020: Uttarakhand govt runs special buses for students in all 13 districtsThe BJP, however, tried to downplay the developments and said, ‘some MLAs have put their issues before the party forum.’ “There are no differences with the party leadership but there are issues regarding the government officials. Those have been put at the party forum by some MLAs which are being addressed by the leadership in the party as well as the state government,” said Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice-president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rumblings-in-uttarakhand-bjp-as-mla-questions-govt-congress-sniffs-opportunity/story-RFCYcdy99q2xJxdSdbYlFK.html
02-09-2020||India||Early lab studies offer hope for plant-based drugs to treat coronavirus||A team of pharmacologists and researchers in search of plant compounds that could help with Covid-19 treatment has found an edible weed that showed promise in lab studies. Researchers from Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University found it in Delhi’s Aravalli Biodiversity Park, which they have been visiting since March.In molecular docking studies conducted recently, Solanum nigrum (black nightshade; Makoy in Hindi), a weed and a vegetable commonly consumed in many parts of the country, the team says they found remarkable results.Their research showed its constituents bind with ACE 2 (an enzyme the Sars-Cov-2 virus uses to enter the body) and have the potential to inhibit viral replication; cytokine storm and inflammation.“We wanted to develop a phytopharmaceutical drug. Professor CR Babu (Professor Emeritus, Delhi University) who developed the Aravalli Biodiversity Park had guided us through the park and helped us collect samples from eight potential plants. At that time, we didn’t know much about the pathogenesis of the disease, so my team and I first worked on that and wrote a paper on how the disease impacts the body,” said Professor Ramesh K Goyal, Vice Chancellor of the University.Based on the first 206 Covid-19 deaths reported in India till April 10, Goyal’s team published a paper in Elsevier’s Diabetes Research and Clinical Practice journal which concluded, what is now well known, that patients with cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus and hypertension are at greater risk of developing Covid-19 infection. The team tried to understand the clinical characteristics of Covid-19 with the renin angiotensin system (RAS), hormonal system that regulates blood pressure.“In drug discovery, one of the mechanisms used is to see how the chemical compound interacts with the body through molecular modelling studies. The score from modelling gives us an idea of how the drug will perform. By the end of April 2020, it was very clear that Covid-19 has close molecular links with angiotensin converting enzyme-2 (ACE2) -- (an enzyme the Sars-Cov-2 virus uses to enter the body) and Open Reading Frame protein (ORF8)—a serological marker,” said Jaseela Majeed, associate professor at the University.“ACE-2 in particular seems to be the main culprit for every complication of the patient like cytokine surge, inflammation and thrombotic events. Unfortunately, even today, no drug that inhibits ACE2 is available. We found that some constituents of black nightshade interact with ACE2 and its associated receptors. The docking scores for the compounds present in Solanum nigrum were higher than some repurposed drugs being used currently and also when compared with other phytochemicals under clinical trials. Our colleagues Professors Rajiv Tonk and Ajit Thakur are working on validating these results,” explained Mahaveer Dhobi, associate professor at the University.Based on some preliminary clinical evidence, results of which are still being compiled Goyal said the drug once developed could be useful for symptomatic patients unlike other plant-based interventions which are prophylactic in nature. The team’s initial research results will be available in Reviews in Cardiovascular Medicine journal soon.The University team has prepared a formulation for the clinical trial permission and are in the process to get the support from various statutory and funding agencies.The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) is also in the process of developing a phytopharmaceutical drug for Covid-19. “The US FDA in 2005 approved phytopharmaceuticals as botanicals. In 2015, phytopharmaceuticals were also approved by the DGCI but since then there were no trials conducted. We now have ACQH which is in phase II of clinical trials. Its safety is demonstrated. We believe ACQH to be antiviral,” said Shekhar C Mande, director general, CSIR.“Phytopharmaceuticals work slightly differently from one cause-one purified compound theory of modern medicine. This involves extract of a compound which has a signature. But this is different from Ayurveda. It follows the same guidelines as modern medicine,” Mande added.“Phytochemicals are coming up in a big way. They provide hope in supportive or palliative care but will take a long time in becoming a therapeutic solution. Docking studies are done on a computer but we have to see how they work on the body. Researchers are studying anti-viral agents of all kinds but my personal feeling is that it will be a long way because the virus multiplies very rapidly,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head, department of microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi“Some phytopharmaceutical drugs for Covid-19 are already undergoing trials. They are different from Ayurveda or those specified in classical texts. These are purified and well characterised extracts from plants which are then standardised trough chemical, animal and clinical trials,” said Dr VG Somani, Drugs Controller General of India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-lab-studies-offer-hope-for-plant-based-drugs-to-treat-coronavirus/story-9fWf3HU0E0vhBgRNbS0wqO.html
02-09-2020||India||Floods in 3 Gujarat districts, over 9,000 shifted||Over 9,000 people were shifted to safer places in Gujarat’s Bharuch, Narmada and Vadodara districts with the Narmada river swelling due to heavy inflow from upstream dams, officials said on Tuesday.The intensity of showers decreased during the day, but in the last three days, rain-related accidents claimed 12 lives in the state, said Commissioner of Relief Harshad Patel.With continuous inflow of water from upstream dams, mainly the Indira Sagar in Madhya Pradesh, the water level of the Sardar Sarovar Dam (SSD) on the Narmada has now reached 133 meters against its top level of 138.68 meters, he said.As per an official release, 10.70 lakh cusec (cubic foot per second) water is being discharged into the river by opening 23 of SSD’s 30 radial gates.As a result, the level of the Narmada has risen significantly in the last few days and water has now started entering low-lying villages on its banks in Narmada, Vadodara and Bharuch districts, Patel told reporters in Gandhinagar.“We have shifted 9,794 persons from 49 villages in these three districts so far,” the relief commissioner said.The state government said the water discharge in the Narmada would be curtailed after 10 pm on Tuesday as the outflow from Indira Sagar dam has been reduced from 11.40 lakh cusec to 7.40 lakh cusec. After a heavy spell for three days, the rain took a break on Tuesday with only light to moderate showers recorded in some parts of Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-in-3-gujarat-districts-over-9-000-shifted/story-yJYMhmLAxfoUQqe6lEkPiO.html
02-09-2020||India||Railways to run 20 pairs of special trains for JEE, NEET exam candidates in Bihar||The Railways has now decided to run 20 pairs of special trains from September 2 to 15 for the convenience of those appearing for JEE, NEET and NDA exams in Bihar.Announcing the move, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said the facility will also be extended to students appearing for the National Defence Academy (NDA) exam.  “Indian Railways has decided to run 20 pairs of MEMU / DEMU special trains from September 2 to 15 for the convenience of candidates joining JEE Mains, NEET and NDA in Bihar,” Goyal said in a tweet. While the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been planned from September 1-6. The common NDA 2020 exam is scheduled to be held on September 6. The East Central Railway in a press release said the station enroute will have unreserved ticket counters and tickets can also be bought on the UTS mobile ticketing app. On Monday, Goyal had said the students and one guardian each will be allowed to travel on the exam days and the admit card will act as their letter of authority.  Around 8.58 lakh candidates have registered for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main and 15.97 lakh students for NEET. These exams were earlier deferred twice in the wake of the pandemic.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-run-20-pairs-of-special-trains-for-jee-neet-exam-candidates-in-bihar/story-8QTBJQ20PWImmr3Vur0U3J.html
02-09-2020||India||TMC leaders remember Pranab Mukherjee fondly; they helped him win 1st LS polls||As the nation watched on television the last journey of former President Pranab Mukherjee on Tuesday, there was mourning in Bengal’s Jangipur that, in 2004, ended the Congress veteran’s anguish of never winning a public election despite serving as cabinet minister since the 1970s. Mukherjee contested and won the Jangipur seat in Murshidabad district in 2004 and won it again in 2009. Till 2004, he had been a member of the Rajya Sabha. “Perhaps people don’t like me,” Mukherjee had jokingly said during an interview. After the 2004 victory, Mukherjee said in his first speech at Jangipur that he was thankful to the people for finally giving him a land to represent. According to the 2011 census, 66.27 % of the district’s population comprised of Muslims. Mohammad Sohrab, a former Congress MLA and now a senior TMC leader in the district, was Mukherjee’s election agent in 2004 and 2009. “I had cast my vote for Pranab Babu in Rajya Sabha election, Lok Sabha election and even in the election for the President’s post. I knew him for 50 years. He will be missed forever,” said Sohrab. “In 2004, ensuring his victory was a Herculean task as the Communist Party of India (Marxist), which had a strong base, had won the seat twice earlier. Our job was much easier in 2009,” added the former lawmaker. “Pranab Babu was a very religious person and respected all religions. His visit to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters raised many questions here,” he added. Now the minister of state for labour in the TMC government, Jakir Hossain is another person who played a key role in Mukherjee’s Lok Sabha victories. Hossain said, “I met Pranab Da for the first time a few months before the 2004 polls. He said, ‘Jakir, I need your help to win the seat.’ I assured him that victory would be ours.” “I used all my influence on voters to ensure his victory in 2004. But in 2009, the developmental work he had done in the preceding years made the polls a cakewalk for us,” said the minister. “It is only because of Pranab Da that I got the opportunity to step inside Rashtrapati Bhawan, an experience I will never forget,” said Hossain. Now, the lawmaker from the Raghunathganj assembly constituency, Md Akhrujjaman was one of the lieutenants of Mukherjee during the poll campaigns. Also Read: Stickler for protocol: When Pranab Mukherjee snubbed Obama and Erdogan“In 2004, Congress MLA Samar Mukherjee told me that Pranab Da would contest from Jangipur and asked me to find out a suitable house for him in Raghunathganj town. We selected the house of Mukti Dhar, a local resident,” said the TMC MLA. “I was among the key strategists during the campaign. I requested Pranab Da to ensure deployment of Central security forces at Geria and Sekendra, where rigging was part of polling back in those days. The Election Commission did not allow it. However, it was probably because of Pranab Da’s image that no one dared to rig the polls in those places,” said Akhrujjaman. Also Read: Bangladesh High Commission to hold special condolence meet to honour Pranab Mukherjee“I have countless memories. I will never forget that because of him I could fly in a helicopter and visit the Rashtrapati Bhawan,” added the lawmaker. After Mukherjee gave up the seat in 2012 to become the President of India, his son, Abhijit Mukherjee, succeeded him as the Congress candidate. He retained the seat twice in a row till the ruling Trinamool Congress wrested Jangipur in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leaders-remember-pranab-mukherjee-fondly-they-helped-him-win-1st-ls-polls/story-pV2tweBx1dAqvOqA8UpcPP.html
02-09-2020||India||Heavy rain likely over south and northwest India during next 2 days||Many parts of peninsular India, north-western parts of the country, particularly Uttar Pradesh (UP), and a portion of the north-east, including Assam and Meghalaya, are likely to record heavy rainfall on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low-pressure area is lying over Pakistan and adjoining western Rajasthan. The western end of the monsoon trough – the line of low pressure – is at its near normal position – from Ganganagar in western Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal – and the eastern end lies close to the foothills of the Himalayas. A cyclonic circulation is lying over Gangetic West Bengal and another cyclonic circulation is lying over southern Assam and its adjoining areas.The IMD has forecast widespread and heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning over parts of West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha, Bihar, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam in Puducherry, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura on Wednesday.Owing to an interaction between lower-level easterly winds and mid-level westerly trough, widespread and heavy rain with thunder and lightning is likely over north-west India and the western Himalayan region, including Punjab, Haryana, and Delhi , on Thursday and over central parts of the country on Wednesday and Thursday.Peninsular India, including Rayalaseema, coastal and southern interior Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu (TN) are likely to receive heavy rain during the next three-four days. Very heavy rain is likely to occur over southern interior Karnataka, Kerala and TN on Wednesday and Thursday.“Whenever the monsoon trough moves to the north, a convergence zone develops in the extreme south peninsular region. As a result, heavy rain in Kerala is likely over the next few days. There is no likelihood of development of any low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal. We are expecting monsoon to be subdued in rest of the country,” said RK Jenamani, a scientist with IMD’s national weather forecasting centre.Monsoon rain over the country since June 1 is 9% excess. Data showed that the rainfall is 20% excess over southern peninsula and Central India; 9% deficient over north-west; and 2% excess over east and north-eastern parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-over-south-and-northwest-india-during-next-two-days/story-a58xkNGoRj2bA9YNWdj6bM.html
02-09-2020||India||Vande Bharat: 153 stranded Indians depart from Thailand for New Delhi in Air India flight||A special Air India flight from Thailand departed for New Delhi on Tuesday, carrying 153 stranded Indians, under the Vande Bharat Mission.“12th Vande Bharat Mission flight from Thailand to India - AI 335 from Bangkok to Delhi departed with 153 pax. Mission team sent off pax. Thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Thailand, Thai Immigration, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Civil Aviation and Air India,” Indian Embassy in Thailand tweeted.The Vande Bharat Mission started in early May to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to coronavirus restrictions.More than 12,60,000 stranded Indians have been repatriated under the Vande Bharat mission, according to the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA).The MoCA had said that between May 6 and August 30, a total of 12,60,118 persons were repatriated under the Vande Bharat mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-153-stranded-indians-depart-from-thailand-for-new-delhi-in-air-india-flight/story-S5uZyoQXS1Wib0ZBTTTmzM.html
02-09-2020||India||Metro guidelines under Unlock 4 likely to be announced today: Here’s what to expect||The government is likely to announce on Wednesday the fresh set of standard operating procedures (SOP) to resume Metro services under the Unlock 4 guidelines. According to people familiar with the development, the ministry of housing and urban affairs held a meeting with metro corporations to finalise the modus operandi. The guidelines are likely to be issued today following the ministry of home affair’s approval. Here’s what to expect --Services to resume on Sept 7: Metro services are set to resume “in a graded manner” from September 7 in the fourth phase of Unlock announced by the home ministry on Saturday. The services will resume after nearly six months remaining suspended due to the restrictions in place to prevent the Covid-19 outbreak. -- Hardeep S Puri to announce SOP: The SOPs already circulated were discussed on Tuesday through VC by D.S Mishra, Secretary, MOHUA with managing directors of 15 metro rail corporations. The suggestions were considered in the meeting and accordingly SOPs are being finalised. MOHUA minister Sh Hardeep S Puri, will be announcing SOPs/guidelines in this regard on 2nd September,” ministry spokesperson Rajeev Jain said.--Services may not resume at all stations: Corporations have been asked to prepare a list of stations where trains will begin operations in consultation with the state governments.--Wear masks, practise social distancing or face fines: Commuters will be required to strictly adhere to guidelines on wearing masks and practicing social distancing norms. The passengers may be fined if they fail to follow Covid-19 norms, officials have said. --No tokens, only metro cards: Those opting to travel in metro trains won’t be allowed to use tokens anymore. The Centre has planned on implementing a contactless ticketing system using only metro cards, once restrictions on public transport are lifted, according to earlier reports. -- Metro rail companies can have their own rules: Based on the virus condition in a particular area, metro rail corporations are free to impose their own restrictions, officials had told HT earlier. --Few stoppages, mandatory thermal screening: In order to keep the coronavirus disease from spreading, there are likely to be fewer stoppages and stations will be opened in a stations in a phase-wise manner. Passengers will undergo mandatory thermal screening, will have to wear face masks, practise social distancing, and use contact-less ticketing system, etc, an official aware of the development had said. --Marking for queues: To make sure metro stations do not get crowded and social distancing is followed, markings for queues across all stations are likely to be done. Also, there might be an overhaul in the air conditioning system inside the trains to ensure supply of fresh air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-guidelines-under-unlock-4-likely-to-be-announced-today-here-s-what-to-expect/story-UXMUKtF512xSIHfyYOkzcN.html
02-09-2020||India||NASA congratulates Indian astronomers on Star Galaxy discovery||The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) on Wednesday congratulated Indian astronomers on the discovery of one of the farthest Star galaxies in the universe estimated to be located 9.3 billion light-years away from Earth.“NASA congratulates researchers on their exciting discovery. Science is collaborative effort around the world and discoveries like these help further humankind’s understanding of where we come from, where are we going, & are we alone,” NASA Public Affairs Officer, Felicia Chou told ANI. NASA congratulates researchers on their exciting discovery. Science is collaborative effort around the world & discoveries like these help further humankind’s understanding of where we come from, where are we going, & are we alone: NASA Public Affairs Officer, Felicia Chou to ANI https://t.co/7uK1ompJiAIndia’s first Multi-Wavelength Space Observatory AstroSat detected extreme-UV light from a galaxy located 9.3 billion light-years away from Earth. The galaxy called AUDFs01 was discovered by a team of astronomers led by Dr Kanak Saha from the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics(IUCAA) Pune.India’s AstroSat/UVIT was able to achieve this unique feat because the background noise in the UVIT detector is much less than one on the Hubble Space Telescope of US-based NASA.India’s first Space Observatory AstroSat, was launched by the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) on September 28, 2015.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nasa-congratulates-indian-astronomers-on-star-galaxy-discovery/story-oO14PDzhz8W7cQqIMKgHXK.html
02-09-2020||India||Bangladesh High Commission to hold special condolence meet to honour Pranab Mukherjee||The Bangladesh High Commission in New Delhi will hold a special condolence meeting on Wednesday for former president Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away at the age of 84.In a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sheikh Hasina called the Congress veteran ‘a highly esteemed leader of South Asia’ who ‘commanded the respect and admiration of all.’“As a renowned scholar and statesman of India, and a highly esteemed leader of South Asia, Pranab Mukherjee commanded the respect and admiration of all. The tireless work of ‘Bharat Ratna’ Pranab Mukherjee for the welfare of the people of India will inspire the future generation of leaders not only in India but across countries in the region,” she wrote in the letter.She called Mukherjee a ‘true friend’ and said that “he was always been highly revered and loved by the people of Bangladesh.”In the letter, she also wrote about Mukherjee’s support and contribution in strengthening relations between the two countries and said that he will always be ‘remembered with the deepest respect’ in Bangladesh.In 2013, Bangladesh conferred the honour of ‘Bangladesh Muktijuddho Sommanona’ (Liberation War Honour) on Mukherjee for his valuable contribution to Bangladesh’s Liberation War of 1971.Mukherjee, who had tested positive for the coronavirus, died on Monday, weeks after his brain surgery.In his long political career, he held several top posts including that of External Affairs Minister, Defence Minister and Finance Minister.The Government of India and many states have announced seven-day official mourning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-high-commission-to-hold-special-condolence-meet-to-honour-pranab-mukherjee/story-oK1HgCW4B1Bk6ibREemsiJ.html
02-09-2020||India||India calls out Pakistan for motivating false propaganda on social media||India on Tuesday called out Pakistan for propagating fake news through social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram.“Malicious propaganda, misinformation, #infodemic, fake news. Call it what you may. Do read this report from the @stanfordio on motivated false propaganda from Pakistan. The truth is out for the world to see,” Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations (New York) tweeted.This follows a report by Stanford Internet Observatory (SIO) on its investigation exposing a network of Pakistan-based Facebook and Instagram accounts that leveraged mass reporting to silence critics of Islamabad. “On August 31, 2020, Facebook suspended 103 Pages, 78 Groups, 453 Facebook accounts, and 107 Instagram accounts for engaging in coordinated inauthentic behaviour. As it notes in its takedown report, Facebook attributed this network to individuals in Pakistan,” the SIO report reads. Facebook shared a portion of this network on August 28 with the SIO which then conducted its own investigation and brought out its report.The report highlights how a network of social media accounts originating in Pakistan posted Pakistani nationalist messages and criticized the Indian government. It also highlighted how the mass reporting networks operated, with Group and Page administrators mobilizing social media users to report accounts that were critical of Islam or the Pakistani military/government.Moreover, many pages and Groups posted Pakistani nationalist content, praising ISI, the Pakistan’s intelligence agency and the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party.It further said this is not the first public suspension of coordinated activity in Pakistan and that in April 2019 Facebook suspended a network of accounts linked to the InterServices Public Relations wing of the Pakistani military.According to Digital Forensic Research Lab, that network “represented a significant influence operation, apparently aimed at boosting support for the army inside Pakistan and boosting support for Pakistan abroad.”Additionally, reporting shows that Pakistani politicians work directly with prominent social media trolls to get pro-Pakistan hashtags trending on Twitter.The SIO report also noted “the repeated invoking of duty towards religion and nation for mass reporting”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-out-pakistan-for-motivating-false-propaganda-on-social-media/story-gpcxIq1jzYlGKxz3KZ0I0L.html
02-09-2020||India||US-India trade deal can be finalised before or soon after Presidential polls: Piyush Goyal||The “whole package” of the US-India trade deal is almost ready and it can be finalised when the local political situation in the United States is conducive, Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday.Goyal said that he is in touch with US trade representative Robert Lighthizer and both the countries agree that the deal can be concluded before or soon after the Presidential elections in November.“The whole package is near ready and can be finalised at any time when the local political situation in the US permits them to. India believes that it has to be a win-win situation for both India and US,” Goyal said during the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum’s third Annual Leadership Summit.“I spoke with Ambassador Lighthizer. We agree that we can look at doing it before elections also or soon after. I am open to signing up tomorrow,” Goyal said.He further said that it is in favour of India and the US to deepen their strategic partnership with the trade deal.“It is in the interest of India and US to deepen our strategic partnership with this trade deal. It will open the doors to starting a dialogue on a larger bilateral engagement,” the Union minister said.Goyal hoped that the two countries can move to the next stage of larger engagement for a free trade agreement.Earlier on Monday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar had an interactive session with former US envoy to India Timothy Roemer, at the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-india-trade-deal-can-be-finalised-before-or-soon-after-presidential-polls-piyush-goyal/story-onLq8GWSxVtroCBRCEc32J.html
02-09-2020||India||EC plans stringent timeline for declaration of criminal records||The Election Commission of India (ECI) is considering rolling out a stringent timeline for advertising criminal record by candidates, officials told HT. The first public declaration might be slotted between the candidates being selected by the party to the date of the nomination being filed, they said. The second declaration might come after the returning officer accepts the nomination and the last date could be advanced to four days before campaigning ends and model code of conduct (MCC) applies, they added.As per existing ECI guidelines, the candidates have to publish this information thrice -- once in a national and twice in a regional newspaper and thrice on TV channels. According to the poll panel’s notification of October 2018, the declarations are done after the last date of withdrawal of nomination and two days before the end of campaigning. Only the candidates, who contest elections, needed to publish the detailed records.The decision, said EC officials, is aimed at bringing greater transparency in the electoral process. “The issues are being discussed, but haven’t been finalised yet,” said an EC official familiar with the matter. According to a second official, the decision will make information more readily available to the voters. “Earlier, the ECI had directed to declare the information thrice. It was noticed that candidates try to defer the publication of their criminal records to the last possible day. “The changes are being considered to favour greater awareness for the voters,” he added. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi, “Logically, the old system should remain because there is no reason for candidates to publicise antecedents if they are going to withdraw their candidature,” said Singhvi. “However, in totality of things and the need for disclosure and transparency, the declaration does not deserve any major objection,” he added. According to a BJP functionary, who did not wish to be named, the new rules, if implemented, could be a bit of a stretch. “This will make everything more complicated,” he said.Former chief election commissioner (CEC) SY Quraishi said the changes would be in compliance with the SC order. “It’s a good idea,” said Quraishi. “The number of candidates with criminal cases rising is a matter of grave concern. The voters can make a more informed choice if the candidates declare their antecedents earlier,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-plans-stringent-timeline-for-declaration-of-criminal-records/story-a3Vy2lg9WRjBedst3eQ62K.html
02-09-2020||India||Private trains to start trips in 2023-24 fiscal||Indian Railways plans to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027, officials aware of the plan said on condition of anonymity.According to the railway ministry’s projections, the transporter will select the companies that will run the private trains by April 2021; the first 12 are expected to start plying by 2023-24, followed by 45 more in FY 2024-25, the next 50 in FY 2025-26 and 44 by 2026-27.“It may be noted that private trains are slated to run from March 2023 only. Tenders will be finalised by March 2021 and Trains will operate from March 2023,” the railway ministry said in a statement on Sunday.The railway ministry on July 1 began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes — a process that aims to, for the first time, to open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.The trains will be designed to run at a maximum speed of 160 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-trains-to-start-trips-in-2023-24-fiscal/story-GVtyLSD2A2t9sCGTj9ekVM.html
02-09-2020||India||Andhra introduces software solution to send real-time updates of Covid-19 patients to kin||The Andhra Pradesh medical and health department has come up with a software that provides real-time update of the condition of a hospitalised Covid-19 patient to his or her family members from time to time so that they don’t have to be anxious about the patient’s health. Commissioner of health and family welfare Katamaneni Bhaskar said once a patient diagnosed with Covid-19 was hospitalised, he or she won’t be accessible to the family members during the treatment period, making it difficult for them to know about the patient’s health on a day-to-day basis. “Attendants are not allowed into the hospital, let alone stay with the patient in the Covid-19 ward as they would be exposed to the infection. Though in some hospitals they are allowed to wait outside the hospital building, they cannot meet the doctors regularly to know the patient’s status. For doctors, too, it is difficult to handle the family members,” Bhaskar said. In order to avoid keeping the family members of a Covid-19 patient in uncertainty, the state health department has introduced a software in the systems of all government hospitals to provide updates of the patient’s health status to a relative chosen by him of her. At the time of admission, every patient would be asked to provide the phone number of a close relative who could be informed about his/her status on a real-time basis. “Every time a doctor visits a patient, he/she would have to mandatorily update the vitals and other necessary information related to the patient in the system using the specific software tech tool. Depending on the inputs, the software is programmed to reflect the status of the patient as either ‘stable’ or ‘unstable’, which is then sent to the mobile phone of the patient’s relative in the form of text message,” the health commissioner said. The same can also be checked on our website using an OTP which is sent to the number given by the patients at the time of admission. “We have asked the patient to choose only one relative to send regular alerts about his health condition. It is to address the privacy concerns as these are health records,” Bhaskar said, adding that this facility would put an end to the trauma of the family members of a Covid-19 patient. He said Andhra Pradesh is also the only state which has been notifying every citizen who is tested at every stage of the process via mobile text messages. “The person being tested receives an SMS when the sample is collected, one when the sample reaches the lab and another which contains the result,” the commissioner added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-introduces-software-solution-to-send-real-time-updates-of-covid-19-patients-to-kin/story-kUXD3emKMX4powWDmqUE8J.html
02-09-2020||India||Agra stares at possible second wave of coronavirus cases after new spike||With complacency setting in, Covid-19 has once again started spreading its tentacles in Agra increasing the risk of a second wave of coronavirus infection in the district.On Sunday alone, the district reported 65 fresh Covid-19 cases—the maximum in a day so far. On Saturday, there were a total of 2,901 Covid-19 cases in the district with 107 deaths. “Wait and watch for three or four days,” said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh when asked if Agra was heading for its second peak. “Some sort of complacency seems to be setting in among Agra residents. It’s time to be more cautious. Diabetic and 50 plus employees should stay at home and assist from home for the next two weeks particularly,” the DM added.Singh also said only 20% cases were being reported from rural areas and the rest from city areas as urban people had become more careless about their safety.Agra’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr RC Pandey too admitted that people here had lowered their guard and said, “There is no room for complacency as none can claim that they are not at the risk of getting the coronavirus infection. Staff at government offices are falling easy prey as they are coming to office without masks besides defying physical distancing norms. Cases are rising everywhere in the country and Agra is no exception. Thus one should be extra cautious now.” “Also, people seem to have become careless because the rise in coronavirus cases here was far less than other districts in the state. By the end of August, Agra was in 24th place among the districts having maximum cases,” he added.“The rise in cases is attributed mainly to the rise in sample collection as Agra had by August 31 collected 1,17,527 samples and stood at the sixth place in doing so after Lucknow, Meerut, Noida, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr,” the CMO further said.Ten government offices in the Taj city have reported 62 coronavirus cases in the last 15 days. The worst-affected offices are those of Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd, commissioner, DM compound and collectorate, SP city, Agra Development Authority and Agra Nagar Nigam among others.On the rising cases in government offices, the DM said, “Offices need to be checked regularly and make sure all staff are wearing masks and strictly following social distancing. In fact, we are facing our toughest time now and need to treat everyone as carrier (of the virus).” He, however, added that low positivity rate (cases found positive per hundred samples) of 2.5% in the district gave some relief.Agra was the first UP district to have reported five coronavirus cases on March 2 this year. However, there were only 12 cases in the district in March. In April, 441 cases were reported, 439 in May, 390 in June and 574 in July but the coronavirus cases jumped to 1,045 in August. “Many justified the rise in the cases in August because of good pace of sample collection and testing in the district. As many as 60,732 samples were collected here in August as compared to 29,889 collected in July,” the CMO said.Agra district was first in the state to report Covid-19 cases on March 21.On May 21, Agra mayor had expressed apprehension of Agra becoming another Wuhan.Much acclaimed ‘Agra Model’ was exposed because of high number of cases in the first two months. Initially, Agra remained the district with maximum cases.With 2,901 cases so far, Agra is presently at 24th position in the list of districts having maximum cases.Agra is the 6th district in the state with maximum sample collection62 employees at 10 govt offices have tested positive in the last 15 days of August. Positivity rate in Agra is at 2.5% on an average.80% cases are from the city and only 20% from rural areas of Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-wave-of-coronavirus-infection-looms-over-agra-fear-experts/story-edrwUpoUGmBZsS0TririCK.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Missed abortion’ cases in Lucknow as women avoided clinics due to Covid fear||Manisha (name changed), conceived her first baby at the age of 25. Amid the pandemic, she paid her first visit to the gynaecologist in the eighth week of pregnancy, only when she faced a complication of bleeding. She was dismayed to know that the child in her womb had stopped growing. It was a case of ‘missed abortion.’ A missed abortion is a nonviable intrauterine pregnancy that has been retained within the uterus without spontaneous abortion. She is not the only one in Lucknow to have gone through this situation. Doctors said at least 150 such cases had come to fore here in the last 90 days. Dr Apeksha Vishnoi, a gynaecologist in Gomti Nagar, said: “In the past one month, I have come across four to five such cases, where women came after they developed complications.” Gynaecologists in different areas of the state capital said many other women suffered ‘missed abortions’ as they avoided visiting a clinic during the pandemic to avoid being infected by coronavirus.“I have come across at least 20 such cases in the past one and a half months. The women never visited a doctor until complications made them apprehensive about losing pregnancy. And by the time they reached, the damage had been done,” said Dr Amita Shukla, senior gynaecologist at the late SC Trivedi Memorial Mother and Child Care Trust. “A visit to the doctor is advised as soon as a woman conceives. But during the pandemic, when small clinics were shut due to lockdown, many women avoided visiting clinics even as the first trimester (3 months) got over, ending up with complications, the most common being bleeding,” said Dr Priyanka Singh, a practicing gynaecologist near PGI. “Several such cases came up, particularly in July and August. Family members said they were apprehensive about the women being more vulnerable to infection during pregnancy, hence they avoided even contacting the doctor,” said Singh. Asked if these ‘missed abortions’ could be avoided, Dr Rama Srivastava, president of the Indian Medical Association, Lucknow said, “Certain medicines are necessary to sustain pregnancy after a woman conceives, particularly among those who are not adequately healthy.” The gynaecologists said families should ensure at least one personal or virtual interaction between the women and the doctors. “Even if immediate appointment is not available, as doctors are not attending too many patients in the OPD, the women may see a doctor in a week or even in 10 days. But one visit will actually guide her to safe pregnancy,” said Shukla. Many gynaecologists are now offering consultancy over video calls and telemedicine facilities have been started at some hospitals for patients of the gynaecology department. “Patients are contacting us through telemedicine,” said Dr Malvika Mishra, of the women and child hospital at the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-women-in-lucknow-who-avoided-clinics-for-fear-of-coivd-19-report-missed-abortions/story-AHZ4EbrMdyO5biuXFPZFoJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Darjeeling logs maximum Covid-19 cases, deaths in north Bengal; experts blame trading hub Siliguri||Strange though it may sound, but Darjeeling district in north Bengal, three-fourths of which comprises hills, forests and tea gardens, has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases and related deaths among eight districts in the northern half of the state. Till August 31, the district had recorded 5,056 cases and 75 deaths, which is much higher than what Malda - the most populous district of north Bengal – has recorded. Malda has registered 4,978 cases with only 39 deaths. Darjeeling, which has the second lowest population in the state, still has the highest number of active cases among the eight districts - 736. Experts have blamed it on Siliguri, the only subdivision in the district which comprises the plains. They said that the three hill subdivisions of the districts – Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong have recorded very few cases. “Siliguri is a cosmopolitan city, the second largest business hub of the state and a gateway to the northeastern states of India. It is because of this that this sub-division has a large floating population and hence recorded the maximum Covid-19 cases in the entire district of Darjeeling,” said a top official of the district administration. If one looks deeper within the subdivision it is ward number 46 of Siliguri, which has recorded the maximum cases. This area contains the fish markets and sabzi mandis of Siliguri. The hilly regions of the state and the tea garden areas have recorded very few cases compared to their urban counterparts. “Almost 90 percent of the Covid-19 positive cases in Darjeeling have come up from the Siliguri subdivision. Out of 4,941 total positive cases reported from Darjeeling district till Sunday, the hill sub divisions administered by semi-autonomous Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) had only 478 cases. While the total number of deaths in the district was 75, it was only 12 from the hills sub-divisions of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong,” said Samden Dukpa, executive director of GTA’s heath and family welfare department. The villages located in the hills and tea gardens, on the contrary, have imposed strict restrictions on the residents and maintain social distancing which have helped to keep the Covid-19 numbers low in the hill areas. “Most of the villages in the hills made it mandatory for those returning home to stay in 14-day-long home quarantine. Population in the hills is very low. Being closer to nature, the villagers have high immunity levels. Such factors have also helped to keep the numbers low,” said Dr Kalyan Khan, associate professor, pathology department, North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. Kalimpong district in north Bengal which comprises of hills and forests have recorded only 470 cases till date and three deaths. This is the lowest Covid-19 cases among eight north Bengal districts. Alipurduar district has the second lowest number of Covid-19 cases. Till August 31, the district recorded 2,057 cases with only 12 deaths. “The district has large tea gardens and forest areas. Strict surveillance on migrant workers returning homes helped the district administration to restrict the number of positive cases,” said a senior government doctor of the district’s health department. Malda on the other hand has the second highest Covid-19 cases. It has the maximum population among other districts in north Bengal. A chunk of the district’s population work as migrant labourers in other states. They had returned home in special trains during the pandemic spreading the disease to a considerable extent, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-logs-maximum-covid-19-cases-deaths-in-north-bengal-experts-blame-trading-hub-siliguri/story-i96sCHDCWmpKQ6xbRvWFjP.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Privacy, Migrants’: How judge who freed Kafeel Khan bats for fundamental rights||The order passed by the Allahabad high court on Tuesday quashing the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan under National Security Act is one among the long list of recent orders involving Chief Justice Govind Mathur upholding fundamental rights of citizens.On August 19, justice Mathur took cognizance of a letter addressed to him drawing the attention of the court to an incident in which a student of Benares Hindu University (BHU) went missing on February 16, 2020, after he was allegedly picked up by certain police personnel. The court registered a Habeas Corpus petition based on the letter.During the hearing of the matter on August 25, a bench headed by justice Mathur took exception to the fact Uttar Pradesh police filed a vague affidavit instead of placing all facts on record.“We fail to understand why the police authorities instead of placing on record all the details relating to the facts that happened on after February 12, 2020 and more specifically after the boy ran away from the police station, which facts must have been recorded in the general diary, have filed a vague affidavit,” the court said.The court ordered Varanasi’s senior superintendent of police to file an affidavit placing all details relating to the missing of the student and will now hear the case on September 3.In May, the bench headed by justice Mathur took cognisance of various issues arising due to Covid-19 and the lockdown. In one case, the court passed orders to improve the unhygienic conditions at quarantine centres while in another, the court batted for the welfare of migrant workers who were amongst the worst affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown.Earlier in March, Justice Mathur’s bench passed a significant order directing Uttar Pradesh government to remove hoardings erected at public places displaying pictures and addresses of persons alleged to have taken part in protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The court held that such hoardings are in violation of right to privacy which is an intrinsic aspect of right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.The high court had, in fact, taken up the matter suo motu (on its own) after news reports emerged of Uttar Pradesh police having erected several hoardings across Lucknow, identifying those accused of violence during the protests that took place against the CAA in December last year. “Courts are meant to impart justice and no court can shut its eyes if a public unjust is happening just before it”, the order passed on March 9 said.The UP government had later filed an appeal before the Supreme Court where it is currently pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-allahabad-high-court-cj-govind-mathur-batted-for-privacy-missing-student-migrant-workers/story-m0w9M5BvXf5ww3VUmjfgEN.html
02-09-2020||India||Mosque will bridge divide, says architect||A mosque coming up outside Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town will be designed in the Indo-Islamic style and aim to bridge communal differences, said the project’s main architect whose name was announced on Tuesday. SM Akhtar, a Lucknow architect-cum-town planner and founder dean, faculty of architecture, Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi, will design the complex being built on five acres of land in Dhannipur village — in compliance with the Supreme Court order in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit last year.“We have appointed professor SM Akhtar as consultant architect and hence he will design the entire masjid complex” said Athar Hussian, spokesperson of Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), the trust overseeing the construction of the complex.Other than the mosque, Akhtar will also design public utility establishments, including a hospital, an Indo-Islamic Research Centre, community kitchen and a museum. Akhtar said the mosque will come up on around 15,000 square feet land and have an amalgamation of Indo-Islamic architecture. “Through this project we have immense opportunities to reunite communities. The Masjid will just be a part of the complex. We can come up with holistic ideas to achieve three values ie human values, Indianness and Islamic,” he said. “We do not want it to become a complex for just one community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mosque-will-bridge-divide-says-architect/story-AOTogqFuZbOo14qm8ClO2I.html
02-09-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 8-lakh mark, death toll nears 25k mark||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally went past the 8-lakh mark on Tuesday, 177 days after the first infection.The state’s tally now stands at 8,08,306 after 15,765 fresh cases were reported Tuesday. The last one lakh cases took just seven days. The state took 96 days for the first 100,000, 22 for the second, 14 for the third, 11 for the fourth, 10 for fifth, 9 for sixth and eight for the tally to move from 6 lakh to 7 lakh.The death toll in the state also inched towards 25,000 mark to stand at 24,903 after 320 casualties were reported on Tuesday. Mumbai reported 1,142 new cases and 35 deaths, though Pune district remained on the top in cases and fatalities. Pune city saw 1738 cases and 40 deaths, rural part of the district reported 776 cases and seven fatalities, while its satellite city Pimpri Chinchwad reported 979 infections and five deaths. Nagpur, Satara and Solapur districts were key contributors in new cases with 1,491(22deaths), 780 (17 deaths) and 467 (15 deaths) cases respectively. Maharashtra’s fatality stood at 3.08%, while it was highest in Mumbai at 5.23%. Dharavi, the much talked about hotspot has shown signs of drastic improvement, recorded five new cases on Tuesday, bringing the area’s case count to 2,780 of which 2,422 have been discharged.The Maharashtra government announced a few relaxations from the ongoing lockdown by allowing inter district travel, more workforce in private and government offices, operation of hotels and lodges at the full strength from Wednesday. But authorities are still wary about the relaxations leading to the spike in the cases across the state.“Doing away with the restrictions on the inter district movement is like allowing movement of everything leading to the crowding. The spike in cases in the state on earlier occasions were mostly because of the movement of the people, especially those coming from the red zones. The opening up of the activities from Wednesday will lead to the rise in the cases,” said an official requesting anonymity.The official said that anticipating the spike in the cases, the state government has decided to launch Chase The Virus programme across the state in the second week of September. The surveillance, tracing-tracking of high-low risk contacts and the treatment of the patients with comorbidities will be focused upon in a bid to contain the spread. “In some of the districts, the health infrastructure is still weak. People report the symptoms very late and it leads to the rapid spread of the virus. Lackluster approach by the administration in tracking the high risk contacts, has mainly been leading to the rapid spread in a few districts,” he added. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, Maharashtra president of Indian Medical Association, said relaxations given from the lockdown may lead to more cases. “Relaxing activities at this scale is inappropriate especially when the cases in the state are on constant rise over the last few days. The cases are rising rapidly in rural areas, where there are no health facilities including oxygen, beds and emergency medicines. In districts like Sangli, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Beed, Osmanabad have reported a four-fold spike in fresh cases of Covid-19 over the last 7-10 days. In such a scenario the unlocking relaxations may lead to resurgence of cases and perhaps emergence of the second wave,” he said. The total of recovered patients reached 584,537 after 10,978 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 72.32%, against national rate of 76.63%. Maharashtra has 198,523 active patients. The number of recovered and discharged patients in Mumbai was 1,18,859 with a recovery rate of 80.88%, and active cases stood at 20,067. Maharashtra has 13,79,519 patients under home quarantine, while 36,020 are institutionally quarantined.Authorities carried out 72,823 tests in the state in 24 hours at a positivity rate of 21.64%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-8-lakh-mark-death-toll-nears-25k-mark/story-UdLqO38OpdsulOVCvo5NXN.html
02-09-2020||India||China acted again as peace talks were on||India on Tuesday accused Chinese troops of resorting to “provocative action” even as military commanders were holding talks on Monday to ease fresh tensions near Pangong Lake, underscoring the deep mistrust dogging the disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The latest development follows the two sides trading charges of trespassing the LAC on the southern bank of Pangong Lake since the weekend, complicating the de-escalation process that has stalled at key friction points, including Depsang and Gogra. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that “even as the ground commanders of the two sides were in discussions to de-escalate the situation” that arose from the face-off on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, “Chinese troops again engaged in provocative action”. Without elaborating on the provocative action, he added: “Due to the timely defensive action, the Indian side was able to prevent these attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo [along the LAC].” Srivastava reiterated India’s assertion that Chinese troops violated the understanding reached by the two sides in diplomatic and military talks on resolving the standoff when they engaged in “provocative military manoeuvres” during August 29-30 in an “attempt to change the status quo” on the southern bank of Pangong Lake. The Indian side “responded to these provocative actions and took appropriate defensive measures along the LAC in order to safeguard our interests and defend the territorial integrity,” he said. Statements issued by both India and China also make it clear that there was a string of incidents between August 29 and 31 — the Indian side talked about the PLA carrying out “provocative military movements to change the status quo” during August 29-30, while China’s western theatre command claimed the Indian side had “broken the consensus” on August 31. The Indian Army has occupied key heights on the lake’s southern bank to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing territory on the Indian side of the LAC during a stealthy midnight manoeuvre on August 29, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The PLA’s fresh provocative action on Monday was targeted at the heights held by Indian troops, the people added. Indian troops are holding a series of positions near Black Top, a hill feature, and on Rezang and Reqin passes, which are on the Indian side of the LAC and allow the army to dominate the area and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. Specialist mountain troops played a key role in taking these heights and one of them was killed in a landmine blast. The people cited above said China triggered the latest face-off through its efforts to occupy dominant positions on the southern back of Pangong Lake, which was hitherto not seen as a friction point as it was under effective control of the Indian side. The tensions in this sector were earlier confined to the Finger Area on the lake’s northern bank. The two sides were now attempting to take dominating positions before colder weather conditions start setting in, making large-scale troop movements and logistics more difficult, the people added. Srivastava said all military and diplomatic engagements over the past three months, including discussions between the two foreign ministers and the two Special Representatives on the border issue, resulted in an agreement that the “situation should be handled in a responsible manner and either side should not take any provocative action or escalate matters”. He added, “The actions and behaviour of the Chinese side since earlier this year along the LAC has been in clear violation of the bilateral agreements and protocols concluded between the two countries to ensure peace and tranquillity on the border. Such actions are also in complete disregard to the understandings reached between the two foreign ministers as also the Special Representatives.” The Indian side has taken up the “recent provocative and aggressive actions” with the Chinese side through diplomatic and military channels and “urged them to discipline and control their frontline troops from undertaking such provocative actions,” he said. While the India side is committed to resolving all outstanding issues along the LAC through peaceful dialogue, it expects China to abide by the understanding reached earlier and “earnestly work with India to resolve the situation,” Srivastava said. The Chinese embassy in New Delhi, through a statement, reiterated Beijing’s contention that Indian troops “violated the consensus” and trespassed the LAC on the southern bank of Pangong Lake and near Reqin pass. “What India has done runs counter to the efforts made by both sides for a period of time to ease and cool down the situation on the ground, and China is resolutely opposed to this,” it said. The statement called on India to “withdraw its troops illegally trespassing” the LAC and “immediately stop any actions leading to the escalation and complication of the situation”. Strategic affairs analyst Brahma Chellaney said India’s options were narrowing and the contraction of the economy by almost 25% in the quarter ended June would further reduce the space for military options, and this might embolden the Chinese. “Therefore, last weekend’s activity was essentially a defensive move to occupy vacant heights on the Indian side of the LAC, otherwise, the PLA could have seized those heights just as they have done at other places,” he said. “The Chinese are sitting pretty on land grabs they have made and they have moved to the second stage, which is consolidation. This is not just strengthening their gains but also deterring India from initiating any counter-action by securing their core territorial gains and enlarging their footprint in areas around the land grabs,” he added. Border tensions between India and China flared up in the aftermath of a clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15 — the first deadly conflict between soldiers of the two sides along the LAC in 45 years. The clash resulted in the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers, including a commanding officer, and an undisclosed number of Chinese soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-acted-again-as-peace-talks-were-on/story-AcsvNtdMI1nDhU2AVS6neL.html
02-09-2020||India||Telcos get 10 years to pay AGR dues||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed telecom companies, including Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea, to repay about Rs 1.43 lakh crore in combined dues they owe the government over 10 years , offering a reprieve to the sector weighed down by heavy debt and under intense regulatory and competitive pressure in recent years.The breather is short of the 15-20 years sought by the telcos, and which the court said was unreasonable, but came as a shot in the arm to the companies that missed a January deadline to repay their dues.The stock market rallied in response although Vodafone Idea shares took a beating on the perception that its problems were not over. The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) had proposed a 20-year window.A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra asked the managing directors (MDs) or chief executive officers (CEOs) of the companies to furnish undertakings or personal guarantees within four weeks for payment of dues.The court ruled “that, at the first instance, the respective Telecom Operators shall make the payment of 10% of the total dues as demanded by DoT by March 31, 2021.”“Telecom Service Providers have to make payment in yearly instalments commencing from April 1, 2021 up to 31, 2031 payable by 31st March of every succeeding financial year.”“In the event of any default in making payment of annual instalments, interest would become payable as per the agreement along with penalty and interest on penalty automatically without reference to Court. Besides, it would be punishable for contempt of Court.” The court ordered service providers and DoT to furnish a compliance report every year by April 7 each year. The top court said the sale of spectrum by telcos facing insolvency proceedings shall be decided by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).The decision will come as a relief to Vodafone Idea, which reported its eighth consecutive quarterly loss in the three months to June and expressed concerns about its ability to stay afloat. The company’s gross debt, excluding its lease liabilities, was Rs 1.19 lakh crore as of end-June.Even so, the Supreme Court’s ruling that telecoms firms pay 10% of the dues owed by March 31, 2021 pushed Vodafone Idea’s stock down 12.76% to Rs 8.89 on the BSE.“The window for Vodafone to raise funds, have better models and give payback commitments is small which is adding pressure on the stock,” said Abhimanyu Sofat, head of research, at stock brokerage IIFL Securities.The BSE’s benchmark Sensex gained 0.71% to 38,900.80 points, and Bharti Airtel shares leapt 6.38% to Rs 546.75.According to a previous court submission in July, Vodafone India’s dues as of October 2019 amounted to Rs 58,254 crore. It has paid Rs 3,500 crore and has outstanding dues of Rs 54,754 crore. Bharti Aritel had dues of Rs 43,980 crore in October, of which it has paid Rs 18,004 crore, leaving outstanding dues of Rs 25,976 crore.Total dues owed by the industry amounted to Rs 1.69 lakh crore as of October; the figure has now come down to Rs 1.43 lakh crore.The entry of Reliance Industries’ Jio Infocomm in late 2016 with free voice services and cut-price data forced many rivals out of the fiercely competitive market. Others such as Vodafone and Idea were forced to regroup, but continue to bleed and lose subscribers. Jio has already cleared its smaller backlog of charges.“This {court ruling} is positive for Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio and negative for Vodafone Idea,” said Gurmeet Chadha, strategist at Complete Circle Consultants in Delhi. “Telecom is a gruesome business and when 5G comes you will have to pay more for spectrum. Eventually, unless Vodafone Idea raises significant capital or gets a strategic partner, we are headed for a duopoly.”On October 24, the Supreme Court allowed the central government to recover its dues from telecom companies in a ruling that hit Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea the hardest. The court accepted the government’s definition of AGR or adjusted gross revenues— that it includes their income from revenue lines that are not central to their main business.Income from sales of handsets, termination and roaming charges, rent and dividends should count as part of AGR, which determines what telecom companies pay as licence fee and spectrum usage fee, the court ruled in a verdict that came at a time when debt-laden service providers were already under intense pressure because of adverse regulatory orders,hefty levies and intense competition amid a price war set off by the entry of Jio. Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel both posted record losses in the September quarter.The court order came in a 16-year-old case stemming from DoT claims that telecom companies had under-reported their revenue and thus paid less for spectrum and in the form of other levies.At the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on December 6, Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla sounded a stark warning, saying Vodafone Idea, a joint venture between Vodafone and his group, would have to shut shop if no relief is forthcoming from the government to soften the blow from the Supreme Court verdict that telecom operators pay DoT the dues they owe in three months.Birla,who is also chairman of Vodafone Idea, said he is hopeful the company doesn’t find itself in a situation where it needs to exit from the market.“But, at the same time, if you ask me specifically, it is true we will shut shop if we don’t get relief. Because there is no company in the world that can pay that kind of fine in three months, it just doesn’t work like that,” Birla said at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telcos-get-10-yrs-to-pay-agr-dues/story-8sfcTMFiOsnNrRQbwChIgM.html
02-09-2020||India||CBI questions Chakraborty’s parents in Sushant case||Mumbai: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday questioned the parents of actress Rhea Chakraborty in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, officials familiar with the matter said. Chakraborty ‘s father Indrajeet Chakraborty and mother Sandhya reached the DRDO guest house in Mumbai’s Kalina, where the CBI probe team is stationed around 11 am and left in the evening after close to nine hours of interrogation, a police official said on condition of anonymity. The central investigation agency also questioned Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, roommate and creative director Siddharth Pithani, his former business manager Shruti Modi and house manager Samuel Miranda.Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14 following which the Mumbai police had registered a case of accidental death and recorded statements of nearly three dozen people.The late filmstar’s father subsequently filed a police complaint in Patna, accusing Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting Rajput’s alleged suicide and misappropriating his money.The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of the FIR lodged in Patna to the central agency.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) , which is investigating a money laundering case linked to the actor’s death, questioned Goa hotelier Gaurav Arya for a second day on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-chakraborty-s-parents-in-sushant-case/story-YN8HcQPZgp9cdsG0WIyLXN.html
02-09-2020||India||UGC may allot institutes more time to start next session||The University Grants Commission (UGC) may soon issue revised guidelines for the academic year 2020-21, which is likely to grant institutes more time to start their next session. In a letter to universities, UGC secretary Rajnish Jain referred to the July 6 guidelines issued by the regulator that suggested that final-year examinations should be completed by September-end. The Supreme Court has, however, made it clear that states were empowered to take decisions to postpone final-year/final-semester exams beyond the deadline. Jain said the UGC, the higher education regulator, has mentioned that universities can grant provisional admission to candidates for undergraduate and postgraduate courses till September 30 till “revised guidelines on the academic calendar are issued by the UGC”. According to a person familiar with the developments, an expert committee headed by RC Kuhad, vice-chancellor of the Central University of Haryana, has already written to UGC, saying admissions to the UG courses should be completed by the end of October and the new session should begin by November. For PG courses, the panel has also recommended, the admission process should be completed by November and the session commence from December 1. The education ministry and UGC appointed the Kuhad committee for recommendations on the academic calendar for the 2020-21 session, hit by Covid-19. The panel earlier recommended that the session should begin from September-October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-may-allot-institutes-more-time-to-start-next-session/story-wjjMkXJRlx7vXdYyWehJ6H.html
02-09-2020||India||Fifth of Chennai residents exposed to Covid: Survey||A fifth of the population of Chennai has been exposed to the Covid-19 disease causing Sars-CoV-2 virus, a serological survey conducted in the capital city, has found. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Tuesday released its findings. Chennai at present accounts for a third of the total cases in Tamil Nadu. A serological survey provides an understanding of the extent of the virus transmission.The GCC tested 12,405 individuals of which 2,673 people or 21.5% were found to have developed IgG antibodies to the virus. Around 80% of the population is still susceptible to Covid-19, the report stated. Chennai has a population of more than 8 million, and a floating population of 400,000, including workers from other districts and states. All 15 zones of the city were covered.“Since the findings are based only till the end of July, the prevalence rate will be higher now,” said corporation commissioner G Prakash. The results from the exercise jointly conducted by the corporation and Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai are a month old as the field activities of drawing blood samples and data collection happened between 18 and 28 July. The testing of samples was completed by August 6. “There is huge variation in seroprevalence across zones,” the survey report stated. “In zones where there is a high prevalence, more people have developed immunity so the virus transmission has been slower,” said G Prakash. “The data helps us to identify zones where prevalence is low so we can intensify measures to control the virus.”A seroprevalance of 20% is enough to indicate that a city has reached its peak from which it will be a downward trend, says Dr Jacob John, retired professor and former director of the ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology. “But this is still not good news. It only means that the frequency of people getting infected will be less but the magnitude will be the same. It takes more time for a 100 people to get infected during the downward part of the curve than during the upward slope.” He added that Chennai’s 21.5% of the serosurvey has to be compared with the proportion of people who turned positive in RT-PCR tests to understand the magnitude of the disease. “For example, if RT-PCR tests indicate that 2% of Chennai’s population is positive, it means for every detected case, there are 10 undetected cases.”As a part of the national serosurvey conducted in the first week of May , four districts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai were studied. The unweighted sero-prevalence of Sars-CoV-2 infection in Chennai was found to be 2%. The prevalence of infection in the five randomly selected containment zones in Chennai was 5%.A host of other cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Pune, Amritsar among others have also conducted serological surveys on a range of sample sizes. Delhi recorded a prevelance of 27.7% in a sample size of 15,000. Starting Tuesday, under Unlock 4, Tamil Nadu relaxed a majority of pandemic restrictions including Chennai. Public transport, malls, restaurants, businesses and industries were once again open with rules of wearing masks, social distancing and standard operating procedures. Tamil Nadu on Tuesday reported 5,928 cases taking the total to 4,33,969 with 96 deaths. Chennai accounted for 1,084 cases with an overall of 1,36,697 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fifth-of-chennai-residents-exposed-to-covid-survey/story-bYJePr6fTEsqrNh8VB3c4I.html
02-09-2020||India||90% of those killed by Covid in India are older than 40, 69% are men||Twice as many men have died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as women in India, with men accounting for 69% of all fatalities, according to health ministry data accessed by HT that offers the most granular view to date of how the pandemic is affecting people across age and gender in the country. And more than 90% of the people who died, both men and women, were above 40 years of age. More than half the 56,292 Covid-19 deaths across states by August 22 were in the 50 -70 age group, with Covid-19 deaths being the highest in the 61-70 year age group among both genders.Less than one in three persons who died of Covid-19 was a woman. By August 22, women accounted for 17,315 of the total Covid-19 toll of 56,292. The pandemic had killed 38,973 men by the third week of August, shows the data, which categorises four deaths as “to be updated” and “others.”  The unreleased data on deaths appears reaffirm what scientists have observed about the global fatality trends of the disease — it is disproportionally fatal for men, and for those who are older.Deaths among women are roughly a third of all Covid fatalities, with the only anomaly being that of death rates being almost the same in girls and boys aged 20 years and below. Girls accounted for 49% of the 599 Covid-19 deaths in the 11-20 age group. Children under 10 years are the least likely to die of Covid-19. There were 301 Covid-19 deaths among people over the age of 90 years, who account for 0.5% of the total deaths. This is much lower than the global average, where people 85 years old and above account for 3.4% deaths, according to World Health Organization data till June.“The risk of dying from coronavirus disease is also linked to underlying health conditions such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease, and the capacity of health-care systems. India’s test, track and treat strategy has focused on diagnosis, surveillance and treatment while simultaneously strengthening health systems and supply chains, which, along with the invaluable hard work of Covid warriors, has helped bring down the case fatality rate to 1.7%,” said Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. The global Covid fatality rate is 3.3%.Worldwide, age remains is a strong predictor of the risk of death from Covid-19, which hits people in their mid-fifties, sixties and seventies the hardest. Death among young adults usually occurs within 24 hours of hospitalisation. “Older adults die of pneumonia and other Covid-19 related complications, but sudden, unexpected death is more common in young adults in their 20s and 30s, whose condition dips very quickly after admission. In such cases, the cause of death is usually cardiovascular, with abnormal clotting in brain, lungs and heart leading to cardiac arrest,” said Dr Shiv K Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi, where India’s first plasma bank has been set up for convalescent therapy to treat Covid-19 . Unlike in Europe, where the majority of deaths took place among older people living in care or assisted-living homes, deaths among people over 80 are relatively fewer in India. A major reason is that life expectancy is lower 69.1 years in India, compared to 83.2 years in Italy, 80.9 years in Germany, and 78.4 years in the US. “Indians develop chronic diseases at a younger age, which raises their risk of severe disease and death from Covid-19. Men also have higher levels of the ACE2 (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2), which is a protein the virus attaches to enter and infect human cells. ACE2 is found not only in lungs, but also the heart, kidneys and tissues lining blood vessels, and in the testes, which partially explain why men are more vulnerable to severe disease,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman of the Institute of Critical Care and Anaesthesiology, Medanta - The Medicity. Sars-CoV-2 causes infection by using its crown-like spike protein, which gives the virus its name (corona is Latin for crown) to bind to ACE2 receptors on the surface of human cells, from where it invades the air sacs in the lungs, leading to respiratory collapse. Men’s immune response to new coronavirus infection differs from that of women, which led to more severe disease often being observed in men, said a team of US researchers led by Akiko Iwasaki from the Yale University School of Medicine. The study, published in the journal Nature last week, found men had higher levels of inflammation-causing proteins called cytokines and chemokines in their blood while women had a stronger T cells response. T cells, which are a part of the body’s longer-lasting immune response, seek and destroy infected cells to stop virus from replicating inside the body. Cytokines are proteins that regulate immune response. Covid-19 is marked by a hyper immune response called a cytokine storm, which can lead to death.The study found that infection worsened in men with weak T-cell response while women who had more severe disease had increase​d amounts of inflammatory cytokines. “Data categorising risk across age and gender helps people make informed choices about their own disease risk and take measures to protect themselves. Many people are still not using the social vaccine (use of masks, hand hygiene and social distancing) and not taking precautions,” said Dr Sarin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-of-those-killed-by-covid-in-india-are-older-than-40-69-are-men/story-glg0Ct4rHQ1YVvZgnckUcM.html
02-09-2020||India||FB biased against right wing: Prasad||Facebook’s India team is dominated by people who “belong to a particular political belief” and have acted against users “supportive of the right-of-centre” ideology, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a letter to the social media company’s founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday, adding to allegations that the company was being partisan in tackling content. The comments made by Prasad in his letter to Zuckerberg puts the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party on the same side as opponent Congress in accusing Facebook of political bias, although both say the company acted in a manner that benefits the other. Shortly after the letter was made public, Congress party and its MP Rahul Gandhi called for an investigation into Facebook. “I have been informed that in the run up to 2019 general elections in India, there was a concerted effort by Facebook India management to not just delete pages or substantially reduced to reach but also offer no records or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of the right of the Centre ideology. I’m also aware that dozens of emails written to Facebook management received no response,” Prasad wrote. Facebook, which also owns WhatsApp and Instagram, is the dominant social media website in India. Allegations of political bias first appeared on August 14 after a report by Wall Street Journal said the company’s India policy head intervened to stop a ban on a Telangana BJP MLA for making Islamophobic posts citing commercial interests in India. Late on Sunday evening, the paper published a second report claiming the executive, Ankhi Das, expressed open support for Modi on earlier occasions and had worked on his campaign for the 2014 polls. The company has denied the allegations of bias but did not offer any fresh comments on Prasad’s letter. Interestingly, when Shashi Tharoor, the head of the Parliamentary panel of IT wanted to summon and question Facebook executives on the report, the move was strongly and vehemently opposed by a BJP member on the panel Nishikant Dubey. With Prasad now airing his grievances against Facebook, the committee should be able to summon its executives so that they can be questioned. Prasad did not specifically identify which Facebook pages or groups were taken down, but the company removed a page called The India Eye in April, 2019. In a blog post on April 1, the company said it had removed several pages for ‘coordinated inauthentic behaviour’ -- the term it uses for organised misinformation operations -- including some by Congress IT cell. At the same time, it removed The India Eye, which had a following of 2.6 million people at the time, but did not name the BJP. A screenshot posted by the company then showed the page posting fake news that deprecated the opposition.Following the WSJ report, the Congress also wrote to Zuckerberg seeking details on steps being taken to investigate allegations that the social media giant does not apply hate speech rules to posts by BJP members. “International media have fully exposed Facebook’s and WhatsApp’s brazen assault on India’s democracy and social harmony. No one, let alone a foreign company, can be allowed to interfere in our nation’s affairs. They must be investigated immediately and when found guilty, punished,” Gandhi said in a tweet with screenshots of the latest WSJ article.The party also issued a statement rebutting Prasad’s claim and detailing the number of pro-opposition pages that were pulled down and said Facebook reinstated pro-BJP pages are emails from BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya to Das and other Facebook India executives. “Casting aside democratic principles, BJP attempts to rule the nation by manipulating and coercing public opinion. The blasphemous nexus between the BJP and Facebook is for all to witness and must be investigated without delay,” the party said in a statement.Earlier, Congress’s Randeep Singh Surjewala called Prasad’s letter a case of “the pot calling the kettle black”. The IT minister made three specific points in his letter. In the second point, he said Facebook India was dominated by people “from a particular predisposition”. While he did not idenify what this ideology was, he called it one that has been “overwhelmingly defeated by the people in successive free and fair elections”. The minister also said that it is “problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers of India while working in Facebook India and managing important positions”. Alleging that employee bias could impact free speech, the letter adds: it is “unacceptable when political bosses of individuals impinge on the freedom of speech of millions of people”. Again, the letter was short on specifics on this front. Prasad also appeared to refer to the recent WSJ report, saying “the spate of recent anonymous, source-based reports is nothing but an internal power struggle within your company for an ideological hegemony”. The WSJ report was based on internal emails and interviews with employees. The other issues that the minister has flagged include the platform being “used by anarchic and radical elements whose sole aim is to destroy social order, to recruit people and to assemble them for violence” and “outsourcing of fact checking to third-party fact checkers.” The political row over Facebook in India now mirrors a similar confrontation between political rivals in the United States. The Republican party of President Donald Trump accuses Facebook of censoring right-wing voices, while opponent Democrats have called on the company to do more to curb hate speech by right-wing politicians.The social media website has been at the centre of allegations that it provided foreign adversaries of United States the platform for disinformation that influenced the 2016 elections, and similar electorate manipulation was carried out through targeting of people for United Kingdom’s Brexit referendum that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fb-biased-against-right-wing-prasad/story-kgTAwmiDTsTZ7DRqEULhUK.html
02-09-2020||India||PM Modi to address Leadership Summit of USISPF||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver key note address to the third leadership summit of US India Strategic and Partnership Forum (USISPF) on Thursday, organisers announced on Tuesday. “We are honored that Prime Minister Modi has taken time to address USISPF annual event. It signifies importance of US-India relations in the current challenging environment,” USISPF president Mukesh Aghi said. “It is a win-win partnership mutually dependent geo-politically, trade, culturally, diplomatically and scientifically. Aggressive and assertive China provides further opportunity for both nations to collaborate and ensure international rule of law prevails,” he said after USISPF announced Modi’s address to the summit. US Vice President Mike Pence had a fire side on Monday, the first day of the week-long summit titled “US-India Week: Navigating New Challenges”. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also participated in the discussion on Monday. Minister of Railways and Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal also addressed the summit on Tuesday. Being attended by top corporate leaders, government officials and leaders, the summit highlights areas of bilateral cooperation: trade and investment; strategic energy ties; India’s position in global supply chains, collaboration in fintech, healthcare, and technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-leadership-summit-of-usispf/story-APPVU6RDuWXEcjKfqulGtM.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Suicide’ web searches surge||There has been a surge in the internet search volume for keywords related to suicide and copycat deaths after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s alleged suicide death on June 14, according to a study on the association between online media reports of celebrity suicides and subsequent behaviour in the general population. There has also been a small but significant increase in the internet search volume for help-seeking keywords, which indicated that responsible news reports can also be used to nudge vulnerable individuals to seek support, according to researchers at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, who published the study in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry. Self-harm is among the top 10 cases of death worldwide, including India. According to an Indian Council of Medical Research study published in The Lancet Public Health journal in 2018, an estimated 230,314 peopledied by suicide in India in 2016. India accounted for 36·6% of the global suicides in 2016 among women, and 24·3% among men, the study found. Young people are at the highest risk. Suicide was the leading cause of death in India in 2016 for those aged 15–39 years; 71·2% of the suicide deaths among women and 57·7% among men were in this age group. “Google trend analysis showed a surge in internet search volume for suicide-seeking keywords along with media reports of copycat suicides from across India, which provides evidence of the Werther effect. About 58% articles used sensational language, 59.5% articles mentioned the suicide site, 17% articles suggested possible cause for suicide was not related to mental health,” said study author Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor, department of psychiatry, AIIMS. The term Werther effect comes from Goethe’s novel, The Sorrows of Young Werther, and is used to describe a spike in copycat suicides after wide media coverage of a suicide. Rajput’s photograph was used in 47.5% of news media reports and 38% of entertainment media reports though the publication of photographs of a person with mental illness without the consent of the person’s family in cases of suicide violates section 24 (1) of the Mental Health Care Act, 2017, the study said. The peak search volume for suicide and for help-seeking keywords was on the day of the actor’s death. “The biggest worry is people searching for methods of self-harm. There’s a danger of fans identifying with the deceased celebrity and it may lead the vulnerable ones to turn to suicide as an acceptable way out of their problems. Media focus on the method of suicide may also remove ambivalence about which method to choose for suicide in vulnerable individuals, leading to an increase in suicide by the same method,” said Dr Sagar. “Conversations around mental health and suicide can have both positive and negative impacts. Whether it’s the media, social media or narrative within the community, sensitivity, empathy and responsibility are key to reducing the prevalence of suicide,” said Dr Samir Parikh, director, mental health and behavioural sciences, Fortis Healthcare. On the upside, the study found that around 81.5% articles did not use the word ‘commit’ or related terms while reporting the death, and 65.5% reports did not mention the suicide method. At least 28.5% of articles addressed the link between suicide and poor mental health, while a few reports included research findings and population-level statistics of suicide and expert opinions from health professionals. Previous studies of reports of suicide in news media in India found that very few articles mention the link between suicide and psychiatric disorders or substance use disorders, and fewer still educate the public by including opinions from health professionals, research findings or information about suicide prevention programmes. “It’s an important time for our country to work towards a National Suicide Prevention Policy. Mental health needs to be a priority, from immediate crisis intervention and helplines to focusing on preventive mental health and reducing stigma around help seeking. It’s time we advocate for mental health outcomes, strive for early identification and treatment, and use the digital transformation to provide mental health care to all,” said Dr Parikh.The study had some limitations ,including the fact that it reviewed only English-language online media reports. “We only assessed print media online and excluded television, radio and social media, which are important areas for future research as international studies have found television coverage and social media to be associated with increased suicide rates,” he said. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suicide-web-searches-surge/story-kp7jLpOWO4OjBmLNOLakzK.html
02-09-2020||India||India, 3 nations call for UNSC reform||India has joined hands with Brazil, Germany and Japan to call for expediting the process for reforming the UN Security Council, with the four countries saying that inter-governmental negotiations on the issue have dragged on for more than a decade without substantial progress. The four countries, also known as G4, outlined their position in a common letter submitted to the President of the UN General Assembly, Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, on Monday. They demanded action for transforming the UN Security Council in line with “Common African Position”, and said negotiations shouldn’t be held “hostage, procedurally and substantially, by those who do not wish to bring about reform”. India’s letter, submitted by the deputy permanent representative to the UN, K Nagaraj Naidu, referred to the draft decision regarding roll-over of the inter-governmental negotiations on equitable representation and increase in the membership of the Security Council, and said this process “must capture clearly the tangible progress” made in two meetings held earlier this year. The letter said clear progress was made in the negotiations this year with member states backing the “Common African Position” as laid down in the Ezulwini Consensus and Sirte Declaration, and the “urgent need for transparency and application of the General Assembly’s rules of procedure to the inter-governmental negotiations”. The Ezulwini Consensus and Sirte Declaration, containing the common African position on reform of the UN Security Council, were developed by a committee on UN reform established by the African Union Summit in 2005. “The growing support for the Common African Position has, in fact, been reinforced not in one but multiple forums, and from multiple groups,” the letter said. The concept was also backed by the Non-Aligned Movement, comprising 120 states, in October 2019 and by G4 in a foreign ministers’ joint statement in September 2019. “Consequently, it is only correct and fair that the growing support expressed for the Common African Position in the two meetings of the [inter-governmental negotiations] earlier this year are captured in the body of the roll-over decision. Otherwise, we will be in the danger of endorsing an incorrect perspective of this year’s work and give an impression that nothing has transpired,” the letter said. The letter also emphasised the need to redress the “historical injustice against Africa” and to “ensure better African representation in a reformed Security Council in line with the Common African Position”. India and the three other countries also expressed their concerns about the inter-governmental negotiations since 2009, saying “there has been practically no progress in the discussions”. “Even the discussions are dubbed as informal and the UNGA rules of procedure do not apply. In eleven years, the situation has not changed. There has been no attempt to capture the discussions in a single consolidated text for negotiations,” the letter said. “In fact, the [inter-governmental negotiations] process has become a convenient smokescreen to hide behind for those who do not wish to see any reform in the Security Council. Consequently, there is a need to ensure that the...process is not held hostage, procedurally and substantially, by those who do not wish to bring about reform in the Security Council,” it further said. “If this happens, and there are indications that this is already happening, those who demand reform will be forced to look for other ways to achieve the same end outside the [inter-governmental negotiations] process,” it added. The letter also noted UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres’ call on July 18 for reform of the Security Council. It quoted him as saying, “The nations that came out on top more than seven decades ago have refused to contemplate the reforms needed to change power relations in international institutions...Inequality starts at the top: in global institutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-3-nations-call-for-unsc-reform/story-SUttWRWu2iXd6u1t0oTZYK.html
02-09-2020||India||Rajnath dials Opposition over Question Hour issue||Ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament beginning September 14, the government has reached out to the opposition, explaining why it will be difficult to schedule the Question Hour in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, people familiar with the development said. From the government , defence minister Rajnath Singh has called up several opposition leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress and Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress. Chowdhury confirmed that Singh called him and informed him that it will not be possible to schedule the Question Hour because it would require the presence of a large number of officials in Parliament to brief ministers. Singh assured him that the government will try to accommodate the opposition’s demand for the Zero Hour to continue so that members can raise urgent matters .During the conversations, both sides stressed the need for smooth functioning of Parliament during the monsoon session. Singh, who is known to share a good relationship with the opposition, made several calls to some of the parties to reassure them, but the opposition is adamant.Question Hour is usually the first hour of business in the House, when members can ask questions after having given notice 10 days earlier. Zero Hour follows Question Hour and is a more informal session where members can raise questions of public importance. Chowdhury had written a letter to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla last week, urging him not to do away with Question Hour and Zero Hour during the monsoon session. “You will kindly appreciate the fact that raising questions in Parliament, and issues of public importance during the Zero Hour are foremost of the procedural methods available to Members to vent issues of national and public interest,” Chowdhury wrote in the letter. “Curtailing the Question Hour and the Zero Hour by way of restricting the number of issues that could be raised and time earmarked would, therefore, not be in the interest of elected representatives,” he added. For his part, O’Brien argued strongly in favour of the Question Hour and insisted that the officials can brief the ministers virtually. “I will prove to them that if you don’t have private members’ bills, then you can have equal time as pre-pandemic time. Question Hour belongs to the opposition as ministers have to answer. This isn’t Parliament, this is M and S Private Limited (figure out abbreviation),” the Trinamool Congress leader said. Azad, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, and one of the 23 dissenters who wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking a complete overhaul of the party organization, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts to reach him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-dials-opposition-over-question-hour-issue/story-OUIyaZKTDfnfg7HiAEFQqM.html
02-09-2020||India||Delhi govt says efforts on to double Covid-19 testing, but in gradual manner||Six days after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that testing in Delhi would be doubled in a week’s time, the city administration on Tuesday said it has decided to scale up tests in a staggered manner, and indicated that the plan is likely to include opening new testing centres in some mohalla clinics.Senior officials in working with state health minister Satyendar Jain said a reflection of this “gradual increase” could be found in Tuesday’s health bulletin, which reflected the number of tests conducted in the city on Monday.“Ramping up Covid-19 testing in Delhi as per the directions of the CM has started from Monday. Yesterday, 24,198 tests were conducted -- which is over 6,600 more tests than the average of 17,500 tests per day that happened in the month of August,” the official in Jain’s office said when asked about the government’s plan of hitting the 40,000 tests per day mark.The 24,198 tests were the second highest number of tests conducted in the city so far -- after 24,592 tests conducted on August 8.The official said that apart from further increasing rapid antigen tests, the health minister has asked health secretary Padmini Singla to immediately explore ways of increasing RT-PCR testing capacity in Delhi. “The minister has opined that some mohalla clinics can be shut for the general public and can be used as dedicated Covid-19 testing centres. The health department has to identify which ones can be turned into testing centres and suggest other alternatives which can be executed simultaneously,” the official said. The minister was unavailable for comments.Delhi currently has over 450 operational mohalla clinics. Antigen tests generally provide results within hours and are relatively cheap, but they can give false negatives (in other words, they can miss positive cases). RT-PCR tests, on the other hand, is the most definitive test currently available for Covid-19 and experts say should be used to the extent possible, especially if authorities have the capacity to do so. The downside is that they can generally take 24-48 hours and needs specialised machines.According to Tuesday’s bulletin, RT-PCR tests also saw a marginal increase. Over the past one month, government was conducting an average of 5,465 RT-PCR tests per day against a capacity of over 11,000. On Monday, 7,198 tests were conducted through this molecular testing method in the last 24 hours, while 17,000 people were tested through the rapid antigen tests. When asked if the government is facing a shortage of RT-PCR kits, a second official in Jain’s office said they were adequately stocked. “As on date, the Delhi government has a stock of three lakh (300,000) RT-PCR kits at its disposal. The health department has initiated the process of procuring more kits - both of RT-PCR and rapid antigen. Since rapid antigen is cheaper, there is absolutely no dearth of those kits as well,” the official said.The government, however, said there is no deadline set on when the 40,000 tests per day mark will be achieved. But senior health officials said the escalation will not take more than a week. The government also said there is no set ratio of RT-PCR and antigen tests because it is not possible to put a cap on either of the forms of tests. On Tuesday, 2,312 new cases were reported in Delhi — the highest single-day case count since July 4 or 59 days — keeping with the trend of resurgence of daily infections in the city. The seven-day average of daily cases, which peaked at 3,446 on June 26 before falling to 983 on August 4, has now been rising for the 16th consecutive day. The positivity rate also continued to rise, with 9% of all tests conducted in the last week coming back positive, suggesting that an increasing proportion of Delhi residents are now carrying the virus. In terms of the single-day, 9.6% of samples tested in the last 24 hours came back positive.The spokesperson in the chief minister’s office said the process of ramping up tests got delayed because the state’s principal secretary (health), Vikram Dev Dutt, proposed to keep the matter in front of the Central government’s executive committee led by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul before moving on it. “The principal secretary (health) had written to the ministry of home affairs in this regard, but no response has been received on it yet from the Centre,” the spokesperson said.Dutt did not respond to calls and messages seeking a comment on the matter.A government spokesperson said in order to ramp up testing, the timings of all state-run dispensaries and seed PUHC (Primary Urban Health Centre) have now been extended by two hours. “Delhi government has 265 dispensaries and clinics, in addition to major hospitals where Covid-19 testing is available for free. This is where we expect the testing numbers to go up mainly. All Delhi government dispensaries and seed PUHCs are now testing patients between 9 am and 2 pm – for five hours instead of three hours,” the spokesperson said.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at ICMR said the Delhi government is on the right track of following the test, track and treat strategy. “But just increasing testing is not the point. Which form of testing is being increased is also significant. Ideally, rapid antigen tests should be conducted only in hospitals, containment zones and on special surveillance groups and high risk groups such as senior citizens. The primary form of testing ideally should be RT-PCR in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-says-efforts-on-to-double-testing-but-in-gradual-manner/story-kPcq1sXV80VFO6NEUXJ1eL.html
02-09-2020||India||Fresh guidelines for House panels on anvil||Parliament is preparing new guidelines for its standing committees that may include a minimum 15 days’ notice and confirmation by one-third of the members before holding a panel meeting; nomination of members based on their qualifications, interests and occupations; and at least 50% attendance while collecting evidence and adopting reports.Standing committees are an extension of Parliament. They engage in crucial reviews of the functioning of the government, and examine important public issues.The Rajya Sabha secretariat has already prepared draft guidelines after chairman Venkaiah Naidu reviewed the functioning of the eight standing committees under its purview. The Lok Sabha secretariat, however, is yet to draft their version. Once that exercise is over, common guidelines will be inked by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.To be sure, a whole set of dos and don’ts is already available in the rule books of the two Houses. But officials involved in the discussions pointed to an urgent need to bring functional guidelines to address vital issues related to the composition, performance, and work of the panels, given how the issues under their consideration are getting increasingly complex and specialised.On August 5, Naidu, who envisaged the guidelines as a part of larger parliamentary reforms, wrote to Birla, saying they should discuss various issues related to Standing Committees before revisiting the guidelines.“After the recommendations of this Committee of Officers (reviewing the Lok Sabha rules) are received, we may discuss the matter further before revising the guidelines,” Naidu wrote in the letter, which HT has seen.The draft guidelines prepared by the Upper House, which were also reviewed by HT, say that “meetings of the committees shall be convened with a minimum notice period of 15 days so as to enable the members to plan their travel and attend the meetings”.The draft guidelines add that “quorum of 1/3 of the total membership of the Committees shall be ensured in all the meetings of the Committees” and “efforts shall be made to ensure attendance of 50% of the total strength of the Committees while taking evidence and adoption of reports by the Committees”.While every MP is entitled to be a member of a Standing Committee, the draft guidelines say that “level of comfort of members with the issues to be discussed by the Committees and the domain knowledge of subject matter of the Committees is an enabling factor regarding attendance”.“All efforts shall be made to nominate members of parliament on various DRSCs based on their academic qualifications, interests and occupations being pursued,” the draft guidelines add, and “all political parties may be advised to consider the above” while recommending names of their MPs on various committees.It was during the 10th Lok Sabha (1991-1996), that 17 department-related standing committees were set up to review the functioning of ministries. The role of these panels is to review bills, discuss raging issues, and submit reports for the government to act upon. While the recommendations of the panel are not binding upon the government, the panels are an extension of Parliament and act as a robust review mechanism of India’s top legislative body.The current rules, as laid out from 331C to 331 N, talk about the number of members, discretion powers of the Rajya Sabha chairman and Lok Sabha speaker, that ministers can’t be a part of panels, and the one-year term of the panels, how no report can suggest a cut motion (a move to reduce budget expenses), and other rules of functioning.Chaksu Roy, head of Legislative and Civic Engagement, PRS Legislative Research said, “There is an urgent need to overhaul the rules governing parliamentary committees. It will bring operational clarity to their daily functioning, whether it’s regarding secrecy of meetings, quorum or calling of witnesses. With committees shouldering more legislative work it will bring much needed streamlining of their work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-guidelines-for-house-panels-on-anvil/story-WNlyl14V9nhGRba6o006mN.html
02-09-2020||India||3 Quad nations back strong supply chains||India, Australia and Japan on Tuesday agreed to launch an initiative to ensure the resilience of supply chains in the Indo-Pacific, with the move coming against the backdrop of tensions created by China’s aggressive actions across the region. The creation of the “Supply Chain Resilience Initiative” was mooted by Japan amid the Covid-19 crisis, which has played havoc with supply and manufacturing chains, and the three countries held preliminary discussions on the issue over the past few weeks, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. During their first virtual meeting on the issue, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and his Australian and Japanese counterparts, Simon Birmingham and Kajiyama Hiroshi, outlined their intention to work for the launch of the new initiative because of the “pressing need for regional cooperation on supply chain resilience in the Indo- Pacific”, a joint statement said. They signalled their determination to “take a lead in delivering a free, fair, inclusive, non-discriminatory, transparent, predictable and stable trade and investment environment and in keeping their markets open”, it added. The ministers instructed their officials to promptly work out details of the new initiative for its launch later this year, and called on other countries in the region with similar views to join the initiative, the statement said. The people cited above said the supply chain initiative was a natural follow on to the security cooperation between the three countries, both bilaterally and through platforms such as the Quadrilateral Dialogue Mechanism or Quad, which also includes the US. The three countries will now work with regional partners, including members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean), to build stronger supply and manufacturing chains that are protected from external shocks and influences, the people said. The three nations see countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia and New Zealand among the players who can have a key role in the initiative, the people added. The issue of supply chains found mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address on Independence Day, when he said: “Many businesses around the world see India as a supply chain hub today. Now we have to move forward with ‘make in world’ as well as ‘make for world’.” Addressing the trilateral meeting, Goyal said the initiative couldn’t have come at a more opportune time in the post-Covid-19 scenario, when there is a likelihood of churning of supply chains in the Indo-Pacific region and it was incumbent on the three countries to take the initiative. “The diversification of supply chain is critical for managing the risks associated with supply of inputs including disciplining price volatility. We could provide the core pathway for linking value chains in the region by creating a network of reliable long-term supplies and appropriate capacities,” he said. In order to improve competitiveness of sectors, the three countries may need to identify manufacturing and services sectors that contribute the most to domestic value addition in the region. “We support the need for specific activities listed for enhancing the resilience of the supply chains, which include those related to [promoting] and facilitating trade and investment as well as diversification of production base,” he said. Goyal noted that the cumulative GDP of Australia, India and Japan during 2019 was $ 9.3 trillion and their cumulative merchandise goods and services trade were $ 2.7 trillion and $0.9 trillion respectively. “With such a strong baseline, it is important that we use this opportunity to work towards enhancing the share of our trade and investment in the region,” he said. However, he pointed out that Japan’s procurement of many specific products from India was limited despite Japanese global imports being high. This includes sectors such as steel, marine products, processed agriculture, agro-chemicals, plastics, carpets, clothing and footwear. He expressed hope the proposed initiative would try to bridge this and work towards enhancing mutual trade. Former Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House who closely tracks the Quad, said the supply chain initiative has been in the works for some time. “Essentially, the thinking is that the Quad with its political, strategic and security elements isn’t enough of a response to the emerging situation in the Indo-Pacific and it needs an economic pillar, including deeper economic cooperation, trade, connectivity, supply chains and global and regional value chains,” he said. “It should be welcomed that India is moving in that direction. These are early days and concepts are being cleared. How effective this initiative will be will depend on action on the ground, and we don’t have much time to lose while focussing on the concretising of ideas,” Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-quad-nations-back-strong-supply-chains/story-WCTbf0IHqWYnZYhTsLhPxN.html
02-09-2020||India||Will push back against China in every domain: US||The US will push back against China’s aggressive actions, including its “outsized” territorial claims on the border with India, even as it eyes the possibility of formalising the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad as an alliance, a senior state department official has said. Deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun said China has been “picking a fight right now on virtually every front” and has “exploited every opportunity they can from technology theft to assertion of national sovereignty over the territory and territorial waters of other countries”, and the US is in a “concerted effort to push back on all fronts”. “Our strategy is to push back against China in virtually every domain. We’re doing it in the security area. We’re doing it in terms of outsized demands to claim sovereign territory, whether it’s in the Galwan Valley of India on the India-Chinese border, or whether it’s in the South Pacific. We’re also doing it economically,” he said. Biegun made the remarks during a conversation with Richard Varma, former US envoy to India, at a leadership summit organised by the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) late on Monday. Asked about China’s aggressive actions on the disputed border with India, in Hong Kong and across the Indo-Pacific, Biegun said the Donald Trump administration is focused on countering the “predatory practices from the Chinese economy” and is working to “balance out the US-China economic relationship”. China was welcomed into global institutions such as the World Trade Organisation (WTO) two decades ago in order to help the country transition to a more rules-based order, but this “experiment has failed across all the domains”, he said. He said that China “grew so quickly at the beginning of this century” that its “outsized influence in those institutions is instead seeking to transform those institutions to China’s interests”. This is unacceptable from the point of view of the US, which is pushing back in institutions such as the World Health Organization or World Intellectual Property Organization, he added. China is repressing the Tibetans and Uyghurs, has breached an agreement with the UK on the transition of Hong Kong, and is “near hostilities with the government of India” and “in a state of hostility with the people of Taiwan”, Biegun said. Replying to a question on the possibility of giving a formal shape to the Quad – an informal dialogue mechanism between Australia, India, Japan and the US – and whether the larger strategy behind it was counterbalancing the rise of China, Biegun said there was “certainly a temptation in governments” to formalise the mechanism. The Indo-Pacific, he noted, is lacking in “strong multilateral structures” such as NATO or the European Union. “The strongest institutions in Asia oftentimes are not inclusive enough, and so...there is certainly an invitation there at some point to formalise a structure like this,” he said. Biegun cautioned that responding to the threat of China itself would not be enough of a driver for such an organisation, and the goal of the US is to “create a critical mass around the shared values and interests...in a manner that attracts more countries in the Indo-Pacific...to be working in a common cause or even ultimately to align in a more structured manner”. He said Washington would keep its “ambitions checked to start with a very strong set of members”, and a formal alliance would only “happen if the other countries are as committed as the United States”. Biegun also noted that India had recognised that it “can’t be a passive player” in relation to developments in the Indo-Pacific region and this has driven the recent activities of the Quad, including a weekly meeting of the four members along with New Zealand, South Korea and Vietnam on ways to counter the Covid-19 pandemic. He also said a ministerial meeting of the Quad is expected to be held “this fall in Delhi – that’s the intention anyway – in person”. He added, “I’d say this Quad concept has really helped India find a place in the larger Indo-Pacific theatre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-push-back-against-china-in-every-domain-us/story-wxGIJCNB31mWHL0hCNvrdM.html
02-09-2020||India||Committed to maintaining stability along LAC: Chinese foreign min||The lack of a demarcated border between India and China will lead to problems, though Beijing is committed to maintaining stability along the disputed frontier, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi has said. Beijing is willing to resolve differences with New Delhi through dialogue, and it is India that is to blame for current tensions at the border, Wang contended while speaking at the French Institute of International Relations in Paris on Monday. The two sides shouldn’t allow their differences to become conflicts, he said, hours after the Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army (PLA) accused each other of triggering fresh tensions on the south bank of Pangong Lake along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Wang, who is on a week-long European tour that includes stops in France and Germany, made a speech and took questions from senior European politicians and executives. “The border between China and India has not been demarcated, so there will always be problems of this kind. We are willing to manage various problems through dialogue with the Indian side. At the same time, these issues should be placed in appropriate places in bilateral relations,” Wang said, according to a Mandarin transcript of the interaction released by China’s foreign ministry. “China-India relations have recently attracted the attention of all parties. What I want to tell you is China has always been committed to maintaining stability in the Sino-Indian border areas,” he added. “We will not take the initiative to complicate and expand the situation. Of course, we must also firmly safeguard our sovereignty and territorial integrity,” he said. Pointing to the consensus reached in meetings between President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Wang said: “Differences must be managed and controlled, especially not allowing differences to become conflicts.” Meanwhile, China’s foreign ministry continued to blame India for the latest tensions, with spokesperson Hua Chunying saying that even though the statements issued by the Indian and Chinese military on the incidents at Pangong Lake were different, there was “one simple truth” – China has never initiated a war or “taken an inch of land that is not ours” in more than 70 years. She reiterated China’s accusation that Indian troops violated the consensus and “illegally crossed the LAC at the southern bank of Pangong Lake and near Reqin mountain”. She added, “The Indian side has severely undermined China’s territorial sovereignty, breached bilateral agreements and important consensus, and damaged peace and tranquillity at the border areas, which runs counter to recent efforts made by both sides for de-escalation of tensions on the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-maintaining-stability-along-lac-chinese-foreign-min/story-UtNd1Rs54NcncSbbYTUQoO.html
02-09-2020||India||Fresh clash shows grim reality: Experts||India’s acknowledgement of a fresh faceoff with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) reflects the grim reality of the situation along the disputed border after several rounds of talks couldn’t take forward the disengagement process, experts said. A statement from the Indian Army said soldiers had pre-empted “provocative military movements” by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to change the status quo on the night of August 29-30. It added that these actions “violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements” during the standoff in Eastern Ladakh that began in early May. Over the past few weeks, after several rounds of talks between corps commanders on the ground and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the differences between the two sides on the disengagement and de-escalation process have emerged in the open. The Chinese side has even referred to both sides having “positively evaluated the progress” in disengagement, but the Indian side has insisted that the process remains a work in progress and more needs to be done to take it forward. At the last weekly news briefing of the external affairs ministry, spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said “complete disengagement requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”, which can be done only through “mutually agreed reciprocal actions” by both sides. Former navy chief Admiral (retired) Arun Prakash said the time had come for the Indian side to do a “reality check and prepare for the worst”. He added, “It’s a grim situation.” The Indian side, Prakash believes, has misread the situation especially since the actions of the Chinese side have often differed from it said. “They seem to have decided to restore their boundary to whatever it was according to their historical interpretation,” he said. More significantly, the latest clash occurred on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, where most of the friction in this area has been on the northern bank. The Chinese actions also run counter to Chinese envoy SunWeidong’s assertion last week that the “existing situation on the ground is under control on the whole and there is no fresh standoff between the two forces”. The envoy has even described the June 15 clash – which resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties – as “a brief moment from the perspective of history”. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the latest clash reflected the “obdurate attitude of the Chinese in resolving the standoff” along the LAC. “The incident goes against what their diplomats have been saying. The Chinese are suing the diplomatic track to create a smokescreen while the Central Military Commission headed by President Xi Jinping is pushing the case on the ground,” he said. Patil also believes the latest Chinese action could be part of efforts to shift the domestic narrative after several photos shared widely on China’s social media platforms purported to show the graves of Chinese troops killed in the June 15 clash. “There have been at least four such images of tombstones and maybe the Chinese want to stonewall the domestic narrative and shift it to one of protecting national interests,” he said. Former navy chief Prakash said India will need to “keep its feet firmly on the ground and look for alliances and partnerships” to tackle the challenges facing it. “If things take a military or kinetic turn, escalation won’t be in our hands,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-clash-shows-grim-reality-experts/story-Sc5Fc5xlo0kaj9jdgpsD7N.html
02-09-2020||India||India occupies key LAC heights as tensions spiral||Border tensions with China have spiralled in the sensitive Ladakh sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to prevent the Chinese People Liberation’s Army (PLA) from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. The PLA made a second provocative move on August 31 but the Indian Army took “timely defensive action” to thwart the Chinese attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo in the sector, the ministry of external affairs said on Tuesday. The army is on high alert to deal with any adventurism by the PLA in the sector, where both armies have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces; and are within each other’s rifle range, said an official cited above, requesting anonymity. While India said on Monday that it had pre-empted China’s “provocative military movements” to change the status quo along the LAC on the lake’s southern bank, China claimed that the Indian Army “broke the consensus” reached at talks and “illegally crossed the line again near the south bank of Pangong Lake and Reqin Pass, making a blatant provocation and causing tension.”The Indian Army is holding a series of positions near Black Top (a hill feature) and on Rezang La and Reqin pass that are on the Indian side of the LAC and allow the army to completely dominate the area and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, said a second official. Specialist mountain troops played a key role in taking these heights and one of them was killed in a landmine blast. The second provocative action by the PLA on August 31 was targeted at these heights held by the Indian Army, the official said. “The Indian Army’s taking up positions on the lake’s southern bank was the most befitting action to pre-empt what was seen as inevitable along this part of the LAC,” said Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd), a former army vice chief. The latest developments have deepened the trust deficit between the two sides and dealt a blow to efforts to reduce tensions in the Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. Defence minister Rajnath Singh held a meeting with external affairs minister S Jaishankar, national security adviser Ajit Doval and the top military brass to review the latest developments in eastern Ladakh, with the focus on the volatile situation near the Pangong Lake following the Indian Army’s pre-emptive military move and the counter-action by the PLA. “Indian troops pre-empted PLA activity on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground,” army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said on Monday, without elaborating on the nature of the Chinese provocation and how Indian soldiers blocked PLA’s actions. Another flag meeting of brigade commanders was held at Chushul on Tuesday to de-escalate tensions but its outcome was not immediately known. More than 200 Chinese soldiers were involved in the attempt to occupy Indian territory, but a sufficient number of Indian troops – armed with accurate intelligence about PLA movements in the area -- warded off the threat. Until now, tensions in this sector were confined to the Finger Area on Pangong Lake’s northern bank. The army said on Monday that while it was committed to maintaining peace and tranquility along the LAC through dialogue, it was equally determined to protect the country’s territorial integrity. Experts said the military and diplomatic talks or economic measures against China haven’t led to any change in PLA’s behaviour in the Ladakh sector. “We need to review if these steps have had any impact at all. It is clear that China has no plans to restore status quo ante. On the contrary, it is constantly making efforts to change the status quo and continues to use the military option,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). The PLA has sparked fresh tensions along the LAC at a time when military and diplomatic talks with China to implement a complex disengagement plan have hit a wall. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly the northern bank of Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains an area of key concern for the Indian Army. The Finger Area – a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong Lake – has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in the Gogra area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-occupies-key-lac-heights-as-tensions-spiral/story-wbZZWS8VUF6q5bfxR8D9nI.html
02-09-2020||India||Offices in the Central Vista area can’t have ‘heritage’ shield: Govt||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the Central government offices located in or near Central Vista cannot be said to fall within the “Central Vista Precincts” and will not enjoy the protection available to heritage buildings. An affidavit filed in this regard by New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) was presented to the Court by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who presented arguments in defence of the Government action to approve change of land use for the Central Vista project that involves construction of a new Parliament and a common Central Secretariat housing 51 Central government buildings. The affidavit said, “Only the Rajpath along with the green lawns and the water bodies on either side is designated as the Central Vista Precincts….This does not include any other offices located at Central Vista.” The affidavit goes on to mention that “buildings such as Nirman Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan, Rail Bhawan, Krishi Bhawan, Vayu Bhawan, etc” cannot be termed as heritage buildings as the same are not listed in the list of 141 Heritage Buildings notified by the Government on October 1, 2009. This list was finalized on basis of a report received from INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) and Heritage Conservation Committee. Solicitor General Mehta informed the Court that the Central Vista precincts comprising Rajpath along with the green lawns and water bodies on either side will remain untouched in the proposed Central Vista Project that involves a budget of Rs 20000 crore. Mehta added that the Project will not hinder public access to Central Vista Precincts. Mehta’s arguments come in the wake of reservationS expressed in a clutch of petitions by Rajeev Suri, Anuj Srivastava and AG Krishna Menon who opposed the hurried manner in which the Centre went about giving approvals for the Central Vista Project. They claimed that the entire Parliament and surrounding structures enjoyed the “heritage building” tag and could not be destroyed. It was further apprehended by the petitioners that once the new structures are in place, the area would be marked as “High Security Zone” closing public access to Rajpath, lawns and water bodies adjoining it. A three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar posed queries to Mehta on the procedure of public hearing adopted by Government and the notification of March 20, 2020 issued by DDA approving the change in land use. Ths Solicitor General told the Court that public the hearing contemplated for amending the Master Plan of Delhi required Government only to invite objections. Close to 1292 objections were received in connection to the Central Vista Project following which a public hearing was also conducted on February 6 and 7. As regards the March 20 notification, Mehta said that an executive order passed by Ministry of Urban Development in 2013 has delegated power to Vice Chairman, DDA to issue ‘change in land use’ notification. Although the Central Vista project has been challenged on multiple grounds, the bench is currently hearing petitioners and Centre on a limited aspect related to change in land use. The project envisages a new Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, and a common Central Secretariat housing 51 Ministries in 10 buildings. The proposed Lok Sabha chamber is expected to accommodate 876 seats and the Rajya Sabha chamber 400 seats. The new complex will provide for 1224 seats in the Central Hall, equipped with state-of-the-art technology and seamless movement between both Houses of Parliament. Advocate Ankit Yadav, who is representing one of the petitioners, said, “Assurance given by the Centre that Central Vista precincts will remain open to public, allays our concerns that area around Rajpath will not be converted into high security zone. But, the stand taken by NDMC that office buildings situated in Central Vista do not fall in heritage zone is disputed by us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offices-in-the-central-vista-area-can-t-have-heritage-shield-govt/story-jmUNlzQVGK4FdmVWDPxYhN.html
02-09-2020||India||70% of BJP’s poll campaign will be physical: Sushil Modi||Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi has welcomed the Election Commission’s decision to proceed with the assembly polls due to take place in the eastern state later this year even amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi, who belongs to the Bharatiyas Janata Party (BJP), also said there was no sense of panic in Bihar ad claimed that the ruling Janata Dal (United), BJP and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) coalition will win a three-fourths majority. Edited excerpts: There are going to be polls in Bihar in the middle of a pandemic, which is an unprecedented situation. How will this election be different for you?Yes, it is a very different election. To conduct it with all the Covid restrictions is a challenge but no one knows how long the pandemic will stay. We know the floods will end by September and we would know how long a drought lasts, but with this pandemic, we don’t know if it’s here for another six months or two years. So a democratic process cannot be stopped. Polls have been conducted in 34 countries across the world. So even though it will be very difficult, there is no other option but to conduct them. I think the Election commission has taken the right decision.But a lot of countries opened up after Covid numbers started going down. In India, the numbers are still rising and now the daily case figures are the highest in the world. One of your own allies, Chirag Paswan (of the LJP), has also joined the opposition in demanding that the polls are deferred. What if the polls spread the disease?It is for the EC to decide, firstly. Number 2, now there is no panic in Bihar. Now Bihar is also Number 1 in testing ( testing more than 100,000 patients a day). Most of the hospitals are empty, AIIMS {All India Institute of Medical Sciences}, Patna, which was filled in the first week of August, is now 70% empty. So now people are also used to tackling Covid and the kind of scare that was there before is no longer there. Eight percent of patients are in home quarantine, which is the best option. Only 5% of patients need ventilator support. So there is a big difference from before.As campaigning begins, how much will the BJP rely on physical campaigning?More than 70% will be physical campaigning. Even earlier, the Bihar campaign was very different from {that in} other states. There are three kinds of campaigning. The big rallies by hiring helicopters will no longer be there. The ones that attract 40,000-50,000 or 1 lakh crowds, will not be there. Door-to-door was the most effective campaign because all voters don’t attend meetings. Earlier and this time as well, there is no bar on door-to-door meetings. When I was fighting the Bhagalpur election, I only organised {LK} Advaniji’s meeting and no other meeting. These meetings don’t fetch votes. In the last assembly elections, Narendra Modiji had more than 30 meetings and we only won 53 seats. So instead of these meetings, door-to-door campaigns and road shows work. Anyway, in the last moment of an exam, what you do doesn’t matter, what matters is what we have done in the last 4.5 years. Big manifesto and promises doesn’t make a difference, voters normally make up their minds earlier.Today is the day that the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) is starting and the opposition has pointed out that it shouldn’t have taken place because of not just Covid but also because of floods. The fact that the exams are going ahead -- will there be anger in the community? Will that be a factor in the polls? It is not going to be a factor as most students are happy with the exams. Imagine, the number of students appearing would be double and the seats would be the same. There is no problem in Bihar as the floods are in remote areas, but the {exam} centres are mostly in district headquarters. Students preparing for exams are either in block headquarters or district headquarters and there is no problem in any of the blocks or districts. I have not seen a single demonstration with more than 100 people and most of them are political workers. Have you seen any student participating in those? Media is showing 10 people standing with placards, don’t know who they are.What about migrants? So many have had to come back to their villages jobless, some of them walking back. Won’t it be a factor? People know that it’s not the government’s fault, they are intelligent enough. MIgrants came back to Bihar, more than 21 lakh migrants of the state used the free train service and didn’t have to pay. And when they reached their home, they were so happy. And now when Narendra Modi announced free ration, they have five months of food in their home and so they are not worried.But we also so many people walking. Some people died on the way. They could blame the government for not giving them any warning of the lockdown.Was it possible to announce it before? It took one month to transport 21 lakh people by train...People are happy that they reached home. How many people walked from Bombay to Patna? Is there a single example? Is it possible to walk 2,000 km? I understand their misery, their problems but they also understand that it wasn’t possible for the government to organise everything. There were some issues initially. but ultimately they were happy when they reached home.If what you’re saying is correct, then why is it that your own alliance partner Chirag Paswan criticising the chief minister {Nitish Kumar} for his handling of Covid?I will not answer anybody else’s question. Everybody has the right to make their point. It’s for the people of Bihar to decide.Do you think Paswan may be on his way out of the alliance? We are confident that Lok Janshakti Party and the BJP will fight elections together.Last time, Kanhaiya Kumar fought election on a Left ticket and his not being with Mahagathbandhan divided their votes. This time they are all fighting together. Will it impact your chances?The Left is hardly a force in Bihar, they are a spent force. So RJD {Rashtriya Janata Dal} aligning with any other party doesn’t mean anything. There is a huge gap in the vote share between BJP and these parties. The credibility of these parties- the RJD, the Congress -- they don’t have a leadership. And leaders like Lalu Yadav--we can’t help him come out of jail but if he comes out of jail, and he campaigns, it will benefit NDA {National Democratic Alliance} more. We will not have to remind people that here is the man who gave jungle raj to Bihar. So RJD is a polarising party and wherever they fight an election, they create a combination of two castes; all other castes and social groups combine together. These smaller parties don’t make any difference. When BJP, JDU came together in 2010 elections, RJD got only 22 assembly seats and Lalu Yadav campaigned like anything. So when JDU and RJD combined, they defeated BJP. It’s much stronger and we don’t think there will be any difficulty in getting three-fourths majority in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-of-bjp-s-poll-campaign-will-be-physical-sushil-modi/story-w9S90njNZt89uWpHNw2EmO.html
02-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Centre to issue guidelines for Metro services today||The ministry of housing and urban affairs on Tuesday held a meeting with metro corporations to finalise the standard operating procedures (SOP) for operating metro services allowed under ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines, which will be issued on Wednesday following the home ministry’s nod, officials aware of the development said.The meeting on Tuesday chaired by urban housing ministry’s secretary Durga Shankar Mishra was attended by the managing directors of 15 metro rail corporations, officials said. The home ministry on Saturday issued guidelines for the fourth phase of an exercise to lift restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), announcing that metro rail services can resume in a graded manner from September 7.“As informed earlier, Metro Rail operations have been allowed w.e.f. 7th September, 2020. The SOPs already circulated were discussed today through VC by D.S Mishra, Secretary, MOHUA with MD’s of various Metro companies. The suggestions were considered in the VC meeting and accordingly SOPs are being finalised. MOHUA minister Sh Hardeep S Puri, will be announcing SOPs/guidelines in this regard on 2nd September,” ministry spokesperson Rajeev Jain said. The guidelines issued the home ministry said that the standard operating procedure (SOP) for this will be issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs.“We discussed the broad outline of the guidelines today. The same will need to be discussed and finalised with the home ministry tomorrow (Wednesday) and issued by afternoon. We heard suggestions of metro managing directors, which will be considered and accordingly the SOP will be finalised. The final guidelines will be announced by the minister on Wednesday,” an official part of the meeting said.Corporations have been asked to prepare a list of stations where trains will begin operations in consultation with the state governments.Passengers will have to follow strict guidelines on wearing masks and practicing social distancing norms failure of which may result in fines, officials said.Passengers travelling in metro trains are also not going to be allowed to use tokens anymore as the Centre has plans of implementing a contactless ticketing system using only metro cards, once restrictions on public transport are lifted, Hindustan Times had reported on April 30.The metro rail companies are also free to impose their own restrictions based on the condition of the virus in the region, officials had told HT earlier. “Broadly we may have few stoppages and open the stations in a phase-wise manner, there will mandatory thermal screening, face masks, social distancing, contact-less ticketing etc, which will have to be practiced,” an official aware of the development had said.The new norms on resumption of metro rail are likely to include contact-less ticketing through metro cards, increase in the average stoppage time at each station, markings for queues across all stations to control crowds and maintaining social distancing and an overhaul in the air conditioning system inside the trains to ensure supply of fresh air.In addition to this, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which provides security to Metros, has chalked out protocols to ensure smooth and contactless travel in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-likely-to-issue-guidelines-on-wednesday-after-meeting-officials-of-15-metro-corporations/story-6JYxRtZ5omk3VH0DoUFxxH.html
02-09-2020||India||China resorted to provocative action, violated agreements, says India||India on Tuesday said China resorted to provocative action a day earlier when it attempted to change the status quo on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake even as military-level talks were underway. China’s actions this year have been in clear violation of agreements, a spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs said.The Chinese side, India said, has “engaged in provocative military manoeuvres in the late night of 29th and on 30th August in an attempt to change the status quo in the South Bank area of Pangong Lake”.Also read: China provokes again, tries to alter status quoThe Indian Army said on Monday they responded to these provocative actions and took appropriate defensive measures along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in order to safeguard the country’s interests and defend its territorial integrity.“As stated yesterday by Indian Army, the Indian side responded to these provocative actions and took appropriate defensive measures along the LAC in order to safeguard our interests and defend the territorial integrity,” the statement released by MEA stated. The officials said due to timely defensive action by troops, the Indian side was able to prevent these attempts to unilaterally alter status quo.Without citing the clash in the Galwan Valley in June, India said China’s actions since earlier this year along the LAC clearly violate bilateral agreements and protocols concluded between the two countries to ensure peace and tranquillity on the border.“The actions and behavior of the Chinese side since earlier this year along the LAC has been in clear violation of the bilateral agreements and protocols concluded between the two countries to ensure peace and tranquility on the border. Such actions are also in complete disregard to the understandings reached between the two Foreign Ministers as also the Special Representatives,” the statement read. Also read| China in 70 years has not occupied an inch of foreign land: BeijingIndia indicated that the issue of China’s recent provocative and aggressive actions was taken up in both diplomatic and military channels. China, India said, was “urged to discipline and control their frontline troops from undertaking such provocative actions”.MEA officials said that Indian side is firmly committed to resolving all outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector through peaceful dialogue and expects China to sincerely abide by the understanding established by both the countries to restore peace and tranquillity along the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-china-resorted-to-provocative-action-yesterday-its-actions-this-year-have-been-in-clear-violation-of-agreements/story-SkjmLd9r6PA8SWaRD2ErYM.html
02-09-2020||India||Podcast: The Life and Times of Amit Varma||This week, Amit Varma joins Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) to talk about his continuously evolving career, his libertarian ideology, and his views on nationalism.  This week, Amit joins Milan on the show to reflect on his career as a journalist, author, entrepreneur, podcast host, and--yes--professional poker player. Milan talks to Amit about his libertarian leanings, his views on nationalism, and why exactly India has so few economic reformers.If you’re listening to this podcast, chances are you are a fan of the podcast, “The Seen and the Unseen.” For 186 episodes and counting, the journalist Amit Varma has been putting together some of the most thoughtful, insightful and eclectic conversations with the best and brightest in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/podcast-the-life-and-times-of-amit-varma/story-59aPGzl1fjmbmf0DznllAM.html
02-09-2020||India||Plea seeking deferment of Bihar elections dismissed in SC||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea against the election commission’s decision to hold assembly elections in Bihar amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, saying the commission would have considered all aspects.The state assembly elections are scheduled to be held in October. A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan dismissed a PIL (public interest litigation) filed by a Muzaffarpur resident Avinash Thakur seeking postponement of the elections.Pointing to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state and floods that have displaced thousands of residents in 14 districts of north Bihar, the petition argued that the health of citizens should be paramount and not holding elections. The petition cited a newspaper clipping of August 12 in which the chief election commissioner was quoted saying that elections to the 243-member assembly in Bihar would be held as per schedule. “The election commission will take care of every situation. They must be considering everything,” the bench observed. Political parties in the state are divided over holding elections during a pandemic. Some parties such as the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) have requested deferment of polls. Left parties have supported this demand. However, the ruling combine of the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have indicated that they are happy to go ahead with the elections. The petitioner’s counsel, Neeraj Shekhar, said the Representation of People’s Act gives power to the commission to defer polls. He asked the court to seek a report from the commission or the state authorities to assess the situation on the ground. He stated that there is a ban on any political, social or cultural gathering in the state due to Covid-19 at present.The election commission is getting poll-ready though the dates have not been announced yet. Recently, the poll panel released guidelines for the conduct of polls in Bihar, which provide for the “last hour of polls” to be used for voting by Covid-19 patients and those suspected of having the disease.Only 1,000 voters at each polling station will be permitted. All voters will undergo temperature checks and wearing of masks shall be compulsory. The guidelines provide that a candidate’s convoy will have no more than five cars. Three persons at a time have been permitted for door-to-door canvassing.“Politicians and administration are focusing on election preparation instead of battling with floods and Covid-19,” the petitioner told the bench. Shekhar urged the court to consider the ground situation and direct the election commission to not ask the state government to recommend holding of elections. The bench, also comprising justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, said, “We cannot interfere with the process of elections. What you suggest cannot be a ground to stop elections. This kind of petition under Article 32 cannot be entertained.” The petitioner decided to withdraw his plea. Shekhar made a final request to move a representation to the election commission in this regard. The bench said that this right was available to the petitioner even otherwise and refused to pass any direction to the effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-seeking-deferment-of-bihar-elections-dismissed-in-sc/story-px7f189i4rA4UKemI75OoI.html
02-09-2020||India||Flouting Covid-19 norms in metro may attract heavy fines once it reopens||Travelling without a face mask, sitting on seats that are meant to be left vacant in order to maintain social distancing, spitting, and littering in trains or platforms, may attract hefty fines once Delhi Metro services resume in the Capital, according to people familiar with the matter. A flying squad of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which guards the Delhi Metro, will be on the lookout for any violation of rules that have been put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19. The fines could start from Rs 500 for first-time offenders and are likely to be scaled up significantly for a repeat offence, the people added.Delhi Metro services have remained suspended since March 22, when the “janta curfew” (voluntary curfew) was observed on an appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, two days before a 68-day national lockdown was imposed. While other modes of public transport have been allowed with restrictions since then, as part of a gradual “unlocking”, Metro services -- including the Delhi Metro, which caters to nearly 2.4 daily million passengers -- have remained suspended.Also Read: To reach 40k tests target, Delhi govt clinics to stay open longerWhen the Delhi Metro will begin has not been announced yet, but there have been indications that its resumption could be a part of the next unlock norms to be announced before September 1.Decisions regarding new protocols for the Metro -- whenever it resumes -- were taken in a meeting convened by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday, and attended by senior officers from CISF and the Delhi Police. The meeting was also attended by senior police officers from the adjoining states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, as the Delhi Metro also operates services to parts of these states that fall within the National Capital Region (NCR). One of the officials who was a part of the meeting said on condition of anonymity that it was decided all guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research must be strictly followed. “Any passenger who is caught spitting or dirtying will be fined. Those who do not follow rules like wearing a mask; are found sitting on seats that are to be left vacant; or deliberately violating social distancing norms will also be fined,” the official said. Also Read: Govt asks states to focus on elderly to reduce fatalitiesWhen contacted, deputy inspector general, CISF, Jitender Rana, said the force’s Alpha teams and flying squads will step up checks and monitoring. “Apart from our regular security work, our teams will also keep an eye out for anyone disrupting hygiene on Delhi Metro, thereby putting fellow passengers at risk. Such violators will be caught and fined,” Rana said. A third officer privy to the developments said: “The fine will be of ₹500 for a first-time offender and may go up significantly for repeat offenders. Those not complying or refusing to pay the fine may be prosecuted and be handed over to the Delhi Metro Rail Police (DMRP), a unit of the Delhi Police,” he said. The third officer added that the CISF personnel checking commuters at entry points will wear personal protective equipment. Before passengers can enter the station, their will be checked for body temperature, masks, and their status on Aarogya Setu app will be verified. “This may cause queues outside the station and so a Delhi Police personnel will be deployed to ensure social distancing,” he said, adding that access gates to stations will be opened depending upon the footfall and size of the station.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayOther norms in Delhi Metro once it starts operations include a ban on the use of tokens, introduction of automatic top-up facility to recharge smart cards, designated spots for passengers at platforms and controlled air-conditioning, with the temperature to be maintained at 26 degrees Celsius.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last week urged the Centre to resume Metro services in the national capital, saying the people of city were requesting for it. “We have taken this up with the central government on several occasions. We have urged the Centre to explore the possibility of resuming Metro services in Delhi, while keeping it prohibited in other states. Delhi is a special case because we have the Covid-19 situation under control,” he had said at a webinar with traders.A DMRC spokesperson confirmed that a meeting was held with security officials on Thursday. The spokesperson, however, declined to comment on what transpired at the meeting.Prashant Kumar, 27, a resident of Mehrauli, who works at a private finance firm in Connaught Place, said since the Metro is shut, he has been forced to take cabs. “Working from home isn’t an option every day. We have to go to office and cab refunds are not provided by the company. The expense is too much for me. We’ve been waiting for Metro services to resume. If the government can resume flights, it can also take due precautions and resume the Metro service,” Kumar said.In nearly all countries hit hard by Covid-19, lockdown restrictions, including those on public transit, have been lifted after the peak of daily cases had abated and remained low. This trend has been consistent in countries such as Italy, Spain, Germany, South Korea, and Japan. Epidemiologists have also warned against resuming Metro services, citing an increase in Delhi’s case positivity rate. In fact, as on Friday, Delhi had logged an average of 1,544 new cases of the infection in the past seven days — the highest since mid-July.Doctor Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, said in Delhi, the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing every day. “The positivity rate is already on the rise. So if the population is mixing, it is likely to increase the chances of infection,” he said.Sewa Ram, professor and head of the department of transport and planning, School of Planning and Architecture, New Delhi, said there was a similar fear with running DTC buses, but Metro has a better infrastructure. “However, modifications will be required. The authorities will need to ensure contactless travel, social distancing and operational changes. There needs to have stringent measures and checks. If it’s done the right way, reopening of the Metro will be of immense help to people who depend on it for their mobility,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-wearing-masks-dirtying-the-metro-sitting-on-restricted-seats-will-attract-hefty-fines-dmrc/story-e9zj3sbfDGnsY0rhiiztfK.html
02-09-2020||India||Supreme Court junks demand to stay Bihar elections due to Covid-19 pandemic||Bihar is the first state to go to polls during the Covid-19 pandemic and amid preparations being made by the Election Commission (EC) for holding elections two months from now, the Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the first sign of resistance to EC’s decision. A three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan dismissed a PIL filed by a Muzaffarpur resident Avinash Thakur seeking postponement of Assembly elections due in October this year. Pointing to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state and floods which have displaced lakhs of residents in 14 districts of north Bihar, the petition stated that at present, the health of citizens should be the paramount consideration of the state authorities. The petition cited a news clipping of August 12 where the Chief Election Commissioner was quoted saying that elections to the 243-member Assembly in Bihar will be held as per schedule. Also read: All Lok Sabha MPs will be requested to undergo Covid tests, says SpeakerThe bench observed, “the Election Commission will take care of every situation. They must be considering everything.” The petitioner’s counsel Neeraj Shekhar said that the Representation of People’s Act gives power to the EC to defer the polls. He asked the Court to seek a report from the EC or the state authorities to assess the situation on the ground. He stated that presently, there is a ban on any political, social or cultural gathering in the state due to the pandemic. “Politicians and administration are focusing on election preparation instead of battling flood and Covid-19,” the petitioner told the bench. Shekhar urged the Court to consider the ground situation and direct the EC not to ask the state government to recommend holding assembly elections. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, said, “We cannot interfere with the process of elections. What you suggest cannot be a ground to stop elections. This kind of petition under Article 32 cannot be entertained.” The petitioner decided to withdraw his plea. Shekhar made a final request to move a representation to the EC in this regard. The bench said that this right was available to the petitioner even otherwise and refused to pass any direction to this effect. Political parties in the state are divided over holding elections during the pandemic. Some political parties, like the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) have requested deferment of polls. The Left parties too have supported this demand. However, the ruling combine of Janata Dal (United) and Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) are happy to go ahead with the election. The EC is getting poll-ready although dates have not been announced yet. Recently, the poll panel released guidelines for conducting polls in Bihar which provide the “last hour of poll” to allow Covid-19 patients. Those suspected of having the disease will also have the opportunity to cast votes at the respective polling stations. Only 1,000 voters to each polling station have been permitted by the EC. All voters will undergo temperature checks and the wearing of mask shall be compulsory. The EC guidelines further provide that the poll candidate’s convoy will have only five cars. Three persons will be permitted to conduct a door-to-door campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-junks-demand-to-stay-bihar-elections-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-HMae6rogfs4XbuAJi9qinI.html
02-09-2020||India||Bihar elections: NDA seat-sharing a challenge||The seat-sharing talks for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections – slated to be held on schedule in October and November, despite the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak – are yet to begin. Both the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the opposition Grand Alliance (GA) appear have adopted a wait-and-watch approach even though poll preparations are in progress. The NDA has announced that it would go to polls under the leadership of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, but recent developments show that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) might have to perform a balancing act to satisfy the ego of its two allies at the Centre – the Janata Dal (U), or JD (U), and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The ruling JD (U) is strengthening itself by inducting several party hoppers and more are likely to join ahead of the upcoming polls.Jitan Ram Manjhi, former Bihar CM and the chief of Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAM-S) had last week quit the GA and joined the NDA. Majhi’s inclusion in the NDA fold appears to have increased the prospects of the ruling coalition’s chances in the elections for the 243-member Bihar assembly.But LJP president Chirag Paswan has been a thorn in CM Kumar’s flesh for quite a while now. He has been relentlessly attacking Kumar and simultaneously praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a calibrated poll strategy. Though Paswan may not quit the NDA, he also does not want to compromise with his growing aspirations in his native state, Bihar. He is trying to stake a claim for a higher number of seats, which the JD(U) is opposed to. In 2015, when the JD (U) was not in the NDA, the LJP had contested 42 seats but could win only two. The party wants to contest in as many seats this time around as well while citing 100% winning rate in last year’s parliamentary polls. The JD (U) has steered clear of the seat-sharing arrangement with the LJP. The JD (U) wants the BJP to handle the vexed issue as the party maintains that it does not have an alliance with the LJP in Bihar.The BJP has been giving a measured response to the ongoing war of attrition between the JD (U) and the LJP. However, the JD (U) has frequently expressed its displeasure over Paswan’s relentless attacks. The nomination of 12 seats to the Bihar Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota is also in limbo. The stalemate, according to BJP and JD (U) insiders, is due to the indecision over the LJP. The sticking point has been whether to give a seat to the LJP over which there is a disagreement between the BJP and the JD (U).In this season of pre-poll ferment, six sitting legislators of the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) have defected to the JD (U). BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal is trying to put up a united front amid the widespread defections and party hopping. “We will work toegther on our traditional seats, as we have a strong force of committed party workers,” he said.Most of the RJD turncoat lawmakers had won big in 2015 assembly polls.For instance, Chandrika Rai had defeated LJP’s Chotelal Rai from Parsa assembly seat five years ago. In 2010, Chotelal Rai was in the JD (U) and had defeated RJD’s Chandrika Rai to end his five-time consecutive winning streak.Similarly, Dr Faraz Fatmi of the RJD had won the Keoti assembly seat in Darbhanga district after defeating his nearest BJP rival Ashok Kumar Yadav. Now, Faraz, the son of four-time Darbhanga Member of Parliament, MAA Fatmi, has followed his father to join the JD (U). The defection has queered the pitch for the BJP candidate, who had won the seat thrice prior to 2015 after defeating the RJD candidate.Jay Vardhan Yadav alias Bachcha Yadav, the grandson of ‘Sher-e-Bihar’ Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav, had also won the Paliganj seat in 2015 defeating BJP’s Ram Janm Sharma. BJP’s Usha Vidyarthi had won the seat in 2010 and is said to be again planning to stake her claim.Five-time MLA from Gaighat in Muzaffarpur Maheshwar Prasad has also switched to the JD (U). Last time, he had defeated BJP’s Veena Devi by a margin of 3,500 votes. Veena Devi had won the seat in 2010, while Yadav had defeated the JD (U) candidate in 2005.The switchover of Prema Choudhary, a three-time RJD MLA from Patepur in Vaishali, to JD (U) will create a similar trouble. Choudhary had defeated BJP’s Mahendra Baitha in 2010. It has been a Baitha vs Choudhary show in Patepur since 1995.Dr Ashok Kumar alias Kushwaha won twice on a RJD ticket from Sasaram. He had defeated the BJP candidate Jawahar Prasad in 2015. While in 2010, Prasad had defeated Kushwaha.Sources said Bihar could witness another round of party hopping , as aspiring candidates look for winning seats and combinations. One of the names doing the rounds is that of Hilsa RJD MLA Shakti Singh Yadav. He could switch over to the JD (U). RJD veteran Raghuvansh Peasad Singh is also upset with the party’s move to induct Rama Singh. However, his next move is still not clear. JD (U) minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav has attributed the defections to CM Kumar’s pull as a charismatic leader in state politics.Shaibal Gupta, member secretary of Patna-based Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), said there would be some prickly issues over seat adjustments within the NDA due to recent inductions in the JD(U) on assembly constituencies traditionally fought by the BJP and LJP. “But the BJP is a disciplined party and it will try to settle these issues amicably,” he added. NK Choudhary, former head, department of economics, Patna University (PU), said the pressure on the BJP would be to satisfy all its NDA constituents. “That is the art of politics. The JD (U) is doing its own brand of politics through growing bonhomie with Manjhi in a bid to cut the LJP to size. However, the LJP will not compromise its presence in the Union Cabinet and national politics. The LJP is indulging in pressure politics, which is quite natural. Ultimately, it will require deft handling by the BJP and JD (U) may have to make some compromises,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-elections-nda-seat-sharing-a-challenge/story-XasVoH84CFc6iBR8ifDY4M.html
02-09-2020||India||JP Nadda summons Bihar BJP MPs for meeting to finalise poll strategy||BJP national president J P Nadda has convened a meeting of party MPs from the state in New Delhi on August 29 to finalise strategy for the assembly polls due later this year, sources said.Nadda had addressed a meeting of the executive committee of the party’s Bihar unit on Sunday,All 17 BJP MPs from Bihar and general secretary and the party’s state in-charge Bhupender Yadav have been asked to attend the meet. Rajya Sabha members of BJP from Bihar have also been invited, sources said.The meeting comes ahead of seat sharing talks with allies JD(U) and LJP, which are expected to take place any day after September 6, when the current lockdown in Bihar is scheduled to end.On Sunday, Nadda had reiterated the BJP leadership’s stand that the NDA will contest the assembly polls under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar.The BJP has appointed former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis as its election in-charge for Bihar. Former Jharkhand chief minister Raghubar Das has also held virtual meetings with party workers from the extremely backward classes (EBCs).The party has actively started door-to-door campaigning from August 25 despite the Covid-19 pandemic.As part of a virtual campaign, the party has formed several WhatsApp groups, to be used to reach out to the booth-level workers by sharing videos of speeches of party leaders and sending the party’s message in real-time. Virtual campaigns are expected to be the dominant norm this election season||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-summons-bihar-bjp-mps-for-meeting-to-finalise-poll-strategy/story-0QXLDeT3Ba1q0FKp4WGvJN.html
02-09-2020||India||Bihar elections to witness big participation of women polling personnel||A record 2.03 lakh women employees of the Bihar government have been enlisted in the database prepared by the Election Commission and the office of Chief Electoral Officer of the state for the upcoming assembly elections. This is the first time that such a big number of women personnel are being engaged in election duty following the increase in the number of booths in view of the Covid-19 safety guidelines and requirement of additional manpower for polling stations as well as other field duties. The total number of polling stations is 1.06 lakh with creation of additional 33,797 auxiliary booths apart from 72,727 booths.A total of 6.58 lakh polling personnel have been enlisted for election duty of which 4.55 lakh are male and 2.03 female. Sources said the process for assigning poll related works to the polling personnel will start once the election schedule is announced possibly by mid-September. Additional Chief Electoral officer, Bihar, Ranjita said women polling personnel would be engaged in election work in large numbers given the rise in number of booths. “Women polling personnel would be deployed at the booths and also assigned other roles as per their rank and seniority. So far 2.03 lakh women personnel have been enlisted for poll duty from different districts,” the additional CEO said. Sources said the women polling officers would be deployed as presiding officers, polling officers, magistrates and even micro observers depending on their rank and seniority. “The modalities are being worked out,” said another EC officer. In the last few elections, the EC has been promoting all-women managed booths to encourage the participation of women voters but the number of such booths was limited. In the 2015 election, the polling percentage of women voters was higher than the male voters. Statistics show that female voters who voted numbered 1,89,14,687 out of a total 3,12,72,523 female electors, which was 60.48%. The number of males who voted stood at 1,90,78,453 out of 3,57,82,181 total number of 3,57,82,181, which was 53.32% in terms of polling percentage. The overall polling percentage in the 2015 election was 56.66% in Bihar. In the 2019 parliamentary polls, 59.58 % of women voted while the percentage of male voters was 57.33%. Meanwhile, the CEO’s office has directed all the district magistrates-cum-district election officers to carry special drives for enrolment of returnee migrant labourers who are not in the electoral rolls so that they can exercise their franchise in the coming assembly polls.CEO, Bihar H R Srinivasa directed the DMs to prioritize the work apart from enrolment of all eligible voters in updated electoral rolls. “The exercise of enrolling migrant labourers having returned to Bihar during lockdown has been going on and all districts have been asked to carry special drives for enrolment of all those returnees, who do have their names in the electoral rolls,” said the additional CEO.An estimated 25 lakh migrant labourers returned to Bihar during the lockdown period in April and May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-elections-to-witness-big-participation-of-women-polling-personnel/story-WdjokhpoheLwwnKPe6Ra9J.html
02-09-2020||India||Will contest Bihar polls under leadership of CM Nitish Kumar: JP Nadda||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Janata Dal (United) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) --- partners in the ruling alliance --- will contest the upcoming Bihar elections together under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar, BJP national president JP Nadda said on Sunday.“Whenever the three parties --- the BJP, the JD(U) and the LJP --- came together, there was resounding victory (in Bihar)…We will fight together and we will win again,” Nadda said, addressing party leaders and workers in the state through video-conferencing.He also appealed to BJP workers to become “ambassadors of change”. “For this, we have to contest at each and every booth to win. We have to add value not only to the BJP, but to the alliance partners as well…We are fighting an election during a pandemic and the challenges are immense,” he said, striking a note of unity in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the concluding session of a two-day Bihar BJP meet.Nadda’s remarks came at a time when Kumar’s JD (U) and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP have appeared to be at odds. The LJP has even questioned Kumar’s leadership in the run-up to the elections to the 243-member House due in October-November.In an interview to HT on August 22, LJP president Chirag Paswan criticised the Bihar government for its alleged failure in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and the state’s annual flood woes.After Nadda’s address, JD(U) spokesperson Nikhil Mandal said Kumar is the “first choice” of the people of Bihar. “The BJP, the JD (U) and the LJP will contest the polls unitedly and win the elections,” he said.LJP spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said: “It is up to the BJP to decide (as to who will lead Bihar).”In his address from the national capital, Nadda said BJP workers should not only spread awareness about the central government’s schemes and efforts to mitigate the Covid-19 crisis but should also highlight the good work done by the state government.“…we need to take all precautions of physical and social distancing. So, the best form of campaigning is small door-to-door campaigning,” he told his partymen. “Reach out all sections of society, all age groups.”He also hit out at the Opposition, calling it a “spent force”. “They do not have any vision, any thought. They are doing petty politics,” Nada said.In the Bihar elections, the NDA will be up against a grand alliance, or mahagathbandhan, of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, Congress, Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP).The Election Commission is yet to announce the poll schedule for Bihar, but there are indications that the voting process might be held on time. Recently, the poll watchdog released a broad set of guidelines for post-pandemic elections.Rajesh Rathore, state Congress spokesperson, said: “BJP president Nadda has made it clear that the NDA wins elections due to the alliance of three parties, and not because of Nitish Kumar...Bihar’s people are not going to forgive them for their misrule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-contest-bihar-polls-under-leadership-of-cm-nitish-nadda/story-dI1ZRaLHD4o1wOCQmUK7UK.html
02-09-2020||India||BJP banks on development and Nitish Kumar to win Bihar polls||The two-day Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state executive committee meeting, which began in the virtual mode on Saturday, set the agenda for Bihar elections — that the alliance was going to focus on the party’s development agenda and pit the “reliable and time-tested leadership” of the Nitish Kumar government against the Grand Alliance. The political resolution passed on first day of the meeting made it clear that the BJP was going to retain its poll strategy of portraying the Grand Alliance as an unlikely partnership. “The parties attached to the Grand Alliance are mentally opposed to each other, they are never stable and cannot provide the public-oriented government. Whereas the NDA has a reliable and time-tested leadership and all parties of the alliance believe in development-oriented policies. We believe in all-round development with social justice,” read the party’s political resolution.A similar sentiment was echoed by new state election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, the former Maharashtra chief minister. “Public memory is short. Take to the people the government’s work, both of the Centre and the state. Also, highlight what was the scenario when a family was ruling the state. What were the problems they faced and then you need to tell them how PM stood behind Bihar during the times of pandemic? How the state government effected the changes in last 15 years,” said Fadnavis in his maiden address.He exhorted the party members that despite the twin problems of pandemic and floods faced by the state, the BJP workers will have to reach out every household. “Nobody can stop Bihar from progress. In last 15 years, Bihar is back on rails. Now is the time to make a leap. The state and Centre will run hand in hand towards progress,” he said.Fadnavis asked party leaders to recognize the importance of youth power in the elections. “Bihar has close to 58% youth population. If anybody can help in the making of modern Bihar and India, it is these youths. A country which relied on youth power has shown development,” said Fadnavis, adding that this election is going to decide “the fate of Bihar.”“This is an election to make history for Bihar. India will change and so will Bihar. Let us repeat our Lok Sabha performance,” he told the executive committee members.The political resolution passed by party also enlisted the development work done by the Centre, how the Central government solved the long-pending issues of Article 370, Triple Talaq and Ayodhya temple. It lauded the state government’s effort in effectively dealing with the pandemic and floods.The executive committee is also likely to discuss better co-ordination among its alliance partners and decide on the seats that it should contest. BJP sources said the core agenda of the meeting would revolve around election preparations and the role party functionaries would have to play at different levels — from the headquarters to campaigning in Assembly segments.The inaugural session was also addressed by state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, who set a target to win three-fourth of seats for the NDA in assembly elections scheduled in October-November.Stating the target in presence of BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav and others, Jaiswal made an appeal to 7.6 million party workers in the state, up to the panchayat level, to ensure that the coalition achieves the mark.The session will end with the address of BJP president JP Nadda on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-banks-on-development-and-nitish-to-win-bihar-polls/story-uQVKBL9hxwcdTvNXtf3YwM.html
02-09-2020||India||Bihar polls: BJP picks development as winning card, Fadnavis fine tunes message||The two-day BJP state executive committee meeting has set the agenda for Bihar assembly elections by declaring that the alliance will contest on the plank of development and would leverage the youth power for return to power.The political resolution passed on the day one of the meeting also made it clear that the BJP was also going to repeat its time-tested formula of projecting the opposition Grand Alliance as a coalition formed to protect ‘scam-tainted’ families.“The parties attached to the Grand Alliance are mentally opposed to each other; they are never stable and cannot provide a public-oriented government. Whereas the NDA has a reliable and time-tested leadership and all parties of the alliance believe in development-oriented policies. We believe in all-round development with social justice,” read the party’s political resolution.A similar sentiment was echoed by newly-appointed state election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, the former Maharashtra chief minister.“Public memory is short. Take the government’s work—done both by the centre and the state—to the people and remind them about the time when a family was ruling the state. Then you need to tell them how the PM stood with Bihar during the times of pandemic. How the state government effected the changes in the last 15 years,” said Fadnavis in his maiden address.He exhorted the partymen to reach out to each household despite the twin challenges of coronavirus pandemic and the floods.“Nobody can stop Bihar from progress. In the last 15 years, Bihar is back on rails. Now is the time to make a leap. The state and centre will run hand in hand towards progress,” he said.Also Read: BJP chief JP Nadda, top leaders begin 2-day virtual strategy meet todayThe former Maharashtra CM also stressed on the importance of youth power in this election.“Bihar has close to 58% youth population. If anybody can help in making a modern Bihar and a modern India, it is these youths. A country relying on youth power will develop,” Fadnavis said and added that this election was going to decide “the fate of Bihar.”The political resolution also enlisted the development works done by the centre and the ‘historic’ move to abrogate Article 370, ban Triple Talaq and the resolution of the long pending Ayodhya dispute. It also lauded the state government’s effort in effectively dealing with the Corona crisis and the floods.Also Read: BJP to trust own cadres for Bihar elections, says no room for party hoppersThe executive committee is also likely to discuss issues of coordination between allies and seats sharing for the polls.The inaugural session was also addressed by state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal who set a target of winning three-fourth of seats for the NDA in assembly elections due in October-November. He appealed to 76 lakh party workers in the state up to Panchayat level to ensure that the coalition achieves the mark.The session will end with the address of BJP President J P Nadda on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-bjp-picks-development-as-winning-card-fadnavis-fine-tunes-message/story-4JXWneDSUSDRCoww0xLDrL.html
02-09-2020||India||Bihar assembly election 2020: BJP chief JP Nadda, top leaders begin 2-day virtual strategy meet today||BJP national president JP Nadda and several other senior party leaders will hold a two-day virtual meeting from Saturday to chart out a plan for the assembly elections in Bihar, which are due in October-November this year, chief of the state unit Sanjay Jaiswal has said. The Bharatiya Janata party’s national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, general secretary Bhupender Yadav, party’s election in-charge in Bihar Devendra Fadnavis and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar are expected to attend the state executive committee meeting.Also read: BJP to trust own cadres for Bihar elections, says no room for party hoppersOn the first day of the meeting, political resolutions will be placed before the attendees for approval, Jaiswal, who was accompanied by state unit general secretary Devesh Kumar, spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan and media in-charge Rakesh Kumar Singh, said while interacting with reporters in Patna on Friday. “This is a very important state executive committee meeting being held just before the assembly elections during which the party would give a message to its 76 lakh workers in the state,’’ Jaiswal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.During the meeting, leaders will also discuss expanding the BJP’s organisation and ensuring better coordination with its allies Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), according to sources quoted by PTI.Besides, former Maharashtra chief minister Fadnavis’s presence at the meet will be crucial amid the ongoing rift between Maharashtra and Bihar over the probe in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Also read: Ahead of Bihar polls amid Covid-19, ECI issues new guidelines for votersEven as opposition parties and LJP, NDA’s partner in the state, expressed concern over conducting polls in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission has given a go-ahead for the state elections.The poll body, however, has issued a fresh set of guidelines for carrying out polls amid the virus outbreak. As per new guidelines, candidates can file their nominations online and people are required to wear face masks during election-related activities.At poll booths, thermal scanning of all voters will be carried out at the entry premises and sanitisers, soap and water shall also be made available.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-bjp-chief-jp-nadda-top-leaders-begin-2-day-virtual-strategy-meet-today/story-NqGBQFa25cUFL1c9AiTSNP.html
02-09-2020||India||BJP to trust own cadres for Bihar elections, says no room for party hoppers||Unlike its ally Janata Dal (United) which is welcoming defectors from other parties in a big way in Bihar, the BJP has said it would not like to do so at the cost of its own committed workers who expect the party to reward them at the time of elections.Sanjay Jaiswal,president of the Bihar unit of the BJP said that he would not like to comment on the approach of the JD-U, but there was no scope for outsiders in his party ahead of the assembly elections. “Those who had to join the BJP, they did so last year in November-December. BJP has a strong force of 76-lakh committed workers and the party will work hard to win on all its traditional seats,” he said Friday.Jaiswal said that there were many within the party who were strong contenders for seats and there was no point looking outside though many leaders were sending feelers. “It is too late now. BJP works with a long-term vision and there is no place for habitual party hoppers who move around at the time of election only in search of seats,” he added.On the likely talks of seat sharing within the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), Jaiswal said it would happen at the right time at the right level and there was no point discussing talking about it as if now.“Last time, the BJP had contested 157 seats and it is quite natural that we will have to compromise with less due to three NDA constituents vying for seats. So, we already have a problem at hand of denying seats to some rightful claimants. In such a situation, there is no point making room for imports,” he added.Jaiswal’s comments are significant as all the six leaders who have switched over to the JD-U are sitting MLAs and three from powerful political families and it could lead to turf war in the ticklish ticket distribution, more so because JD-U has often claimed to be a bigger claimant on the basis of its share in 2005 and 2010 assembly polls. In 2015, JD-U had left NDA to move over to the Grand Alliance.Another senior BJP leader said that the experience of the 2015 election, when most of the imported leaders had to bite the dust, and that in neighbouring Jharkhand and Maharashtra more recently warranted that the BJP should trust its own hardworking workers and reward them during elections. It was the BJP that was the main beneficiary of party hopping in the 2015 assembly election, when the Grand Alliance of JD-U, RJD and the Congress scuttled ticket prospects for many hopefuls. Many others were accommodated through the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) - Secular of former CM Jitan Ram Manji. Over 20 tickets of the BJP had then gone to leaders defecting from other parties. This included 10 sitting MLAs. However, the debacle of the BJP in the peak of Narendra Modi wave against the combined might of GA was such that it was confined to just 53 seats despite getting highest vote share of 24.4%, compared to 18.4% of the RJD, 16.8% of the JD-U and 6.7% of the Congress, which together came to a whopping 41.9%.Later, the below par performance was attributed to dissension within the party due to large scale crossovers from other parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-trust-own-cadres-for-bihar-elections-says-no-room-for-party-hoppers/story-QdHOGvVE8qxlpl5jMW5zhO.html
02-09-2020||India||BJP finds big role for Devendra Fadnavis in upcoming Bihar polls||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis is set to play an important role for the BJP in the Bihar assembly elections, set to take place later this year. Fadnavis, the BJP’s central core committee has decided, will play the role of party’s election in-charge in Bihar, along with BJP Bihar in-charge, Bhupendra Yadav. “A formal announcement to this effect would be made shortly but the core committee has decided to entrust this responsibility to former Maharashtra CM,” said a senior party functionary of Bihar. BJP sources said Fadnavis has been roped in by the party leadership for the poll preparedness and attended a Bihar core committee meeting through video-conferencing on Thursday. He is said to have presented his viewpoints on different matters. The elections for the 243-member Bihar assembly will take place in October/ November. Fadnavis being given the charge of Bihar elections is in line with the party’s policy of entrusting its key leaders with the responsibility of handling state elections. Late BJP leader Ananth Kumar was the party’s in-charge for the Bihar assembly polls in 2015. The development also comes at a time when Bihar and Maharashtra governments have been trading charges over the handling of the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case by Mumbai Police. Fadnavis faces a tough ask as two BJP’s allies JD (U) and the LJP are at loggerheads. The LJP has conveyed to the BJP leadership, the sources said, its uneasiness about the manner in which the issues raised by it have been dealt with. Welcoming Fadnavis’ appointment, senior BJP leader Dr CP Thakur said that he is a capable leader “and manages elections very well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-finds-big-role-for-devendra-fadnavis-in-upcoming-bihar-polls/story-onnuxQv4bCRVHpX7CEcrlJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi asks Congress to identify constituencies in poll-bound Bihar||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday sounded the bugle in poll-bound Bihar by asking the cadre to work for “effecting a decisive change in Bihar”. He also asked senior leaders to identify the constituencies the party will contest.Assembly elections in the state are due later this year though the Election Commission has not taken a final call on the poll dates and sought suggestions from political parties.Addressing party workers through video conferencing, the former Congress president made it clear that every effort should be made to strengthen the party and the Grand Alliance, “without compromising respect and dignity.” “History is witness to the fact that every change has begun from Bihar. Mahatma Gandhi started his freedom struggle from Champaran. In the present context, Bihar Congress will do this change,” said Gandhi. He also asked the state unit to highlight the Nitish Kumar government’s failure to effectively tackle Covid-19 and the flood situation.“Highlight the failure of the state government on the front of education, health and employment. Take them to people. The state government has failed to tackle Covid and flood situations effectively.The Nitish Kumar government was reluctant to take back the migrants. The state government was boasting on the front of corruption; now the CM doesn’t talk on these issues,” said Gandhi.BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha said that Rahul Gandhi had assured the state unit that he was willing to come to state as and when required. “Rahulji also spoke on the need of strengthening the alliance with respect to one and all,” said Premchandra Mishra, Congress MLC. Though he avoided the contentious issue of leadership in the Grand Alliance (GA), Gandhi said Congress will form the next government with everyone’s help.“The next government will be ours. We will form the government with the help of all,” he said. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is said to be keen that party president Lalu Yadav’s son Tejashwi Yadav be declared as the GA’s chief ministerial candidate. However, the Congress has all along maintained that this decision will be taken at a later stage.Rahul Gandhi also asked party’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil and Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha to identify the number of seats and the constituencies it will contest.A senior leader of Congress said that party wants to contest at least two seats every district, which puts the total seats to 76. “The JD (U) had contested on 100 seats when it was part of the Grand Alliance, so we would definitely like to get a majority share of its seat plus would like to retain our winning seats,” said the leader. In the 2015 assembly elections, the Congress had contested on 41 seats and won 21 with a vote share of 6.7% while the RJD had contested on 101 seats and won 80 seats with a vote share of 16.8%. With Bihar continuing to reel under floods and battling the surge in Covid-19 cases, Tejwashwi Yadav and NDA ally Lok Janshakti Party have voiced concern over holding assembly polls in the state. However, the ruling JD(U)-BJP coalition wants the polls to be held as scheduled.The term of the present Assembly expires on November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-asks-congress-to-identify-constituencies-in-poll-bound-bihar/story-JGsvGg7M343MynJHnmn1KL.html
