03-09-2020||India||No Question Hour in Bengal House||KolkataWest Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee on Thursday announced that the state’s two-day monsoon session will have no question hour due to “paucity of time”. The Speaker’s announcement came a day after Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien said not having a Question Hour in Parliament was worst assault on democracy, prompting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of accusing the state’s ruling party of showing double standards. “The chairpersons of two houses of Parliament talk to all parties before deciding the schedule of a session. In Bengal, the session is being held only to abide by the norm (of having a session within six months). The government does not want to face questions on corruption or, its failure to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. It shows TMC’s double standards,” said Bengal BJP vice-resident Jay Prakash Majumdar. The state assembly is scheduled to hold its monsoon session from September 9-10. The Speaker also said that the legislators, assembly staff, security personnel and journalists will have to undergo rapid antigen test before they are allowed to enter the assembly. “The legislators will have to maintain distance and occupy specific seats earmarked for them. Elderly legislators will be seated in the main hall and younger members will be asked to sit in the galleries,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-question-hour-in-bengal-house/story-a6gvkOTU2WgF3u6gmCD3yO.html
03-09-2020||India||Over 3,000 hectares added to Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve in Assam||Assam government on Thursday approved the addition of over 3,000 hectares (ha) to the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR). The 7th, 8th and 9th additions to the park were published in preliminary notifications by the state government and include areas from where encroachment has been removed and suitable wildlife habitat in riverine islands. “It is a move to consolidate the wildlife areas anticipating better wildlife conservation and reduction in human-wildlife negative interactions in future,” said a release issued by forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya’s office. The new additions include 176 ha at Deosur, Palkhowa in Deosur protected reserve forest, 307 ha at Banderdubi - both in Nagaon district and 2570 ha at Mokua Chapori in Sonitpur district. “With the new additions, the total area of the park will increase to 914 sq km. The last addition to the park was in 2016 when 195 sq km at Bura Chapori, which connected Kaziranga with Orang National Park,” said P Sivakumar, director of KNPTR. Also read: Assam Police SI admit card released at slprbassam.in, direct link here“The 7th and 8th additions will connect Kaziranga with nearby Karbi Anglong district and the 9th addition will connect KNPTR with Nameri National Park. The fresh additions will help the movement of tigers from Kaziranga to Nameri and Orang and vice versa,” he added. The preliminary notifications on the fresh additions to the KNPTR comes less than a month after the Gauhati High Court had directed the principal chief conservator of forests (Wildlife) and chief wildlife warden, Assam to submit a report on action taken on evictions of encroachments in areas earlier added to the park. On October 9, 2015, the HC had ordered evictions of encroached areas in the 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 6th additions to the KNPTR. “A total of 39,836.74 ha of the notified evicted areas have been delivered to the Kaziranga National Park (KNP) authority. However, possession of 1461.59 ha of land in the 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 6th to the KNP in the districts of Golaghat and Biswanath is yet to be handed over,” the August 17 letter by HC Registrar (Judicial) RA Tapadar stated. “You are, therefore, requested to submit a fresh ‘Action Taken Report’ with regards to the delivery of possession of the remaining land to the KNP authority on or before 23-11-2020,” it added. Kaziranga is the biggest habitat of endangered one-horned rhinos in the world. The park has around 2,400 rhinos and 121 tigers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-000-hectares-added-to-kaziranga-national-park-and-tiger-reserve-in-assam/story-OH5j05pw7dqc5PxTz0VuTM.html
03-09-2020||India||Russia reiterates it won’t supply arms to Pakistan||: Russia on Thursday reiterated that it would not supply weapons to Pakistan during a meeting between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart General Sergei Shoigu in Moscow, people familiar with the developments said. The Russian commitment on no arms supply to Pakistan followed an Indian request, they said. “The defence minister got Russia’s assurance that it stands by India’s security interest,” they said. Russia also strongly supported the Make in India initiative aimed at self-reliance in the defence sector during the one-hour meeting that covered a broad range of areas of bilateral cooperation. “It was noted that this meeting coincides with the Indra naval exercises to be conducted by the Indian and Russian navies off the Strait of Malacca over the next two days,” the defence ministry said in a statement. Singh said the drills demonstrated the common interests of both countries in maritime security in the Indian Ocean Region. “There was substantial commonality in positions with respect to challenges at the regional and international levels in the areas of peace and security, reflective of the deep trust and confidence that both sides enjoy as strategic partners,” the statement said. Singh conveyed India’s appreciation for the steadfast support provided by Russia to address the country’s defence and security needs, it said. General Shoigu reiterated Russia’s commitment to engage actively with India on the Make in India programme, including substantial participation in the forthcoming Aero India-2021. The show will be staged at the Yelahanka air base outside Bengaluru from February 3 to 7 with all the necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-reiterates-it-won-t-supply-arms-to-pakistan/story-C72ziq2qj81auO9ULTeXVO.html
03-09-2020||India||Chinese defence minister seeks meeting with Rajnath Singh amid LAC row||The Chinese defence minister has sought a meeting with defence minister Rajnath Singh on the sidelines of the ongoing Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Russia, amid heightened military tensions between the two countries in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the developments said on Thursday. This is the third time that the Chinese defence ministry has sought a meeting with Singh after the standoff erupted in early May, they said. The Indian side is yet to respond to the Chinese request. Tensions flared in the sensitive sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake five days ago to stop the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move. External affairs minister S Jaishankar is set to visit the Russian capital for the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10. Speaking at a seminar organised by United States-India Strategic Partnership Forum on Navigating New Challenges, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat highlighted the threat of “coordinated action” by the militaries of China and Pakistan along the northern and western borders and stressed that the Indian armed forces were capable of handling the joint threat. Russia on Thursday reiterated that it would not supply weapons to Pakistan during a meeting between Singh and his Russian counterpart General Sergei Shoigu, officials said. The Russian commitment on nor arms supply to Pakistan followed an Indian request, they said. “The defence minister got Russia’s assurance that it stands by India’s security interest,” they said. Russia also strongly supported the Make in India initiative aimed at self-reliance in the defence sector during the one-hour meeting that covered a broad range of areas of bilateral cooperation. “It was noted that this meeting coincides with the Indra Naval Exercises to be conducted by the Indian and Russia navies off the Strait of Malacca over the next two days,” the defence ministry said in a statement. Singh said the drills demonstrated the common interests of both countries in maritime security in the Indian Ocean Region. “There was substantial commonality in positions with respect to challenges at the regional and international levels in the areas of peace and security, reflective of the deep trust and confidence that both sides enjoy as strategic partners,” the statement said. Singh conveyed India’s appreciation for the steadfast support provided by Russia to address the country’s defence and security needs, it said. General Shoigu reiterated Russia’s commitment to engage actively with India on the Make in India programme, including substantial participation in the forthcoming Aero India-2021. The show will be staged staged at the Yelahanka air base outside Bengaluru from February 3 to 7 with all the necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-defence-minister-seeks-meeting-with-rajnath-singh-amid-lac-row/story-qzmSWaZqjnvPA9P5hjErzI.html
03-09-2020||India||Third day of JEE exam witnesses over 80% attendance||Over 1.4 lakh students took the JEE (Main) exam in two shifts on Thursday, making it the second consecutive day when over 80 percent of the candidates appeared for the exam after an initial slow start.According to the data shared by the education ministry, on Tuesday, the first day of the engineering entrance test, 61,366 students had taken the entrance exam. However, this amounted to only 54.67 percent of the registered candidates.The test for students who aspired to join bachelors of architecture or planning courses was held on Monday.However, on Wednesday, when the test was conducted for BE or B.Tech courses, the attendance figures shot up. As many as 1,41, 372 candidates took the test. They constituted 81.08 percent of the total registered candidates who were scheduled to take the test on the day.Also read: Supreme Court to hear review petition seeking postponement of JEE, NEET on FridayOn Thursday, the percentage shot up further. As many as 1,41, 220 out of a total 1, 71, 924 candidates took the test. There were 70,604 candidates in the first shift and 70,616 in the second shift. Overall, 82.14 percent candidates took the test on Thursday.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank expressed his satisfaction at the substantial number of candidates who took the exam despite the raging pandemic.“Heart whelming to see so many students participating in this Yagna to create #AatmaNirbharBharat despite #Covid_19 pandemic. I thank all Chief Ministers for their support to ensure that students’ careers are not affected,” the minister tweeted.There has been a huge debate over the Centre’s decision to hold the JEE (Main) exam from September 1 to 6 and medical entrance exam NEET on September 13. While many questioned the decision to conduct the exam amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre justified it asserting that a zero year was not in students’ interest. Over 25 lakh students will sit for both the tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-day-of-jee-exam-witnesses-over-80-attendance/story-0OtaDeIgiYqEXxQkav0I3O.html
03-09-2020||India||Manipur expects GI tag for its unique orange in Tamenglong||After Manipuri black rice, locally known as ‘Chakhao’,bagged the Geographical Indication (GI) tag, the Manipur government expects that the Tamenglong orange (Citrus reticulata),a species of mandarim group and a unique fruit crop found in the state,will get its GI certificate after 120 days.“We are expecting to get a GI Certificate for Tamenglong orange as it has already been notified,” K Devdutta Sharma, Project director of Manipur Organic Mission Agency (MOMA) said.Devdutta added, “Sirarakhong Hathei, a long chilly variety having a unique taste and colour which grows in Sirarakhong village under Ukhrul district has already been approved and it will also be notified soon.” Last year, MOMA applied for GI tags for Tamenglong orange, Sirarakhong Hathei, Shirui Lily of Ukhrul district and Black Cherry of Senapati district. But Shirui Lily was rejected following changes in GI guidelines, he said.Tamenglong orange is a species of mandarin group is a unique fruit crop found only in Tamenglong district which contributes over 50 per cent of the state’s annual production.It is famous especially for its well blended sweetness and acidic taste. Usually each fruit contains 10-14 pods. Manipur has been celebrating the Orange Festival every December for the last 15 years to promote Tamenglong orange.Manipur black rice, a scented glutinous rice which has been cultivating in the state over centuries and it is characterised by its special aroma,bagged GI tag in May 2020. Authorities here are also targeting to take up GI process for a high protein content local pea variety-’Hawai-Tharak Makhyatmubi’.Earlier Kachai Lemon (Citrus jambheri Lush), a unique lemon variety which contains high ascorbic acid, has been accorded GI registration tag. The Kachai Lemon grows at Kachai village under Ukhrul district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-expects-gi-tag-for-its-unique-orange-in-tamenglong/story-4YtoxfVOJ5xmtshfUYajsN.html
03-09-2020||India||‘Imperative for India, China to reach an accommodation’: External affairs minister S Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday it is imperative for Indian and China to “reach an accommodation” as the solution to the standoff along the Line of Actual Control has to be found in the “domain of diplomacy”.Jaishankar made the remarks during an online event organised by the Observer Research Foundation (ORF) to mark the release of his book ‘The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World’, during which the relationship with China and the standoff figured prominently.Besides questions on the impact of the standoff on bilateral ties, Jaishankar was asked what he would say when he meets his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during a meeting of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers in Moscow on September 10.“As to what I will be talking with my Chinese colleague when I meet him – I mean, we have known each other a long time, so you can have a reasonable guess,” Jaishankar replied, without giving details.Also read: Don’t meddle in border dispute with India, China tells USThe external affairs ministry confirmed on Thursday that the minister will join the September 10 meeting but there has been no official word of a bilateral meeting with Wang. This is the first time the two ministers will come face to face since the standoff emerged in public, though they have participated in virtual meetings of various groupings and also spoken in the aftermath of the June 15 clash that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. They will also join a virtual meeting of BRICS foreign ministers on September 4.Responding to another question on whether China is in India’s way, Jaishankar said this wasn’t the “easiest of times” in the bilateral relationship, but added that it was “imperative and vital for both countries to reach an accommodation, and not just for themselves”.Also read: In stern warning to Pak, Gen Rawat says ‘India capable of handling two-front threat’Emphasising that he wasn’t underplaying the challenges of the boundary question, the minister said, “I’m totally convinced that the solution to the situation has to be found in the domain of diplomacy.”India and China have a long history, which is “very good in many parts, very indifferent in some parts, and very difficult in some parts”, he said, adding the “more difficult parts are more recent”.Jaishankar said he had taken a long view of ties in his book, which was written before the standoff began, and there are agreements and understandings on the border issue that must be scrupulously observed by both sides. “Neither party should attempt to change the status quo unilaterally, and the reality is what happens on the border will impact the relationship. You cannot separate that,” he said.Also read: Pakistan trying to politicise UNSC’s terrorist listing process, says IndiaHe ducked a question about his recent remarks that he didn’t understand why China has thousands of troops on the LAC, saying it was for Beijing to provide an answer on this issue.Jaishankar also said he wasn’t comfortable with terms such as “Himalayan cold war” or “hot peace”, and that the two sides have to “work our way through this”. He added, “ I am convinced that the way out is through diplomacy. That will happen if both sides see it is in their own interests that we don’t see what we have seen this summer.”Jaishankar also listed the rise of China and the changed approach of the US to world affairs as two of the most impactful shifts in recent times. While the US has pulled back from its “global project” and shifted from alliances, the velocity and impact of the rise of China has exceeded everything else, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imperative-for-india-china-to-reach-an-accommodation-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar/story-GfThaUEMa7q46xkKgU4dAP.html
03-09-2020||India||‘Not the first time Question Hour is being suspended’: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday defended the government’s decision to do away with the Question Hour during the upcoming monsoon session that starts on September 14. The party said that this was not the first time when a set procedure had been dispensed with owing to exigencies.While the government has given its nod to allowing unstarred questions, or written questions that ministers need to reply to instead of allowing answers to be given in person, the Opposition has criticised the move and alleged it as an attempt to throttle the Opposition’s voice in Parliament and amounted it to “murder of democracy”.As per BJP functionaries aware of the details, 160 unstarred questions will be answered by the government, apart from Special Mentions by MPs to bring matters of importance to the notice of the government.A senior functionary aware of the details said, “Question hour was done away with in the years 1962, 1975, 1976, 1991, 2004 and 2009 for various reasons. While in 1975 and 1976 it was on account of the Emergency.”Also read: No question hour at 2-day Bengal assembly session, BJP claims, it shows TMC’s double standardThe party has been vociferously defending the government’s decision by pointing out that the ongoing pandemic has imposed restrictions on every aspect of daily life and its impact can be felt on Parliamentary proceedings as well. The party also maintained that the decision has not been made without consulting other party leaders.“Almost all the opposition leaders accepted that the country is in an extraordinary situation because of this health emergency. The Presiding Officers of both the Houses have received a letter from the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs informing that the government consulted different political parties and that there was a broad consensus, barring one political party, on doing away with the Question Hour. Based on that consensus among the opposition parties, the government requested the Presiding Officers to do away the Question Hour and Private Members Business for this session,” the functionary said.As per the expected schedule, Parliament is likely to take up issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state of the economy and other developments that will be brought before the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) and agreed upon. Parliament will also take up as many as 11 ordinances that were passed between March and September.Congress party’s Adhir Ranjan Choudhary had written to Lok Sabha Speaker OM Birla last week urging him to reconsider the decision and said curtailing the Question Hour and the Zero Hour by way of restricting the number of issues that could be raised and time earmarked would, therefore, not be in the interest of elected representatives.The BJP, however, lashed out at the Congress and the other political opponents including the TMC and the NCP, by pointing out that state assemblies, including Kerala, Rajasthan and Punjab, all non-BJP ruled states have held sessions where the laid down procedures were deviated from.“Punjab is ruled by the Congress party. In Rajasthan, where the Congress is ruling, the Assembly met just for 4 days. There was no Question Hour and No Zero Hour and 13 bills were passed without much discussion. In Maharashtra, where a 2-day session is proposed, there is going to be no Question Hour and no Zero Hour. In Uttar Pradesh, a bigger state, there was no Question Hour and No Zero Hour and also in many other states like Andhra Pradesh,” the functionary said.To counter posers that the business hours could be stretched to accommodate Question Hour, the party said with each House meeting only for 4 hours a day, it would take away the time required for transacting other business, including taking up ordinances.Referring to the disruptions that have led to the loss of working hours in both Houses, the party said during 2015-19, only about 40 percent of the total available Question Hour time was availed to raise questions and obtain oral responses of the Government during the Question Hour. “As a result, 60 percent of the Question Hour time went unused on account of disruptions etc. During 2015-19, Rajya Sabha held a total of 332 sittings. During this period, a total time of 332 hours was available for the Question Hour at the rate of one hour for each sitting,” the functionary quoted above said.The opposition parties, however, continued to attack the government. The NCP on Thursday accused the BJP of using the Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse to cancel the Question Hour in the forthcoming monsoon session of Parliament to “hide its failures” on multiple fronts.Chakshu Roy, Head of Legislative and Civic Engagement, PRS Legislative Research said, “American Supreme Court Judge Louis Brandeis once remarked that sunlight is said to be the best of disinfectants; electric light the most efficient policeman. The role of Question Hour in a legislature is similar. MPs by asking questions shine light on the functioning of the government. This parliamentary mechanism also allows government to widely disseminate authentic information about its functioning and dispel rumours. Effectively utilised, it enables MPs to discharge their constitutional duty of keeping a check on the functioning of the government.”He said responses to the questions of MPs also allows the government to review its work and determine whether it’s on the right path.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-the-first-time-question-hour-is-being-suspended-bjp/story-UQ20MwONW5kX8urWlYxsPP.html
03-09-2020||India||At its first meet, Congress’ new parliament group flays govt for scrapping question hour||As the newly formed coordination committee of Congress members of Parliament met for the first time on Thursday, they took up the issue of the government scrapping question hour in the monsoon session of parliament. The group of ten parliamentarians from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were led by the leader of the opposition in the upper house, Ghulam Nabi Azad.Last week, Congress president Sonia Gandhi reconstituted the group for better coordination adding new members like KC Venugopal, Jairam Ramesh and Ahmed Patel from the Rajya Sabha and Gaurav Gogoi and Ravneet Singh Bittu from the Lok Sabha. It was seen as a snub to leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma who were part of the 23 leaders who had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi asking for an overhaul of the Congress party, with elections at every level.Also read: Congress likely to set up panel for internal polls`We discussed how there is complete unanimity on the issue of question hour,’’ said one of the MPs, “The government had tried to take advantage of reports of dissent within the party and announced that we had agreed to the scrapping of question hour. This is totally incorrect and everyone was agreed on it.’’The coordination group which is expected to decide the party’s stance on all parliamentary issues is expected to meet every other day. It will then brief the strategy group which includes party president, Sonia Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and former party president Rahul Gandhi. The strategy group also summons domain experts like P Chidambaram for specific meetings.“We have decided that the main issues that we’d like to raise in this session are the pandemic and the way the lockdown was imposed, Chinese aggression, privatisation, GDP contraction, price rise, MSME crisis among other issues,’’ said another member who attended the meeting.Jairam Ramesh is expected to submit his report on the 11 ordinances that the government is pushing for passage as bills in the monsoon session of Parliament. The report will be submitted to the Congress President and on September 8, will reveal what position the Congress will have on each of the issues. HT had reported how the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 and The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 may be opposed by the party.The group also discussed including like minded parties in their discussions so that a coordinated strategy could be worked out by the opposition||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-its-first-meet-congress-new-parliament-group-flays-govt-for-scrapping-question-hour/story-g8V6w0Lx6PLp2if1u0XXON.html
03-09-2020||India||Power of contempt of court misused to stifle free speech: Prashant Bhushan||Activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, convicted and fined by the Supreme Court for contempt of court, alleged on Wednesday that this power is sometimes misused or abused in an attempt to stifle free speech or discussion about the judiciary.He termed the contempt of court jurisdiction “very dangerous” and said it should be abolished.“Every citizen in a democracy, those who are familiar with the working of the judicial system and the Supreme Court, should be able to speak freely but unfortunately that has also been treated as contempt of court by scandalising,” he said.“In this, the judge acts as accuser prosecutor and as a judge,” Bhushan alleged, while speaking at a webinar, ‘Freedom of Speech and The Indian Judiciary’, organised by Foreign Correspondents’ Club of South Asia.“It is a very dangerous jurisdiction in which judges act in their own cause and that is why in all countries this power to punish has been abolished. It is only continued in few countries like India,” he opined.The top court had on Monday imposed a token fine of Re 1 on Bhushan for his tweets against the judiciary. It asked him to deposit the fine by September 15, failing which he would attract a jail term of three months and debarment from law practice for three years.“I am not saying that there are no vile or scandalous scurrilous allegations being made against judges. They are. But they are dismissed for what they are. People understand that these are scurrilous and unsubstantiated allegations.“The respect for the judiciary does not stand on the ability of the court to stifle this kind of criticism even it is sometimes scurrilous and unfair,” Bhushan said.Talking about his tweets, he said it was what he felt was role of the top court.He said the contempt of court should be abolished and it was for this reason that he along with former Union minister Arun Shourie and veteran journalist N Ram filed a plea challenging the constitutional validity of a legal provision dealing with criminal contempt.“Initially the matter was listed before Justice D Y Chandrachud but later it was removed from him and sent before Justice Arun Mishra (retired Wednesday), whose views on this contempt are well known, and earlier also he had accused me of scandalising and contempt of court just because I had told former CJIs Justice J S Khehar, Dipak Misra and him that they should not hear a case due to conflict of interest,” he said.Renowned author Arundhati Roy also spoke at the event and said the right to free speech was “the most fundamental block of a functioning democracy”.She said that over the last few years the country has seen sudden demonetisation, introduction of GST, abrogation of section 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, Citizenship Amendment Act and the Covid-19 lockdown.  These have been like silent attacks masked by pre existing illness, she said.Roy said the judiciary cannot be expected to repeal its power of contempt and citizens will have to strive to make it redundant by speaking their minds responsibly.Mumbai-based lawyer Iqbal Chagla FCC President S Venkat Narayan also spoke at the webinar. PTI PKS SA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-of-contempt-of-court-misused-to-stifle-free-speech-prashant-bhushan/story-qqSqaQAz6hpp8khzDkbb6H.html
03-09-2020||India||Bars in Delhi to open from September 7: Here are some rules to keep in mind||Bars in the national capital region will open from September 7 after being closed for over five months as part of the coronavirus lockdown, the government announced on Thursday. The move comes in the light of Unlock 4.0, the fourth stage of gradual reopening of the Indian economy, that came into effect on September 1. The Centre had allowed the reopening of bars under the Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued on August 29.Also read: Covid-19: Home Ministry issues fresh guidelines for Unlock 4Lieutenant General Anil Baijal approved the Delhi government’s recommendations and allowed for the bars to open. The government has laid out standard operating procedures (SOPs) in this regard.SOPs to be followed:• Bars in containment zones will not open.• People will be allowed to enter bars only if they are wearing masks.• Hand sanitisers and thermal screening procedures are a must at bar entrances. Frequent sanitisation of the premises to be carried out without fail.• Social distancing norms are to be followed. Not more than 50 percent of the seating capacity of bars to be utilised.• Only asymptomatic staff members and customers will be allowed to enter the bar.• Proper disposal of face covers/masks to be ensured. Posters on preventive measures to be undertaken against the coronavirus crisis should be displayed prominently at the bars.In case of violation of the above SOP, the owner of the bar will be punished under Sections 51 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Legal action will also be taken against them under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, the guidelines issued by the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bars-in-delhi-to-open-from-september-7-here-are-some-rule-to-keep-in-mind/story-m7thlISWqyO3YYwc69ogcO.html
03-09-2020||India||CBI says most reports attributed to it in Sushant Singh Rajput case not ‘credible’||In its first official statement issued since taking over the investigation last month into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said on Thursday that the details being reported in various media regarding agency probe are not “credible” or “based on facts”; but are “speculative” in nature. The agency said it is conducting an investigation into the death of Rajput in a “systematic and professional way”.“Certain media reports attributed to CBI investigation are speculative and not based on facts,” said CBI spokesperson R K Gaur. “It is reiterated that as a matter of policy, CBI does not share details of ongoing investigation. CBI spokesperson or any team member has not shared any details of the investigation with the media. The details being reported and attributed to CBI are not credible,” he said.“It is requested that the media may please confirm details from a CBI spokesperson before quoting CBI,” he added. In the last one week, the agency has examined several persons including Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her family members as well as the late actor’s friends, staff etc.A 10-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) of CBI is currently stationed in Mumbai to investigate the circumstances in which Rajput was found dead in his apartment on June 14. “We have not concluded our investigations yet. A lot of information is coming out every day, mostly unverified, hence we decided to issue a statement. The agency’s line of investigation is known to officers only. We will apprise the court concerned whenever we have something,” said an officer who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-says-most-reports-attributed-to-it-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-not-credible/story-ufP8aolIa3VgPWtiGkg1jN.html
03-09-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic has not impacted our aspirations, says PM Modi at India-US summit: Top quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday delivered his keynote address at the third leadership summit of the US India Strategic and Partnership Forum (USISPF). The five-day long summit which began on August 31 is based on the theme “US-India Navigating New Challenges”.The USISPF is a non-profit organisation that works for the partnership between India and the US.Here are PM Modi’s top quotes from the address: •Prime Minister Modi during his keynote address said the coronavirus pandemic has tested resilience, public health system, economic system adding that the current situation demands fresh mindset where approach to development in human centric. •Talking on the Covid-19 situation in India, PM Modi pointed out that the country has one of the lowest deaths per million in the world and the recovery rate is steadily rising too. •PM Modi during his address said although the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted several things but it has not impacted the aspirations and ambitions of 1.3 billion Indians. In recent months, there have been far reaching reforms. These are making business easier and red-tapism lesser, he added. Also read| ‘India at forefront of research for Covid-19 vaccine’, says PM Modi•1.3 billion Indians have embarked on one mission to make India self-reliant. ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ merges the local with the global. It ensures India’s strengths act as a global force multiplier, Modi said. •The Prime Minister added, “For challenges in India, you have a government that believes in delivering results, for which ease of living is as important as ease of doing business. You are looking at a young country with 65% population less than 35 years old.’’(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-has-not-impacted-our-aspirations-says-pm-modi-at-india-us-summit-top-quotes/story-Gi7gq5nY5wDY0wcRky3QiO.html
03-09-2020||India||In stern warning to Pak, Gen Rawat says ‘India capable of handling two-front threat’||Amid rising tensions with China in the Ladakh sector after provocative Chinese actions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso and India’s counter-manoeuvres to occupy key heights, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Thursday said Pakistan could try to take advantage of any threat developing along India’s northern borders but warned that the Pakistani army would suffer heavy losses if it attempted any misadventure.Speaking at a seminar organised by the United States-India Strategic Partnership Forum on ‘Navigating New Challenges’, Rawat highlighted the threat of “coordinated action” by the militaries of China and Pakistan along the northern and western borders and stressed that the Indian armed forces were capable of handling the joint threat.The CDS said India’s military strategy to deal with a twin challenge would be based on identifying a primary and a secondary front for conducting operations.Also read: Amid impasse on LAC in Ladakh, India says only way forward through talksHis comments came on a day when Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane reached Leh for a two-day security review of the Ladakh sector where India and China armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas.The Indian Army has rejigged its deployments at multiple points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, including the northern bank of Pangong Lake, to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from making aggressive manoeuvres to unilaterally alter the status quo in the contested areas.Tensions flared in the sensitive sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake five days ago to stop the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move. Brigade commander-ranked officers from the two sides met for the fourth time in Chushul on Thursday to de-escalate tensions but the talks were inconclusive with neither army prepared to make concessions.Also read: Don’t meddle in border dispute with India, China tells USOn Wednesday, Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria visited frontline bases under the Shillong-based Eastern Air Command to review the air force’s operational readiness in the eastern sector. India has strengthened its military posture across the length of the LAC -- from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh - to deal with any provocation by the Chinese military.India is also keeping a strict vigil on the western front to deter Pakistan from fishing in troubled waters and prevent what could turn out to be a two-front conflict.Experts said collusive action by China and Pakistan was a possibility. “While hostility with Pakistan is out in the open, we are now witnessing military coercion by China in the Ladakh sector. It’s not out of the realm of possibility that they could collude militarily. They already have strategic collusion,” said Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), a former Northern Army commander. Reports prepared by the parliamentary standing committee on defence over the last decade have delved into the threat China and Pakistan could pose together. Pakistan was likely to step up hostilities if China were to launch offensive operations against India, a senior military officer told the committee in 2014. He, however, stressed that China might not pose a collusive threat if hostilities were to break out between India and Pakistan.In his Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India’s sovereignty was supreme and if anyone threatened it — from the Line of Control (LoC) to the LAC — the armed forces would respond to them “in the same language”.Rawat said India has border management protocols with China to promote peace and tranquillity along the border but of late there have been aggressive actions by China that the Indian military is fully capable of handling. He said India was keeping track of the infrastructure development by China in the Tibet Autonomous Region and its implications were being considered while devising military strategy.The CDS referred to the Quad as a good arrangement to ensure complete freedom of navigation on the high seas and overflight, and unimpeded commerce. China has also been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year.Rawat said India and the US could soon finalise the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for sharing geospatial intelligence. He said India was seeking collaboration with the US to acquire high-end technologies in areas such as aerospace, space and artificial intelligence.He added there was tremendous scope for investments in India with the foreign direct investment limit raised to 74 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-stern-warning-to-pak-gen-rawat-says-india-capable-of-handling-two-front-threat/story-3coZHLxAyMnnd3rdPHz2QO.html
03-09-2020||India||Maoists deny Ganapathi surrender reports, call it Centre’s conspiracy||The central committee of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) on Thursday denied the reports of surrender of its top leader Muppalla Laxman Rao alias Ganapathi to the Telangana government and described them as “brutal lies”. In a statement sent to the media, spokesman of Maoist party central committee Abhay alleged that the “Ganapathi surrender” story was a conspiracy planned under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, central intelligence and state intelligence forces of Telangana and Chhattisgarh. Abhay said Ganapathi had voluntarily taken the decision to quit his post as the party’s general secretary two years ago due to age and common ailments. “It is a common thing in everybody’s life. It has no relation with this brutal lie (of his surrender to Telangana police),” he said. He alleged that the Modi government was maliciously propagating the surrender theory of Ganapathi to mislead the people and divert their attention from its failures. “The Modi government with saffron ideology has failed internally and externally on all fronts. In order to build confidence in the corporate forces and foil confidence of people in the Maoist party, the government has prepared this high-tension surrender story,” the Maoist party spokesman said. He claimed that the home ministry’s strategy of making New India by finishing the Maoist party by 2022 has utterly failed. “Our party and the movement have been growing strong in some states like Telangana and elsewhere. Our central committee is committed to the peoples’ cause and is strong with lot of ideological and political experience,” Abhay claimed and appealed to the people not to believe the Ganapathi surrender theory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-deny-ganapathi-surrender-reports-call-it-centre-s-conspiracy/story-8cg1VmiU3jTUYQwTJ6yvfK.html
03-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India accuses Pakistan of trying to politicise UNSC’s terrorist listing process and the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India lashes out at Pakistan at the UNSCIndia on Thursday accused Pakistan of attempting to politicise the UN Security Council’s 1267 sanctions committee procedure after members of the world body rejected Islamabad’s call to designate two Indian nationals as terrorists. Read MoreFacebook responds to Congress, calls itself ‘non-partisan’“We are non-partisan & strive to ensure our platforms remain a space where people express themselves freely. We take allegations of bias seriously & denounce hate & bigotry in all forms,” Neil Potts, Facebook’s Trust and Safety Director, responds to letter from Congress’ KC Venugopal. Read MoreSupreme Court to hear opposition states’ review petition against holding NEET, JEE examsSix opposition-ruled states: West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan --approached the top court on August 28 seeking a postponement of the examinations in view of the coronavirus crisis. Read MoreHere’s what led to PUBG getting banned in IndiaThe Indian government on Wednesday banned PUBG and 117 other China-linked applications. The move comes weeks after the government banned 47 applications which were mostly clones and variants of 59 apps. Read MoreFormer England under-19 captain talks about experiencing racismEnglish county cricket side Yorkshire said it is in contact with former player and former England under-19 captain Azeem Rafiq who claimed that he was made to feel, as a Muslim, like an ‘outsider’ during his time at the club. Read MoreHere’s your review for season-2 of ‘The Boys’Read review for the second season of The Boys. Read MoreUnlock 4.0: Plan your Goa trip for the perfect post quarantine vacationWith Goa finally opening up again for tourists, this might be the perfect opportunity to take a little trip down to the sunshine state and enjoy the various sea-side views. Read MoreCouple’s wedding anniversary pictures will make you want to hug your partnerA couple celebrated their anniversary with a photoshoot while wearing the attire they donned on their wedding day, 60 years ago. Read MoreUnion Minister’s reaction on apps ban by the CentreRamdas Athawale welcomed the government’s decision to ban 118 more mobile apps. The decision was announced on September 2, days after China’s fresh provocation along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-accuses-pakistan-of-trying-to-politicise-unsc-s-terrorist-listing-process-and-the-latest-news/story-AJQUao23FREeX2lw98aclI.html
03-09-2020||India||Don’t meddle in border dispute with India, China tells US||China on Thursday criticised what it described as “meddling” by the US in the border standoff with India, saying Beijing and New Delhi have the ability to resolve their disputes bilaterally. Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong was responding to remarks on Monday by US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun, who had said Washington will push back against Beijing’s aggressive actions, including its “outsized” territorial claims on the border with India. Ji said China favours a “fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution through peaceful and friendly consultations”. The two sides have been in talks at various levels to seek a peaceful settlement of the boundary issue, she said. “China and India have the ability to resolve their border disputes bilaterally. We don’t accept countries outside the region pointing fingers, let alone meddling or making instigation, which will only endanger the regional peace and stability,” she added. Ji also rejected other remarks made by Biegun at the leadership summit organised by the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum that were critical of China for its “outsized demands to claim sovereign territory in the Galwan Valley on the India-Chinese border or in the South Pacific” and its “assertion of national sovereignty over the territory and territorial waters of other countries”. Nations need to enhance mutual understanding and friendly cooperation, and it is regrettable that senior US officials had violated the norms of international ties and “picked up fights virtually on every front and exploited every opportunity they can to slander and smear China”, she said. “The Chinese side firmly opposes it. We urge the US side to respect facts and truth, stop smearing and spreading rumours,” Ji said. She reiterated China’s assertion that it has “never provoked a war or conflict over the past 70 years” and always insisted on resolving territorial and maritime disputes with neighbours through consultations and negotiations on the basis of respecting historical facts to maintain regional peace and stability. Ji described Biegun’s comments about “predatory practices from the Chinese economy” and “technical theft” as groundless, and said China has firmly maintained the multilateral trading system and an open global economy. Issues related to Taiwan, Hong Kong, Tibet and Xinjiang are “China’s internal affairs” and “China does not accept external interference”, Ji said. Ji also noted that 2020 marks the 70th anniversary of diplomatic ties between China and India, and the two sides should adhere to the strategic guidance of the leaders of two countries, strengthen mutual trust and cooperation, and resolve differences through dialogue and negotiation. “As large developing countries and emerging economies, both China and India are pursuing independent foreign policies. We believe that China and India have the ability and wisdom to handle bilateral relations properly and jointly maintain regional peace and stability,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-meddle-in-border-dispute-with-india-china-tells-us/story-eF0Nnmkz3m6tfWOL6DscII.html
03-09-2020||India||Covid-19 cases likely to peak by October, warns Kerala CM||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said experts have warned that Covid-19 virus cases will go up sharply by next month in the state and asked people not to lower their guard at this critical juncture. He said test positivity rate was quite high in the last couple of days but it will stabilize soon once testing rate goes up again.“Some studies have pointed out that Covid-19 cases will peak by October. We should not let our guard down citing drop in daily cases. Reduced number is due to the lesser number of tests. Onam festivities led to a dip in tests,” he said. The CM said the state’s vigil and surveillance really helped in containing mortality rate to an extent but the threat is far from over.“Test positivity rate is above 8 now. We have to bring it down to 5. At least 50 percent of the total cases came up in last month. Though we managed to contain a massive spread, the threat remains,” he said, adding that earlier some experts had warned daily cases would go up more than 10,000 in August but the state managed it well.Also read: Five-day sero survey in Agra to begin from FridayMany independent experts believe that the state’s moving growth rate (MGR) for positivity is twice than the national average - 30-day MGR is 122 percent but the national average is only 64 percent in August. There are widespread complaints that many deaths failed to find a place in the government list.While the official Covid-19 deaths in the state are 316, experts said the number may be more than double. Experts attribute the recent spike to increased testing. Till July, daily test rate was between 10,000 and 15,000 but now the state is trying hard to hike it to 50,000.Meanwhile, the state has reported 1,153 fresh cases taking its Covid-19 tally to 79,568. As many as 57, 732 patients in the state have recovered from the deadly contagion while active cases stand at 21,516. With 10 more casualties, Kerala’s Covid-19 death toll has gone up to 316.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-likely-to-peak-by-october-warns-kerala-cm/story-5H17ilfSoZH3VadP3QC1wK.html
03-09-2020||India||No question hour at 2-day Bengal assembly session, BJP claims, it shows TMC’s double standard||West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee on Thursday announced that the state’s two-day monsoon session will have no question hour due to “paucity of time”, a day after his party, Trinamool Congress, MP Derek O’Brien said not having question hour in Parliament was the worst assault on democracy. “You don’t allow #QuestionHour where ministers have to stand up and answer Qs from MPs and be held accountable. Now you only condescend to allow written Questions/Answers! Stop throwing crumbs. This is #Parliament Not the Gujarat Gymkhana,” Derek O’Brien had tweeted on Thursday afternoon. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) targeted the Trinamool Congress government for scrapping question hour at the West Bengal legislative assembly’s two-day monsoon session to be held on September 9 and 10 saying the state government was not willing to face people’s questions and not having question hour showed TMC’s double standards. Also read: Rajnath dials Opposition over Question Hour issue“The chairpersons of two houses of Parliament talk to all parties before deciding the schedule of a session. In Bengal, the session is being held only to abide by the norm (of having a session within six months). The government does not want to face questions on raging issues such as corruption in distribution of relief for people affected by Cyclone Amphan or, its failure to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. It shows TMC’s double standards,” said Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. “The Speaker has not officially informed us that there will be no question hour. We have also come to know about this from sources. He will sit with all parties on September 8,” said CPI(M) lawmaker Sujan Chakraborty. Banejree said that it was not possible to have a question-answer session because of paucity of time as the session has been kept short in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Out of 294 seats in the assembly, the TMC has 221 while the BJP has 14 and the CPI(M), 21. The Speaker also said that legislators, assembly staff, security personnel and journalists will have to undergo rapid antigen tests on September 8 and 9 for which a medical camp will be set up at the premises. Only those testing negative will be given clearance to enter the building. “The legislators will have to maintain distance and occupy specific seats earmarked for them. Elderly legislators will sit in the main hall and younger members will be asked to sit in the galleries. We will not be able to accommodate all journalists as many seats in the media gallery have to be kept empty to ensure social distancing,” said Banerjee. No guests will be allowed during the session and vehicles have to be parked outside the main premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-question-hour-at-2-day-bengal-assembly-session-bjp-claims-it-shows-tmc-s-double-standard/story-CnsVB9aNqdXSZN3vtwSsUI.html
03-09-2020||India||‘Industry should create a fund to nurture new-age entrepreneurship’: Piyush Goyal||Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday proposed the industry to create a pool of capital to nurture new-age ideas, support new businesses and encourage entrepreneurship.Addressing the industry at the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) through video conference, Goyal said top Indian business leaders can engage with youth and mentor them to encourage entrepreneurship.The government will help the CII in creating a global platform that may include like-minded countries such as the US, Japan, European Union (EU), Singapore, Canada, South Africa and Brazil to work collectively towards the development of potential new businesses across the globe, he said. Goyal, on Thursday, launched the CII’s new initiative - India’s Future Business Group (FBG).“The FBG has been constituted to support the emergence of new-age businesses, attract global investment in new businesses in India and to foster government-industry cooperation to help develop new policies to support the innovative businesses,” a CII spokesperson said. The theme of the group is ‘Nurturing the existing new businesses and fast-tracking the entry and growth of new businesses in India’, he said. Also read: Supreme Court to hear review petition seeking postponement of JEE, NEET on FridaySanjiv Bajaj, vice president of the CII and chairman of Bajaj Finserv Ltd said, “Disruption is the new normal. The whole process of developing disruptive technologies and business models will be accelerated by the CII’s Future Business Group. India has played a key role in digital technologies in the last 10 years, now the time is ripe for the country to make the next big leap.” “The initiative will send a powerful message to all entrepreneurs of present and future about our efforts to encourage and incubate the businesses of future,” Manoj Kohli country head, SoftBank India said. He is also the chairman of the group.Chandrajit Banerjee, director-general of the CII, proposed to Goyal to consider forming a joint working group of the industry and the government to formulate the national strategy and focus on sector-wise reforms. The minister accepted the proposal, the spokesperson said. The FBG will dedicate itself to encourage the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship. It will guide and steer the newcomers to rise to the unicorn, he said.The CII would soon launch the global unicorn series under the auspices of SoftBank India with the participation of unicorns from the US, the EU, Japan, Australia, Singapore, Israel and South Korea to share their journey to glory, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industry-should-create-a-fund-to-nurture-new-age-entrepreneurship-piyush-goyal/story-9HqKQzf9rPjv86QXINlU3L.html
03-09-2020||India||Supreme Court to hear review petition seeking postponement of JEE, NEET on Friday||The Supreme Court will hear on Friday a review petition filed against its order allowing the central government to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September.Six opposition-ruled states -- West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan --approached the top court on August 28 seeking a postponement of the examinations in view of the coronavirus crisis.A crucial year of students “cannot be wasted” and “life has to go on”, Supreme Court had said in an earlier order in which it dismissed students’ petition to postpone the exams.On August 26, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had called for a joint opposition meet which was attended by Uddhav Thackeray, Amarinder Singh, Hemant Soren, Bhupesh Baghel and V Narayanasamy.During the virtual meeting, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee had suggested approaching the Supreme Court for postponing the exams owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation.JEE, which was scheduled from September 1 to 6, is underway and NEET will be conducted on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-review-petition-seeking-postponement-of-jee-neet-on-friday/story-iNRokfNQcRBy9rzILo7RDI.html
03-09-2020||India||PUBG Banned: The second wave hits gamers||Wednesday afternoon came as a shock for gamers who had breathed a sigh of relief when the Indian government banned Chinese applications in June. This was a part of the government’s response in the wake of growing India-China tensions at the border. In the second wave of blocking Chinese apps, the popular game PUBG has been shown door among other 116 Chinese apps. The game’s exit from the India will be hard to reel from for many gamers simply due to the immense popularity it enjoys. However, the larger consensus that this was well on its way, makes it comes as news less shocking for some whereas, for others this is a welcome move. But taking the lockdown into consideration, excluding the game - something of an entity among the youth - suddenly out of one’s lives will be difficult. “The game became very popular among people of my generation. It was so addictive that I used to lose track of time,” says a 17-year-old Aashay Kolhe who now is a bit disappointed with the game being banned. Government blocks 118 mobile apps which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, Defence of India, Security of State and Public Order: Govt of IndiaPUBG MOBILE Nordic Map: Livik, PUBG MOBILE LITE, WeChat Work & WeChat reading are among the banned mobile apps. pic.twitter.com/VWrg3WUnO8The government’s directive cites the banned apps as being “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity… defence of India, security of state and public order”, as the reason for this move. It added that “The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India… is a matter of very deep and immediate concern…”However, many remain indifferent, and have let the internet do its thing. Of those people, the topmost remain the memers. Just as the move was announced, the issue of the game being banned took precedence over everything that was trending on the internet. The internet was flooded with memes that’ve been shared and re-tweeted numerous times.Krishna Kumar, a 25-year-old professional, is of the opinion that “ it is doubtful that these measures can be considered as a severe blow”. He adds, “Moreover, the game has been popular for years. How does it suddenly become dangerous?” Suraj Pillai, who is an avid PUBG player himself, feels if not PUBG, it’ll be something else. “Those who’re rejoicing the ban will have to understand that there are many other games one might switch to and it will only be a matter of time before they get addicted to something else.” Tencent shares fall over 2% after India bans #PUBG game, other mobile appshttps://t.co/X1IOFTPjEP pic.twitter.com/sMLvoCAXezBut the fact that the game requires access to personal data remained a question mark for some. “It is a great game,” says gaming enthusiast Siddhanth Unnikrishnan, before adding that “it cannot be trusted with personal data and information. I, myself have enjoyed playing the game but I’ve noticed it requires access to the phone gallery and contact numbers. This is completely unnecessary as it has nothing to with the gameplay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pubg-banned-the-second-wave-hits-gamers/story-WIGnH7EQGpRvk72WPfOJJK.html
03-09-2020||India||Pakistan trying to politicise UNSC’s terrorist listing process, says India||India on Thursday accused Pakistan of attempting to politicise the UN Security Council’s 1267 sanctions committee procedure after members of the world body rejected Islamabad’s call to designate two Indian nationals as terrorists. The UN Security Council had on Wednesday rejected Pakistan’s efforts to get the two Indians designated as terrorists after Islamabad failed to produce evidence to back up its allegations. The proposal from Pakistan was “objected to by some Security Council members and thereafter, the secretariat blocked this proposal...and issued a notification”, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “What has happened is [that] Pakistan’s attempt to list four Indian nationals in this 1267 sanctions list has failed,” he said, adding the move was a “blatant attempt by Pakistan to politicise the working of this 1267 procedure by giving it a religious colour”. Pakistan’s move was widely perceived as retaliation for India’s success last year in getting Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar listed as a global terrorist by the 1267 committee, which focuses on the designation of terrorists linked to al-Qaeda, Islamic State, the Taliban and their affiliates. Pakistan has launched moves to designate a total of four Indians as terrorists since 2019, telling the UN Security Council they were allegedly involved in state-sponsored terrorism. Pakistan also alleged the men were part of an Afghanistan-based group that helped organise terror attacks by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan and Jamaat-ul-Ahrar. The efforts to designate two Indians – identified by Pakistan as Venumadhav Dongara and Ajoy Mistry – were rejected by the Security Council in June and July, largely because of efforts by the US, Britain, France and Germany, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. A recent effort to designate two more Indians – identified by Islamabad as Gobinda Patnaik and Angara Appaji – were initially blocked through a “technical hold” by the US, the UK, Germany, France and Belgium as they wanted Pakistan to provide evidence to back its allegations, the people said. During consultations behind closed doors on Wednesday, when the term of the hold ended, Pakistan’s effort to designate the remaining two Indians was rejected by the Security Council after it failed to furnish any proof, the people added. India’s permanent representative to the UN, TS Tirumurti, tweeted: “Pakistan’s blatant attempt to politicise 1267 special procedure on terrorism by giving it a religious colour, has been thwarted by UN Security Council. We thank all those Council members who have blocked Pakistan’s designs.” Some of the Indians that Pakistan had sought to designate as terrorists had been working in Afghanistan. Pakistan has repeatedly sought to rake up what it claims is India’s alleged role in fomenting terrorism on its soil at various UN bodies in recent months, but without any takers. It even made a false claim that its envoy to the UN had delivered a statement at a UN Security Council meet on terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-trying-to-politicise-unsc-s-terrorist-listing-process-says-india/story-mb7wh6UqHkW29pAnzOjjML.html
03-09-2020||India||India, Russia finalise AK-47 203 rifles deal: Report||India and Russia have finalised a major deal for manufacturing AK-47 203 rifles in India during Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s ongoing visit here, the official Russian media reported on Thursday. The AK-47 203 is the latest and most advanced version of the AK-47 rifle, which will replace the Indian Small Arms System (INSAS) 5.56x45 mm assault rifle.Also read: Rajnath Singh in Russia for SCO meet, no plan to meet China, Pak ministers: Officials The Indian Army has a requirement for around 770,000 AK-47 203 rifles, of which 100,000 will be imported and the rest will be manufactured in India, Russia’s state-run Sputnik news agency said. There was no official confirmation from the Indian government on the finalisation of the deal. The rifles will be manufactured in India as part of the joint venture Indo-Russia Rifles Private Limited (IRRPL), established between the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), the Kalashnikov Concern and Rosoboronexport -- the Russian state agency for military exports, it said. The OFB would own a majority stake of 50.5 per cent in IRRPL while the Kalashnikov Group would have a 42 per cent share. Russia’s state-owned export agency, Rosoboronexport, would own the remaining 7.5 per cent, the report said.Also read: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reaches Russia for SCO meet The 7.62×39 mm Russian weapon will be produced at the Korwa Ordnance Factory in Uttar Pradesh, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year, the report said. The cost of per rifle is expected to be around USD 1,100, including the cost of technology transfer and of setting up the manufacturing unit, according to the report. The INSAS, which is use since 1996, has developed some issues such as jamming and magazine cracking at higher altitudes in the Himalayas, the Sputnik report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-finalise-ak-47-203-rifles-deal-report/story-44l4TxNcz9ApuWQMbKqgZP.html
03-09-2020||India||Do you have to wear a mask when driving alone? Health Ministry answers||The Union health ministry on Thursday distanced itself from police personnel in Indian cities going on an overdrive, prosecuting people for not wearing a mask even when they are alone in a car, jogging or cycling.Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a news conference in response to a question that there was no directive from the health ministry that people should wear masks when they are driving a car without any co-passengers.Bhushan said the health ministry also has not directed people cycling, exercising and jogging alone to wear a mask. But he pointed out that people often carried out these activities in groups of two or more. In such cases, Bhushan said, people are required to wear a mask.Also Read: Car driver arrested for not wearing face mask in ChandigarhThe top health ministry official’s effort to distance itself from the police action comes against the backdrop of reports from several cities that police personnel, tasked to enforce the law on masks to ensure the virus that causes coronavirus does not spread, were also penalising people travelling alone. Many have questioned the logic for the rule.Still need to wear a maskIt is not clear if the police will stop prosecuting motorists travelling alone without a mask. Because it wasn’t the health ministry, but the Union home ministry order that mandated people to wear a mask when they step out.According to the home ministry’s National Directive for Covid-19 Management, “Wearing of face cover is compulsory in public places; in workplaces; and during transport”. This all-encompassing directive allows the police to prosecute people without masks, even if alone in a car with the windows rolled up. It doesn’t matter that you can’t catch Covid-19 from yourself.A car on the road comes within the definition of a public place. Else, people wouldn’t be prosecuted for consumption of liquor in cars parked near liquor vends. In 2019, the Supreme Court had also ruled that a car on a public road can be treated as a public place.On social media, the move to prosecute motorists is seen as a ham-handed approach that police personnel across the country were accused of adopting during the lockdown. Like when they kept on blocking inter-state goods transport for weeks despite several requests from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla.In Delhi, the police appeared to have initially taken the stand that there was no need for motorists travelling alone to wear a mask. But somewhere down the line, as reflected in tweets from the Delhi Traffic Police’s handle, the cops tweaked their stand. Sir, if you are driving with a co- passenger it is mandatory to use mask or you are alone it is not mandatory. yes, sir. Mask is mandatory for every person even you are driving alone in car.What led to the change in stance between June 29 and August 21 is not clear. There has been no other statement by a senior Delhi Police officer. There are no figures in the public domain to indicate how much people have paid in fines for driving their vehicle without a mask. In all, Delhi Police has collected a whopping Rs 9.42 crore from at least 1.8 lakh people in the national capital for not wearing masks in public.According to Delhi Police, the penalty for not wearing a mask is a Rs 500 on-the-spot fine under a rule passed by the Delhi government under the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, (Management of Covid-19) Regulations, 2020, approved by the Delhi L-G in June.In Bengaluru, the local authorities set up a technical panel to report if they should continue prosecuting people without masks in their car. N Manjunatha Prasad, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike commissioner, announced the committee on August 26. Prasad hasn’t tweeted about the outcome of this review.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-you-need-to-wear-a-mask-when-driving-alone-health-ministry-responds/story-SAh9iRDKRjYuA6ehxlpwML.html
03-09-2020||India||Banks to roll out stressed loans resolution scheme by Sept 15||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday directed banks and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) to roll out their resolution schemes for stressed borrowers by September 15 post-moratorium period, but asked them to factor in Covid-19 related distress to assess creditworthiness of the borrowers, an official statement said.Businesses, particularly micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), want the moratorium period on loan repayment to be extended. The moratorium period ended on August 31 as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) did not extend it.Experts said this is not the time to initiate the resolution process as MSMEs are the worst sufferers of the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown. “Micro and Small enterprises have not yet been out of stress. They want the moratorium to be extended beyond August 31 as businesses have not yet returned to normal,” said Vinod Kumar, president at the India SME Forum. Mint reported on August 29 that the RBI decided against extending the moratorium period beyond August as it was concerned about changes in credit behaviour that could induce among borrowers and increase the risk of loan defaults.The report quoting RBI governor Shatikanta Das said the moratorium on loans was a temporary solution in the context of the lockdown, while a resolution framework would provide durable relief to borrowers facing Covid-related stress.The RBI had announced the loan moratorium to provide relief to pandemic-stressed borrowers in March 2020 initially for the three months till May 31, which was later extended till August end.“As and when the moratorium on loan repayments is lifted, borrowers must be given support and Covid-19 related distress must not impact the lenders’ assessment of their creditworthiness,” a finance ministry statement quoting Sitharaman said. The finance minister held the review meeting on Thursday with banks through a video conference to assess their state of preparedness for implementation of the loans resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress.The finance minister told banks and financial institutions to immediately put in place a board-approved policy for resolution while identifying eligible borrowers and reaching out to them. She also asked them for a quick implementation of a sustained resolution plan to revive every viable business, the statement said.She asked the lenders to launch a sustained media campaign to create awareness for borrowers after rolling out their resolution plans by September 15. She advised them to ensure that regularly updated frequently asked questions (FAQs) on the resolution framework are uploaded on their websites in Hindi, English and regional languages, and also circulated to their offices and branches.The lenders assured the FM that they were ready with their resolution policies. Lenders told her that they had started the process of identifying and reaching out to eligible borrowers, and they would comply with the timelines stipulated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The central bank is assisting in the resolution process, the statement said. Kumar, who is quoted earlier, said, “If banks start the resolution process, most of the smaller units will turn out to be stressed as they are not in a position to start paying debt. Those that are, have not taken the moratorium or have started paying already.”According to him, many small units have not yet attained normal business. “Despite the Centre having announced Unlock 4.0, it is not implemented at State and local levels and workers as well as supply chains have not resumed fully. This is not the time to initiate resolution processes. This is the time to extend a moratorium for survival of businesses,” he said.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP said, “The review meeting of the finance minister with the lenders is an indication that the moratorium may not be extended.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-to-roll-out-stressed-loans-resolution-scheme-by-sept-15/story-kapHByTnf8KcDrL0acz4SN.html
03-09-2020||India||Five-day sero survey in Agra to begin from Friday||The Uttar Pradesh government will begin five-day sero survey in the Taj city from Friday to ascertain the percentage of population with anti-bodies against Covid-19, said a top medical official. “We have constituted 10 teams with four members each including a doctor, lab technician, ASHA worker and ANM. The teams will collect samples from 45 locations earmarked for the purpose,” said Dr RC Pandey, chief medical officer, Agra. An expert team from Lucknow too will join the survey, he said.The survey is to be undertaken across 11 districts of Uttar Pradesh and was scheduled earlier but dates were extended twice. The districts where the survey will be conducted are Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Agra. Also read: Researchers look to make the best of PPE wasteInitially, the plan was to collect 1,080 samples in three days but now with more days in hand 1,444 samples will be collected, Pandey added. “The purpose of sero survey, as conducted in Delhi and other cities, is to find how much of the population has developed antibodies against the virus. This would help in planning an effective strategy to counter the spread of the deadly virus,” said the CMO. The blood samples will be collected from the selected group of people and sent to King George’s Medical University (KGMU) laboratory in Lucknow to determine the presence of the antibodies through enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test. Agra was the first district in the state to report Covid-19 in the month of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-day-sero-survey-in-agra-to-begin-from-friday/story-JHrkc3MEXhobalNTizFFfO.html
03-09-2020||India||Amid impasse on LAC in Ladakh, India says only way forward through talks||India on Thursday squarely blamed China for the tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC)in Ladakh over the past four months and said the only way forward was through negotiations – reflecting the impasse created by Beijing’s fresh attempts to alter the status quo along the disputed border over the weekend. There was no word from Beijing on the latest situation on the LAC, though the Chinese foreign ministry cited Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore and yoga’s popularity in the country to criticise New Delhi’s fresh ban on 118 Chinese apps and subtly warned India not to join the US “clean network” programme, an initiative for an internet without security threats. Complex talks being conducted through diplomatic and military channels to end the standoff that began in May suffered a blow when Chinese troops resorted to what were described as “provocative military movements” on the south bank of Pangong Lake during August 29-30. They were thwarted by counter-measures by the Indian side, which quickly occupied several strategic heights and hilltops, and talks between local brigade commanders since Monday to ease the fresh tensions have been inconclusive. “It is clear that the situation we witnessed over the past four months is a direct result of the actions taken by the Chinese side that sought to effect unilateral change of status quo,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “Now the way ahead is negotiations, both through the diplomatic and military channels. The Indian side is firmly committed to resolving all outstanding issues through peaceful dialogue,” he said. The Chinese side, Srivastava added, should “sincerely engage the Indian side with the objective of expeditiously restoring the peace and tranquillity in the border areas through complete disengagement and de-escalation in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols”. Without going into details, he said the local military commanders are still holding discussions to resolve the situation that had arisen from the attempt by Chinese troops to unilaterally change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Lake. In Beijing, the foreign and commerce ministries criticised India’s ban on 118 Chinese apps and called for the “mistake” to be reversed. Foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying even questioned whether India was working with the US on such issues and called for New Delhi to adopt an independent policy. The foreign ministry said that unlike the reason behind India’s decision to ban the apps, the popularity of Tagore’s poetry and the wide approval of Yoga among Chinese nationals didn’t mean that Beijing looks at such issues as “infiltration” or a “threat”. India on Wednesday banned 118 mostly Chinese mobile apps, including Tencent Holdings’s popular video game PUBG, citing data security and privacy concerns. These apps collected and shared data in a “surreptitious manner and compromise personal data and information of users that can have a severe threat to the security of the state”, the Indian side said. Hua said the latest ban would harm the interests of Indian users and the rights of Chinese businesses. Both countries are ancient civilisations with exchange going back thousands of years, she said, giving the example of Tagore, many of whose poems are popular in China. She quoted a line from one of Tagore’s poems: “We read the world wrong, and say that it deceives us.” She added, “Also, yoga is becoming more and more popular in China, including myself, I am very fond of Indian culture. But we do not think that Indian culture or the poems or other things are infiltrating here or posing any threat to Chinese culture.”Hua issued a subtle warning about ties between India and the US: “I have noted that the US state department on the same day said India banned more than 100 Chinese apps and called on other countries to join India to roll out the clean network initiative. “So, I don’t know if there is any correlation or interaction between India and the US. But India is an ancient civilisation with wise people. They should know what the US has done in cyber security, for example Dirtbox, Prism, Irritant Horn, Muscular and under-sea cable tapping.” Hua also said China hopes India will “stay committed to its precious independence [in] decision-making”. Commerce ministry spokesperson Gao Feng called on India to work with the Chinese side to maintain hard-won bilateral cooperation to build an open and fair business environment for international investors and service providers, including Chinese companies. External affairs ministry spokesperson Srivastava defended the ban on apps, saying they had engaged in activities prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of India. “What I can say is that we remain open, we continue to welcome FDI in the country, including in the area of internet technology. However, what we would like to say is companies, when they operate here, they have to operate in accordance with the regulatory framework of the government of India,” he added. India first banned 59 Chinese apps on June 29, days after a clash that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and caused unspecified Chinese casualties in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. Another 47 apps were added to the ban in July. Experts in China expectedly criticised India’s ban. Zhao Gancheng, director of the Centre for Asia-Pacific Studies at Shanghai Institute for International Studies, said while the ban will likely have a limited impact on the Indian economy, the “ill intentions behind the Indian government’s move to stir up tension and even a conflict with China are increasingly reaching a dangerous level”. “This is dangerous. The worse the Indian economy becomes, the higher the probability that a military conflict could be provoked by New Delhi. This is a very worrisome situation,” Zhao told state media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-impasse-on-lac-in-ladakh-india-says-only-way-forward-through-talks/story-8CXBgl0LNRRfAwNXxIauKN.html
03-09-2020||India||Will write to Facebook: BJP MLA after social media platform bans his account||Hours after a report in the Wall Street Journal said that Facebook had banned the account of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Telangana, T Raja, the legislator said that the social media platform should ban the accounts of leaders of other parties who give inflammatory speeches.“I’ve received info that Facebook has removed all pages & accounts in my name. There are many leaders of other parties who give inflammatory speeches. Facebook should also ban their accounts. I’ll write to Facebook for opening of my official account,” Raja Singh said.A Wall Street Journal report published on August 14 alleged that Facebook was going easy on hate speeches by BJP members and triggered a controversy.The report cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders and claimed the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on Raja Singh, whose posts targeted the Muslim community.Punishing violations by BJP politicians would damage the company’s business prospects, Das is reported to have told staff members.“We have banned Raja Singh from Facebook for violating our policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on our platform. The process for evaluating potential violators is extensive and it is what led us to our decision to remove his account,” a Facebook spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-t-raja-says-will-approach-facebook-after-social-media-platform-bans-his-account-over-hate-speech/story-a5NszI4W6NtP3NLRfGctgI.html
03-09-2020||India||Bengal Assembly session reduced to two days amid Covid-19 pandemic||The West Bengal legislative assembly will hold a short two-day monsoon session on September 9 and 10 because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Legislators, assembly staff, security personnel and journalists will have to undergo rapid antigen tests on September 8 and 9 for which a medical camp will be set up at the premises, said speaker Biman Banerjee. Only those testing negative will be given clearance to enter the building. Also read: AAP tweets a ‘hacked’ alert after Modi’s Twitter account breach. It’s a ruse“The legislators will have to maintain distance and occupy specific seats earmarked for them. Elderly legislators will seat in the main hall and younger members will be asked to sit in the galleries. We will not be able to accommodate all journalists as many seats in the media gallery have to be kept empty to ensure social distancing,” said Banerjee. No guests will be allowed during the session and vehicles have to be parked outside the main premises, the speaker said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-assembly-session-reduced-to-two-days-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-Nvais51zXHzl3y15tKh5rJ.html
03-09-2020||India||‘I was ready to pack my bags and leave…’||Actor Pooja Banerjee loves coming back to Lucknow due to the special connection she has with the city. “I love Lucknow because my grandparents’ house is here. I have many fond memories of the place. In fact, I visited Lucknow thrice this year,” said the ‘Swim Team’ and ‘Kehne Ko Humsafar Hain’ actor, speaking over the phone from Mumbai.Juggling between shoots, Pooja feels this is the best phase of her career. “I wouldn’t have had it any other way. Reaching here was never easy as I had to struggle to make a name. I remember after doing quite a few projects, I was not getting the kind of work I wanted and so it was leading nowhere. I was ready to pack my bags and leave. I had promised my parents that if acting did not work out I’d quit and leave Mumbai. It was on my husband, Sandeep Sejwal’s insistence, that I decided to try my hand at playing an antagonist for the first time and since then there has been no looking back.”The actor is happy with the kind of roles she is currently playing. “I’m enjoying playing negative roles as they give you a lot of room to perform as an actor. Also, life is such that no one can be Miss Goody Two Shoes all the time, and we as humans, have our good and bad sides too. My character, Rhea Mehra, from the show ‘Kumkum Bhagya’ is such and that’s the reason I’m loving it. She is young, bubbly and has strong likes and dislikes,” she said.Pooja has been frequently working on the web too. Talking about her OTT experience, the ‘Kasautii Zindagii Kay’ actor said, “Currently, OTT is the place to be and as an actor, it is exciting as well as fulfilling to be working on various platforms and getting numerous chances to entertain audiences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-was-ready-to-pack-my-bags-and-leave/story-kcLlq5AOt5LNZxF3Vfhx4N.html
03-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case has links with drug trade, says official||Investigators probing the Kerala gold smuggling case have found strong links with a drug bust in Bengaluru on August 28 and have approached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for details, a senior officer who is part of the investigating team said Thursday. “The key accused in the drug case Anoop Mohammad was in constant touch with K T Ramees, an accused in the gold smuggling case and we suspect both had connections with the international drug cartel. We found Ramees had made several trips to Africa,” the official said. “He was also the main link between smugglers, drug cartel and subversive elements”. He said officials had initially suspected a link between gold smuggling and the drug syndicate and the latest incidents show their suspicion was justified. The National Investigation Agency which is heading the gold smuggling probe will question Mohammad soon. Anoop Mohammad, a native of Kochi, was arrested along with two others when the NCB busted a major drug racket in Bengaluru. In his statement to the NCB, which was later leaked to the media, he mentioned the name of Bineesh Kodiyeri, second son of CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, and said he helped him a lot in his “business venture.” Bineesh Kodiyeri later acknowledged that he knew Anoop Mohammad since 2013 but he had no idea about his drug dealings. “I was really shocked after his arrest. I know him very well and funded him setting up a hotel. I never knew about his involvement in drugs,” he said. He claimed his name was dragged due to political reasons. There are also reports Mohammad took names of many film personalities in Kochi whom he regularly supplied some ecstasy pills nicknamed “Acid and Molly.” The NCB said Mohammad was active in drug business since 2015. The opposition Congress and BJP also said the gold smuggling and drug seizure were closely linked. “Anoop Mohammad is just a proxy of Bineesh Kodiyeri. Many other names including that of some film artists will surface soon,” said BJP president K Surendran. Kodiyeri on his part said he was ready for any investigation. Meanwhile the BJP has raised another allegation against the Left Front government saying an imposter had signed some files when chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan went to the United States for treatment in September 2018. BJP spokesman Sandeep Warrier said it was not a digital signature and asked the CM to reveal who signed important files in his absence. Vijayan yet to react to the latest allegation. At least 20 people have been arrested so far in tehgold smuggling case after the racket was detected on July 5 following the seizure of 30 kg of the yellow metal from a consignment came in the name of an employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-has-links-with-drug-trade-says-official/story-8kqc9vpokXfKRZaflBU1aL.html
03-09-2020||India||With over 2,000 new patients, Chhattisgarh records biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases||Chhattisgarh witnessed the biggest spike in Covid-19 cases in a single day with 2,269 people testing positive for the infection on Wednesday. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state now stands at 35,683.The death toll due to the pandemic mounted to three hundred after thirteen more people succumbed to the viral infection and comorbidities. On Wednesday, ex-mayor of Rajandgaon district, Shobha Soni (49), died in a government hospital in Raipur.Acting on a sudden rise of Covid-19 cases in last few days, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupeh Baghel has directed the administration to increase Covid-19 beds in some of the worst-affected districts of the state.“Around 10,000 Covid-19 beds will be developed in the state capital which is worst affected by Covid-19. We have more than 6,000 active cases in Raipur. The situation is under control but the worrying aspect is that the people are coming very late for testing,” health minister TS Singh Deo told HT.Also read: Researchers look to make the best of PPE wasteMeanwhile, a week-long lockdown has been imposed in Rajanandgaon municipal corporation area with effect from Friday owing to a sudden spike in coronavirus cases.Rajnandgaon district Collector Topeshwar Verma has issued an order declaring the entire town as a containment zone and restricted the opening of commercial establishments from September 4 evening till September 12 early morning, the public relations department of Rajnandgaon stated in a press release.Till Wednesday, the district had recorded 2,341 coronavirus cases of which 197 were reported in the last month. The district has 820 active cases and has witnessed 11 fatalities.On Wednesday, the state has 16,810 active cases as 18,220 people have been discharged following recovery from the infection.Raipur district is the worst-hit district by the pandemic in the state with 674 new cases followed by Durg (209) and Bilaspur district (194).Other districts where fresh cases were detected are Raigarh (138), Rajnandgaon (96), Mahasamund (80), Balod (66), Dhamtari (56), Janjgir-Champa (51), Balodabazar (40), Korba (38), Bijapur (35), Bastar (29), Surguja (27), Mungeli (21), Jashpur (21) and Sukma (17), the official said.Sixteen cases each were recorded in Gariaband, Kondagaon, Dantewada and Narayanpur districts, fifteen in Koriya, twelve in Bemetara, ten in Kabirdham, seven each in Balrampur and Kanker and five in Surajpur.Besides, five people from other states who had arrived in Chhattisgarh have tested positive, he added. Among the deceased, five patients were from Raipur and two from Raigarh while one each from Rajnandgaon, Durg, Balodabazar, Bastar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-2-000-new-patients-chhattisgarh-records-biggest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-bMlCGQNGuZU521j8kyZcsN.html
03-09-2020||India||Amid India-China stand-off, Army chief Gen Naravane visits Ladakh||Amid the stand-off with China at Pangong Tso, Indian Army chief General MM Naravane began a visit to Ladakh on Thursday to take stock of the situation, defence officials said. “Army chief General MM Narvane reached Ladakh on Thursday on a two-day visit. He will take stock of the situation and operational preparedness of the troops”, said a Defence official. General Narvane’s visit assumes significance after the Indian Army thwarted an attempt by the Chinese army to transgress into the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) near the southern bank of Pangong Tso in Ladakh on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. Over the weekend, Indian troops have strengthened their positions on the heights along the southern bank of Pangong Tso. The situation in eastern Ladakh remains tense and both the countries have reinforced their positions by deploying more troops and military hardwareMeanwhile, Chief Air Marshal RKS Bhadauria of the Indian Air Force (IAF) visited frontline air bases in Eastern Air Command (EAC) on Wednesday, a defence spokesperson said. “On arrival at the bases in Eastern Air Command the Chief of Air Staff was received by respective Air Officers Commanding who apprised him of the readiness state and operational preparedness of the combat units under their command. He also met and interacted with air warriors serving in these units during the course of his visit,” the spokesperson said. “He lauded the focused efforts by the station personnel towards maintaining proficiency in all roles envisaged and urged them to continue performing their duty with due diligence,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-india-china-stand-off-army-chief-gen-narvane-visits-ladakh/story-MOXk23dbbefJAJyatVBalO.html
03-09-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath bats for common recruitment agency, better work culture||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the state government, like the Centre, should have a common agency to conduct all its recruitment exams for its departments and enterprises.The chief minister was speaking at the Covid-19 and Unlock-4 review meeting at his secretariat, Lok Bhavan in Lucknow. Adityanath called for improving the work culture in government departments, adding that all offices should be linked to the e-office system. “No files should be pending in any office for more than seven days and more than three days at any cell/window. Fix accountability for any delay beyond the prescribed time limit. Also, ensure that employees reach office on time and their attendance is regular. Senior officers should conduct surprise inspections and reviews for this,” the chief minister said.Also read: Researchers look to make the best of PPE wasteTalking about Covid-19, the chief minister said that all possible and prescribed steps and caution should be exercised to break the Covid-19 infection chain in the state.“Step up and further consolidate the system of surveillance, door-to-door surveys and testing. The success of the war against Covid-19 would be directly proportional to the consolidation of these elements,” he said.He said the state government was committed to providing quality medical services to the people and asked the officers concerned to take all possible measures to protect the population from Covid-19. Adityanath said that the instructions that were issued at the video conference on Wednesday for the containment of Covid-19 in Lucknow and Kanpur must be followed by the respective districts strictly. Accountability should be fixed if there was any laxity in following those instructions. He also asked for increased testing in Kanpur City and Gorakhpur.Talking about the inter-state transportation facility for people, Yogi said that the to-and-fro movement should now be made smoother and buses should be operated on all listed routes.Among those who attended the meeting were medical education minister Suresh Khanna, health minister Jai Pratap Singh, chief secretary RK Tiwari, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon, additional chief secretary (finance) Sanjeev Mittal, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi and director-general of police HC Awasthi. Additional chief secretary (revenue) Renuka Kumar, additional chief secretary (to chief minister) SP Goel, additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (medical education) Rajneesh Dubey, additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal and additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi were also present along with additional chief secretary (rural development), Manoj Kumar Singh, principal secretary (to chief minister); Sanjay Prasad, principal secretary (animal husbandry) Bhuvnesh Kumar; secretary (to chief minister) Alok Kumar, and director (information) Shishir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-bats-for-common-recruitment-agency-better-work-culture/story-bEH7Htqltl5n2aOldHTTNO.html
03-09-2020||India||Give India another chance to appoint lawyer for Kulbhushan Jadhav: Pak court||A high court in Pakistan on Thursday directed the federal government to give India another chance to appoint a lawyer to represent death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav as it adjourned hearing for a month. The Islamabad High Court (IHC) took up the case of appointment of lawyer for Jadhav to hear the review of the death sentence given to him by a Pakistani military court. Jadhav, the 50-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of “espionage and terrorism” in April 2017. Attorney General Khalid Javed Khan told the court that to comply with the orders of the International Court of Justice (ICJ), Pakistan granted consular access to India, however, it has not replied to Pakistan’s offer to appoint a lawyer for him. The IHC, after hearing the arguments, ordered the government to send its order on Jadhav to India and adjourned the hearing until October 3 when the case would be heard again. Pakistan has introduced a special law to allow Jadhav to get his sentence reviewed as asked by the ICJ. India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July last year that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. Pakistan claims that its security forces arrested Jadhav from the restive Balochistan province on March 3, 2016 after he reportedly entered from Iran. India maintains that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-india-another-chance-to-appoint-lawyer-for-kulbhushan-jadhav-pakistan-court-to-govt/story-UWVozMx77BTVDCODPpioTM.html
03-09-2020||India||Tagore no threat to China, why should PUBG be a risk to India, asks Beijing||Beijing on Thursday cited Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore and yoga’s popularity in China to criticise India banning 118 Chinese apps and subtly warned New Delhi not to join the US’s ‘clean network’ programme, Washington’s initiative for an internet without security threats.The Chinese foreign ministry said unlike the reason behind India’s decision to ban the 118 apps, the popularity of Tagore’s poems or the wide approval of yoga among Chinese citizens did not mean that China looks at these as “infiltration” or “threat”.India on Wednesday banned 118, mostly Chinese mobile apps, including Tencent Holdings Ltd’s popular video game PUBG, citing data security concerns.These “apps collect and share data in a surreptitious manner and compromise personal data and information of users that can have a severe threat to the security of the state,” India’s ministry of electronics and information technology said in a statement.The latest round of ban – India first banned 59 Chinese apps on June 29 – comes in the backdrop of fresh escalation in the ongoing border friction between the two Himalayan neighbours in eastern Ladakh.While the foreign ministry invoked Tagore and his poetry, China’s commerce ministry was less poetic. It said it strongly opposed India banning Chinese apps. “Indian actions violate the legal interests of Chinese investors and services providers and China asks India to correct its mistakes,” commerce ministry spokesperson Gao Feng said at a briefing.Gao said India has abused national security by imposing “discriminate restrictions” on Chinese companies,He said China has always asked its companies to comply with international and local rules and regulations in their overseas operations.“We hope that the Indian side will work with the Chinese side to maintain hard-won bilateral cooperation and development so as to build an open and fair business environment for international investors and services providers including Chinese companies,” Gao was quoted as saying.The Chinese foreign ministry, meanwhile, said neither country should hurt long-term interests because of short sightedness.“The Indian side decided to ban some great and popular Chinese apps. Indian user’s rights and interests are firstly harmed. And Chinese business’s rights and interests will also be harmed. So, what India has done is not beneficial to anyone,” spokesperson Hua Chunying said.“As I said both are ancient civilisations with splendid cultures that we are proud of, and the exchange between the two sides have been going on for thousands of years.”Giving the example of Tagore, Hua said many of his poems are popular in China, and then quoted a line from one of his poems: “We read the world wrong, and say that it deceives us”.“Also, yoga is becoming more and more popular in China; including myself, I am very fond of Indian culture. But we do not think that Indian culture or the poems or other things are infiltrating here or are posing any threat to Chinese culture,” Hua said.“What we believe is that the intermingling of different cultures is conducive to promoting people’s mutual understanding and friendship.”Hua also let out a subtle warning about ties between India and the US.“I have noted that the US state department on the same day said that India banned more than 100 Chinese apps and called on other countries to join India to roll out the clean network initiative,” she said.“So, I don’t know if there is any correlation or interaction between India and the US. But India is an ancient civilisation with wise people. They should know what the US has done in Cyber Security for example Dirtbox, Prism, Irritant Horn, Muscular and under-sea cable tapping. Indian people must have the wisdom to tell whether the US practice on cyber security is clean or dirty.”“We hope India could stay committed to its precious independence decision making.”Experts in China have expectedly criticised New Delhi’s move to ban the apps.Zhao Gancheng, director of the Centre for Asia-Pacific Studies at the Shanghai Institute for International Studies said while the apps ban will likely have a limited impact on the Indian economy, the “…ill intentions behind the Indian government’s move to stir up tension and even a conflict with China are increasingly reaching a dangerous level”.“This is dangerous. The worse the Indian economy becomes, the higher the probability that a military conflict could be provoked by New Delhi. This is a very worrisome situation,” Zhao told state media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tagore-no-threat-to-china-why-should-pubg-be-a-risk-to-india-asks-beijing/story-EcwOFSFhRA5JdILES142UL.html
03-09-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with IPS probationers on Sept 4 through video conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with IPS probationers through a video conference on Friday during the ‘Dikshant Parade Event’ at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy in Hyderabad. An official statement said on Thursday that 131 IPS probationers, including 28 women, have completed their 42 weeks of basic course phase-I training at the academy.Also read: PM Narendra Modi to share views on ‘Navigating New Challenges’ at India-US SummitThey joined the academy on Dec 17, 2018 after completing their foundation course at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie, and at Dr Marri Channa Reddy HRD Institute of Telangana, Hyderabad, with those from other central services like IAS and IFS, the statement added. During the basic course, probationers are imparted training in various indoor and outdoor subjects like law, investigation, forensics, leadership and management, criminology, public order and internal security, ethics and human rights, modern Indian policing, field craft and tactics, weapon training and firing, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-ips-probationers-on-sept-4-through-video-conference/story-IgDRaePuRxbh5we6L65d6I.html
03-09-2020||India||AAP tweets a ‘hacked’ alert after Modi’s Twitter account breach. It’s a ruse||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday posted an image on Twitter that read “Hacked” in bold letters. The tweets came after the Twitter account of PM Narendra Modi’s personal website was hacked this morning.However, the party’s post on Twitter was not about any cybersecurity alarm but directed at the worrying state of the economy and the prevailing coronavirus situation. As one clicks on the image, the text inside reads, ”Now that we have your attention, we just want to let you know that India’s unemployment has hit 45 years high, GDP growth rate is lowest in 40 years and COVID-19 cases have hit 83000 in a day which is highest in the world.”  Alert‼️ pic.twitter.com/7Ni4vTC2MPDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led party brought to notice the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) that contracted by 23.9% in April-June as the Covid-19 lockdown weighed on the already declining consumer demand and investment. He also pointed out that the jobless rate in the country is currently at a 45-year high and the GDP has dropped to a 40-year-low. The other reference that he made was to the surging coronavirus cases in the country. With daily Covid-19 cases crossing the grim milestone of 80,000 for the second time, India’s infection tally on Thursday went up to 3,853,406. The toll from the infection has risen over 67,000. Several Opposition parties, including the Congress, have criticised the Modi government for the dropping GDP. Rahul Gandhi has even launched a four part video series attacking the government for the “economic tragedy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-tweets-a-hacked-alert-after-pm-narendra-modi-s-twitter-account-breach-it-s-a-ruse/story-9xtfjppcMVBYU0D51GD9BP.html
03-09-2020||India||104 security personnel under MHA lost lives in ‘accidents’ in 2019; 2,006 in six years||Two security personnel under the command of the Union home ministry died in “accidents” every week on an average in 2019, totalling 104 such fatalities over the year, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data.A total of 2,006 such fatalities have been reported in six years, with the maximum of 1,232 in 2014 and the minimum of 104 each in 2018 and 2019.The combined number of accident-related deaths in the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), the Assam Rifles and the National Security Guard (NSG) stood at 113 in 2017, 260 in 2016 and 193 in 2015.However, the NCRB data did not give a force-wise break up of the “accidental death” cases in the CAPF, the AR and the NSG.The CAPF refers to the five central security forces -- Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). Besides the CAPF, the AR and the NSG are also under the administrative control of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).As on January 1, 2019, the CAPF had an actual strength of 9,23,800 personnel, who played a vital role in guarding borders and assisting the central and state governments in the maintenance of internal security and curbing other illegal or unlawful activities, the NCRB stated.According to the latest data for 2019, 104 personnel lost their lives in various accidents, including road or rail accidents, and in action or encounters.Fourteen personnel were killed in action or operations or encounters in 2019, with more than half of them (eight) in Chhattisgarh (57.1 per cent), followed by six in Jammu and Kashmir (42.9 per cent), the data showed.However, the maximum of 62 of the 104 deaths (59.6 per cent) were under the “other causes” category, followed by 24 (23.1 per cent) in “road or railway accidents”, the NCRB stated.Of the 62 “deaths due to other causes”, 25.8 per cent and 16.1 per cent were reported in Jammu and Kashmir (16) and Rajasthan (10) respectively.Rajasthan accounted for 20.8 per cent (five) of the 24 “deaths due to road or railway accidents” in the country in 2019, the data showed.In 2018 also, the “accidental death” figures in the CAPF, the AR and the NSG stood at 104, the NCRB, which functions under the MHA, stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/104-security-personnel-under-mha-lost-lives-in-accidents-in-2019-2-006-in-six-years/story-gSWFc4eeMYaT5UoYKdlgkK.html
03-09-2020||India||Will continue to remove hateful content: Facebook assures Congress||Facebook assured the Congress party on Thursday that it will continue to remove hateful content by public figures in India on its platform and explained how its decisions on these issues are not taken unilaterally but through a collective decision involving different views from teams around the company. Also read: Facebook bans BJP legislator amid raging controversy over hate speech biasIn a mail to Congress general secretary in charge of the organisation, K C Venugopal, the social media company’s public policy director, Neil Potts, based in its headquarter at Menlo Park, California, said, “On the question of hateful content by public figures, we want to assure you that our Community Standards prohibit attacks against people based on their protected characteristics, including religion, caste, ethnicity, and national origin. In line with our hate speech policy, we have removed and will continue to remove hateful content by public figures in India on our platforms.” Venugopal had shot a letter last month to Facebook in the wake of the Wall Street Journal report that the social media giant’s key public-policy executive in India, Ankhi Das, didn’t allow pulling down a hate-filled post of a BJP leader. In its reply to the Congress, Potts said, “We are non-partisan and strive to ensure that our platforms remain a space where people can express themselves freely. We take allegations of bias seriously and want to make it clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in all forms.” He continued to explain that as part of Facebook’s policy development process, “we consult a community of external voices, including civil society organizations, academics, and subject experts. We also rely extensively on inputs from a broad cross-section of internal teams who understand both local and global contexts in the enforcement of our policies on hate speech and dangerous organizations and individuals.” “We have a team with deep expertise on terrorism and organized hate, who pay attention to global and regional trends and advise on these matters. These decisions are not made unilaterally by any one person; rather, they are inclusive of different views from teams around the company, a process that is critical to making sure we consider, understand, and account for both the local and global contexts,” the director said. The letter also cited that the latest Transparency Report showed how Facebook took action against violating content across its platforms. “We removed 22.5 million pieces of hate speech content from April-June in 2020, up from 1.6 million pieces of hate speech content removed in the last quarter of 2017. We know there is much more to do and will continue to invest our efforts to combat hate speech on our services,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-to-remove-hateful-content-facebook-assures-congress/story-bao4qmIGPrtIImqOO3nj0M.html
03-09-2020||India||Researchers look to make the best of PPE waste||At least four Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) institutes, along with several private firms, are working on recycling plastic waste from discarded PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, masks and disposable testing equipment. The researchers aim to utilise the recycled material to pave roads, make bricks or reuse them for biomedical purposes after a microwaved process of sterilisation, according to experts. As per estimates of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), 19,636 tonnes of biomedical waste is expected to be generated this year across the state. Almost one third of this waste will be in the form of disposable PPE kits, masks, testing swabs and pipes used in the management of Covid-19 patients. In view of the huge challenge to public safety, the manufacturers of disposable PPE kits have also been asked to devise ways to recycle and manage the waste produced by used kits. The research is focused on three safe options, including the construction of roads with used PPE kits. Experts from four CSIR institutes, Indian Institute of Petroleum (IIP), Dehradun; National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), Pune; Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI), Durgapur; and Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), Lucknow, are working to convert discarded PPE kits and other plastic waste into pellets that can be used for road construction or moulded for other applications. Alok Dhawan, the director of IITR Lucknow, said, “Our Institute is working to ensure that discarded PPE kits are disinfected before being utilised to make other items. We will also ensure that the recycled material is used as per the regulations laid down by CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board).” He added that disposable PPE kits were made of plastic polymers and they could easily be recycled and used to construct roads. The idea is not new as plastic has been used to construct roads in various parts of the county for at least five years now. The production of bricks and construction material is another option. A couple of manufacturers of PPE kits are planning to make construction material like bricks and road tiles with discarded PPE kits. Dinesh Srivastav, a Mathura-based PPE kit manufacturer, said, “Making bricks of used PPE kits can be a profitable way to recycle them. A person in Gujarat has successfully made bricks out of used PPE. We are also working with plastic recycling experts to do the same. The plan is to make bricks and interlocking tiles with recycled PPE kits, which can be used in construction.” The manufacturers are confident that with help of experts they will be able to develop a prototype by the end of September. “Once the prototype is made, we will get it approved by UPPCB before starting production,” said Srivastav. “We are also working on a system to collect used PPE kits from hospitals in a safe manner to ensure that infection is not transmitted during the operation,” he added. Perhaps the most cost-effective method to reduce biomedical waste is to reuse PPE kits. Maser Technology, a start-up, has developed a microwave that can sterilise PPE kits and masks rendering them reusable. Monish Bhandari, the owner of the start-up, said, “We have developed a device named Optimaser that uses microwave technology to sterilise used PPE kits and masks. Twenty PPE kits can be sterilised within 20 minutes using Optimaser. The technology has been tested by AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences).” According to the manufacturers, one PPE kit can be reused 20 times after being sterilised in Optimaser after each use. The developers are working closely with experts from Lucknow-based IITR in developing the machine. The manufacturers are in talks with various state governments for installing the machines in Covid-19 care facilities across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/researchers-look-to-make-the-best-of-ppe-waste/story-dT2D5Z7ZiNKMw0fkXF7x6I.html
03-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress to start ‘enduring plan’ in Rajasthan to address dissatisfaction among MLAs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In Rajasthan, Congress’ ‘enduring plan’ to address discontent among MLAsAfter overcoming the recent political crisis in Rajasthan, the state Congress has started working on an “enduring plan” to address dissatisfaction among MLAs and other party leaders. The party is planning to ensure maximum participation of MLAs, senior leaders and workers in the government and organisation. Read moreNumber of recovered Covid-19 patients is 3.5 times more than active cases: Health MinistryHealth Ministry on Thursday addressed a press briefing on the Covid-19 situation in the country and said the number of recovered cases is more than 29.70 lakh, which is 3.5 times more than active cases. Read moreStaff shortage, poor coordination: Pune’s jumbo Covid facility invites patients’ wrathIf 42-year-old journalist Pandurang Raykar’s death highlighted lack of coordination on part of administration, it also underlined inconvenience being faced by patients in delayed treatment, no response from centre and poor food. Read moreKenosha unrest: Joe Biden to test his promise to unify the nationCampaigning for more than a year as a calming, unifying figure, Joe Biden and his core pitch for the presidency face the most intense test yet when he travels to Kenosha, Wisconsin, a city wrenched by police and protest violence that makes it a microcosm of the nation’s election-year reckoning with systemic racism. Read moreHilary Swank interview: Oscar-winner on being inspired by Kalpana Chawla to play astronaut in Netflix’s AwayOscar-winning actor Hilary Swank said that Kalpana Chawla was among the many real-life icons who inspired her to play astronaut Emma Green in the Netflix space drama Away. Chawla was the first woman of Indian origin to go to space. She died in 2003, in the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster. Read moreTata Motors, Hyundai to supply Nexon and Kona EVs for government useEnergy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) on Thursday announced it had placed orders for 150 Nexon electric vehicles (EVs) from Tata Motors and another 100 Kona EVs from Hyundai for government use. EESL is a joint venture of PSUs under the Ministry of Power, Government of India. Read moreCEO Madhav Sheth on why Realme 7 smartphones launched six months after Realme 6 series in IndiaRealme has just introduced its Realme 7 and 7 Pro in India at ₹14,999 and ₹19,999 base price. And while these two are powerful enough to give a tough time to rivals in the same price segment, they also add to the vast lineup that Realme has been aggressively growing this year. Read moreHappy Birthday Sadhguru: Inspirational quotes on life, love and spirituality by Jaggi VasudevSadhguru, born Jaggi Vasudev, is an Indian yogi and author. He is best known for his many books on yoga and spirituality, including Inner Engineering: A Yogi’s Guide to Joy, Pebbles Of Wisdom, Mystics Musings, and for his initiative, the Isha Foundation, which runs an ashram, yoga centre, among other efforts in spirituality, education and towards saving the environment. Read moreWatch: Nearly 200 Pakistanis return from India, were stuck due to Covid lockdown||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-to-start-enduring-plan-in-rajasthan-to-address-dissatisfaction-among-mlas-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Q1YvOGWKGuXwGShATKMlKK.html
03-09-2020||India||Coronavirus: Health ministry says case fatality decreasing in most affected states||The Union health ministry highlighted on Wednesday that despite rise in cases all over the nation, the states which account for the most number of cases and deaths have reported a fall in active daily cases trajectory along with fall in death rate. The union health ministry during its briefing said that Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh contribute to 62% of the active coronavirus cases. Maharashtra’s coronavirus cases is 12% of the total active cases of the nation followed by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. While pointing out that these states contribute to the active daily cases trajectory, the secretary of health Rajesh Bhushan also highlighted that over the past three weeks the rates of new cases have dropped. Tamil Nadu has registered 23.9% fall in the number of cases. Uttar Pradesh follows Tamil Nadu with 17.1% decrease. He said, “Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh have contributed to the most number of deaths. While these states account for more than 65% of the deaths there has been a decrease in the number of deaths over a period of three weeks.”According to the health ministry data, Tamil Nadu has seen 18.2% fall in weekly decrease in case fatality followed by Maharashtra and Andhra. Bhushan said, “Though Delhi has registered a rise in death rates but death rates have fallen in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh over the past three weeks.”During the press briefing the secretary of health pointed out that data needs to be seen not only in terms of daily rise in cases but data of how active case trajectory are falling across several states along with case fatality trajectory should also be seen. The health ministry said as festival season begins it is necessary to follow all Covid-19 related precautionary measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-health-ministry-says-case-fatality-decreasing-in-most-affected-states/story-S4TmjssGZV81Ovw4Q2QHSI.html
03-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family has grave doubts it’s not suicide but murder: Lawyer||Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father’s lawyer on Thursday said that the late actor’s family doubts that the incident was not a suicide and but murder, according to news agency ANI.“The family is definitely having grave doubt that this is not suicide but a murder,” lawyer Vikas Singh representing Rajput’s father KK Singh was quoted as saying by ANI.Vikas Singh’s remark came a day after he told reporters that the Mumbai police had made Rajput’s father sign a statement that was written in Marathi and that the family did protest against it as opposed to what the Mumbai police commissioner has said. This comes in the backdrop of reports that KK Singh told Mumbai police in a statement that he believes his son might have “done suicide out of dejection.”The lawyer, however, refuted the claims saying, “At that point, we only protested that it should not be in Marathi. We did not know what was written in Marathi as none of the family members hails from Maharashtra.” Also read: ‘Mumbai police has a reputation, welcome plea by retired cops in Sushant case’, says ministerIn late August, as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) approached All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) for assistance, it formed a medical panel to look into the alleged murder angle in the case. “We will look into the possibility of murder. However, all probable angles will be thoroughly examined,” AIIMS’ forensic department chief Dr Sudhir Gupta had said. He had also termed the missing time stamp on the autopsy report ‘a hard fact’.In an FIR filed in Patna, KK Singh has alleged that actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family members drove his 34-year-old son to suicide. Also read| Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB arrests 20-year-old Bandra residentThe CBI is currently investigating the death of the actor at his Bandra apartment on June 14. A money laundering and drug-related angle is also being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-family-has-grave-doubts-it-s-not-suicide-but-murder-lawyer/story-NTM6AfqbHZ4RXxxkHj1qNI.html
03-09-2020||India||Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria takes stock of air bases in Eastern Sector||Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria visited the airbases in the Eastern sector on Tuesday and reviewed the level of operation preparedness and capability enhancement of the troops, news agency ANI reported.The air chief marshal spoke to troops serving in these air bases and took stock of the situation.The visit comes in the backdrop of border tensions between China and India. New Delhi has accused Beijing of trying to alter the status quo at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh with its aggressive posturing.The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China has been involved in several transgressions in the Ladakh sector over the past week. The Chinese army had carried out provocative movements to alter the status quo along the LAC and was found to do so amid discussions of disengagement between the top Army officials.India also increased its presence in Arunachal Pradesh in order to thwart any Chinese attempts to disturb peace in the region.Earlier, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria had conducted a comprehensive review of the situation in Eastern Ladakh.Indian Air Force has been instructed that they enhance their surveillance along the LAC in eastern Ladakh.While Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria visited the eastern sector air bases, Army chief General MM Naravane is on a visit to Leh to review the security situation. The Eastern Air Command has air bases in Bagdogra, Guwahati, Chabua, Hasimara, Jorhat, Kalaikunda Barrackpore, and Tezpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-chief-marshal-rks-bhadauria-takes-stock-of-air-bases-in-eastern-sector/story-GsODU3BqqxaTjy1V5Ho33O.html
03-09-2020||India||Pakistani nationals stranded in India due to lockdown return via Attari-Wagah border||Several Pakistani nationals, who were stranded in India due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, crossed over to the neighbouring country through the Attari-Wagah border on Thursday.One of the Karachi residents, Salma Chaudhary, who was stranded in India said that she faced a lot of problems due to the pandemic and lockdown but thanked the Ministry of External Affairs and Pakistan High Commission for helping her.“I came on March for 15 days for the renewal of my passport and got stuck here due to lockdown. I also faced some problems, but finally, I am going home today. I thank MEA and Pakistan High Commission for helping me,” Chaudhary told ANI here.The Karachi resident said that she is an Indian married to a Pakistani national.“My family, including my husband and seven-year-old son, lives in Pakistan. I am feeling quite excited as I am going back home after months and am going to meet them,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-nationals-stranded-in-india-due-to-lockdown-return-via-attari-wagah-border/story-CxR30Gm3I71o88jl8sTamN.html
03-09-2020||India||In Rajasthan, Congress’ ‘enduring plan’ to address discontent among MLAs||After overcoming the recent political crisis in Rajasthan, the state Congress has started working on an “enduring plan” to address dissatisfaction among MLAs and other party leaders.The party is planning to ensure maximum participation of MLAs, senior leaders and workers in the government and organisation. Around 1.30 lakh workers have been identified in districts and blocks. They will be given an opportunity to work with the government. The government will accommodate maximum legislators for governance – in cabinet, as parliamentary secretaries and chairpersons of boards and commissions, according to a senior Congress leader familiar with the development.Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers. At present, there are 22, including the chief minister.Recently, the Chhattisgarh government appointed 15 parliamentary secretaries. “In Rajasthan also, the possibilities are being explored, the parliamentary secretaries will assist the ministers in working,” the party leader said.Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra has now been made state party chief, another minister Bhanwar Lal is unwell, the post of deputy speaker is vacant, eight posts of ministers are to be filled and some ministers on the basis of performance are likely to be replaced. “This way, around 13-15 in the ministry, including those who came from BSP and independents will be accommodated and a dozen can be made parliamentary secretaries,” the party leader said.He said the state government will bring an amendment in the Prevention of Disqualification Act to avoid office of profit violation, while accommodating MLAs in board and commissions. “The party leadership does not want repetition of what happened when 19 MLAs, led by Sachin Pilot, turned rebel. The move is to address resentment and ensure active participation in the government,” he added.Besides, the Congress leader said the party has identified over 1.30 lakh workers, who actively worked at booth level and helped the party in elections. “These workers will be accommodated at block and district level in various committees such as MGNREGA, Swasthya Rakshak, 20-point programme, school and hospital boards to help provide good governance,” he said.“A good number of senior leaders including ex-MLAs, ministers and chairpersons will be given positions in organisations, other than political appointments in the government, said the party leader.AICC general secretary and the party incharge for Rajasthan, Ajay Maken said when there are various statutory positions which have been occupied in past by the MLAs in Rajasthan as also in the Congress-ruled states such as Punjab has six advisors to the CM and Chhattisgarh has 15 parliamentary secretaries. “Holding such positions helps MLAs to exercise their authority more effectively for development. When provisions are available, why leave them empty,” he said. The appointments will be both a mixture of MLAs and non-MLAs, Maken said.Political analyst Narayan Bareth said in democracy, power sharing is a big thing, where workers feel themselves as part of the system, but stopping resentment through this is difficult. Till the time, the workers or leaders are ideologically dedicated, it will not solve the purpose. Power is not a solution for resentment, he said.BJP Spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said it is unfortunate that the state exchequer will have to bear the burden of Congress pleasing its MLAs.“To save their government, Congress is trying to please MLAs, the burden of which will come on state exchequer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rajasthan-congress-enduring-plan-to-address-discontent-among-mlas/story-1bCCP2v7Yu6ESmAQksg77I.html
03-09-2020||India||Six more properties of former MP Atiq Ahmed to be attached in Prayagraj||At least six more immovable properties of Mafioso-turned-politician Atiq Ahmed, a former MP, will be attached soon. A team of police and administrative officials carried out a survey and evaluated these properties on Wednesday.Earlier, the police had attached seven immovable assets in Ahmed’s name in different areas of Prayagraj, including a commercial tower in Civil Lines area. The properties that are now set to be attached include two in Kareli and four in Khuldabad.The revenue department team on Wednesday surveyed these properties, Superintendent of Police (city) Dinesh Kumar Singh said.After the attachment of seven properties, the administration approved attaching six more properties under the Gangster Act, the SP added.Also read: Hacked PM Modi’s Twitter account to make a point on PayTM Mall breach - HackersJoint teams of police and administration are continuously engaged in identifying properties of Atiq Ahmed and his gang members.Earlier, under a crackdown by a team of police, Nagar Nigam, Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) and district administration, officials attached seven immovable properties belonging to Amed who is presently lodged in Sabarmati jail in Ahmedabad in Gujarat. These properties include his house at Chakia besides assets in Dhumanganj, Kareli, Rajruppur and Civil Lines areas of Prayagraj.The officials have also put up boards outside the attached properties mentioning all the details of the order under which they have been attached.Till now, the officials have identified around 37 properties belonging to Ahmed and his aides which include many houses, offices and agricultural lands in different areas of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-more-properties-of-former-mp-atiq-ahmed-to-be-attached-in-prayagraj/story-L4zkWW9w30f3QvdbaRPRPP.html
03-09-2020||India||Number of recovered Covid-19 patients is 3.5 times more than active cases: Health Ministry||Health Ministry on Thursday addressed a press briefing on the Covid-19 situation in the country and said the number of recovered cases is more than 29.70 lakh, which is 3.5 times more than active cases. “In the last 24 hours, more than 11 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union Health Ministry. “Single-day highest recovery of 68,584 was recorded yesterday,” he added.Click here for Covid-19 live updatesTamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra are five states that account for 62% of total active cases in the country whereas Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra account for 70% of total Covid-19 deaths in the country, Rajesh Bhushan said.Per million Covid-19 cases in the country is much lesser when compared to other countries in the world. Deaths per million (population) of India is among the lowest in the world; 49 deaths per million population: Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union Health Ministry.“There has been 13.7% weekly decrease in the number of active cases in Andhra Pradesh, 16.1% decrease in Karnataka, 6.8% decrease in Maharashtra and 23.9% decrease in Tamil Nadu, 17.1% decrease in Uttar Pradesh,” he added.The health secretary also urged people to adopt coronavirus-appropriate behaviour as many festivals and examinations are approaching. “We should take all precautions in order to curb the spread of coronavirus. Use alcohol-based sanitisers and wash your hands regularly. Avoid touching your face,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-recovered-covid-19-cases-is-3-5-times-more-than-active-cases-health-ministry/story-uzzZQPfLHglkRcd7wppBqL.html
03-09-2020||India||Four prisoners escape in Bijnor, two held||Four prisoners escaped from a temporary jail in Bijnor on Thursday morning, police said. However, the cops on duty along with other staff members caught hold of two prisoners while their two aides managed to escape. Meanwhile, a search was underway for the remaining two.Superintendent of police (SP), Bijnor, Dr Dharamveer confirmed the incident and said that the remaining two prison inmates would be nabbed soon. They escaped by breaking the grills of the stairs leading to the rooftop, the SP added.Also read: ‘Can’t call it a 2nd wave, coronavirus never left Delhi’ - Satyendar JainThe prisoners, identified as Sanju, Akshey, Kulbeer and Garman, were brought to the jail in the last week of August and were charged for theft and carrying illegal arms.The district administration of Bijnor has turned Indira Bal Bhawan into a temporary jail amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-prisoners-escape-in-bijnor-two-held/story-FHgwRN4Yl2OxAjUmHsQO5K.html
03-09-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi to share views on ‘Navigating New Challenges’ at India-US Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at the third leadership summit of the US India Strategic and Partnership Forum (USISPF) Thursday evening. The Prime Minister will express his views on ‘Navigating New Challenges’ which is the theme of the five-day event that began on August 31. “Looking forward to address the @USISPForum #USIndiasummit2020. Will be sharing my views on ‘Navigating New Challenges.’ Do join live this evening, 3rd September, at 9 PM India time,” Modi wrote on Twitter this morning. USISPF president Mukesh Aghi had earlier said, “We are honored that Prime Minister Modi has taken time to address USISPF annual event. It signifies importance of US-India relations in the current challenging environment.” He called India-US relationship a win-win partnership mutually dependent geo-politically, trade, culturally, diplomatically and scientifically.“It is a win-win partnership mutually dependent geo-politically, trade, culturally, diplomatically and scientifically. Aggressive and assertive China provides further opportunity for both nations to collaborate and ensure international rule of law prevails,” he said after USISPF announced PM Modi’s address to the summit.External affairs minister S Jaishankar, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal, US vice president Mike Pence, and former top Indian-American diplomat Nikki Haley are some of the key leaders who have participated in the virtual event so far. The virtual summit being attended by top corporate leaders, government officials and leaders primarily focuses on key areas of bilateral cooperation: trade and investment; strategic energy ties; India’s position in global supply chains, collaboration in fintech, healthcare, and technology. The USISPF is a non-profit organisation that works for the partnership between India and the United States.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-share-views-on-navigating-new-challenges-at-india-us-summit/story-9bat4XFjKREAns9iPZGWvM.html
03-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tests per day highest in the world, says health ministry||The union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday said that 11,72,179 tests were conducted for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in India on Wednesday which pushed the total tests conducted to over 4.5 crore adding that the country’s daily testing numbers are one of the highest in the world. This is the third consecutive day that over a million tests were carried out in a period of 24 hours. From conducting merely 10 tests per day on January 30, the daily average has crossed more than 11 lakh, the ministry said pointing out that this number demonstrates an exponential increase in the daily Covid-19 testing in India. Also read| ‘Can’t call it a 2nd wave, infection never left Delhi’: Satyendar Jain on rise in Covid-19 cases in national capitalThis surge in Covid-19 testing was attributed to a speedy expansion in the number of Covid-19 testing labs across the country. At present, there are 1,022 labs in the government sector and 601 labs in the private sector, the ministry said. “Such high levels of testing on a sustained basis over a period of time in widespread areas enables early diagnosis, and in turn facilitates seamless isolation and effective hospitalisation. This eventually leads to lower mortality rate,’’ the ministry added. India fatality rate due to the disease further declined to 1.75 per cent whereas the recovery rate rose to 77.09 per cent. Also read: In biggest one-day jump, India records nearly 84,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 3.85 millionMeanwhile, India on Thursday registered its highest ever-single day spike of 83,883 Covid-19 cases and 1,043 deaths which pushed the tally to over 3.8 million. The total cases include 8,15,538 active cases, nearly 30 lakh recoveries and 67,376 deaths. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tests-per-day-highest-in-the-world-says-health-ministry/story-eip0z18Jico71uQFIoODAJ.html
03-09-2020||India||Four-day lockdown by traders in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh amid surge in Covid-19 cases||With a surge in Covid-19 cases in the remote bordering district of Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand in the past one month, a certain section of traders has imposed a lockdown for four days, starting Thursday. Also read: Uttarakhand govt fixes rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitalsThe district has reported over 360 Covid-19 cases so far, including cases from security personnel serving in the bordering district. Bhupendra Singh Thapa, president of trader’s body in Dharchula region of the district, said apart from essential services, all shops in Dharchula, Jauljibi and Baluakot areas will remain closed till Sunday and the areas will be sanitised. “Looking at the rising number of cases in the district, we have decided to go for a lockdown . Apart from security personnel, locals are increasingly testing positive in these areas, we will keep the shops closed for four days and sanitise the whole area. In Dharchula, around 650 shops will remain closed and around 950 shops will remain closed in Jauljibi and Baluakot regions of the district,” he said. He added that the district administration has been informed about the “janta lockdown, to break the chain”. “We have also requested the hotel association to not take new bookings in these four days of lockdown,” added Thapa. Dharchula sub-divisional magistrate AK Shukla said the administration is aware of the lockdown imposed by the traders, however, it does not agree with them. “We know that the traders’ body has decided to keep their shops closed as cases are increasing, but people need not panic. All the cases that were reported have been isolated and their contacts are also being identified and quarantined. The contacts are also being tested,” said Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-day-lockdown-by-traders-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-9HGoiCSGh2fHzZDrhETMUL.html
03-09-2020||India||We are non-partisan, says Facebook in reply to Congress leader KC Venugopal’s letter||Facebook is ‘non-partisan’ and strives to ensure its platforms remain a space where people express themselves freely, Facebook said in its reply to Congress’ general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal’s letter accusing the social media platform of ‘interfering in India’s electoral democracy’.“We are non-partisan & strive to ensure our platforms remain a space where people express themselves freely. We take allegations of bias seriously & denounce hate & bigotry in all forms,” Neil Potts, Facebook’s Trust and Safety Director said in the letter.“On the question of hateful content by public figures, we want to assure you that our Community Standards prohibit attacks against people based on their protected characteristics, including religion, caste, ethnicity, and national origin. In line with our hate speech policy, we have removed and will continue to remove hateful content by public figures in India on our platforms,” the letter added. KC Venugopal had written to Zuckerberg referring to a Wall Street Journal report, which alleged that Facebook’s India policy head Ankhi Das ‘provided the Bharatiya Janata Party with favourable treatment on election-related issues’. In the letter, he demanded that a high-level inquiry be called into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations.In its reply, the social media giant also said that it was thankful for the minister’s recommendations and would appreciate the opportunity to engage with him and Congress on these matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-non-partisan-says-facebook-in-reply-to-congress-leader-kc-venugopal-s-letter/story-4I39NEu6TxLNHXVrDY3jGL.html
03-09-2020||India||BJP using Covid-19 as an excuse to cancel Question Hour, says NCP||The NCP on Thursday accused the BJP of using the Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse to cancel the Question Hour in the forthcoming monsoon session of Parliament to “hide its failures” on multiple fronts.The NCP also called for using other electronic means to let parliamentarians question the Centre.“The BJP is using the coronavirus pandemic as an excuse to cancel the Question Hour in the monsoon session of Parliament to hide its failures on multiple fronts,” NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase alleged.“The BJP should use other electronic media to enable the MPs to question the government,” he added.Another NCP spokesperson Clyde Crasto took a dig at the NDA constituent through his cartoon.In the cartoon, a man with the BJP’s poll symbol ‘lotus’ in place of his head can be seen running away from a question mark.“No Question Hour in Parliament. You can run. You can’t hide,” reads the caption of the cartoon.According to the notifications issued by the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats, there will be no Question Hour and private members’ bills will not be taken up in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, while the Zero Hour will be restricted.There will also be no breaks during the session, which will be held from September 14 to October 1, and both Houses will function on Saturdays and Sundays as well, they said.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the session will be held in two shifts- 9 am to 1 pm and 3 pm to 7 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-using-covid-19-as-an-excuse-to-cancel-question-hour-says-ncp/story-UfsXuapwFinpqWyC6j63gK.html
03-09-2020||India||Maoist killed in encounter with Telangana police near Chhattisgarh border||A 25-year old CPI (Maoist) activist was killed in an alleged encounter with the police in Telangana’s Bhadradri Kothagudem district in the early hours of Thursday, the police said. The incident happened in the dense forests of Devallagudem of Gundala block at around 4.15 am. “We have seized a weapon and a motorcycle from the incident spot,” district superintendent of police Sunit Dutt said in a statement. Though the SP said that the Maoist is yet to be identified, the police suspect that he could be Dudi Devalu alias Shakar of Dulodu village of Kistaram area in Chhattisgarh state and was believed to be the guard of top Maoist leader Haribhushan. The encounter took place at a time when Telangana director general of police M Mahender Reddy is on an intensive tour of Maoist-affected areas of Asifabad-Kumaram Bheem districts for the last two days. Sunil Dutt said the police forces were combing the Devallagudem forests following a tip off that some action teams of Maoists were actively moving in the villages on the borders of Chhattisgarh. “At around 4.15 am on Thursday, Gundala Inspector of Police Srinivas and his team noticed two persons riding on a motorcycle suspiciously. When the police asked them to stop, they left the bike and started running into the forests. As the police chased them, the two opened fire at the police. In retaliation, the police forces also fired at them,” the SP said. Later, the police found the dead body of a 25-year old male Maoist. A firearm and the bike were seized, Dutt said, adding that several Maoists in the surroundings had fled the spot. “The combing operations are on,” he said. This is the second encounter in recent times in the district. An exchange fire had taken place on July 16 in the forests of Malletogu in Manugur mandal in the district in which a constable was injured. Meanwhile, the DGP held a series of meetings with senior police officials, including in-charge SP of Asifabad Satyanarayana, and discussed the strategies in the wake of report that top Maoist leader of Telangana regional committee Mailaram Odellu alias Bhaskar has intensified recruitment of cadre in the border areas of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. Earlier, the DGP had an aerial review of the forest areas abutting Pranahita river on Maharashtra-Telangana borders, along with Adilabad SP Vishnu Warrior. This is the second time that the DGP visited the border areas. In the second week of July, too, Reddy spent three days in the north-Telangana districts to work out strategies to prevent the entry of Maoists back into Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-killed-in-encounter-with-telangana-police-near-chhattisgarh-border/story-lBtWoCWy97PdkFJIC5mEdL.html
03-09-2020||India||India being pushed towards ‘financial emergency’: Congress targets Centre over economic situation||The Congress on Thursday targeted the Centre over the economic situation in the country and said that India is being pushed towards a “financial emergency”.“There are dark clouds of economic decay all around us. Lives, livelihoods and jobs have been ravaged. Businesses and small and medium industries lie dilapidated. The Economy stands destroyed as GDP has been razed and mowed down. India is being pushed towards a ‘financial emergency’,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a press conference.Also read| Covid-19 ‘Act of God’, may result in contraction of economy: Nirmala Sitharaman“Modi Government has plundered the economy in the last 6 years by its ‘Acts of frauds’. The Government now describes its criminal ineptitude and culpable incompetence as an ‘Act of God’. Sadly, this is the only Government in the past 73 years which blames ‘God’ for its own frauds and bluster,” he said.Surjewala also said that by abolishing question hour in the monsoon session of Parliament beginning from September 14, the government is running scared of answering relevant questions. Also read: Shorter hours, new rules to mark this monsoon session of Parliament“By abolishing question hour in Parliament, govt is running scared of answering relevant questions. Modi govt doesn’t want to answer on brazen transgression by China onto Indian Territory, blunder of Indian economy, falling GDP and over 12 crore job losses,” he said. The Congress leader said that the Government of India is a “declared defaulter” for the first time in the last 73 years.“In the meeting of ‘Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance’ dated August 11, 2020 the Finance Secretary clearly said that Government of India is not in a position to give GST compensation to States. The latest SBI report of September 1, 2020, predicts a shortfall and revenue loss of 3 lakh crore in GST collections for the States. How will States meet their expenses? This is Economic Anarchy,” he said. Surjewala said that the Modi Government has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court conveying its decision to not extend the moratorium on payment of EMI’s by salaried class and the middle class beyond August 31, 2020.“The Modi Government has refused to provide interest waiver also. All hopes of the middle-class lie shattered,” he added. “A government that pats its back in the name of farmers and labourers has pushed them to the doorstep of economic ruin and suicide,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-being-pushed-towards-financial-emergency-congress-targets-centre-over-economic-situation/story-uoSj2wiR2CIurAy6K0UzxO.html
03-09-2020||India||With out-patient services shut, doctors’ phones have turned into helpline||Work starts as early as 7am for Prof Kauser Usman, senior faculty member at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), as he takes patients’ phone calls at home. Most of these patients want to know about Covid and its symptoms. Prof Usman speaks to them patiently, offering medical advice and words of comfort. He is not the only one of his fraternity reaching out to patients in this manner. In fact, the number of calls to doctors has doubled ever since the pandemic began. An expert in medicine, Prof Usman gets calls from diabetics too as diabetes is a comorbidity that has been diagnosed in about 50% of those who have died in the corona wards of hospitals.As the regular OPD is closed, his phone has turned into a virtual helpline. He guides patients to the fever clinic, tells them how to get tests done and talks about home care if they are fit enough for home isolation.“Picking up the phone has two reasons. First, the quick response guides them to the correct diagnosis facility. Hence, the treatment response starts early and has been seen (to be) impactful. Second, if they are able to talk to a doctor, they feel confident, another important factor in fighting the infection,” Prof Usman says.In all, his phone became a medical helpline of sorts for about 150 patients, who could not visit KGMU OPD. Currently, about two dozen patients are consulting him amid the pandemic.Like him, other doctors give a patient hearing to patients, suggest tests, read reports on WhatsApp, recommend medicines and then do a follow-up on the telephone. It’s all in a day’s work. The patients are making calls irrespective of the doctors’ specialty.Dr Samir Misra, senior faculty, trauma surgery at King George’s Medical University, says, “If I answer the phone at midnight, the anxiety level is certain to go down as the patient is able to speak to a doctor, irrespective of the specialty.”“The first thing patients need is to clarify whether they have Covid or not. They need to discuss it threadbare. Hence, my cell phone keeps ringing with calls from old patients, who have visited my OPD,” says Prof Vinod Jain, also of KGMU.Prof Jain, who is in home isolation after testing positive, says, “Correct guidance ensures quick and correct treatment, which is necessary for a speedy recovery in case of the viral infection. If I can do it despite my illness, I feel satisfied to help.”Dr Abhishek Shukla, an expert in geriatric medicine, too, is attending patients in a similar manner.“Every fever is being assumed as Covid-19 and patients are isolating themselves immediately. The next thing they do is contact a doctor on the phone. A majority of my patients are in the risk group of above 60 years. WhatsApp is mostly used for communication (with them),” he says.“Statistically, the number of calls from patients seeking advice has doubled,” says Dr Misra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-out-patient-services-shut-doctors-phone-have-turned-into-helpline/story-b6MmQWLam3Qofrwja86muM.html
03-09-2020||India||Delhi HC allows breath analyser tests to be administered to air traffic controllers||The Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed the breath analyser test (BAT) to be administered to air traffic controllers (ATCs) by using individual tubes, while modifying its March 23 order which suspended the tests in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.In March, the Air Traffic Controllers’ Guild (India) had filed a plea seeking directions to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and the Air Authority of India (AAI) to temporarily suspend the BAT to prevent the further spread of Covid-19.Justice Navin Chawla allowed the resumption of the tests after an application was filed by advocate Anjana Gosain, on behalf of DGCA, stating that with the resumption of the flights, it was important to administer the test to ATCs again.Seeking a modification to the March 23 order, Gosain contended that the rules of Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR) of September 2019 state that a BAT must be administered. She also said that individual tubes are used for testing, an international practice.Gosain told the court that after much deliberation, it was concluded that BAT is the most efficient and reliable form of detecting alcohol on the breath, adding that other methods, such as testing blood and urine, are neither practical nor is there any provision for them in the CAR. The DGCA plea stated that it has been now recommended that once a breath analysing machine has been used to test someone, the person would not be tested for the next 12 hours.Following this, the court accepted DGCA’s application and gave the ATC’s Guild the liberty to suggest sanitisation and other preventive measures.Earlier, as the pandemic started to spread, the ATC’s Guild (India) had moved the court claiming that BAT violates their fundamental right to life and health. BAT was made mandatory as per directions issued by DGCA on September 16, 2019. DGCA directed the Air Traffic Management to administer BATs to employees of Air Traffic Control, aerodrome management, aircraft maintenance and repair, ground handling agency, aircraft operations every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-allows-breath-analyser-tests-to-be-administered-to-air-traffic-controllers/story-HoEMS5R9Oa8IW5cNo8wzrJ.html
03-09-2020||India||JNU student assaulted inside hostel; blames ABVP for attack||A postgraduate student of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) was allegedly assaulted on Wednesday by another group of students inside his hostel room. Also read: JNU to accept admission forms for MBA, MPhil and PhD under JRF till Sept 21Vivek Pandey, an activist of All India Students’ Association (AISA), said the incident took place late Wednesday night when he was inside his room. He said he was attacked by student members of the ABVP who accused him of filing complaints against them at the security and the hostel warden’s office. “One person said I had filed a complaint against him for returning from home. I told him that I had not filed any such complaint and didn’t know anything about it. He then abused and punched me and repeatedly hit me on my head. They threatened me. My friend, who tried to rescue me, was also assaulted,” Pandey said. AISA national president N Sai Balaji shared a video on Twitter of Pandey narrating the incident. Balaji said they have filed a police complaint. Meanwhile, the ABVP has denied the allegations. Sujeet Sharma, a JNU student and ABVP Delhi executive member, said, “We got to know about the incident through social media. AISA and SFI activists engage in regular scuffles and this could be a political stunt before reopening of the campus. These are baseless allegations and ABVP has nothing to do with the incident.”The registrar could not be reached for a comment at the time of filing this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jnu-student-assaulted-inside-hostel-blames-abvp-for-attack/story-jY3VMw5EOqMXngtbkrVsdK.html
03-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB arrests 20-year-old Bandra resident||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested 20-year-old Bandra resident Zaid Vilatra in connection with the ongoing probe into the drug angle in connection with the death of 34-year-old Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Vilatra was arrested late on Wednesday night, and was produced before a metropolitan magistrate’s court on Thursday noon. He was remanded to NCB’s custody till September 9. Also read: CBI calls Rhea Chakraborty’s father for questioning againIn its application before the court, NCB claimed that Vilatra ‘has revealed so many names with whom he was dealing in drugs’ and for that purpose, his custody was needed. “The NCB is investigating drug angle in Sushant Singh Rajput case and therefore is highly substantive and needs to be investigated thoroughly so as to uproot drug citadel in Mumbai especially in Bollywood (sic),” reads application filed by NCB seeking Vilatra’s custody.On August 28, NCB had arrested Abbas Ali Lakhani (21) a resident of Bandra with 46 grams of ganja. On the basis of information given by Lakhani, his supplier Karn Arora was arrested from Powai with 13 grams of ganja.Later, on the information provided by the two arrested, NCB had arrested Vilatra. The agency recovered Rs 9.55 lakhs, 2,081 US dollars, 180 UK Pound and 15 Dirhams. In his statement, Vilatra has reportedly said that the seized amount was sale proceeds of contraband and that he had supplied marijuana to many persons, claimed NCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-arrests-20-year-old-bandra-resident/story-pxwmxSnoZZfWTEhRa9hc7N.html
03-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra minister welcomes PIL filed by retired Mumbai police officers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Mumbai police has a reputation, welcome plea by retired cops in Sushant case’: MinisterMaharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday welcomed a plea by retired police officers to the Bombay High Court seeking a restraint on the “media trial” in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Read more here. Demonetisation an attack on India’s poor, farmers: Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that the government’s hidden agenda behind demonetisation was to deliberately harm India’s informal sector, which survives on liquid cash. Read more here. Sushant Singh Rajput billboards removed in US for ‘smear campaign’ against Rhea Chakraborty, his sister calls it work of ‘paid PR’A US media company has decided to take down their billboards demanding justice in the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The company, as per an e-mail conversation shared by Sushant’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti, believes that the campaign is trying malign the ‘woman associated with Sushant’. Read more here. Summer Fashion Trends: Priyanka Chopra’s sartorial sense is chic and stylish. Here are our favouritesThe actor who has recently completed 2 decades in the entertainment industry, has managed to conquer both Bollywood and Hollywood through her impeccable acting skills and her sartorial sense. Read more here. 2021 Hyundai Tucson teased, promises to take striking design cues to next levelJewel-like front grille, a large 10.25-inch infotainment screen and a whole lot more seeks to make 2021 Hyundai Tucson a crowd puller unlike any of its preceding models. Read more here.Groom pulls prank on bride midway through wedding vows, video prompts mixed reactionsThe Internet is filled with numerous videos which capture sweet to irksome incidents during wedding ceremonies. This video, shared on Reddit, is an apt inclusion in that list. However, it has also sparked a debate among people as they can’t decide if it’s funny or cringy. Read more here. ‘My ultimate target is not marriage’: Khel Ratna Rani RampalThe last time it came her way two years ago, with the Tokyo Olympics qualifiers not far away, Rampal patiently convinced her family she was not ready. Her priority as India’s hockey captain was to see the Indian team qualify for the Tokyo Games. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-minister-welcomes-pil-filed-by-retired-mumbai-police-officers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2oGQdx5gI9MHSv3MR4dHiK.html
03-09-2020||India||UP to cultivate Napier grass to provide nutritious fodder to cows||Officials in Bulandshahr have hit upon the idea of cultivating Napier grass at 92 locations linked with gaushalas to provide nutritional fodder to cows living in shelters across the district. Napier is a perennial tropical grass which needs little water and nutrients and can also thrive on land not used for crop cultivation. The project will be completed under grassland cultivation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MGNREGS). The district administration has tied up with the Jhansi-based Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute (IGFRI) to seek technical training for cultivation of Napier grass. Purushottam Sharma, principal scientist of IGFRI, said that cultivation of Napier grass had gone up in the past few years and many states had shown interest in it. “The Bulandshahr district administration also approached the institute with similar demand and we are providing them technical assistance for its cultivation,” he said. Sharma explained that Napier grass was also known as Uganda grass. It was a perennial tropical forage crop used as fodder. It was not a complete nutrition but a good source of energy, so it was fed directly to cattle or made into hay. It is grown throughout the year. Chief development officer (CDO) of Bulandshahr, Abhishek Pandey, who is responsible for maintenance and management of the 154 rural area gaushalas in the district, said that amid complaints of substandard fodder in gaushalas, an idea of providing the animals nutritional food through Napier grass came up and after seeking guidance of IGFRI, plan to cultivate Napier grass was finalised. Pandey claimed that Bulandshahr is the first district which has initiated Napier grass cultivation through MGNREGS under its grassland cultivation work. He said that after several rounds of discussions with district magistrate Ravindra Kumar and other officials, 92 of 154 locations linked with gaushalas were selected for cultivation of Napier grass and preparation was already underway at 39 locations. Sharma said that an online training on technicalities of cultivation and other requirements was held in July and field visit would also be planned as per the requirement. CDO Pandey elaborated that initially 240 quintals of grass had been demanded from the IGFRI for cultivation and its arrival was expected this week. “It has been delayed because a few staff at IGFRI were detected corona positive and work was stalled for a few days,” he said. To recall, Sanjay Sharma, BJP MLA from Anoopshahr constituency of the district had sat on an overnight dharna outside the gaushala of Nangal Karam village on Friday because villagers had lodged a complaint about supply of inadequate fodder and other problems in the cow shelter. “It is a great initiative of the district authorities. It would help in resolving non availability of fodder and provide nutritional food to cattle,” said the MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-cultivate-napier-grass-to-provide-nutritious-fodder-to-cows/story-bCUkcrWBCSHpcfMYCyyW1I.html
03-09-2020||India||MGNREGA workers find pitcher full of silver, bronze coins from 1862 in UP||Workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) discovered a pitcher containing 19th century silver and bronze coins while digging the foundation for a new panchayat building at Kanhau village in Unnao district on Wednesday afternoon, officials said.The discovery comes seven years after Unnao’s Daundia Kheda, which is close to Kanhau village, witnessed an extensive treasure hunt in October 2013 when a seer, Shobhan Sarkar, said he had dreamt that 1,000 tonnes of gold lay buried under the fort of a 19th century king. The authorities had called off that treasure hunt after the nearly 15-day-long exercise ended in vain at the time.The coins found on Wednesday date back to 1862, going by the year imprinted on them. Subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Safipur, Rajendra Prasad said 17 silver and 287 bronze coins were found and deposited in the Safipur treasury.The workers who found the pitcher had been engaged under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), officials said.A fight broke out among the workers after they stumbled upon the pitcher and found coins inside it, they added. The workers allegedly took some coins in their possession and ran away from the scene.In the meantime, someone informed the Asivan police, who conducted raids and managed to recover the coins from the workers.“We still feel there could be more (coins) with the workers, they will be recovered shortly,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mgnrega-workers-find-pitcher-full-of-silver-bronze-coins-from-1862-in-up/story-ttflgua4g3LE9XwS38ln6K.html
03-09-2020||India||‘Mumbai police has a reputation, welcome plea by retired cops in Sushant case’: Minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday welcomed a plea by retired police officers to the Bombay High Court seeking a restraint on the “media trial” in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Deshmukh compared the Mumbai police to Scotland Yard Police, which is considered to be one of the best forces in the world, and condemned how they were “targeted” in Rajput’s case. “Maharashtra Police & Mumbai Police have a reputation. Maharashtra Police is compared to Scotland Yard Police. The manner in which Mumbai Police was targeted in Sushant Singh Rajput case, I welcome the PIL filed by retired IPS officers,” the state home minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Five former director generals of police (DGP) of Maharashtra, two former commissioners of Mumbai police and a former anti-terrorism squad (ATS) chief have moved a public interest litigation (PIL) in the high court against the “media trial” in Rajput’s death investigation. Former DGPs PS Pasricha, K Subramaniam, D Shivanandan, Sanjeev Dayal, Satish Chandra Mathur; former commissioners of Mumbai police Mahesh N Singh, Dhananjay N Jadhav, and former ATS chief KP Raghuvanshi filed the PIL on Monday. Their plea accuses the media of indulging in biased coverage of the incident and trying to influence the probe by creating false propaganda. “This has created an air of suspicion in the minds of general public as to the facts of the case under investigation and also about the Mumbai Police, health services and other support services of the state,” the PIL states. The retired police officers have said that the “irresponsible media coverage” has led to damage to Mumbai police’s image. The plea also states that the “media trial” has resulted into a parallel investigation being carried out by private individuals, rendering opinions, exposing material witnesses and divulging crucial pieces of evidence which, in turn, hampers the work of investigating agencies.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is currently probing the death of Rajput who was found dead at his Bandra apartment on June 14. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are also investigating the money laundering and drug-related angle alongside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-has-a-reputation-welcome-plea-by-retired-cops-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-minister/story-zcPugLHESytB8FaAPnu6WO.html
03-09-2020||India||UN Rapporteurs raise concerns over India’s draft EIA 2020||The United Nations (UN) Special Rapporteurs have raised several concerns about the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2020 and have asked the government how its provisions correspond with India’s obligations under international law.Also read: ‘Nothing disturbing in the clauses of draft EIA 2020’, says RP GuptaA communication dated August 31 and posted on the United Nations Human Rights Council website by UN Special Rapporteurs on clean, healthy and sustainable environment; on human rights; on right to food; on safe drinking water and sanitation stated that certain provisions of the notification could impact the effectiveness and transparency of the environmental regulatory framework in India.The three important issues raised by UN Special Rapporteurs are:• The draft notification includes under Clauses 14 (2) and 26 an exemption of several large industries and projects from public consultation — as part of the environment impact assessment process — such as chemical manufacturing and petroleum products; building, construction and area development; inland waterways and expansion or widening of national highways. “These exemptions are unwarranted given the substantial environmental and human rights negative impacts that can arise from projects in these areas,” they have said.• The draft notification does not require publication of information or holding of public consultation for projects labelled by the Central government as ‘involving strategic considerations’. “Regrettably, the draft notification does not provide clarification regarding the criteria for categorizing projects ‘strategic’ by the Central Government and hence could be open to excessively broad interpretations,” they have observed.• The rapporteurs have cited that a clause on “post-facto clearance” is worrisome. These are for projects that have started without obtaining the required environmental clearances or permissions. “This practice contradicts basic principles related to the environmental rule of law,” they have pointed out. “As it is our responsibility, under the mandates provided to us by the Human Rights Council, to seek to clarify all cases brought to our attention, we would be grateful for the observations of the Indian government on the following matters: Please provide any additional information and/or any comment(s) you may have on the issues raised? How do the provisions of the draft notification correspond with India’s obligations under international law?” the communication stated.HT has sought a response from the Union Ministry for Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) on the UN communication. This copy will be updated with their response.Meanwhile on Wednesday, 500 scientists, researchers, and academics from the country’s leading institutions such as Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) wrote an open letter to the MoEFCC and urged it to withdraw the draft EIA, notification, 2020. They claimed that the move would threaten the country’s ecological and environmental security. “It’s going to take us a while to read through the objections we have received. A committee has been set up to study the objections that have come to us. The draft will not be finalised anytime soon,” said Geeta Menon, joint secretary, MoEFCC. The ministry had received around two lakh objections to the draft EIA notification, 2020 until August 11, which was the last date for the submission of comments and feedback..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-rapporteurs-raise-concerns-over-india-s-draft-eia-2020/story-J3zaRshwpPoQHPBNTXAYEJ.html
03-09-2020||India||Facebook bans BJP legislator amid raging controversy over hate speech bias||A new report in the Wall Street Journal on Thursday claimed that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Telangana, T Raja, has been banned from Facebook, following an uproar over his comments that amount to hate speech. An earlier report from the WSJ had alleged that the social media giant had shown preferential treatment for the ruling party members by not taking action against them for posting content that violates the rules of hate speech. It also alleged that Facebook’s Public Policy executive Ankhi Das had shown support for the BJP. “We have banned Raja Singh from Facebook for violating our policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on our platform. The process for evaluating potential violators is extensive and it is what led us to our decision to remove his account,” said a Facebook spokesperson.The Goshamahal legislator could not be reached for comment. BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya did not comment on the specific case of banning Raja from the platform, but said determination of hate speech has to be done in keeping with rules and laws of the land. “What constitutes hate speech in India will be decided by our constitutional framework and extant rules. It must be applied fairly to all irrespective of their political affiliation. Sonia Gandhi, whose divisive speech streamed live on Facebook, which led to wide-scale rioting, death, and destruction in Delhi recently, is equally guilty as is someone else. We can’t have double standards,” Malviya said. The Congress and the left parties have alleged that social media platforms show a positive bias towards the BJP and have cited the WSJ report to buttress their claim. The Congress wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zukerberg twice complaining of a bias and asking him to specify the steps being taken to investigate the charges against its India unit. The opposition party also threatened to pursue legislative and judicial actions to ensure that a foreign company does not create social disharmony in India. The Trinamool Congress also shot off a letter to Facebook alleging there is enough evidence in the public domain to substantiate the charge of Facebook’s bias towards the BJP. Earlier this week, union minister for Information and Technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, in a strongly worded letter to Zukerberg, alleged that the platform is the “latest tool” being used to create “internal divisions and social disturbances” by vested groups. The minister said, “I have been informed that in the run-up to 2019 general elections in India, there was a concerted effort by Facebook Indian management to not just delete pages or substantially reduce to reach but also offer no records or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of the right of the Centre ideology. I’m also aware that dozens of emails written to Facebook management received no response.” The BJP has lashed out at its critics for making allegations against it and has also insinuated that there are efforts being made by some FB employees to discredit the democratic process of the country. “Shaping public discourse can’t be the exclusive purview of the Left, who have since lost their monopoly and public support. Social media has democratised discourse and that is something they haven’t come to terms with,” Malviya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-bans-bjp-legislator-amid-raging-controversy-over-hate-speech-bias/story-thh1wpZQqg6S29nLlLPBkP.html
03-09-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh to create Udyog Bandhu-like body for farmers||Uttar Pradesh (UP) is all set to create a dedicated body, on the lines of Udyog Bandhu, to assist enterprising farmer producer organisations (FPOs) in investing in projects for post-harvest infrastructure management and community farming assets with the help of the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) that the Centre had announced in August, sources revealed. Also read: UP RERA issues notice to Supertech over Supernova project in NoidaThe UP cabinet is likely to clear the FPOs policy, 2020 soon in the wake of the Central government’s decision to form 10,000 such units in the country by 2023-24. The Central government plans to make Rs 1 lakh crore AIF available to banks that will finance these projects. “The proposed policy seeks creation of an Udyog Bandhu-like dedicated agency for FPOs,” sources disclosed. Also read: Varanasi weavers go on indefinite strike over new power tariff“The new body will be headed by an official to be designated as the chief executive officer (CEO), who will be assisted by officials to be drawn from other departments such as agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, dairy development on deputation,” they added. The proposed policy also makes it mandatory for all government departments to chalk out action plans that are aligned to FPOs. “All government departments will incorporate in their action plans the measures that benefit FPOs,” sources said. “For example, the dairy development department will have to inform how many milk production committees are to be formed involving FPOs,” they added. The UP government will also coordinate with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) to help FPOs get loans from banks either as working capital or to set up food processing units, cold stores, branding and packaging units, warehouses among others. Each FPO will be entitled to a maximum loan of Rs 2 crore. The FPOs can operate at district, state and national level for the product identified as per their requirement of processing, branding and marketing. One district, one product policy will get a thrust under this initiative. Devesh Chaturvedi, additional chief secretary (ACS), agriculture, UP, said that the FPOs Policy, 2020 would be sent to the state cabinet for its approval soon. “We have already made a presentation of the policy before chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Now, it will be sent for the cabinet’s approval,” he said.Chaturvedi said the policy would be a game-changer for the rural economy. An FPO, formed by a group of farm producers, is a registered body with producers as shareholders of the organisation. It deals with business activities connected to farm produce and operates for the benefit of member producers. “UP aims to set up 1,000 FPOs. Each block will have a FPO, comprising between 300 and 500 farmers,” sources said. The aspiring districts would get a priority in the formation of FPOs under the new policy, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-to-create-udyog-bandhu-like-body-for-farmers/story-TUZx8vGIwRpieD9xoVAY1K.html
03-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt fixes rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals||A day after roping in private hospitals to increase the bed capacity available to treat coronavirus patients in the state, the Uttarakhand government has now fixed the cost of Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals. The state government on Wednesday evening released an order fixing the treatment cost in private hospitals for different categories of Covid-19 patients-- moderate, severe and very severe-- based on recommendations by a committee formed by the Central government in June under the leadership of Dr Vinod Pal. The maximum hospital charge for per day of admission has been set at Rs 18,000 (including the cost of PPE kit at Rs 2,000) for patients with very severe sickness mandating ICU facility with ventilator care (invasive/non-invasive) for hospitals accredited from the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals (NABH), while for non-NABH accredited hospitals, the cost has been set at Rs 15,000 (including the cost of PPE at Rs 2,000). The minimum per day rate is set at Rs 10,000 at NABH hospitals for moderately sick Covid patients, while non-NABH accredited hospitals can charge a minimum of Rs 8,000 from a patient in the same category. The cost includes isolation beds including supportive care and oxygen supply. Also Read: 10 newborn babies being assessed for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand after nurse tests positive For the severe sickness category, the hospital rate for per day admission has been set at Rs 15,000 for NABH accredited hospitals and Rs 13,000 for non-NABH accredited hospitals. This includes ICU facilities without ventilator care. These daily hospitalization rates do not cover the cost of testing in private hospitals, set at Rs 2400. Also Read: Uttarakhand CM goes into self-isolation for second time after OSD tests Covid-19 positive State secretary for health, Amit Singh Negi, has also written to hospitals to ensure that Covid-19 patients are treated as per the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The letter also stipulates reserving 25% beds in private hospitals for government officials/employees and those eligible for Ayushman Bharat or Atal Ayushman Yojana. The hospitals have also been told to follow the guidelines issued by the state government on quarantine for doctors and other medical staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-fixes-rates-for-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals/story-PeTPQUgRqVamBkbsVIkeNP.html
03-09-2020||India||Demonetisation an attack on India’s poor, farmers: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that the government’s hidden agenda behind demonetisation was to deliberately harm India’s informal sector, which survives on liquid cash. In his latest video series on the Indian economy, Gandhi dubbed the 2016 demonetisation as an “attack on India’s poor, farmers, workers and small shop owners”. He claimed that the hidden agenda of demonetisation, which saw the scrapping of all Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes, was to “clear the ground”. Also Read: India reeling under Modi-made disasters: Rahul Gandhi“Our informal sector works on cash. Small shopkeepers and workers survive on cash. The second target of demonetisation was to take out money from the informal sector. Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the nation that he wants a cashless India. If India goes cashless, small shopkeepers, farmers, and workers will be finished,” Gandhi said in his video series. The short videos are the new communication tools for the former Congress president to reach out to a larger audience on social media. Earlier, he had spoken on the India-China border conflict and the informal sector amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.India’s informal, or unorganised, sector absorbs about 95% of the county’s workforce and is the key to an equitable growth. Also Read: ‘Ruining’ of economy began with demonetisation, govt introduced erroneous policies: Rahul GandhiGandhi’s latest series comes in the wake of the Indian economy’s decline by a record 23.9% in the first quarter of April to June in the current financial year 2020-21. The deceleration reflected the economic impact of the 68-day Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions in the first quarter.Gandhi recounted the woes of millions of people, who suffered during demonetisation, and said that the exercise didn’t solve the black money problem. “What did the poor Indians benefit? Nothing. So who all benefitted? Only the country’s billionaires,” Gandhi alleged. “The government used your money to write off the loans of the billionaires,” he further alleged..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demonetisation-an-attack-on-india-s-poor-farmers-rahul-gandhi/story-bwZzUJEdu29oRmpVWQfSiM.html
03-09-2020||India||‘John Wick’: How Keeanu Reeves’ character inspired hackers targeted PM Modi’s website Twitter handle||Twitter on Thursday said the account linked to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal website was hacked, and it has now been restored. The account which has over 2.5 million followers is the official Twitter handle for Modi’s personal website as well as the Narendra Modi mobile application.The tweets, which have since been taken down, asked the followers to donate to the PM National Relief Fund through cryptocurrency.“Yes, this account is hacked by John Wick (hckindia@tutanota.com), We have not hacked Paytm Mall,” another message had said.The hacker identified himself as ‘John Wick.’John Wick is a 2014 American action-thriller film directed by Chad Stahelski and written by Derek Kolstad. The film John Wick stars Keanu Reeves, Michael Nyqvist, Alfie Allen, Bridget Moynahan and many other Hollywood stars.The movie follows the story of an ex-hit-man who comes out of retirement to track down the gangsters that killed his dog and took everything from him.Part of a three series franchise, it began with the release of John Wick in 2014 followed by two sequels--John Wick: Chapter 2 in 2017, and John Wick: Chapter 3 – Parabellum on in 2019.The hacker chose to use the code name John Wick on September 2 to hack PM Modi’s Twitter account, which happens to be Keanu Reeves’s birthday.Earlier, many hackers have taken up the name ‘Elliot Alderson’ from Mr.Robot, played by Rami Malek who plays a hacker, but John Wick isn’t shown as a cyber-security expert or a hacker in any of the movies. Happy Birthday to Mr. Wick himself, Keanu Reeves. pic.twitter.com/I9iSPmyyebOn August 30, cybersecurity firm Cyble had said hacker group ‘John Wick’ was behind a data breach at Paytm Mall, the e-commerce unit of Paytm.Paytm Mall had said it had not found any security lapses after investigating claims of a possible hack and data breach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/john-wick-how-keeanu-reeves-character-inspired-hackers-targeted-pm-modi-s-website-twitter-handle/story-2JyaLzB0A3meEPbQyy8pvM.html
03-09-2020||India||Continue suspension of biometric machines for distributing food grain: HC tells Maharashtra||The Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench has cited the Covid-19 pandemic and directed the state government to continue the suspension of biometric machine use for the distribution of foodgrains through public distribution system (PDS).A division bench of justices Ravindra Ghuge and Shrikant Kulkarni issued the directive as the use of biometric machines increases possibility of physical contact at rationing shops and the risk of spreading the virus.The court was hearing a petition of an association of fair price shop owners from Beed district, seeking directions for the government to continue the suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/continue-suspension-of-biometric-machines-for-distributing-food-grain-hc-tells-maharashtra/story-V3Qudh7JlcAcXDcPYOMkCN.html
03-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI calls Rhea’s father for questioning again||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), investigating actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, called actor Rhea Chakraborty’s father Indrajit for questioning for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Indrajit left home at around 10 am and reached the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) guesthouse at 10.20 am. Also read: Malicious campaign by channels to defame Sushant’s family, benefit Rhea, says lawyerCBI, which has been investigating the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has been questioning domestic helps, managers and friends of the late actor apart from Rhea and her family. CBI officials have been camping in Mumbai since August 20, 2020, and have collected all evidences from Mumbai police which had registered a case of accidental death and probed the case. In its investigation, Mumbai police had recorded statements of 56 persons. Meanwhile, the Narcotics Control Bureau continued to question two Bandra residents for alleged drug peddling and their suspected connection with the case. Apart from CBI and NCB, the Enforcement Directorate is also probing money laundering angle in connection with the late actor’s death. Rajput was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what police said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week quiet, a political controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart.The jurisdictional turf war spilled into the legal arena as the Supreme Court was approached to decide if CBI could investigate the matter. The issue became deeply acrimonious and divisive at multiple levels — between the Rajput and Chakraborty families, between the actors’ respective sets of fans, between the governments of the two states in question, and between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its former ally Shiv Sena — and left the entertainment industry split vertically.The case opened up a raging debate in and about the industry, devolving into a war of words and allegations between two camps largely made up of “insiders” (with generational links to Bollywood) and “outsiders” (first-generation actors and filmmakers). Chakraborty and her supporters alleged that the Bihar government was trying to hijack the emotive issue for political capital ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-calls-rhea-s-father-for-questioning-again/story-f8uNbQ4ZsxRZHbMY7vntBL.html
03-09-2020||India||South India to witness extreme rainfall by end of this century: IIT study||The pattern of monsoon in India could undergo a major shift by the end of this century with southern India likely to register the maximum increase in extreme rainfall compared to states in central and north India, researchers from the Indian Institute of Kharagpur in West Bengal have said. The scientists have also projected that extreme rainfall may increase in the Arabian Sea and south-Asian countries, including Myanmar, Thailand and Malaysia.“In the worst-case scenario of climate change, rainfall could increase by 2.7 mm per day in north India with the Himalayan foothills expected to receive the heaviest rain. In south India, rainfall could increase by 18.5 mm per day with the Western Ghats expected to be battered the most,” said Rajib Maity, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Kharagpur, who led the study.All these could be witnessed by the fag-end of this century, in the last three decades between 2071 and 2100. The researchers analysed data of Indian Summer Monsoon precipitation for close to five decades (1971 – 2017), considering the period between 1930 and 1970 as the base. The results have been published in the Scientific Reports journal brought out by the Nature publishing group. “Our analysis shows a change in the direction of the southwest monsoon winds blowing towards the east over the Indian Ocean. This directional change will intensify the already observed precipitation contrast in future between South and North India, and cause more extreme precipitation events in countries like Myanmar, Thailand and Malaysia” Maity added. The researchers said that the Indian Ocean Dipole – popularly referred to as the ‘Indian Nino’ because of its similarity to its Pacific equivalent – is intensifying which could lead to increase in rainfall activity throughout India. The Indian Ocean Dipole refers to the difference in sea-surface temperatures in opposite parts of the Indian Ocean which, in turn, affects rainfall pattern.As the Indian monsoon plays a crucial role in agriculture, which engages nearly half of the country’s population a possible shift in the rains, as projected by the IIT study, could have a significant impact on agriculture. “South Asia, as we know, despite advances in irrigation systems, is highly dependent on the monsoons. Results of this study will be useful to the designers of water infrastructure and agricultural communities, especially in the southern parts of India and Himalayan foothills, to prompt a possible change in design criteria and agricultural practices including cropping pattern,” Virendra Tewari, director, IIT Kharagpur was quoted as saying in a statement. R Krishnan, executive director, Centre for Climate Change Studies at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said: “The possibility of such change can’t be ruled out but such projects need more research and analysis as the association between Indian Ocean Dipole and Monsoon is still not well defined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-india-to-witness-extreme-rainfall-by-end-of-this-century-iit-study/story-lnixLLTDv8YSJ7TJYmITsM.html
03-09-2020||India||Elon Musk, Bill Gates: List of other Twitter accounts hacked before PM Modi incident||Microblogging site Twitter on Thursday confirmed that a page which is linked to an account of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal website was hacked. Not specifying the details of the hacking, a report by news agency Reuters said a series of tweets asking followers of the page to donate to a relief fund through cryptocurrency were put out.To a query from Hindustan Times, a spokesperson from Twitter in an email said, “We’re aware of this activity and have taken steps to secure the compromised account. We are actively investigating the situation. At this time, we are not aware of additional accounts being impacted.”The incident comes after several Twitter accounts of prominent personalities were hacked in July this year.Hackers had in July accessed Twitter’s internal systems to hack some of the platform’s top voices including US presidential candidate Joe Biden, former US president Barack Obama, billionaire Elon Musk, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, and used them to solicit digital currency.The posts, which appeared across multiple accounts in a matter of minutes, promised people they had 30 minutes to send $1,000 in bitcoin in order to be sent back twice as much in return. Some of the tweets were deleted, but re-posted again as Twitter scrambled to contain the incident.Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s chief executive, said in a post that it was a tough day for them. “We all feel terrible this happened,” he tweeted. “We’re diagnosing and will share everything we can when we have a more complete understanding of exactly what happened.”Twitter said it was aware of “a security incident” and “taking steps to fix it”, but provided no more information. The hack unfolded over the course of several hours and the company disabled the ability to tweet from validated accounts, those with the official blue check mark. “You may be unable to tweet or reset your password while we review and address this incident,” Twitter’s support team said in a post.Other targeted accounts include those of rapper Kanye West, reality television show star Kim Kardashian, businessman Michael Bloomberg, Uber, and a number of cryptocurrency exchanges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elon-musk-bill-gates-list-of-other-twitter-accounts-hacked-befor-pm-modi-incident/story-a76A640SX2zCOuYQu7DqDP.html
03-09-2020||India||India conducts over a million tests on three consecutive days||India recorded 1.17 million tests on Wednesday, the highest in a day so far. Over 1 million samples were tested each day for three consecutive days, according to data provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Delhi, which has one of the highest number of tests per million in the country, hit a record high of over 28,000 tests the same day. “A sustained number of tests over a period of days in several areas will enable us to diagnose cases early and facilitate seamless isolation and hospitalisation. This will eventually lead to a lower mortality rate,” said the health ministry. Along with the increase in testing, India has also seen a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, 81,934 cases were recorded across the country, according to the data from HT dashboard. “The increasing numbers should not worry us too much. Of course, if the government tests more people, we will find more cases. And, with the sheer population size in India, even if just 1% of the population is infected, in terms of absolute numbers, it will be huge. The good thing is, our mortality rate seems to be lower than the global average and most of the European countries and the US. We still do not know why, but it means that we should not be too worried. This does not mean people should stop following preventive practices like wearing masks, washing hands frequently and maintaining social distance,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital. A total of 1,026 deaths due to the infection were also recorded, taking the total death toll due to Covid-19 in the country to 67,478. This is the second day in a row that the country has recorded over a 1,000 deaths. The case fatality ratio (CFR)—fraction of people who die among those who tested positive—is on the decline. India’s current CFR stands at 1.75%, one of the lowest in the world. Globally, on average, 3.3% of those diagnosed with the infection have died of it. The number of recoveries has also seen an increase, with over 60,000 people with the infection recovering each day. The number of recoveries is inching closer to 3 million, over three times the active cases or those with the infection currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducted-over-a-million-tests-on-three-consecutive-days/story-3WlPaF8TPUaGJTT1AdUPrK.html
03-09-2020||India||How Delhi is ramping up its Covid-19 testing||Delhi on Tuesday conducted 28,835 Covid-19 tests, the highest so far. The testing has been ramped up following a rise in Covid-19 cases since mid-August after Delhi became the first major region to register a sustained fall in the infections. The spike in cases prompted chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold an emergency meeting on August 26, where it was decided that the rate of testing will be doubled from 18,000-20,000 daily to nearly 40,000 weekly.Also read: In biggest one-day jump, India records nearly 84,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 3.85 millionAccordingly, daily testing was increased from Monday when 24,198 tests were conducted. Here is a look at how the testing is being ramped up:1. 40,000 testing daily would be done in a “gradual manner” and is likely to be achieved in a week. “It is a multi-pronged approach under which testing is being increased at various levels,” the chief minister’s office said.2. To ramp up testing, the timings of all state-run dispensaries and seed PUHCs (Primary Urban Health Centres) have now been extended by two hours. “The Delhi government has 265 dispensaries and clinics in addition to major hospitals where Covid-19 testing is available for free. This is where we expect the testing numbers to go up mainly. All Delhi government dispensaries and seed PUHCs are now testing patients between 9 am and 2 pm – for five hours instead of three hours,” a government spokesperson said.3. On Wednesday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority decided to set up testing camps at all inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs), railway stations and also at major construction sites within a week. The idea is to test migrant workers returning to Delhi in search of jobs.A testing centre is already functioning at the Anand Vihar ISBT since August 13 to screen migrants back in the Capital, where 3,381 people had undergone rapid antigen tests till Wednesday, of which only 19 were diagnosed Covid-19.4. Lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday directed officials to simultaneously draft a policy to introduce a ‘test-on-demand’ programme, wherein people could call a helpline and fix an appointment at the nearest Covid-19 testing centre without having to wait.5. Health minister Satyendar Jain has asked his department to also explore ways through which some select mohalla clinics may be shut for general medical diagnosis and converted into temporary Covid-19 testing centres. Delhi has over 450 operational mohalla clinics as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-delhi-is-ramping-up-its-covid-19-testing/story-ptKkzt8DCJ3lyFIxXkWzYN.html
03-09-2020||India||Peoples Democratic Party’s 1st meeting after Article 370 revocation to discuss Mehbooba Mufti’s arrest||Jammu and Kashmir based Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is holding its first meeting on Thursday post revocation of Article 370 on August 5 last year to discuss several important issues including party president Mehbooba Mufti’s continued detention under the PSA (Public Security Act).Almost all senior PDP leaders including Mehbooba Mufti were detained by the government coinciding with the Parliament revoking Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcating the erstwhile state into two Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, with legislature, and Ladakh, without legislature, last August.Party officials said many important issues, including Mufti and other leaders’ house arrests, will come up for discussion at Thursday’s meeting. Mehbooba Mufti is the only prominent mainstream leader, who is still booked under the PSA. Party spokesman Suhail Bukhari said the meeting will begin at 11 am at party headquarters.Also Read: Meet with FM Sitharaman: J&K businessmen seek comprehensive financial revival packageThe other mainstream J&K political outfit, the National Conference, has held a series of meetings over several political developments in J&K. It has also announced the launch of a joint political struggle with other mainstream parties including the one-time arch rival PDP for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status and its statehood.The leaders of the political parties had first signed a declaration a day before Article 370 was nullified, saying they will be united in defending the identity, autonomy and special status of Jammu & Kashmir.Also Read: High-density apple scheme: Plans afoot to boost fruit production in KashmirLast week, PDP leaders also held a protest demonstration seeking Mufti’s release and for raising other issues of alleged human rights violations. After the revocation of Article 370, many leaders, especially former ministers and legislators of the PDP left the party and joined the newly-launched Apni Party by Altaf Bukhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peoples-democratic-party-s-1st-meeting-after-article-370-revocation-to-discuss-mehbooba-mufti-s-arrest/story-VtvMXXNKmyVQjUVifjtn3K.html
03-09-2020||India||2 engineers suspended over damage to bridge built under Gramin Sadak Yojna||Two engineers were suspended and another moved out after a bridge built under Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) in Seoni district, 344 km south east of Bhopal, caved in amid floods, said MP Rural Development Authority officials. Construction of the new bridge near Sunwara village over Wanganga river was completed merely two months back in June. When flood water caused by incessant rains since August 27 receded on August 30, the superstructure of the Rs 3.12 crore bridge was found washed away. There was damage to another bridge too which is 10 years old and constructed over the same river near a dam at Bheemgarh, as per officials. Engineers GP Mehra and his assistant SK Agrawal, who held the posts of general manager and assistant manager, respectively, in MP Rural Road Development Authority (MPRRDA) were suspended by the body’s chief executive officer (CEO) Shashank Mishra on Tuesday.A sub-engineer and in-charge of supervision of the bridge Sonal Rajak was transferred from Seoni, as per officials.The action came based on an inspection of the new bridge conducted by a team, including technical examiner RK Yadav and MPRRDA, Jabalpur, chief general manager BS Bundela on Tuesday, as per officials. After damage to the bridge, the executive engineer, now suspended, GP Mehra had said, “Due to incessant rains and flood, all the 10 gates of the dam over Wanganga river near Bheemgarh were opened on Friday night and it caused damage to both the bridges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-engineers-suspended-over-damage-to-bridge-built-under-gramin-sadak-yojna/story-XGZRyZ3gMdEFCmT7p0duyL.html
03-09-2020||India||Maharashtra eases lockdown but infra projects yet to pick up||Even as Maharashtra is in the ‘Mission Begin Again’ mode to revive economic activities in the state, the progress of many infrastructure projects is slow, as the workforce at most of them , primarily in Mumbai, is half than the required count.Also read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 count more than fifth worst-affected country PeruFor Metro works being carried out by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) in and around Mumbai, the required labour force is around at least 6,000 workers. “We hardly have around 3,000-3,500 workers at various sites. Even though the workforce has started coming to the city, lockdown in states like Bihar and Jharkhand has limited the numbers,” said an MMRDA official on the condition of anonymity. At the beginning of the lockdown in March, MMRDA had around 11,000 workers at different sites. Apart from the metros, MMRDA is also implementing the 22-km sea bridge connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. While more than 5,000 workers were available at the site before lockdown, only 2,247 workers were at the site even at the end of July. For the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing the most complex, fully underground Metro-3 (Colaba-Seepz), around 8,100 workers are currently working at the site, instead of almost 15,000 workers who were present before the lockdown. In June-July, only 5,600 workers were available at the site, sources said. With a shortage in labour force, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thakeray in June had also asked state agencies to employ bhoomiputras or “sons of soil” in Metro and other infrastructure works to keep the work going and not depend on labourers who had left the state.On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day spike of 17,433 infections (first in excess of 17,000), taking the count up to 825,739. The number of active cases in the state has also crossed the 200,00-mark with a case load of 201,703 cases. The state also crossed the 25,000-mark for Covid-19 casualties after 292 deaths were reported. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 1,622 cases, much higher than the daily number of cases seen in August, which ranged between 900 and 1,400. Its tally reached 148,569. Of them, 20,810 are active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-eases-lockdown-but-infra-projects-yet-to-pick-up/story-5RQqYHNos3lv2AI7B3AE3K.html
03-09-2020||India||Suicides rose by 22.6% in Uttarakhand in 2019, 76% deaths due to family issues||Uttarakhand reported total 516 cases of death by suicide in 2019 with the maximum--394 cases (over 76 %)—being related to family-related issues, revealed the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data on suicides in 2019. According to the data, the total percentage share of suicides due to family-related issues in Uttarakhand is the highest among all the states in the country. After Uttarakhand, Odisha had reported 60.7% suicides due to family-related issues followed by Tripura’s 55.4%. The total number of suicides reported in the state in 2019 showed an increase of 22.6% compared to 2018 when 421 cases of death by suicide were reported. Uttarakhand is among the top five states in the country with the highest percentage increase in total suicide cases. Among the 10 Himalayan states, Uttarakhand was at the third spot in total number of suicides after Tripura, with 728 cases, and Himachal Pradesh, with 584 cases. Out of the 394 deaths by suicide due to family-related issues, 260 victims were male while 134 were female. Love affairs led to 35 cases of death by suicide including deaths of 22 males and 13 females. Similarly, 25 people took their own life due to the non-settlement of marriage and as many ended their lives due to mental illness. About 15 others died by suicide due to drug abuse or alcohol addiction. The NCRB data, however, stated that there were no farmer suicides in the state in 2019 but 54 of the victims were students and 83 others were unemployed. Also Read: Uttarakhand CM goes into self-isolation for second time after OSD tests Covid-19 positive Expressing concern at the increase in suicides in the state, psychologists say that the family members need to spend time together and listen to each other to curb such incidents. Dehradun based psychologist Sona Kaushal, who has also been running a helpline centre for people in distress and those thinking of taking a drastic step, said, “The families have a vital role in curbing such unfortunate incidents. All the members of a family need to spend more time together and listen to each other.” Also Read: 10 newborn babies being assessed for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand after nurse tests positive “In today’s world when many are spending more time on mobile phones and social media, we need to be closer emotionally to each other rather than virtually. Then only incidents of suicides could be brought down,” said Kaushal. Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order) Uttarakhand said that society has a larger role to play in curbing suicides.“In suicides, society has a greater responsibility to stop such incidents than the police. If any person in distress seeks help from the police, he is provided with all possible guidance or help by the police, but a major role is to be played by the society as a whole if the numbers are to be brought down,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suicides-rose-by-22-6-in-uttarakhand-in-2019-76-deaths-due-to-family-issues/story-PMUKrapBzbnl4sTP9FvUyO.html
03-09-2020||India||Chinese aggression against India is uniting protestors in far off Canada||Nearly 300 members of the Tibetan diaspora in Canada, supported by Hong Kongers and Uighurs, protested outside the Chinese consulate in Toronto on Wednesday and also observed a minute’s silence in the memory of a Tibetan-origin soldier reportedly killed in the latest clashes between the Indian and the Chinese armies along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.Headlining the event was a former member of the dead soldier’s unit-- the Special Frontier Force or SFF-- who ran from Ottawa to Toronto for the Tibetan cause.The protest outside the consulate, followed by a gathering at the Parkdale Collegiate Institute in the city, was held to mark Tibetan Democracy Day, the 60th anniversary of the election of the first representative body in Tibet’s history.One of the principal organisers of the event, Youdon Tsamotshang, board chair of Students for a Free Tibet Canada, said Pema Kunga, the former Indian SFF solider joined them after running a marathon from the Canadian capital of Ottawa to Toronto, a feat that took eight days. Protestors expressed their solidarity with the Indian soldiers martyred in the fighting in recent times in the Galwan Valley, while Kunga highlighted his support for India and against China’s disinformation campaign.Also Read: China taking advantage of Covid-19 outbreak, India one such example: US diplomatTsamotshang said the members of the diaspora, who gathered outside the consulate, donned ceremonial white scarves and they staged a rally outside the venue and chanted slogans for Tibet. Part of the objective, she said, was “putting pressure on the Canadian government” to give more attention to the status of Tibet under occupation of the Communist regime in Beijing.Also Read: Foreign and defence ministers of India, Australia, Indonesia to meet amid concerns over ChinaJoining the protestors was Bhutila Karpoche, a member of Ontario’s provincial parliament and the only person of Tibetan heritage to be elected to a legislature in North America. The protest on Wednesday afternoon was part of a growing series of similar events directed against China that have been held in Canada by various groups including Tibetan, Uighurs facing repression in east Turkestan and Hong Kongers agitated over the leaching off of democratic rights in the territory, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-aggression-against-india-is-uniting-protestors-in-far-off-canada/story-yXItFzuYSjuZ8XKw1gyRFJ.html
03-09-2020||India||In biggest one-day jump, India records nearly 84,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 3.85 million||India’s coronavirus disease count reached 3,853,406 on Thursday after 83,883 new cases of the disease were reported in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update.The number of active cases in the country are 8,15,538 and 29,70,492 patients have been cured of the disease.The country recorded 1,043 new fatalities till Wednesday, which pushed the death toll up to 67,376, the ministry said. On Wednesday, India had recorded 1,045 deaths.India, meanwhile, conducted over a million Covid-19 tests for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. The number of tests conducted yesterday were 1.17 million.The ICMR said that Delhi once again conducted the most number of tests per million - 28,000 - on Wednesday.The health ministry had said on Wednesday that 54 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in India were reported among people from 18 to 44 years of age while patients in 60 years and above bracket account for 51 per cent deaths.According to the ministry, there are eight per cent cases and one per cent deaths below 17 years of age. Fourteen per cent of total coronavirus cases in India and one per cent of deaths were recorded among the 18-25 age group, it added.It also said that India’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 1.76 per cent, one of the lowest across the world. The global CFR stands at 3.3 per cent. India is reporting 48 deaths/million population, also one of the lowest in the world while the global average is 110 deaths/million population, according to the health ministry||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-biggest-one-day-jump-india-records-nearly-84-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-goes-past-3-85-million/story-KqgtsHTrayNzlQGP3mmokN.html
03-09-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 count more than fifth worst-affected country Peru||Maharashtra, the state hardest hit by the spread of the coronavirus disease in India, has been achieving grim milestones every few days.The state saw 17,433 new cases of Covid-19 - its highest single-day spike - on Wednesday which took the tally to 8,25,739. This count is more than the number of coronavirus disease cases in fifth worst-affected country Peru.According to World Health Organisation (WHO), Peru’s count of Covid-19 cases stands at 6,52,037. And next in the list is Russia with 10,05,000. And Maharashtra is not far behind the million mark.Maharashtra’s previous highest one-day count was 16,867 cases, reported on August 29.The reason for high caseload is the rate at which the infection is spreading in Maharashtra. It took 51 days for Maharashtra to reach the two lakh active cases mark; the number had crossed 1 lakh on July 12, 126 days from the first reported infection on March 9.The number of cases in Maharashtra is also nearly 22 per cent of India’s total Covid-19 tally. The state took the lead since the early days of the spread of the infection in the country and has maintained it since then.The state also reported 292 fresh deaths, 34 of them in Mumbai city, pushing up the fatality count to 25,195, the state health department said.Mumbai reported 1,622 new coronavirus cases and 34 deaths, taking its tally to 1,48,569 and the toll to 7,727. Pune city reported 1,706 fresh cases along with 28 deaths, pushing up the infection count to 1,04,555 and the toll to 2,607, the health department added.Maharashtra’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 3.5 per cent, the health department said. This is slightly less than Gujarat, which has the highest CFR in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-count-more-than-fifth-worst-affected-country-peru/story-SiMktQvNExeEbQ3zlUQk3O.html
03-09-2020||India||Build mangrove cells across all coastal states: Environment ministry panel||The Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the Ministry of Environment and Forests for coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearances has recommended the formation of a mangrove cell across all coastal states, similar to Maharashtra, for better protection of mangroves.Mangroves are salt-tolerant plants, trees, shrubs or ground fern of tropical and subtropical intertidal regions of the world. While being a breeding ground for a variety of marine animals, they also act as a natural buffer against storm surges, cyclones and sea level rise.Considering the need for their conservation, a dedicated cell under the forest department can help safeguard mangrove forest patches and appraise planned projects around them better through site verification on affected mangrove trees, the EAC said, adding, “In Maharashtra, a mangrove conservation cell administered by the forest department is effectively functioning and a similar model can be adopted by other coastal state governments.”A formal recommendation was sent to the Union environment ministry last week.“The committee desired that the matter can be looked into by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change and in the interest of mangrove conservation, which plays a major role specially during extreme events in coastal areas, the coastal state governments or union territories’ administration may be requested to develop such dedicated mangrove conservation efforts,” read the minutes.This is a well-established model of the Maharashtra government where there is a recognised institutional framework constituted in protecting mangrove cover, said Deepak Apte, chairman, EAC (CRZ).“We have been highlighting this since our very first meeting and the Centre should take this forward in light of coastal and marine conservation. The Maharashtra model has appropriate accountability with the cell headed by a high ranking forest officer further reporting to the chief wildlife warden, and governing council state secretaries,” said Apte.The EAC made its latest recommendation while assessing the feasibility of a Rs 2286 crore six-lane highway project in Kerala (Talapady to Nileshwaram section of NH-66) that involved the loss of 266 mangrove trees.According to the Forest Survey of India, the country has 4,975 sq. km of mangrove cover. West Bengal (majorly Sunderbans) has maximum cover 2,112 sq km followed by Gujarat 1,177 sq km, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 616 sq km, Andhra Pradesh 404 sq km, Maharashtra 320 sq km, and Odisha 251 sq km, among major regions with mangrove forests.Maharashtra’s mangrove cell was constituted in 2012 based on an order passed by the Bombay high court in 2005 banning mangrove destruction across the state and construction within 50 m of trees. Over eight years, the cell recruited staff for on-ground surveillance. It now has 70 forest guards across six Konkan districts, 13 round officers, and a special team engaged in tackling mangrove destruction across Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane called the Mumbai Mangrove Conservation Unit (MMCU) with 108 guards alone and a team of senior forest officers. Additionally, there is one range forest officer across all other districts including Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg.The cell is responsible for the declaration and protection of the 16.9 sq km Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary and the protection of the Malvan Marine Sanctuary. It recently proposed the 2,011 sq km Angria Bank, a submerged plateau 105 km (56.7 nautical miles) off Malvan in the Sindhudurg, as a protected area, which was approved by the State Board of Wildlife last month. The state constituted the Mangrove and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation in 2015, an autonomous body that assists the mangrove cell in coastal marine conservation through research projects with mangrove cell chief as its executive director. Over five years, the foundation has undertaken numerous research projects to improve the livelihood of coastal communities as well as increase awareness and capacity building through marine biodiversity research along the Konkan coast.According to mangrove cell officials, the foundation is registered as a society where funds are allocated to offset environmental implications by project proponents as one of the conditions during wildlife clearance (mostly 2% of total project cost) issued by the National Board of Wildlife.“This money is sent to fixed deposits and the foundation uses the interest to fund its activities thereby not depending on government funds at all,” a forest official said.Apte added, “This is an effective mechanism wherein instead of companies spending money on their own (where effectiveness cannot be monitored), funds are allocated either for mangrove conservation or marine research through annual plans developed by this foundation. Thus, funds to offset environmental impacts for projects are channelised through a well-established structure governed ultimately by the state for coastal and climatic resilience.”Over the eight years since the inception of the cell and five years since the foundation was constituted, Maharashtra recorded the highest increase in mangrove cover (37%) across India between 2015 (222 sq km) and 2017 (304 sq km), and second highest increase in mangrove cover in India (by another 16 sq km) between 2017 and 2019. FIRST STATE TO DECLARE ITS OWN MANGROVE STATE TREEMaharashtra is set to become the first coastal state to declare a state mangrove tree species - Sonneratia alba or mangrove apple - based on a proposal by the mangrove cell, which was approved by the State Board of Wildlife during a meeting last month.The state is likely to publish the formal government resolution on the decision later this month. Known as White Chippi in Marathi, Sonneratia alba grow up to five feet with white flowers having a pink base, and bear distinct green apples as fruits used to make pickles. They often grow on newly formed mudflats playing an important role in combating land erosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/build-mangrove-cells-across-all-coastal-states-environment-ministry-panel/story-rWQhXgqZQW2ED5WcrnveNI.html
03-09-2020||India||Shorter hours, new rules to mark this monsoon session of Parliament||The upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, which will be held between September 14 and October 1 amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, will have many firsts.Also read: Written questions get nod at monsoon sessionThese include shorter hours, doing away with a set format of proceedings and many other such improvisations to ensure the safety of the Members of Parliament (MPs), the staff and media persons, who will cover the daily functioning of the session. The last parliamentary session was cut short on March 25 following the viral outbreak and the day the nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced for the next 68 days to contain the spread of the pandemic.Usually, though the monsoon session begins in July, it had to be pushed back to mid-September this year owing to the contagion. This session will see the House work for a shorter duration on a daily basis. However, there will be no break on weekends. Normally, after winding down business with the Private Member’s Bills on Friday, both the Houses used to reconvene on Monday after a two-day weekend break. As per the revised schedule, the Rajya Sabha (RS) will meet between 9 am and 1 pm and the Lok Sabha (LS) between 3 pm and 7 pm. On September 14, on the first day of the session, the LS proceedings will take place only in the first half of the day. The government has decided to do away with the Question Hour, an hour-long slot that is given to lawmakers to raise questions about issues related to various ministries. The Union ministries will provide only written replies to questions put forth by the MPs instead of ministers giving replies on the floor of the House.  While the Opposition parties have objected to this decision and dubbed it as the “murder of democracy”, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has defended the move on the grounds that the restrictions imposed by the pandemic have led to shorter work hours. The BJP has also pointed out that the Question Hour has been dispensed with in several state assemblies, including Andhra Pradesh (AP), Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Maharashtra, because of the pandemic. Coverage of parliamentary proceedings by the media, too, will be restricted. Only a select number of media personnel will be allowed access to the gallery to record the daily proceedings. RS Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday held discussions with Union secretaries of Home Affairs, Health & Family Welfare, Defence Research and director-general, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on ensuring safety of MPs. Naidu suggested that MPs should undergo Covid-19 tests in their own interest. MPs will be allowed to wear masks inside the House and a frequent tab will be kept on ventillation to keep the viral infection at bay. Covid-19 awareness video clips will also be shown to MPs. Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) authorities will provide a host of sanitisation services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shorter-hours-new-rules-to-mark-this-monsoon-session-of-parliament/story-5tC6pchHicrASp0KeXwrBO.html
03-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Over 1.17 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in last 24 hours, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India conducts over 1.17 lakh Covid-19 testing in last 24 hours: GovtIndia has conducted more than 1.17 lakh Covid-19 testing in the last 24 hours, keeping in line with its ‘test, track, treat’ strategy to prevent the coronavirus from spreading, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. The country crossed the milestone of conducting one million tests daily on August 21. Read moreWill this IPL see Rahul become the No. 1 keeper?India’s last bilateral series before the pandemic-induced break in February had KL Rahul donning the wicketkeeper’s gloves in the ODIs and T20Is against New Zealand. Read moreFord in trouble, will cut 1,400 jobs via retirement as profits lagFord Motor Co. is cutting about 5% of its US salaried workers as part of a sweeping reorganization, which could include layoffs, in a move to help the automaker reverse its declining fortunes. Read moreNational Nutrition Week: What is junk food and how does it affect your body’s ageing process?Imagine a plate of potato fries, freshly fried and placed infront of you along with tomato ketchup and maybe a few mayonnaise-based dips. It may make your mouth water and maybe even make you want to order in from your nearest restaurant (if they’re back in business amid the Covid-19 pandemic) or if you so wish, even make that extra effort of cooking them at home. Read moreHappy birthday Vivek Oberoi: Did you know he was considered too good-looking for Company, stayed in slums to convince Ram Gopal Varma?Vivek Oberoi burst onto the Bollywood scene in 2002 with Ram Gopal Varma’s Company. He won several plaudits for his role as a gangster named Chandrakant ‘Chandu’ Nagre, who rises up the ranks to eventually become his boss Malik’s rival. Read moreHilary Swank interview: Oscar-winner on how Kalpana Chawla, other female astronauts inspired herIn an interview with Hindustan Times, Oscar-winning actor Hilary Swank talks about how female astronauts such as Kalpana Chawla inspired her performance in Netflix’s new space drama, Away. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-over-1-17-lakh-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-last-24-hours-says-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sStuGsp6SPUY4xJd5LeNuJ.html
03-09-2020||India||Heavy rain warning for NW India today||Heavy rainfall is likely in many parts of north-west India on Thursday, including Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, western Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Rajasthan, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The western end of the monsoon trough – the line of low pressure -- is lying near normal position – in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal -- and the eastern end is lying north of its normal position. A cyclonic circulation is lying over Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining Jharkhand and another cyclonic circulation is over west-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining south-west Bay of Bengal off south of coastal Andhra Pradesh (AP) and north of Tamil Nadu’s (TN) shoreline.Also Read: Delhi wakes up to overcast skies, moderate rain likely todayWidespread and heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning is likely at many places over central, north-west and peninsular India because of these favourable conditions.“Due to interaction between lower-level easterly winds and mid-level westerly trough, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy precipitation and thunderstorm is very likely over north-west India and western Himalayan Region on Thursday,” IMD’s Wednesday bulletin had said.Also Read: Shorter hours, new rules to mark this monsoon session of Parliament“Rain has gradually started reducing in volume because we are in September. We’re not expecting formation of any low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal at least for a week. However, it will continue to rain in most parts of the country. For the next three-four days heavy rainfall is likely over Kerala, coastal Karnataka and TN and over north-west India due to convergence of winds. There will be rainfall in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and parts of UP on Thursday,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.The cyclonic circulations are likely to cause widespread and heavy rainfall over peninsular India for the next four-five days, including southern interior Karnataka, Kerala and TN.Monsoon is likely to start retreating from September 17 in line with the new normal onset and withdrawal dates issued by the IMD in April. September 1 was the normal date for the beginning of retreating monsoon until last year. The new onset dates are based on analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based from 1971 to 2019 by scientists in IMD, Pune.Moderate thunderstorms with lightning is very likely over southern UP, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, coastal AP, Kerala, Karnataka, northern TN, Telangana, Assam, Meghalaya, the Andaman & Nicobar islands and Lakshadweep on Thursday, the IMD forecast added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-nw-india-today/story-lp9gqI47Qk08JRjzP38kVN.html
03-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand records biggest single-day jump, Covid-19 cases cross 21k-mark||With 836 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Wednesday reported its biggest single-day jump in cases since the first one was reported in the state on March 15. The state also crossed the 21,000 cases mark taking its tally of total cases to 21,234. It also reported 11 deaths on the day. Also read: Uttarakhand CM goes into self-isolation after OSD tests positive for Covid-19With this, the death toll of Covid-19 positive patients increased to 291 in the state. Out of the 291 deaths, 88 cases were of deaths due to coronavirus, while the others died due to comorbidities. Of the 11 deaths reported on Wednesday, four died due to coronavirus while others died due to comorbidities. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department in the evening, 220 fresh cases were reported from Haridwar district followed by Dehradun (184), US Nagar (112), Nainital (97), Tehri (42), Almora (34), Pauri (32), Rudraprayag (32), Uttarkashi (31), Pithoragarh (28), Champawat (12), Chamoli (7) and Bageshwar (5). Haridwar district has reported the maximum 5,001 cases followed by Dehradun (4,438), US Nagar (3,952) and Nainital (2,899). Also, 425 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Wednesday with a maximum of 227 from Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days stands at 23.47 days, while the infection rate is 5.46%. The state has so far tested over 413,000 samples of which results of over 15,000 are awaited. Out of 21,234 total cases, 14,437 people have recovered, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 67.99%. Uttarakhand currently has 238 containment zones in seven districts, including 167 in Haridwar district. BJP MLA Vinod Chamoli has also tested positive.The senior party leader took to social media and shared the information with people about him. Party’s state spokesperson Devendra Bhasin said, “Along with MLA Vinod Chamoli, two staffers from the chief minister’s office and one party official tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Looking at the increasing number of cases, it has been decided that the party headquarters in the state will remain closed till September 6,” said Bhasin. The state party headquarters has been closed since August 30, when state party president Bansidhar Bhagat tested positive for Covid-19. The government also released an order on Wednesday evening that all the staff working at the state secretariat will be tested for Covid-19 after an official of additional secretary rank tested positive. The state government also stopped the entry of any outsider to the state secretariat and media persons (both electronic and print) will be allowed to enter only for two hours, from 3-5 pm, after thermal scanning and proper sanitisation. Deliveries to the state secretariat will have to be made at the entry gate and no one would be allowed to enter the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-records-biggest-single-day-jump-covid-19-cases-cross-21k-mark/story-vmPxrRk94Aln5LLaGYe6PN.html
03-09-2020||India||Twitter confirms PM Modi’s website page hacked, says ‘investigating’||Microblogging site Twitter on Thursday confirmed that a page which is linked to an account of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal website was hacked. While it did not specify the details of the hacking, a report by news agency Reuters said a series of tweets asking followers of the page to donate to a relief fund through cryptocurrency were put out. To a query from Hindustan Times, a spokesperson from Twitter in an email said, “We’re aware of this activity and have taken steps to secure the compromised account. We are actively investigating the situation. At this time, we are not aware of additional accounts being impacted.” Questions to the Prime Minister’s Office about the alleged hacking did not elicit a response till the time of filing this copy. Persons aware of the details, however, said there is no indication or evidence at this stage of any correlation between this account compromise and the incident that took place in July, where hackers after accessing Twitter’s internal systems solicited digital currency from the accounts of U.S. presidential candidate Joe Biden and former US president Barack Obama and billionaire Elon Musk. Screenshots of the alleged hacking, circulating on Twitter, claimed that the breach was carried out by a hacker claiming to be John Wick. The page @narendramodi_in is followed by 2.5 million users and is a platform for disseminating news about the PM’s activities, his statements and addresses. News report about the hacking generated a buzz on social media; with some users expressing concerns about the lax security features of social media sites while others posted memes about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-confirms-pm-modi-s-website-page-hacked/story-5BsSts5UVF4bqHNeklBUYO.html
03-09-2020||India||The times when justice Arun Mishra made news||Supreme Court justice Arun Mishra retired from office on Wednesday, a day before he turned 65. Justice Mishra served as chief justice of the Rajasthan and Calcutta high courts before his elevation to the Supreme Court on July 7, 2014. His six-year stint in the apex court has been marked by a few controversies, including that created by one of his last verdicts , in the Prashant Bhushan contempt matter. Here are some other key examples.Spat in open courtThis happened on January 8, 2016 though it largely went unnoticed.Justice Mishra was sitting as a puisne judge ( a term used for a judge who is not the presiding judge on the bench) with justice MY Eqbal, who was heading the bench, when they had a disagreement. It stemmed from a hearing of a case argued by senior counsel Salman Khurshid. The case had come up for admission and justice Eqbal wanted to issue notice, but justice Mishra wanted to dismiss it. When things were at an impasse, justice Eqbal said he had been presiding over the bench for three years. Justice Mishra responded by saying he was not going to back off since he had equal rights as a puisne judge. Lawyers and visitors present in the court room watched the episode play out, one of the rare instances when judges engaged in a verbal exchange in open court.Medical college corruption caseTwo petitions had been filed, seeking the formation of a special investigation team headed by a retired Chief Justice of India to investigate an alleged conspiracy and payment of bribes for procuring a favourable order in a matter pending before the Supreme Court. A three-judge bench of justices RK Agrawal, Arun Mishra and AM Khanwilkar dismissed both petitions within two weeks. One filed by Supreme Court advocate Kamini Jaiswal was dismissed on November 14, 2017 and the other by NGO Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) on December 1, 2017.The listing of the two cases stirred a hornet’s nest. The first petition filed by NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation was initially listed before justice AK Sikri. However another petition was filed and mentioned before the second senior-most judge of the Supreme Court, justice Jasti Chelameswar, since then Chief Justice of India (CJI) Dipak Misra was sitting on a Constitution bench. Justice Chelameswar listed that petition before himself the same day on which it was mentioned. When the case was heard, the bench headed by justice Chelameswar went on to pass an order that the matter should be heard by a bench of the five senior-most judges of the Supreme Court. In a strange turn of events, CJI Dipak Misra constituted a five-judge bench the same day, and overturned justice Chelameswar’s order, saying only the CJI had the powers to list cases. Subsequently, both petitions were listed before the bench comprising justice Mishra, who dismissed the pleas. The bench imposed costs of Rs 25 lakh on CJAR.Case seeking a probe into death of judge LoyaThings reached boiling point in the Supreme Court in January 2018 because of the listing of the case surrounding the death of Judge BH Loya, who had been hearing the Sohrabuddin encounter case. Current home minister Amit Shah was one of the persons accused in the case at the time Justice Loya was hearing it although he was subsequently discharged.Allegations were raised nearly three years later that the death of judge Loya was shrouded in mystery. A petition was filed in the Bombay high court seeking a probe into the death.But before the Bombay high court could pass any order, another public interest litigation was filed before the Supreme Court in January 2018 by a Maharashtra-based journalist, Bandhuraj Sambhaji Lone, mentioned before then chief justice Dipak Misra, and listed before a bench headed by justice Mishra. Related cases pending before other high courts were also transferred to the Supreme Court.On the day the matter was due to be heard by justice Mishra, four senior judges of the Supreme Court held the historic press conference alleging bias by the CJI in listing cases affecting the ruling dispensation. When questioned whether listing of the Loya case was the trigger for the press conference, justice Ranjan Gogoi, who was one of the four judges, replied in the affirmative.Justice Mishra eventually recused himself from the case, which was heard by another bench. But controversy stoked by the press conference and the manner of listing of cases hasn’t quite died down.Land Acquisition Act A Constitution bench headed by justice Mishra ruled in March 2020 that land acquisition proceedings initiated under an earlier law, the Land Acquisition Act of 1894 (1894 Act), will not lapse even if compensation was not deposited by the government in court after owners declined to accept the money, as long the compensation has been tendered into the government treasury.Once the compensation amount is so tendered, the state’s obligation is complete with respect to the payment of compensation, a five-judge Constitution Bench held in a judgment, which was a blow to landowners who had declined to accept compensation, and benefited private companies on whose behalf the government sought to acquire land.In 2014, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court comprising justices RM Lodha, Madan Lokur and Kurian Joseph had held that even if the award of compensation has been made under the 1894 act, unless the compensation is paid to the landowners or deposited before the court, the land acquisition will lapse. Deposit of the compensation amount in the treasury will not be sufficient to discharge the obligation, the bench had ruled.The three-judge bench headed by justice Mishra, in February 2018, delivered a judgment in which it took an opposite view.This 2018 judgment created a controversy because it held the 2014 ruling to be per incuriam, that is, a judgment delivered ignoring the law. Under established legal principles, if a bench disagrees with the judgment of another bench of equal strength, it should be referred to a larger bench, which was not the case in this matter.Immediately after the judgment was delivered, similar matters came up before a bench comprising justices Madan Lokur and Kurian Joseph who were on the bench that delivered the 2014 ruling. They took a strong objection to the 2018 judgment. Justice Dipak Misra, who was then the CJI, formed a Constitution bench to settle the issue.Because the Constitution bench was headed by justice Mishra, there were calls for his recusal which he did not heed.Two benches, same facts, different viewsA bench by headed by justice Mishra, in May 2019, declined to entertain a plea by former Kolkata Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar, who was seeking protection from arrest in a case related to the Saradha Chit fund fraud. Kumar approached the Supreme Court directly because the courts in West Bengal were shut due to a lawyers’ strike. The bench headed by justice Mishra noted that the courts in West Bengal had started functioning and Kumar was free to approach any lower forum in West Bengal. “it is open to the petitioner to approach the concerned Court, as the Courts in the State of West Bengal are functioning,” the court noted in its order.This would have passed off as another routine order but for another ruling passed the same day by another bench headed by justice MR Shah. That bench was also hearing a plea seeking protection from arrest filed by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, Praveen Agrawal who, like Kumar, also pointed out that the courts in West Bengal were not functional due to the lawyers’ strike.“It is very unfortunate that the strike is going on in all the courts in the state of West Bengal and due to which, ultimate sufferers are the litigants. By such a strike, the entire judicial function cannot be made paralysed and the litigants cannot be allowed to be suffered,” the bench said while granting Agrawal relief.Thus, two benches of the Supreme Court took diametrically opposite stances on the same day on the factual position of the functioning of courts in West Bengal.CJI sexual harassment caseFour news portals published reports about allegations of sexual harassment by then CJI Ranjan Gogoi. It was alleged that the victim, a Supreme Court employee, was terminated from service and her husband, a policeman, was suspended from the force after she raised allegations against the top judge.But what happened after the news was published caused great consternation among the legal fraternity. A three-judge bench headed CJI Gogoi listed a case titled “In Re Matter of Great Public Importance touching upon the independence of judiciary” in open court on a Saturday, rebutted the allegations and vilified the victim.Justice Gogoi sat on a bench in a case in which he was allegedly involved. One of the two other judges on the bench was justice Mishra, who threw his weight behind Gogoi and expressed his disapproval of the allegations.However, when the order in that case was uploaded on the Supreme Court website that evening, justice Gogoi’s name was not listed. Instead, it showed the names of only two other judges as being part of the bench – justice Mishra and justice Sanjiv Khanna.Later, justice Mishra heard the same case sitting in another combination and called for a report from a retired Supreme Court judge, justice AK Patnaik, on allegations that there had been concerted efforts to target the Supreme Court. Justice Patnaik submitted the report in October 2019, but the case has not been heard about since then.PM Modi a ‘versatile genius’In February 2020, at an international judicial conference organised by the top court, justice Mishra heaped praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The Prime Minister is a versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally. India is a responsible member of international community under the stewardship of internationally acclaimed visionary prime minister, Shri Narendra Modi,” he said.The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), which is the body of lawyers practising before the Supreme Court, condemned Mishra’s statements which it said reflected poorly on the independence of the top court and the judiciary. “The SCBA believes that any such statement reflects poorly on independence of judiciary and so calls upon Hon’ble judges not to make such statements in future nor show any proximity or closeness to the Executive including high functionaries,” the SCBA resolution read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-times-when-justice-arun-mishra-made-news/story-umPLZl5haT0SB7Ud9yEIfK.html
03-09-2020||India||Varanasi weavers go on indefinite strike over new power tariff||Demanding restoration of the monthly flat rate or fixed rate electricity bill, the weavers of the city went on an indefinite strike from Tuesday. The strike call was given by Uttar Pradesh Bunkar Mahasabha and Varanasi-based organisation Biradarana Tanzim. They claimed that the powerloom weavers were being charged as per electricity meters since January 2020 after the government withdrew the ‘flat rate’ subsidy. There are about 5 lakh weavers associated with weaving of Banarasi sarees, stoles and other clothes in the city and they claim the government move was burning a hole in their pocket. The groups have announced that all sorts of weaving would remain suspended between September 1 and 15. The effect of the strike was visible everywhere with powerlooms in all localities remaining closed. The weavers also formed a human chain and decided to stage demonstrations from Friday. Top members of the Tanzim, Maqbool Hasan and Ishrat Usmani said a strategy would be evolved to intensify the stir further if the government does not accept the demands. Weavers from across the state will collectively apply to get their electricity lines disconnected. Social worker and master weaver Mateen Kaifee said: “Under the flat rate scheme, Rs 145 each was fixed for every powerloom. But now weavers are made to pay per unit electricity every month. For example, if a powerloom consumes 300 units, the weaver will have to pay a bill for all 300 units.” In the new arrangement, he added, on consumption of 120 units by a half horsepower motor operated powerloom and one horsepower motor operated powerloom, the weaver will get monthly subsidy of Rs 350 and Rs 240, respectively. “The government should make it clear whether the weavers would get subsidy in their accounts or the amount will be adjusted at the time of deposition of the bill,” Kaifee said. He further said if the government thinks that Rs 145 monthly bill for each powerloom was very little, it may increase it to Rs 300 per month per powerloom. Echoing the sentiment, another weaver Saif Ansari said, “We need electricity at subsidised rates in order to survive and preserve the art of weaving which we have been doing for generations. If the flat rate system is not restored many powerlooms in the city would fall silent.” Opposition Congress has extended support to the cause and said they will take up the issue with the government. “Weaving is an art and weavers are the keeper of this art. The government should restore the flat rate in order to save this art. If weavers don’t get electricity on flat rate, many weavers may quit the field and look for other options to earn their livelihood. This will be a great loss,” former Congress MLA Ajay Rai said. He said the government representatives should speak to the weavers to assess the situation. He said on the invitation of weavers, Congress state unit president Ajay Singh Lallu had recently called on the weavers and assured them of raising their issue with the authorities and extended them all possible support. Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited, director commerce, OP Dixit, confirmed that the metered electricity bill was launched in January following government order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-weavers-go-on-indefinite-strike-over-new-power-tariff/story-1D4vrjQBCT4CeHS7uukwnO.html
03-09-2020||India||Surprise inspections in Kolkata to check vegetable prices going through the roof||Kolkata Police’s enforcement branch would start visiting some of the biggest wholesale and retail markets in the city from Thursday to check the prices of vegetables that have gone through the roof over the past one or two weeks. Authorities suspect hoarding could also be one of the reasons behind the spiralling of prices. “We have formed four teams which would fan out in four directions and visit some of the biggest wholesale and retail markets in the city to check the prices of vegetables. The teams are expected to start visiting the markets from around 7:30 am on Thursday. These would be surprise visits,” said a senior official of the enforcement branch. The prices of vegetables have almost doubled over the past few days. This is pinching the pockets of the residents who are already at a loss with the pandemic. “The prices of most of the vegetables have shot up. For some, like potatoes, the price has almost doubled. Last year around this time, potatoes used to sell at Rs 14 – Rs 15 per kilo. No it is selling at Rs 27 – Rs 28 per kilo. A few days ago it had shot up to Rs 30 per kilo,” said Rabindranath Koley, general secretary of the West Bengal Forum of Traders’ Organisation and a member of the government taskforce. He said that while on one hand cyclone Amphan and the heavy rains during the monsoon have damaged several crops that have led to price rise; alleged hoarding of potatoes in cold storages have also led to a spike in prices. Also Read: No GST compensation to states an insufferable blow to the federalist polity: Mamata Banerjee“The surprise raids will start from around 8:00 and will continue over the next two to three days. We would be primarily checking the prices of potatoes as they have gone up drastically over the past few days. There would be four members in each team,” said a member of the team which would be visiting some of the biggest wholesale and retail markets in north and central Kolkata. Also Read: JEE Mains 2020: 75% candidates in Bengal could not write exams on Tuesday due to Covid-19 situation, says MamataThis is, however, not the first time that the EB officials are conducting such raids in the city markets. Earlier, too, such surprise visits have been made resulting in a drop in prices. “The police come and ask us to reduce the selling price. But what can we do if the price at which we purchase the items is high? The government should check the prices with middlemen who bring the items to the cities and the wholesale markets,” said Nitai Das, a vegetable seller in a market in east Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surprise-inspections-in-kolkata-to-check-vegetable-prices-going-through-the-roof/story-Op8qvzFNeidjhZeom6GutN.html
03-09-2020||India||India conducts over 1.17 lakh Covid-19 testing in last 24 hours: Govt||India has conducted more than 1.17 lakh Covid-19 testing in the last 24 hours, keeping in line with its ‘test, track, treat’ strategy to prevent the coronavirus from spreading, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. The country crossed the milestone of conducting one million tests daily on August 21.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said, “Over 11,70,000 tests have been done in last 24 hours. High levels of testing sustained over a period of time in widespread areas enable to diagnose cases early and facilitate seamless isolation and hospitalisation. It eventually leads to low mortality rate.”As experts have suggested that aggressive testing is crucial to control the outbreak, states and Union territories are progressively increasing their testing capacity.The health ministry said in a statement Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra are among others contributing the maximum to the overall number of test. “These three states account for nearly 34% of the total testing,” the ministry said.India on Wednesday recorded 78,357 new cases of the coronavirus disease which pushed the nationwide tally to 3,769,524, according to Union health ministry dashboard.The number of active cases reached 8,01,282, and those discharged from hospitals stood at 29,01,908 - a gap of 21,00,626. The death toll reached 66,333 after 1,045 people died due to the disease in the last 24 hours.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative 4,33,24,834 samples have been tested up to August 31, with 10,16,920 of them being tested on Monday.India’s daily testing capacity has crossed 10 lakh and the tests per million too have seen a sharp increase, reaching 31,394, the health ministry highlighted. Twenty-two states and union territories have tests per million better than the national average, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-over-1-17-lakh-covid-19-testing-in-last-24-hours-govt/story-iX49C15N4U3TuMNW0ZPEyL.html
03-09-2020||India||Odisha to request Centre to grant classical status to Odissi music||The Odisha government on Wednesday passed a resolution requesting the Centre to accord classical status to Odissi music, calling it different from Hindustani and Carnatic music.The Odisha Heritage Cabinet in its second meeting today adopted a slew of seven proposals, including the demand to give classical music status to Odissi like Hindustani and Carnatic. Minister for tourism, Odia Literature, language & culture, Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi said while Odissi dance was recognised by Centre as a classical dance in 1964 and Odia language as a classical language in 2014, the music form is yet to find the same recognition. Incidentally, Odisha had recognised Odissi as a classical form of music in 2008. “Odissi music, like Odissi dance, is not only very ancient but has its own characteristic features for being reckoned as a classical form. It has its own tradition, texts, ragas, talas, gita and classical style of recital. As Odissi dance has got classical status, the Odissi music should also get the same tag as the dance is based on music,” said Panigrahi.State culture department officials said Odissi music has a rich legacy dating back to 2nd century BC when king Kharvela, the ruler of Kalinga, patronised Odissi music and dance. There is historical evidence in the form of musical instruments, singing and dancing postures of damsels in the Ranigumpha Cave in Khandagiri and Udayagiri at Bhubaneswar.“Odissi music has codified grammar. It also has a distinctive rendition style. While tabla and mridangam are the musical instruments of Hindustani and Carnatic music, respectively, mardal is the musical instrument of Odissi. It has also its own text like Gita Govinda of Sri Jayadeva, Sangita Sara of Hari Nayak, Gita Prakäsh of Krushna Das Badajena Mohapatra, Sangitarnava Chandrika of Nilakantha, Sangita Muktabali of Harichandana, Natya Manorama of Raghunath Rath and Sangita Narayan of Purusottam Mishra and many others. Odissi music gives great importance to the lyric where words are sung without fragmentation or distortion. All songs have specific ‘raagas’ and ;taalas’,” said an official.The classical status to Odissi music would enable setting up a centre of excellence in Bhubaneswar for promotion of the music.The Heritage Cabinet also gave its approval to a proposal for holistic development of the birthplace of Pandit Gopabandhu Dash at Suando in Puri district through a project involving a budget of approximately Rs 11 crore. It also approved development of Odisha State Museum and Ananda Bhawan Museum into virtual entities with digitization. The cabinet resolution also increased the amounts for the Atibadi Jagannath Das Samman, Kabi Samrat Upendra Bhanja Samman, Dharmapada Samman, and Byasakabi Fakir Mohan Samman be increased from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh.Similarly, the amounts for awards to the various academies shall be increased from Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh and the amount of felicitations of various Academies would be increased to Rs 1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-request-centre-to-grant-classical-status-to-odissi-music/story-55o04hfIvKv1CBrpXoKBUM.html
03-09-2020||India||2 MP officials cleared sale of grain unfit for humans at govt shops, sacked||The state government in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday night terminated the services of two officers of Food and Civil Supplies department, suspended another officer while FIRs were filed with police against eight millers in two districts on the ground of a central government’s report that found that rice distributed through public distributed system (PDS) in these districts was unfit for human consumption and meant to be suitable for livestock and poultry, as per government officials. Earlier in the day, demanding an apology from the BJP government, leader Opposition in the state assembly and former chief minister Kamal Nath called the distribution of such rice among people ‘a criminal act against humanity’. An official communique from the state government released on Wednesday night said, “The services of quality controllers responsible for ensuring quality of rice in Balaghat and Mandla districts have been terminated, while the district manager of Balaghat has been suspended in the case. Action is being taken against the concerned millers by registering FIR against them.” Principal secretary Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai, said, “So far FIRs have been lodged against eight millers. If we identify more millers responsible for distribution of such rice we will lodge FIRs against them too.” The state government’s official communique said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has given strict instructions against the guilty while taking the issue seriously of supply of poor quality rice in some places in Balaghat and Mandla districts. He clearly warned that those involved in irregularities and black marketing of ration, fertilizer etc. will not be spared and stern action will be taken by registering a criminal case against them.” As per the official information, as many as 51 joint teams of Food Corporation of India (FCI) and Food & Civil Supplies Corporation, constituted to test the quality of rice, took 1021 samples of rice from both the districts. As a result of preliminary investigation, 57 of these samples were found to be sub-standard. As per the provision of the State Custom Milling Policy, sub-standard rice given by the millers after custom milling will be returned and rice of standard quality will be obtained from him, said the government in a statement. State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta released a letter dated August 21 of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution System written to the principal secretary of Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection, Madhya Pradesh which stated, “..in total 32 samples (31 from depots and one from ration shop) were collected. The samples were analysed in the NABL accredited Central Grain Analysis Laboratory (CGAL), Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi….” “The analysis report of all the total 32 samples were found to be not just below the rejection limit as per the uniform specifications issued by the ministry but also beyond the PFA standards as per FSSAI. The stocks are found to be unfit for human consumption and in the categories of Feed-I which is meant to be suitable for livestock feed (such as goat, horse, sheep), Feed-II which is suitable for cattle feed and Feed-III which is suitable for poultry feed as per the guidelines for the issuance/disposal of the stocks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-mp-officials-cleared-sale-of-grain-unfit-for-humans-at-govt-shops-sacked/story-HO5p6w8TljgAS2UWtb6RCL.html
03-09-2020||India||China taking advantage of Covid-19 outbreak, India one such example: US diplomat||India is among the countries that China has taken advantage of since the outbreak of the Covid-19 from Wuhan, US diplomat David Stilwell said on Wednesday.“What we have seen since the corona outbreak from Wuhan is it seems the PRC (People’s Republic of China) is trying to take advantage of the situation, and India, I think, is one of those examples of that. So to our friends in Beijing, I would ask them to follow their commitment to resolve these things through peaceful means and dialogue,” Stilwell said at a press briefing here. The Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs also reiterated Secretary Pompeo’s remarks that the United States hopes for a peaceful resolution to the border standoff between India and China.The US diplomat’s remark comes after the Indian Army thwarted Chinese Army’s attempt on the night of August 29 and 30 to transgress into areas near the southern bank of Pangong Tso.Indian Army said that on the night of August 29/30, PLA troops violated the consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo.On a question over the border stand-off between India and China, Stilwell added: “For the conflict in the Himalayas, like all things, especially related to the PRC’s differences of opinion with its neighbours, is we advise them to return to dialogue, resolve these things peacefully without coercion, use of force.”Further talking about China’s engagement in other areas, he said: “...many conflicts that are going on in China’s periphery right now. You mentioned Tibet. Xinjiang - very concerned still about what they’re doing there. Hong Kong activities, South China Sea - I could go on and on.”Earlier in the press briefing, Pompeo had slammed the Chinese Communist Party for engaging in a clear and intensifying pattern of bullying its neighbours.“From the Taiwan Strait to the Himalayas and beyond, the Chinese Communist Party is engaged in a clear and intensifying pattern of bullying its neighbours. It is also evident in the South China Sea,” he said.“We are hoping for a peaceful resolution of the situation on the India-China border,” he added.India and China have been engaged in a standoff since April-May over the transgressions by the Chinese Army in multiple areas including Finger area, Galwan Valley, Hot springs and Kongrung Nala.Negotiations between the two sides have been going on for the last three months, including five Lieutenant General-level talks but have failed to yield any results, so far. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-taking-advantage-of-covid-19-outbreak-india-one-such-example-us-diplomat/story-K4Ni57IRarLYbKgshMsf9O.html
03-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Bars to now open in Uttar Pradesh||The government of Uttar Pradesh has decided to open bars in the state. All District Excise Officers and Joint Excise Commissioners have been given instructions in this regard. It has been said that the bars will remain open till 10 pm. Additional Chief Secretary Sanjay R. Bhusreddy informed that recently permission has been given to open bars in the Unlock-4 guidelines issued by the Central Government. The Excise Department of the state will also follow this guideline.In the complete lockdown from March 24, along with liquor, beer retail shops and establishments of wholesale traders, bars were also closed. Liquor and beer shops were opened from May 4, but bars were still closed. Just a few days ago, customers were allowed to sit and drink in retail liquor shops.Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh government had issued guidelines regarding Unlock-4. According to the guideline, the lockdown in the state will be applicable only till September 30 in the containment zone. Along with this, the government has given relief to the people of the state from the weekly lockdown. From now on, there will be no lockdown on Saturday and all shops will be opened, whereas on Sunday only the lockdown will remain.Apart from this, all school, colleges and coaching institutes will remain closed till September 30. From September 21, students of classes 9 to 12 in the area outside the containment zones will be able to go to schools and colleges. 50% teachers and staff in schools can be called for online counselling.At the same time, all cinema halls, swimming pools, amusement parks, theatres, auditoriums and other such places will remain closed. There will be no restriction on the movement of persons and goods between the states and within the state. Persons above 65 years of age, persons with more than one disease, pregnant women and children below 10 years will remain indoors. They will be allowed to leave the house only for health-related needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-bars-to-now-open-in-uttar-pradesh/story-I0ddEe5cm646dZTtSy9iWK.html
03-09-2020||India||Twitter confirms hacking of account of PM Modi’s personal website, says ‘actively investigating’||Twitter confirmed on Thursday that an account of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal website was hacked with a series of tweets asking its followers to donate to a relief fund through cryptocurrency.The incident comes after several Twitter accounts of prominent personalities were hacked in July.Twitter said it was aware of the activity with Modi’s website account and has taken steps to secure it.“We are actively investigating the situation. At this time, we are not aware of additional accounts being impacted,” a Twitter spokeswoman said in an emailed statement. Modi’s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the tweets posted on the account @narendramodi_in.The account, with over 2.5 million followers, is the official Twitter handle for Modi’s personal website (https://www.narendramodi.in/) and the Narendra Modi mobile application. Modi’s personal Twitter account, which was unaffected by this incident, has over 61 million followers.The tweets, which have since been taken down, asked the followers to donate to the PM National Relief Fund through cryptocurrency. Hackers had in July accessed Twitter’s internal systems to hijack some of the platform’s top voices including U.S. presidential candidate Joe Biden, former US president Barack Obama and billionaire Elon Musk, and used them to solicit digital currency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-confirms-account-of-pm-modi-s-personal-website-hacked/story-8pNm8w8j0NxLYH7YEZF3gN.html
03-09-2020||India||What sero surveys tell us about Covid in India||Results have been released from 20 rounds of seroprevalence studies that have been conducted across the country by state governments to calculate the spread of Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19. On Tuesday, Chennai became the latest city to release the results of a serological survey. It showed that 21.5% of the city’s population has been exposed to Sars-CoV-2. A look at what other serosurveys across the country have revealed about the spread of the virus: NATIONWIDE SEROSURVEYSICMR conducted its first nationwide survey in May, while a second one is underwayWHAT THE FIRST ROUND FOUNDThe first sero survey, which was conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) alog with National Centre for Disease Control, state health departments and the World Health Organisation (WHO) had shown pan-India prevalence of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, at 0.73%ROUND TWO CURRENTLY UNDERWAYICMR is now conducting second round of a nationwide seroprevalence survey, it said on August 28The sampling has already started for the ICMR’s second serosurvey, with many states finishing sample collection and the others in various stages of completing the process.Who will be surveyed?Like in the previous exercise, this survey is designed as a cross-sectional survey of adults aged 18 years or more from 21 states, wherein the districts were categorised into four strata according to the reported Covid-19 cases per million population (zero, low: 0.1-4.7, medium: 4.8-10 and high: >10).“We have from ICMR embarked on the second national serosurvey, and it is also a work in progress, and should be completed, hopefully, by the first week of September.” - Dr Balram Bhargava, ICMR director general||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-sero-surveys-tell-us-about-covid-in-india/story-iiyjaOEXfOC3TG67gxCCMP.html
03-09-2020||India||11 teams of India-US scientists to jointly scout for ‘out of box’ Covid-19 solutions||Eleven teams of Indian and US scientists will soon start jointly scouting for “out of the box” Covid-19 solutions.According to a release from the Ministry of Science and Technology, “eleven teams of Indian and US scientists will soon start jointly scouting for out of the box solutions ranging from novel early diagnostic tests, antiviral therapy, drug repurposing, ventilator research, disinfection machines, and sensor-based symptom tracking for COVID 19.”“The teams have been selected to take up these initiatives through a rigorous binational review process of proposals received for an invitation under Covid-19 Ignition Grants in April 2020 issued by the US-India Science and Technology Endowment Fund (USISTEF),” a release from the Ministry said.According to the release, the USISTEF announced the awards to eleven bilateral teams proposing out-of-the-box, innovative ideas to address the Covid-19 challenge. The USISTEF has been established by the Government of India (through the Department of Science & Technology) and the governments of the United States of America (through the Department of State) for the promotion of joint activities that would lead to innovation and entrepreneurship through the application of science and technology.“The joint U.S.-India S&T based entrepreneurial teams will work on initiatives that address the development and implementation of new technologies, tools, and systems to address Covid-19 related challenges including monitoring, diagnosis, health and safety, public outreach, information, and communication,” it said.The release said in keeping with its’ mission and vision, the USISTEF announced the Call for Proposals under the category of Covid-19 Ignition Grants with the intent to support promising joint U.S.-India S&T based entrepreneurial initiatives to address the Covid-19 challenge.“The mission of the United States-India Science & Technology Endowment Fund is to support and foster joint applied R&D to generate public good through the commercialization of technology developed through partnerships between U.S. and Indian researchers and entrepreneurs to help combat this pandemic,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-teams-of-india-us-scientists-to-jointly-scout-for-out-of-box-covid-19-solutions/story-AJ0euO5eHWr57zHVuu04CM.html
03-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Tuesday, HT’s health editor Sanchita Sharma wrote, citing unreleased health ministry data that she sourced, that men account for 69% of all Covid-19 deaths in India, and people over the age of 50 for 76.7%. The data isn’t surprising — the same trend has been seen around the world. Older people who contract the coronavirus disease are more likely to die. How much more likely? According to data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), those between the ages of 50 and 64 are 30 times more likely to die from the disease than those between the ages of 18 and 29; those between the ages of 65 and 74, 90 times; those between the ages of 75 and 84, 220 times; and those over the age of 85, 630 times more likely. FATALITIES AMONG YOUNGER POPULATIONS While only 8.2% of the people who succumbed to the disease in the US are under the age of 54, almost one in four of the dead in India are under the age of 50. It isn’t clear why, but the prevalence of comorbidities such as diabetes in younger people could be one reason; as could access to health care. Cleary, this area merits further investigation. Similar data for India isn’t available, but there is a very significant difference between the US and India in terms of the mortality of younger people infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. Only 8.2% of the people who succumbed to the disease in the US (till August 26) were under the age of 54 (data wasn’t immediately available for those under the age of 50, although mathematics indicates that it should be lower, making the difference with India even more significant). The Indian data is till August 22. THE GENDER DIFFERENCE There is also a difference between India and the US in terms of the gender of those who died from Covid-19. In the US, till August 26, 54% of those who died from the disease were men. The corresponding proportion in India, till August 22, was 69%. Again, there is no obvious reason for this and it merits more researchIt isn’t clear why almost one in four of the dead in India (23.4%) were under the age of 50. And almost 10% were under the age of 40. The prevalence of comorbidities such as diabetes in younger people could be one reason. As could access to health care. This is clearly an area that merits further investigation, although a survey of scientific literature on Covid suggests that the trend seen in India is no different from that in other developing countries. On the flip side, some experts believe that India’s younger population can explain its low case fatality rate. There is also a difference between India and the US in terms of the gender of those who died from Covid-19. In the US, till August 26, data from CDC shows that 54% of those who died from the disease were men. The corresponding proportion in India (till August 22), was 69%. A 15 percentage point difference is significant by any measure. Again, there is no obvious reason for this — except that men in India may have had more chance of being exposed to the virus than women. This, too, is an area that merits more research. As an aside, the health ministry’s coronavirus dashboard should be updated in real-time with the ages and the gender of the dead. Recent studies in the UK, Spain, Italy, and Geneva in Switzerland, reported in Nature, claim that the Infection Fatality Rate (or proportion of those dead to those presumably infected) is near-zero for those under the age of 50. The numbers cited in this column with reference to India are all case fatality rates — only a nationwide sero survey (blood test for antibodies) can shed light on the number of those infected, although similar surveys, across a few states, do show that a significant proportion of the population has been infected (see back flap).While on the matter of fatality rates, all countries have managed to progressively reduce them as health care workers figure out more therapies that work. On Wednesday, an analysis of seven studies that was published in JAMA, the Journal of the American Medical Association, confirmed that steroids help reduce fatalities by a third when administered to severely ill Covid-19 patients. The analysis covered steroids such as dexamethasone, hydrocortisone, and methylprednisolone. A previous installment of this column reported one of the studies covered by a June analysis (a UK one that showed dexamethasone to be effective in the treatment of Covid-19). As that column pointed out, steroids are inexpensive and widely available in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-03I6EhqBOe05LbxyePvhTI.html
03-09-2020||India||Kanpur couple found hanging in bedroom, children asleep in next room: Cops||A man who lost his job in the lockdown died by suicide with his wife in Kanpur’s Chakeri locality late on Thursday night, a local police officer said.Rakesh Kumar, 39 and his wife Archana, 36, were found hanging from the ceiling of the room of the house in Jagaipurwa. The couple had used a single bed sheet to end their life, said the Chakeri Police. SHO Chakeri Ravi Shrivastava said Rakesh Kumar worked in a shop selling mobile accessories. The shop closed down in April rendering him jobless. He was not working since then and was at home, said Shrivastava. Rakesh’s mother Shakuntala Devi told the police she was with her two grandchildren in the night. When she did not hear for long from either Rakesh and Archana, she went to their room and discovered them hanging.The couple had an argument over their finances earlier in the evening and Rakesh walked out of the house. The couple spoke for a bit after he returned and went to their room. The bodies have been sent for autopsy, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-couple-found-hanging-in-bedroom-children-asleep-in-next-room-cops/story-sPA91KkOtaSxzJTpkpoWjI.html
03-09-2020||India||25 Bangladeshi nationals caught during lockdown, lodged in Assam jail now released||Twenty five Bangladeshi nationals who were caught in May during the Covid-19 enforced lockdown were on Wednesday released from the Dhubri district jail in Assam and sent back to the neighbouring country. The Bilasipara sub-division court had ordered the release of the Bangladeshi nationals on Saturday following a request by the Bangladesh government that led to the police dropping pending cases against them. The 25 Bangladeshi nationals were sent back to their country through the Changrabandha checkpost in Cooch Behar district in West Bengal, a district official informed. Twenty six Bangaldeshi nationals were held by Dhubri police in May while they were trying to go to the neighbouring country. Assam shares a 267 km boundary with Bangladesh of which 90 km falls in Dhubri. The Bangladeshi nationals were carrying passports and visas. Few of their visas had expired during the lockdown. They were travelling from Jorhat district with lockdown passes issued for migrant labourers. They had told police that they entered India via the Changrabandha border with valid documents. But though they had T1 visas meant for tourists they were engaged in fishing activities in Jorhat. The 26 were booked under provisions of the Foreigners Amendment Act and Passport Act and lodged in Dhubri district jail while court proceedings were initiated. One of the 26, Bokul Miya (57) died in Dhubri civil hospital on July 1 after he complained of uneasiness. His body was handed over to Bangladesh authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-bangladeshi-nationals-caught-during-lockdown-lodged-in-assam-jail-now-released/story-aUjvpHp2p9nf9TdDbPTgTO.html
03-09-2020||India||Wanted in 6 countries, ED arrests hawala kingpin Naresh Kumar Jain||In the biggest ever hawala racket unearthed in India, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested Naresh Kumar Jain, an underworld money mover wanted in at least six countries, including the US, the UK, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, and the UAE, for allegedly facilitating illegal transfers worth over Rs one lakh crore over the last five-six years for several businessmen, drug mafia and other criminal networks, people familiar with the development said. The agency has identified more than 942 bank accounts and 554 shell companies used by Jain for moving the money illegally. It has also traced at least 337 foreign bank accounts, largely based in Hong Kong, Dubai and Singapore where huge transfers have been made over the years. As of now, ED has recovered documents pertaining to 970 beneficiaries in India including some top corporate honchos who used Jain’s network for laundering their dirty money worth around Rs 18,000 crore apart from a forex trading firm whose executives have already been summoned by the agency. During searches at his two premises in Rohini and Vikaspuri in Delhi in 2018, the agency had recovered documents pertaining to Rs 96,000 crore and Rs 11,800 crore worth hawala transactions respectively which were being analysed for last few years. The ED had also recovered digital keys for several foreign accounts from Jain’s premises which suggested that his network was vast and he used telegraphic transfers apart from ‘hawala’ for transferring the money for the beneficiaries, said one of the officials cited above. He also used tour and travel firms for the money transfers abroad. “He is probably one of the biggest hawala dealers in the world having links in Europe, US, Africa, Middle-East, India and Pakistan,” said an officer. 61-year old Naresh Kumar Jain, a native of Panipat (Haryana), had first fled India in 1995 and remained in Dubai till May 2009. He started a company – M/s Kumar Trading CO in Dubai and started a trading commodity business. Over a period of time he got into Hawala transactions and would deliver any amount of money to any person in India, China or any other country across the globe. He invested either directly or through nominees and entities and made huge profits through transactions which were later on termed as ‘wash’ or unreal transactions by the US government, according to the second officer cited above. “Jain used the technique of ‘layering’- a money laundering technique that seeks to disguise the origin of funds. His network of money laundering through ‘Hawala’ transactions spread to Europe and even to African countries,” said this officer. His name first cropped up in money laundering in Europe in 2004 when Italian investigators busted a network of Albanian narcotics traffickers that distributed heroin and cocaine throughout Italy and other European countries and then used a network of money remitters in Italy, UAE and Pakistan, to launder their drug proceeds, said the second officer. “They utilized ‘Hawala transactions’- the informal network of money remitting business commonly used in the middle east to transfer money – to move their narcotic proceeds out of Italy and into a financial network based in UAE, among other places. Jain controlled some or all of these hawala,” said third officer. He was first arrested by Dubai police on February 20, 2007 along with 39 other associates. He jumped bail and escaped to India via Nepal in May 2009. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) first arrested him in India in December 2009 on the basis of which ED began investigating him for money laundering. Following NCB’s arrest in 2009, he remained in jail for over a year before coming out and since then he has been indulging in massive money laundering again, said the third officer. According to information shared by UK’s Serious and Organised Crime Agency (SOCA), Dubai authorities, Italy and other countries with Indian counterparts over the years, Jain has a huge network in countries like Taiwan, Vietnam, Bangladesh, Turkey, Indonesia, Korea, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Canada and Afghanistan as well. HT couldn’t locate his legal representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wanted-in-6-countries-ed-arrests-hawala-kingpin-naresh-kumar-jain/story-MJXEi5IJm2Y3rv4mlr3MHN.html
03-09-2020||India||GST revenue loss: Karnataka decides to choose first option offered by Centre||Karnataka has indicated its preference for the first option offered by the Centre to offset GST revenue losses under which it is expected to get Rs 18,289 crore including Rs 6965 crore from cess collected. The rest Rs 11,324 crore, it would be able to borrow through a special window from RBI with the full burden of principal and interest being borne of the cess fund to be collected in future.The decision was taken after chief minister BS Yediyurappa met senior officials of the state finance department according to a statement from his office. Officials said that the decision had been taken after weighing all pros and cons in the large interests of the state. “If Option 2 had been taken while Karnataka would have got Rs 25,508 crore, the interest burden would have to be borne by us. So Option 1 was the better choice,” finance department officials added. Both the main opposition parties Congress and JDS had asked the state government to reject both options and ask the Centre to borrow from RBI and make good the GST shortfall promised to the state.After the 41st GST council meeting, the Centre had offered two choices to all states to plug the shortfall in revenue which had arisen because of an ‘Act of God’ (ongoing Covid-19 pandemic). Under option 1, states were allowed to borrow from RBI an amount of Rs 97,000 crore in which both principal and interest payment would happen through cess collection. In option 2, the state could borrow collectively Rs 2.35 lakh crore but interest would have to be borne by them.Several states including Kerala, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Punjab have also asked the Centre to borrow directly from RBI and make good its commitment to ensure their GST share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-revenue-loss-karnataka-decides-to-choose-first-option-offered-by-centre/story-0r2Msb6yEW56B5KMX7mHMO.html
03-09-2020||India||US cautions on Atma Nirbhar, points to ‘systemic’ issues in trade talks||The United States on Monday cautioned India against “isolationist” implications of the Atma Nirbhar programme and pointed to persisting “systemic structural” issues standing in way of a trade deal, contrary to the optimism projected earlier by some Indian officials.The programme has put a “question mark around this notion of self-reliance,” Joseph C Semsar, deputy under-secretary for international trade, said referring to the Atma Nirbhar plan. “Our thought is that isolationist policies can also cause a decrease in exchange between businesses and economies, less technology and best practice sharing fewer joint research and development projects and stifled innovation,” Semsar said.He added: “We urge the government of India to focus on creating an environment that will enhance India’s position in the global supply chain.”Semsar, who was filling in for Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, addressed the issue in a virtual conversation at the ongoing annual summit of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), a trade body of companies from both countries.The Atma Nirbhar programme was announced earlier this year to ramp up self-reliance as part of a government approach to confront Chinese border aggression.The senior commerce department official also pointed to persisting issues in trade talks. “We are making headway, but some systemic structural issues continue to exist,” he said, adding that pressure must be kept up on both sides “because ultimately, we can’t get to a deal or a mini deal, unless we’re at the table having conversations and making progress on the issues that our respective governments care about.”Indian officials, on the other hand, have said the deal is ready for signing, at least from the Indian side and it is for the Americans to decide when, before the November 3 elections, or after.To present itself as a credible alternative destination for companies shifting their supply chains out of China, deputy under secretary Semsar said that India needed to do much more on the ease of doing business even though it has made “incredible” progress overall.“India still runs 136 for starting a business, 154 for registering a property and 163 for enforcing contracts,” Semsar said and added that “Internationally, ease in these three areas is central to key, and attracting foreign businesses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-cautions-on-atma-nirbhar-points-to-systemic-issues-in-trade-talks/story-rUFfd8VAOFgj6QfGpmd6hJ.html
03-09-2020||India||Imran Khan project to get 2 Indians sanctioned for terror fails, UNSC throws it out||The UN Security Council on Wednesday rejected Pakistan’s efforts to get two Indian nationals designated as terrorists under the 1267 sanctions committee process after Islamabad failed to produce evidence to back up its allegations. The move by Pakistan was widely perceived as retaliation for India’s success last year in getting Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar listed as a global terrorist by the 1267 committee, which focuses on the designation of terrorists linked to al-Qaeda, Taliban and their affiliates. Pakistan had launched an initiative to designate a total of four Indians as terrorists in 2019, telling the UN Security Council that they were allegedly involved in state-sponsored terrorism. Pakistan further alleged the men were part of an Afghanistan-based group that helped organise terror attacks by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan and Jamaat-ul-Ahrar. The efforts to designate two of the Indians – identified by Pakistan as Venumadhav Dongara and Ajoy Mistry – were rejected by the Security Council in June and July, largely because of efforts by the United States, Britain, France and Germany, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The effort to designate two other Indians – identified by Islamabad as Gobinda Patnaik and Angara Appaji – were initially blocked through a “technical hold” by the US, the UK, Germany, France and Belgium as they wanted Pakistan to provide evidence to back its allegations, the people said. During consultations behind closed doors on Wednesday, when the term of the hold ended, Pakistan’s effort to designate the remaining two Indians was rejected by the Security Council as it failed to furnish any proof, the people added. India’s permanent representative to the UN, TS Tirumurti, tweeted: “Pakistan’s blatant attempt to politicise 1267 special procedure on terrorism by giving it a religious colour, has been thwarted by UN Security Council. We thank all those Council members who have blocked Pakistan’s designs.” Pakistan has repeatedly sought to rake up what it claims is India’s alleged role in fomenting terrorism on its soil at various UN bodies in recent months, but without any takers for its allegations. It even made a false claim that its envoy to the UN had delivered a statement at a UN Security Council meet on terrorism but this was later proved to be false. Some of the Indians that Pakistan had sought to designate as terrorists had been working in Afghanistan in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-fails-in-efforts-to-designate-two-indians-as-terrorists-at-unsc/story-QdAkirh2QTFgB6DjtygMSJ.html
03-09-2020||India||Why PUBG is wildly popular in India||Where will all the players go? The mobile and lite versions of the wildly popular multiplayer battle game PUBG (PlayerUnknown’s BattleGrounds) was among 118 Chinese apps banned by the IT ministry on Wednesday, part of a crackdown that began in June amid rising tensions with China in Ladakh. This ban probably has the most people upset since the action against TikTok in the first round of app bans. PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite together have an estimated 50 million active users in the country, with around 13 million clocking in every day Incidentally, the non-mobile version of the game, PUBG PC, is Korean-made and Korean-owned, but is now the least-played version in India. The two mobile versions were developed and are owned by the Chinese company Tencent Games. Multiple things made PUBG popular in the country — it’s easy to stream, you can voice chat with friends while you play, and the game is designed to get the adrenaline pumping and give you a rush. It managed to achieve the right blend of realism and gaming powers. India is the biggest user market for the game. But the game also carries a bulk of the Indian e-sports industry revenue. For a couple of years now, youngsters have been dropping out of school and college to play the game in professional leagues and tournaments, earning tens of thousands a month in prize money, sponsorships, endorsement fees and revenue from their fan followings online.  Some of these youngsters are represented by talent management agencies like Ebullient Gaming India and FNATIC India, dedicated to professional gamers — most of whom specialise in PUBG Mobile or Lite. Aman Garg, 22, cofounder of Ebullient, says half his revenue comes from PUBG streamers — that’s when people tune in to YouTube to watch other people play this game live, enjoy banter and live commentary, see how they will make it past various levels and who will beat whom. Money comes from sponsorships and viewer donations. “This ban is certainly going to be a setback to the Indian esports industry as a whole,” Garg said on Wednesday. “Pubg has done its job of instating the Gaming culture at large in India, now it’s time to see which game will take it’s place.” He estimates that will take about eight months to a year to fill the PUBG-shaped void.  Just this June, the Indian team Orange Rock won the PMPL (PUBG Mobile Pro League) South Asia, and came in second at the world league. “This was the first time an Indian team had won at that level,” says Garg. Season 2 of the PMPL South Asia round was set to take place on September 11 and 20 Indian teams were to participate. With the tournament organised by Tencent, it is not clear now what the status of India’s team will be. Top pro players like Scout (Tanmay Singh) and Soul Mortal (Naman Mathur) have said online that they are not worried. Like Garg, they believe this move will only make room for other games to grow. “Right now Free Fire and COD (Call of Duty) Mobile are blowing up,” says Garg. People have gotten accustomed to the PUBG format. Other games have different characters and different maps, but the viewers, gamers and streamers — they’ll all adapt.” It was, after all, just a game?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-pubg-is-wildly-popular-in-india/story-Lk3eub8ZeoYxhyFEHcGfYI.html
03-09-2020||India||Govt nod to J&K languages bill, scheme to reform civil services||The Union cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved the Jammu and Kashmir Languages Bill 2020 that will make five languages — Urdu, Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English — the officials language of the region. Mission Karamayogi, a new scheme to streamline training and competency building of civil servants, was also approved. Information and Broadcasting (I&B) minister Prakash Javadekar, flanked by Union minister Jitendra Singh, told reporters about the decision at a cabinet briefing. “We have decided to introduce in parliament Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill 2020 under which five languages — Urdu, Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English — will become official languages. This has been done based on demand by the people,” said Javadekar.The I&B minister said more details of the bill would emerge once it is brought to the parliament.Singh thanked the PM for the move. “I want to thank the Prime Minister for having given his consent for the inclusion of Dogri, Hindi and Kashmiri, in addition to the other two existing languages as official languages for the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. I would just suffice in saying that it is not only a fulfilment of a long-pending public demand of the region but also keeping in with the spirit of equality which ushered after August 5, 2019,” said Singh. The Centre on August 5, 2019, had announced the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir. The cabinet also approved the Mission Karmayogi scheme for government officers. At the apex of the scheme will be the PM’s HR Council — consisting of select Union ministers, chief ministers, international leaders and officials — that will determine the ‘right person for the right role’ and decide assignments accordingly. It is a major transition for the bureaucracy, as civil servant training will now become a ‘continuous process’. A dashboard will also monitor and audit the capacity building scheme, and a report will be submitted annually to ascertain its success, according to details provided by the Centre. The capacity building resources will be available to all civil servants, from section officers to secretaries. Two separate ways to engage with the scheme have also been developed. A guided path will provide the necessary resources for a civil servant to adapt to the role that they occupy. Officials had earlier told HT that once an officer shifts to a new division, they will provided with the prerequisite wherewithal to effectively perform their functions. “A deputy secretary who takes charge as director will be given a detailed manual on the functions of the new job,” a Department of Personnel & Training official said, on the condition of anonymity. “There will also be an evaluation at the end. This will help select civil servants, whose interests and aptitude align, for the right roles.” The official added that the better a civil servant performs on the platform, which will be hosted on iGot (the government’s platforms for academic resources), the better will be their chances for good postings and promotions.Officials will also be provided with the interest path, wherein they can the subjects and areas of interest that want to pursue. “Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare the Indian Civil Servant for the future by making him more creative, constructive, imaginative, innovative, proactive, professional, progressive, energetic, enabling, transparent and technology-enabled. Empowered with specific role-competencies, the civil servant will be able to ensure efficient service delivery of the highest quality standards,” the DoPT said in a statement. A TV channel could also come up for training purpose.In the Cabinet meeting, three MoUs in different fields were also approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-nod-to-j-k-languages-bill-scheme-to-reform-civil-services/story-FLyNQ97rxYkcXFNzLLXrUP.html
03-09-2020||India||Hawala kingpin arrested by ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday arrested Naresh Kumar Jain, an underworld money mover wanted in at least six countries including the US, the UK, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, and the UAE, for allegedly facilitating illegal transfers worth over Rs 1 lakh crore over the past five-six years for several businessmen, drug mafia and other criminal networks, people familiar with the development said. The agency has identified more than 942 bank accounts and 554 shell companies used by Jain for moving the money illegally. It has also traced at least 337 foreign bank accounts, largely based in Hong Kong, Dubai and Singapore where huge transfers have been made over the years. As of now, the ED has recovered documents pertaining to 970 beneficiaries in India including some top corporate honchos who used Jain’s network for laundering their dirty money worth around Rs 18,000 crore apart from a forex trading firm whose executives have already been summoned by the agency. During searches at his two premises in Rohini and Vikaspuri in Delhi in 2018, the agency recovered documents pertaining to Rs 96,000 crore and Rs 11,800 crore worth hawala transactions, respectively, which were being analysed for the past few years. The ED had also recovered digital keys for several foreign accounts from Jain’s premises which suggested that his network was vast and he used telegraphic transfers apart from hawala channels for transferring money for the beneficiaries, said one of the officials cited above. Jain also allegedly used tour and travel firms for money transfers abroad. “He is probably one of the biggest hawala dealers in the world having links in Europe, the US, Africa, the Middle East, India and Pakistan,” said an officer. The 61-year old Naresh Kumar Jain, a native of Panipat (Haryana), had first fled India in 1995 and remained in Dubai till May 2009. He started a company – M/s Kumar Trading CO in Dubai and started trading in commodities. Over a period of time he got into hawala transactions and would deliver any amount of money to any person in India, China or any other country across the globe. He invested either directly or through nominees and entities and made huge profits through transactions that were later termed as ‘wash’ or unreal transactions by the US government, according to the second officer cited above. “Jain used the technique of ‘layering’- a money laundering technique that seeks to disguise the origin of funds. His network of money laundering through hawala transactions spread to Europe and even to African countries,” said this officer. Jain’s name first cropped up in money laundering in Europe in 2004 when Italian investigators busted a network of Albanian narcotics traffickers that distributed heroin and cocaine throughout Italy and other European countries and then used a network of money remitters in Italy, UAE and Pakistan, to launder their drug proceeds, said the second officer. “They utilised hawala transactions - the informal network of money remitting business commonly used in the Middle East to transfer money – to move their narcotic proceeds out of Italy and into a financial network based in the UAE, among other places. Jain controlled some or all of these hawala channels,” said a third officer. He was first arrested by Dubai police on February 20, 2007 along with 39 other associates. He jumped bail and escaped to India via Nepal in May 2009. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) first arrested him in India in December 2009, on the basis of which the ED began investigating him for money laundering. He remained in jail for over a year.According to information shared by the UK’s Serious and Organised Crime Agency, Dubai authorities, Italy and other countries with Indian counterparts over the years, Jain has a huge network in countries such as Taiwan, Vietnam, Bangladesh, Turkey, Indonesia, Korea, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Canada and Afghanistan. HT couldn’t locate Jain’s legal representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hawala-kingpin-arrested-by-ed/story-baKsOVlma7bnSSwXr67cFM.html
03-09-2020||India||NIA files charges against IS-linked group’s members for planning to provoke riots||New Delhi: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a charge sheet against five operatives of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), including a Kashmiri couple Jahanzaib Sami and Hina Bashir Beigh, for allegedly conspiring to use the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests to instigate Muslims against the Indian government and planning to provoke riots. The agency said the couple was conspiring to create unrest during anti-CAA protests by coining seditious slogans, making graffiti at public places, and highlighting them through social and international media. The couple, along with others, also conducted reconnaissance at prominent places in Maharashtra that were frequented by foreigners, and attempted to make an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) for carrying out mass killings, the agency said in a statement. Jahanzaib Sami (36) and his wife Hina Bashir Beigh (39), both from Srinagar, were the first ones to be arrested in the case in March this year by Delhi Police’s Special Cell from Okhla, after which probe was handed over to NIA. Hyderabad based Abdullah Basith, a key ISIS handler in India, and two others from Pune - Sadiya Anwar Shaikh (20) and Nabeel Siddick Khatri (27) -- were subsequently taken into custody by the central agency. “Investigation has revealed that Sami, a B.Tech from Ferozpur, Punjab, got radicalised and inclined towards ISIS/ISKP by reading about it on the internet. He established contact with ISIS handler Huzaifa-al-Bakistani and latter’s father-in-law viz. Abu Usman-Al-Kashmiri (Head of Indian affairs of ISKP) in 2017 on a secure messaging platform,” NIA Spokesperson Sonia Narang said in a statement.“Huzaifa-al-Bakistani further introduced him to Abdullah Basith, another ISIS operative, who is already in judicial custody at Tihar jail in connection with another NIA case (ISIS Abu Dhabi Module 2018 case),” Narang said.“Hina Bashir, who had her higher education from Pune, also got radicalized since 2014-15 by reading ISIS-related content on social media. Sami and Bashir got married in 2017 as both supported the ideology of ISIS,” she added. The agency said Sami, Hina Bashir, Abdullah Basith and Shaikh were continuously in contact with ISIS operatives based in Khorasan and Syria. The NIA said Sami and Basith prepared a magazine titled ‘Voice of Hind’ inciting Muslims against non-Muslims and exhorting them to rise against the government of India, and that along with Bashir and Shaikh, were also provoking gullible young people to participate in anti-CAA actively. If the protests failed to provoke people, they were planning on setting government buildings and public property on fire, it added.The agency last month arrested another person, Abdur Rehman alias Dr Brave from Bengaluru, in the case. The agency said he was in contact with Sami as part of the conspiracy to promote the activities of ISIS/ISKP and had also visited ISIS medical camp in Syria in 2014.The couple’s lawyer rejected the charges. “The agency is making a mountain out of a molehill. There is no evidence in the case. It’s all a bundle of lies.” MS Khan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-charges-against-is-linked-group-s-members-for-planning-to-provoke-riots/story-b49OogGpbZoWr72Q8YnxtN.html
03-09-2020||India||Covid-19: RT-PCR tests to begin soon for international passengers on arrival at airports||The ministry of civil aviation late on Wednesday issued guidelines on starting RT-PCR tests on a pilot basis for those international passengers arriving in India, who have connecting domestic flights after landing.If the RT-PCR test result is negative, the passenger will be permitted to take the connecting flight to other domestic destinations in India without getting quarantined at the city of arrival in India, the circular issued by the ministry said. “There is no provision for RT-PCR test at the entry point of the airport itself if the passenger could not get the same done within 96 hours prior to undertaking the journey from abroad,” the circular issued by the ministry said.According to the guidelines, the airport operators will create facilities, which will serve as sample collection areas for RT-PCR testing and will also be used as a waiting lounge. The facility should be in strict compliance with the protocols established by the ICMR and the NABL. One representative of state authorities of the airport will also be present in the waiting lounge.The guidelines state the airports should provide the option to the passengers to do online booking of the RT-PCR test through respective websites or other appropriate online platforms. A proper escort has to be ensured for the passenger from a help desk to the waiting lounge.Such on-arrival testing facilities can be extended to other passengers too, the order said.At present, scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 22. However, special international flights have been operating under government’s Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble pacts signed with various countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rt-pcr-tests-to-begin-soon-for-international-passengers-on-arrival-at-airports/story-8d3VCnF659P4yJy5aD6rBP.html
03-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: Written questions get nod||Unstarred questions, or written questions that ministers need to reply to, will be allowed during the monsoon session of Parliament, but question hour will remain cancelled, according to people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity.The decision has been taken at a time when Opposition parties have strongly protested against the move to not schedule question hour, calling the decision an attempt by the government to avoid being questioned, and describing it as an attempt to curb their rights.The unstarred questions will have to be submitted to the secretariat and answers will be provided on the day the question is listed (it will also be uploaded on the website), the people cited above said.owever, oral or starred questions will not be allowed -- in the interests of time, and to ensure that the number of people in Parliament is kept low (when a question from a ministry is listed to be asked as a starred one, key officials of the ministry are expected to be in Parliament). The session may also not allow private member bills—through which MPs seek policy or legislative changes—and the Zero Hour during which MPs raise current issues, might be limited to just half an hour. These changes have been necessitated by the fact that the session is happening against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, which continues to surge across India. The budget session of Parliament ended on March 23. The monsoon session, which usually starts around mid-July, is now scheduled to start on September 14 and end on October 1.“I have suggested to the Lok Sabha Speaker and Rajya Sabha Chairman to keep the duration of the zero hour at 30 minutes. They will take the final decision. Govt is ready to have discussions on every issue. We have also requested the Speaker to take unstarred questions,” said parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi.This is the first time in the recent history of Parliament when the Opposition has questioned the process of a session apart from the usual political objections to the government policies.Question Hour, which normally lasts 60 minutes provides the only window for guaranteed answers from ministers and help MPs hold the government accountable in Parliament.Joshi defended the move to scrap Question Hour and claimed that almost all parties agreed to this arrangement. “Opposition parties are raising questions regarding question hour and zero hour. Arjun Ram Meghwal, V Muraleedharan & I spoke to every party regarding this and except for the TMC’s Derek O’Brien, everyone agreed [to scrap question hour],” he said.Earlier in the day, Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien tweeted: “MPs required to submit Qs for Question Hour in Parliament 15 days in advance. Session starts 14 Sept. So Q Hour cancelled? Oppn MPs lose right to Q govt. A first since 1950? Parliament overall working hours remain same so why cancel Q Hour? Pandemic excuse to murder democracy.”Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “I said four months ago that strongmen leaders would use the excuse of the pandemic to stifle democracy&dissent. The notification for the delayed Parliament session blandly announces there will be no Question Hour. How can this be justified in the name of keeping us safe?”Biju Janata Dal’s Bhartruhari Mahtab maintained that “Question Hour is the individual right of elected members to make the government accountable. So if there is no Question Hour, individual members’ rights are curtailed. Some methodology should be found. Discussion under rule 193 that doesn’t entail a voting is good but sometimes the minister have not replied to such a debate.”The BJP hit back by claiming that the uproar over the suspension of Question Hour is “hypocrisy” by members of the opposition.A BJP functionary said with Parliament convening only for 4 hours daily, it is natural there is a paucity of time and Question Hour has been cancelled but that unstarred questions will be allowed.The BJP also defended the move by stating that State assemblies have functioned after March without question hour in Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra.“BJP is in opposition in most of these states and it did not raise a hue and cry there,” the functionary added on condition of anonymity.Frequent disruptions during the session were also flagged by the BJP, which cited that in the last eight sessions, out of the 162 hours allotted for Question Hour, only 59 hours were used and more than 102 hours were lost due to disruptions and adjournment.MPs may also not be allowed to bring private member bills. A Lok Sabha circular said, “In view of the request of the government owing to prevailing extraordinary situation due to Covid-19, the Speaker has directed that no day be fixed for transaction of Private Members’ business during the Session.”“Question hour is when governments are held accountable. it is part of the basic structure of parliamentary democracy. And the argument that Question Hour means presence of many officials in Parliament also incorrect as officials are not needed if ministers come prepared I never depended on officials”, said Congress leader and former minister Jairam Ramesh. DMK’s Kanimoshi tweeted, “BJP govt’s decision to suspend the Question Hour for an entire session conveys just one message – “Even elected representatives have no right to question the government”.Experts stressed on the importance of Question Hour.“The simple act of MPs asking questions of the government is the cornerstone of government accountability to parliament. Combined with zero hour it is an aspect of parliamentary functioning where MPs participation is not based on party politics. Questions be it starred or unstarred also open up data about the working and thinking of the government. Since the beginning of this Lok Sabha, approximately 15000 have been asked and answered,” said Chakshu Roy, head of PRS Legislative Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/written-questions-get-nod/story-1dN6pwGMjVCLebtqfaUo4K.html
03-09-2020||India||Questions raised over Char Dham road construction||The Union environment ministry has sought responses from the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) and the Uttarakhand government about alleged violations of the forest conservation act during the construction of Char Dham road in Uttarakhand.The all-weather road is 889km long and will connect Hindu pilgrimage sites of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunothri and Gangotri in the Himalayas. Uttrakhand-based ecologist Ravi Chopra, the chairman of a Supreme Court-constituted high-powered committee (HPC), submitted a detailed report on August 13 to union environment ministry specifying alleged violations that occurred during the construction of the project.The issue of environmental violations in Char Dham project is also being heard by the SC, after it took suo moto cognizance of Ravi Chopra committee’s findings. The matter will be heard again on September 8.The Chopra report says that the project carried out extensive works, including felling of thousands of trees without a final forest clearance from the environment ministry. Project developer agencies started constructions only based on conditional Stage 1 forest clearance, and a working order was not issued for most stretches, the report said. Temporary work permissions issued for some stretches had lapsed long ago, it added.“The entire construction work in the above-mentioned projects, including cutting of thousands of trees therefore, started illegally and in gross violation of the provisions of the Forest Conservation (FC) Act, 1980,” the report said.During committee said it found that wrong information related to project location was submitted to seek forest clearances. For many projects that fall under the eco-sensitive zone, instead of saying “yes”, the project proponent has said “no”, which is misleading and incorrect according to the report submitted by Chopra.The Chopra report has referred to letters sent by the Uttarakhand government to the project authorities which acknowledge that tree felling has taken place without compliance to norms. When contacted, a senior environment ministry official said that there is a “provision of taking a working permission from the forest department that is valid for a year for linear projects”.“But we have received complaints about various violations including dumping of muck in the rivers and forests. We have sought MoRTH and Uttarakhand government’s response. The matter is in court also,” he said, asking not to be named.Officials at MoRTH confirmed that they had received the enquiry from the environment ministry for which responses are being prepared, but they declined to comment saying the matter is sub judice.There was a controversy surrounding the HPC constituted last year by the top court when two separate reports were submitted to the environment ministry in July. Five members including Chopra suggested that “irreversible damage” was caused to the Himalayan ecology due to the project, while 21 other committee members submitted a separate report that said ecological damage can be “minimised”.“The evidence of legal workarounds for this projects have been in question ever since it was proposed. The accidents and damage during the construction of the project without studies and necessary precautions have already exposed the risks to the fragile Himalayan ecosystem across the entire stretch of this highway. It is not just law but environmental ethics in question,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/questions-raised-over-char-dham-road-construction/story-fatEhLynwk7jCRGsJYr1bN.html
03-09-2020||India||Ayodhya authority rushes approvals for Ram temple plans, construction can start||The Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) on Wednesday approved two layouts for Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya after fixing a fee of Rs 2.11 crore payable by the Ram temple trust, officials said. One layout is for the entire Ram Janmabhoomi campus (open area) and the other is for the proposed Ram temple (covered area).The approval paves the way for the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to start construction work of the temple. The trust had filed its request for approvals on Saturday.Ram Temple PlanCOVERED AREA 3.67% of total campus GROUND FLOOR Temple: 2,628.50 sq metre Corridor: 7,343.50 sq metre Total : 9,972 sq metreFIRST FLOOR Temple: 1,850.70 sq metreSECOND FLOOR Temple: 1,056.60 sq metreTotal covered area: 12,879 sq metre FEE TO BE PAIDDevelopment charge: Rs 1,79,45,477 Approval fee: Rs 1,50,000 Construction approval fee: Rs 84,400 Inspection fee: Rs 29,73,307 TOTAL: Rs 2,11,33,184The first layout pertains to an area of 2,74,110 sq metre (approximately 67.33 acre) of the entire Ram Janmabhoomi campus and the second layout is of 12,879 sq metre for the Ram temple, which will be the focal point of the campus. Neeraj Shukla, vice-chairman of ADA, had to convene a board meeting to approve the layouts. The vice-chairman himself has the authority to approve layouts only up to 25 acres. For any construction above this 25-acre limit, the vice-chairman has to convene a board meeting. “The estimated construction cost of the Ram temple (covered area) was calculated on the basis of the public work department’s (PWD) schedule. It came to approximately Rs 15 crore. On this cost, the labour cess was fixed,” said Shukla.Divisional commissioner MP Agarwal, who is also chairman of ADA, presided over the board meeting. The board also charged a labour cess of Rs 15.36 lakh. The trust will have to deposit the fee in ADA’s Punjab National Bank account, Ayodhya.FEE TO BE PAIDDevelopment charge: Rs 1,79,45,477 Approval fee: Rs 1,50,000 Construction approval fee: Rs 84,400 Inspection fee: Rs 29,73,307 TOTAL: Rs 2,11,33,184 “After depositing the fee, the trust will start construction work of the Ram temple,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust.Also Read: Double the size, 5 domes and 3 years to build: Here’s how Ram temple will lookLarsen and Toubro, the country’s leading construction company, has been engaged for carrying out the Ram temple work in Ayodhya. The Ram temple construction committee, which is a body of the trust, will supervise the construction work.Nripendra Misra, former principal secretary to the Prime Minister, is chairman of the construction committee.Central Building Research Institute- Roorkee and Indian Institute of Technology-Madras have assisted Larsen and Toubro in testing the soil of the sanctum sanctorum of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-s-ram-temple-gets-authority-nod-construction-can-begin-soon/story-QtqfBcTcx6OZBJxi17XExH.html
03-09-2020||India||Banned: PUBG, 117 China-linked apps||India on Wednesday banned 118 China-linked mobile apps, including widely popular game PUBG, two months after similar curbs on 59 apps, mostly Chinese, and a month after banning 47 more linked to that country, citing concerns over them being “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity… defence of India, security of state and public order” amid a months-long standoff with its northern neighbour at the Line of Actual Control (LAC).In late June, India banned dozens of mobile apps, including Bytedance’s TikTok, Alibaba’s UC Browser and Tencent’s WeChat over what it said were national security concerns. It banned some more in late July. India has accused Chinese troops of resorting to “provocative action” even as military commanders were holding talks on Monday to ease fresh tensions near Pangong Lake. The latest development follows the two sides trading charges of trespassing the LAC on the southern bank of Pangong Lake since the weekend, complicating the de-escalation process that has stalled at key friction points. On Wednesday, the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY) said the apps – including the mobile version of PUBG and other services provided by China internet giant Tencent – appeared to steal and surreptitiously transmit users’ data in an “unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India”.“The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” it added.Tencent did not comment, while the Chinese embassy in New Delhi did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The government said it was invoking its power under section 69A of the Information Technology Act read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009.A MEITY official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the ban was implemented under the “emergency provisions of the IT Act”. “We got report of the violations yesterday (Tuesday) and immediately blocked the applications,” the official added. The official also said that the same process that was followed for the previous app bans will be followed again. “They will be given a chance to put forth a representation on their behalf.”The banned versions of PUBG included PUBG Mobile Lite, a smaller version of the app, as well as PUBG Mobile Nordic Map: Livik, a recent game played on a Nordic terrain. The full version of the game PlayerUnknown’s BattleGrounds, popularly called PUBG, saw its user numbers rise sharply in India amid a lockdown brought on by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. With over 175 million downloads, India accounts for about a quarter of PUBG Mobile’s lifetime installs though revenues from the country are still minuscule, according to data from research firm Sensor Tower. In the game, 100 players battle with assault weapons until there is only one left standing.Other apps that have been banned include games, online payment services, dating sites and software to edit images. The list also includes China’s search engine leader Baidu Inc, and online payments giant Ant Group Co’s platform Alipay.PUBG was developed by a South Korean company for desktop PCs, but the mobile version that has become popular around the world was developed by Tencent. The list of the banned apps did not mention the PC version of the game.India has launched efforts to impose economic costs on China in the wake of continued Chinese aggression at the LAC in India’s signalling to China that this aggression cannot coexist with preferential economic ties, officials previously told HT.Apart from the banning of mobile apps, decisions have been made by various government departments to cancel contracts with Chinese firms. There have also been reports of imports from China getting stuck at ports, and in April, India tightened foreign direct investment inflows from neighbouring countries — with an eye on China — by requiring them to go through a more rigorous government approval process.Border tensions between India and China flared up in the aftermath of a clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15 — the first deadly conflict between soldiers of the two sides along the LAC in 45 years. The clash resulted in the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers, including a commanding officer, and an undisclosed number of Chinese soldiers.Wednesday’s was the third round of app bans after India decided to take down TikTok and 58 other platforms on June 29. The second round of curbs came on July 23, when the government decided to take down mirror applications that were functioning despite the ban. The applications were banned for being a “threat to the sovereignty of the country and national security”. MEITY minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had called the bans on the applications a “digital strike against China”.On Wednesday, the government said the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre of the Union home ministry has also sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these “malicious apps”. “Likewise, there have been similar bipartisan concerns, flagged by various public representatives, both outside and inside the Parliament of India. There has been a strong chorus in the public space to take strict action against apps that harm India’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of our citizens,” it added.“On the basis of these and upon receiving of recent credible inputs that information posted, permissions sought, functionality embedded as well as data harvesting practices of above stated apps raise serious concerns that these apps collect and share data in surreptitious manner and compromise personal data and information of users that can have a severe threat to security of the state,” the statement said.“This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace.” Ramanjit Singh Chima, lawyer and Asia Pacific Policy Director at Access Now, an international digital rights group, said: “The wording of the current release uses verbatim text from the July order, even though there are a range of different apps and services named in this notification. It appears that the government has not clearly applied its mind when preparing this order, which makes it more likely that this web content blocking action is not legal under Indian law and the Constitution. The evidence referred to in the press release by the Ministry of Home Affairs and CERT-IN should also be made available. Indians deserve steps that directly serve clear cybersecurity interests and respect the rule of law and fundamental rights; it is this commitment that makes Indian democracy strong and different from those countries that disregard internationally protected rights.”Apar Gupta of the Internet Freedom Foundation said: “It seems that banning applications under various sections has now become the norm. Under the IT Act, emergency provisions have become an acceptable measure. It undermines the idea of graded penalties. It is increasingly becoming the option to address breaches of data privacy by the government. It has also become a tendency to issue press releases and not banning orders.”Cyber security experts have said that software providers based in China inherently pose a surveillance risk. “Every Chinese tech company has to comply with the Chinese cybersecurity law which allows the Chinese government to have access to the data these companies collect – this is part of the nationwide mass surveillance systems that are in place in China,” Victor Gevers, head of research at the Dutch Institute of Vulnerability Disclosure (DIVD), who discovered such databases in 2019, told HT on July 1.(With inputs from Bloomberg and AFP)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banned-pubg-117-china-linked-apps/story-U4r2xuotpCeGfnZjX7VmyI.html
03-09-2020||India||Parliament panel grills FB officials||The parliamentary standing committee on information and technology held an over three-hour long meeting with Facebook officials and experts on Wednesday, with its members discussing recent allegations of political bias against the social media company before the meeting was adjourned with no conclusions. Facebook officials were summoned following a string of media reports in the last three weeks that showed that a key executive from its India operations team intervened to protect a politician linked to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from action over hate speech.“In response to overwhelming media interest in the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology that just adjourned, this is all I can say: we met for some three & a half hours & unanimously agreed to resume the discussion later, (including) with (representatives) of Facebook,” panel chair and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said in a tweet.The meeting was attended by Facebook India managing director and vice president Ajit Mohan. The committee decided to summon the social media company again. The panel, according to a member who asked not to be named, lapses on September 11 and Facebook has been asked to appear in front of the panel that will be reconstituted. According to a member present at the meeting, some members raised objections over why no one from Facebook’s policy team appeared as a witness. The recent allegations surround Facebook India’s public policy head Ankhi Das, who, according to a report by Wall Street Journal on August 14, intervened to stop a ban against BJP’s Telangana MP Raja Singh. “They have taken cognisance of so many violations, why has no action been taken?” said this member, asking not to be named. Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil reiterated his party’s stand seeking a joint parliamentary committee investigation into the allegations, while BJP MP Nishikant Dubey asked for reports of what exactly transpired during the Cambridge Analytica controversy, this person added. The Cambridge Analytica controversy refers to the misuse of Facebook in the run up to the US presidential election in 2016 to glean political preferences of Americans and target them with misinformation, a concerted operation that involved Russia-linked individuals and is believed to have influenced the outcome of the polls. The Congress met with Cambridge Analytica before the 2019 parliamentary election but says it did not hire it. According to a second member, questions were raised at the meeting about Facebook’s neutrality and the backdrop of people working with the social media magnate. When asked about Das, who is at the centre of the raging controversy for alleged violation of Facebook’s hate speech policy, the company said it would respond in writing, this member added. Hindustan Times reported on Wednesday that the Opposition was pushing for a criminal inquiry into the company’s conduct and a termination of its contracts with the government. Electronics and information technology minster Ravi Shankar Prasad also wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday, alleging company executives were biased against people who believed in BJP’s ideology. In the meeting, the members asked about Facebook’s ties with governmental organisations and the Election Commission, and its executive was asked why the company functions as a publisher in the United States but as an ‘intermediary’ in India. “Facebook asserted that it was maintaining neutrality and global standards,” said the second member quoted above. “They also said that political background had no bearing on their decisions.” “We thank the Honourable Parliamentary Committee for their time. We remain committed to be an open and transparent platform, and to giving people voice and allowing them to express themselves freely,” Facebook said in a statement after the meeting.Experts said the scope of the problem is larger than the current exercise can address. “We need the government to take a stand on content moderation,” said Jyoti Panday, researcher with Internet Governance Project, Georgia Institute of Technology. “This is only policy theatre, a PR exercise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-panel-grills-fb-officials/story-qjRhNmay6SeI5cyCVoBELL.html
03-09-2020||India||Metro to open in phases for asymptomatic users||Metro services across India , except in Maharashtra, will resume in phases from September 7 with all becoming operational by September 12, according to the ministry for housing and urban affairs -- a move that will significantly increase public transport capacity across India, and especially Delhi, but also one that comes against the backdrop of a surge in cases in the country. The ministry issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the resumption of Metro services under the so-called Unlock 4 guidelines. Metro services have been nonoperational since late March when India declared a lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease. There are 15 Metro networks across India, and in Delhi, about 2.7 million passengers used the network daily before the pandemic. However, the trains will not stop at stations in containment zones, which will remain closed. It wasn’t immediately clear how many stations will be affected by this.  “Daily hours of operations may be staggered initially, which needs to be increased gradually with resumption of full revenue service by September 12. Frequency of trains to be regulated to avoid passenger crowding at stations and in trains,” the SOP said. It added that the air-conditioning in stations and trains would be tweaked to increase the circulation of fresh air. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will reopen its doors to passengers in three stages. In the first stage, the Metro will function for truncated periods — from 7am to 11am, and then from 4pm to 8pm. In the second stage, on September 11, this hours will be expanded slightly while from the following day, the network will return to its regular hours.Delhi Metro officials said upon restart, operations will be monitored in real-time, and staff will be tasked with ensuring distancing and minimising crowds. Trains will be allowed to skip a station if crowds are deemed too large and no further passengers will be allowed entry into a station if officials consider it to have hit peak capacity, a senior official said, asking not to be named.The government of Maharashtra has decided not to resume operations of the Metro in September. “Hence, Mumbai Line-1 and Maharashtra Metro operations shall commence from October or as state Government may decide further,” Union housing minister Hardeep Puri said at a press conference. Maharashtra is India’s worst affected state in terms of Covid-19 cases and deaths. Till Tuesday evening, the state had seen 825,739 cases and 25,195 deaths. Based on the guidelines issued by the Centre, the metro corporations of Delhi, Noida, Chennai, Kochi, Bangalore, Mumbai Line-1, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Maha Metro (Nagpur), Kolkata, Gujarat and UP Metro (Lucknow) have prepared their SOPs, the ministry said.The SOPs have been finalised following discussions with the managing directors of 15 Metro rail corporations on Tuesday and with the approval by the Union home ministry.Under its Unlock 4 plan, issued on Saturday, the home ministry allowed Metro services in a phased manner from September 7. In order to ensure social distancing, stations and train coaches will carry signages and labels. Passengers will have to wear masks at all times, as should staff of the Metros. Metro rail corporations may make arrangements for supply of masks on payment basis to the persons arriving without mask, the guidelines said. In most states, masks are mandatory. “There will be marking across stations for maintaining social distancing and even inside the trains on the seats. Passengers must ensure that they adhere to it; we are monitoring each and every location through video cameras through central control rooms and if at any station these norms are violated or crowding takes place the instructions are that metro trains will not stop at those stations. We have even added this in the SOP,” housing affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said.Puri said the government may have to review the arrangements if resumption of services leads to crowding at stations and passengers are found violating social distancing norms. “Emphasis has to be on review and caution. We are very clear in our minds that this opening up in a graded and calibrated manner will need to be reviewed. If we find that the resumption of operations is not resulting in social distancing either at the metro stations or if there is crowding or trains are getting congested…we might have no option but to review all these arrangements. So I am appealing through the media to all the consumers that while we welcome the resumption of metro services, ...the buzz word is ‘caution’ and ‘care’…,” he added. The guidelines also said only asymptomatic people will be allowed to travel after thermal screening at entry. “Symptomatic persons should be advised to go to nearby Covid Care Centre/Hospital for testing/medical attention. Use of Aarogya Setu App will be encouraged,” the SOP said.The guidelines said that the use of Smart Cards and cashless/online transactions will be encouraged but tokens can also be used with proper sanitisation.“Adequate time at stations will be provided to enable smooth boarding/deboarding ensuring social distancing. Metro rail corporations may also resort to skipping stations to ensure proper social distancing,” Puri said.Provision of sanitisers will be made at entry into the stations for use by passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-to-open-in-phases-for-asymptomatic-users/story-gBYzjBZRkXLdtqvu12XMMK.html
03-09-2020||India||Antisocial media: Why Facebook’s missteps threaten internet and society||“It was my mistake, and I’m sorry. I started Facebook, I run it, and I’m responsible for what happens here.” Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg offered this apology to members of the US Congress in March, 2018 when he was called to explain how a third party, Cambridge Analytica, used its service to carry out psychometric analysis of Americans in a way that possibly influenced the 2016 US presidential election.This was not the first time Zuckerberg or his company said sorry (see box) - each time only to be followed by a new abuse of service that Facebook failed to stop. These have, in the CEO’s own words from the 2018 hearing, involved “fake news, foreign interference in elections, and hate speech, as well [threats from] developers and data privacy [breaches]”.In India, some of these harms have manifested as abusive troll armies, individuals inciting rioting and political support groups spreading coordinated misinformation to swing votes. In its latest controversy, the company has been accused of not acting against Bharatiya Janata Party politicians for violation of content policies, a decision purportedly influenced by a senior executive seen as being close to the party. Facebook and BJP have denied the allegations, and the ruling party has instead blamed the company of censoring its supporters. The company did not respond to requests for details on how it moderates content or what its stand is on such policies. “Across the board, we’ve watched as the company (Facebook) does whatever is in its profit interest, as it selectively chooses when to censor or otherwise subvert content and, conversely, when to do nothing about it even if it goes viral, so long as there is adequate commercial justification to take no action. This unwavering adherence to whatever policy serves the business model subjugates the democratic interest and must be corrected,” said Dipayan Ghosh, a former White House official who is currently the co-director of Digital Platforms & Democracy Project at the Harvard Kennedy School.The controversies around Facebook now reflect the complicated regulatory riddle: what are the rules of online speech? Who should write them? Who should enforces them? These questions, according to top cyberlaw and tech policy experts, will determine the future of the internet and the politics, culture and commerce it has come to shape since the turn of the millennium. This is because at present, Facebook (which also owns WhatsApp and Instagram), Twitter, YouTube and such sites are not liable for illegal or hateful content – only the user posting it is. In India, under Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, they need to act when notified by authorities in order to keep this immunity. “As businesses subject to government regulation, and in receipt of the de facto or de jure privilege of inflicting harm on private citizens without legal responsibility, the platform companies must constantly negotiate with political power. The resulting contradiction lies at the heart of the mess that presently existing social media are making of politics and society everywhere,” said Mishi Choudhary, legal director of Software Freedom Law Centre.OPAQUE RULESTo understand this contradiction fully, it is important to look at the rights and obligations involved. In almost all democratic nations, online speech enjoys the same privileges as offline speech. Social media websites, which primarily follow American law but account for some local legal obligations, follow a system of self-regulation.This is in part because it is not feasible to determine jurisdiction and apply filters on global communications, but is mostly to protect freedom of expression and civil liberties from state surveillance and censorship. This results in policies and guidelines they spell out for users. “They specify certain rules for their platforms and take down content either through algorithms – which Facebook claims is responsible for 95% of its takedowns – or when they are notified of complaints from users,” said Apar Gupta, executive director at the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), which has called on the Indian government to push for an international human rights audit of how Facebook combats hate speech.In addition to automated programs that look for keywords or observe how a post is reported, Facebook also deploys thousands of contractors who manually review flagged content for moderations.It is this prerogative that Facebook, and similarly popular content websites such as YouTube, have been accused of wielding unfairly, excessively or inadequately. “If you don’t follow your own policies consistently, it will lead to situations like these where Facebook has been accused of political bias,” added Gupta.NOT ENOUGH The problem becomes acute when it involves illegal content posted by people in position of prominence.In June, Facebook refused to hide or take down a post by US President Donald Trump purportedly inciting shooting as protests over the death of George Floyd escalated. Twitter hid the tweet. Zuckerberg said his company decided to let it remain. “...I believe people should be able to see this for themselves, because ultimately accountability for those in power can only happen when their speech is scrutinized out in the open,” he wrote.“I think it illustrates that content moderation involves 1 million impossible decisions, probably daily. And the more rules you have, the more difficult it is to enforce them consistently. Facebook is inevitably going to make a ton of mistakes, both in censoring too much and in not censoring enough,” said David Greene, civil liberties director at the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), one of the world’s oldest digital rights advocacy groups.Greene added that the decision to let the Trump post stay makes Facebook seem naive about how influential its platform is in the public debate, and how hard it is to undo harmful statements that spread widely through it.IN EXCESSWhile comments by prominent people are immediately scrutinised, Facebook’s algorithms and contracted moderators play a complicated role in censorship. In 2018, the OFFLINE-ONLINE project by EFF and Visualizing Impact detailed several instances where Facebook censored marginalised communities. These included takedowns of posts and images discussing racial injustice in the US, a ban on a native American tribe leader for his name seeming to be as fake, deletion of the Facebook pages of seven Palestinian journalists (which Facebook later admitted was a mistake) and account restrictions on multiple Rohingya activists.Experts see these as examples of the differential approach the companies may have to censorship, depending on the privilege of the voice involved. “They have risen above the law because they are fictionally supposed never to do what government constantly forces them to do. (But) they comply, and intensively moderate all content that passes through their hands. They do this in order to maintain their indispensable privilege of civil impunity,” said SLFC’s Choudhary.The company’s free speech defence is further overshadowed by the role its algorithms have played in amplifying content that are a threat to civil liberties.UK-based counter-extremist organisation Institute of Strategic Dialogue said in mid-August that its investigation found Facebook’s algorithm “actively promotes” Holocaust denial content. That typing “holocaust” in the Facebook search function itself, the report said, brought up suggestions for denial pages, which in turn recommended links to publishers that sell such literature.FUNDAMENTAL RETHINK?The problem of how to tackle online speech harks back to similar debates around offline speech. “It brings us back to the debate over what is problematic speech. Legal speech can vary across countries. Speech also involves a lot of context, often local, which could determine its acceptability,” said Jyoti Panday, researcher at the Internet Governance Project. The answer to this regulation is unlikely to rest with governments. “Something needs to change but more regulation will only help censorship by proxy for states,” said SFLC’s Choudhary. “Hard problems are hard and there are no silver bullets or one solution. The moment calls for a serious rethink not just new rules but public’s participation in making, interpreting and enforcing them, improved social policy based on a better understanding of the internet,” she added. The position was echoed by Greene of EFF. “History teaches us that when government takes over such practices, government uses it to censor its opponents. We do urge platforms to conduct their curation within a human rights framing, namely, the Santa Clara Principles,” he said. The Santa Clara principles are a set of guidelines that seek disclosure from social media companies of how many posts are flagged, what action is taken, the need for adequate notice before a takedown and clear avenues of appeals for users. “Companies need to be more transparent with these policies; knowing exactly how moderation takes place is crucial to find ways to work on it, improve it,” added Panday.Harvard Kennedy School’s Ghosh said updates to Section 230 of the American Communication Decency Act, “which is the norm of online speech regulation”, could be updated to address some of the issues. “Particularly, [the] carve-outs from the sweeping liability shields it affords internet platforms,” he said. It was the Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace by one of EFF’s founders, American political activist John Perry Barlow, that in 1996 proclaimed the internet as a new domain of pure freedom to which laws of governments “have no meaning” and did not apply. Contemporary legal experts now believe the approach may have been utopian, and the internet has evolved in ways that the role of law may be inevitable, especially since harms from the virtual world extend to the offline space. “The ‘laws’ that increasingly have no meaning in online environments include not only the mandates of market regulators but also the guarantees that supposedly protect the fundamental rights of internet users, including the expressive and associational freedoms whose supremacy Barlow asserted,” writes Julie E Cohen, professor of law and technology at the Georgetown University Law Centre, in a paper titled Internet Utopianism and the Practical Inevitability of Law.‘A Natural Monopoly’“More generally, in the networked information era, protections for fundamental human rights—both on- and offline—have begun to fail comprehensively,” the paper added. In the particular context of Facebook, which has weathered the controversies with little implication on its earnings or user base, there are now calls to break it up. “Facebook has become a monopoly — a natural monopoly at that, whereby it benefits from powerful network effects that organically raise barriers to entry. This set of circumstances invites us to consider regulating it like a utility and, potentially, breaking it up in the coming years,” Ghosh said. A similar call was issued in May 2019 by a co-founder of Facebook who has since left the company. “Mark’s influence is staggering, far beyond that of anyone else in the private sector or in government... Mark alone can decide how to configure Facebook’s algorithms... He sets the rules for how to distinguish violent and incendiary speech, and he can choose to shut down a competitor by acquiring, blocking or copying it,” wrote Chris Hughes in an opinion piece for the New York Times in May 2019.“We are a nation with a tradition of reining in monopolies, no matter how well intentioned the leaders of these companies may be. Mark’s power is unprecedented and un-American. It is time to break up Facebook.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-missteps-deepen-legal-riddle/story-6jvWhL2JWtfSmb07ohqDML.html
03-09-2020||India||SC orders removal of slums around Delhi rail tracks, stops courts from staying eviction||The Supreme Court has ordered the removal of close to 48,000 slum dwellings situated along railway tracks in Delhi within three months, and to ensure compliance of its order, has stopped any court from passing an order of stay against such removal.In the event an order is passed, the same shall have no effect on the eviction proceedings, the court ruled.The court, which was hearing an application filed in the MC Mehta case relating to Delhi pollution matters, took this step on Monday, after the Indian Railways informed the court that despite a Special Task Force constituted to remove encroachments, political interference was coming in the way of getting the jhuggis removed. An order for removal of all encroachments passed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on October 1, 2018 had led to the formation of the task force. The verdict was uploaded on the Supreme Court website on Tuesday night. Justice Mishra demitted office Wednesday.The court has passed the extraordinary order in exercise of its power under Article 142, which states, “The Supreme Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it.” In the past, the apex court has exercised this power to pass similar orders in the 2G spectrum scam case by restraining courts across the country from taking up bail pleas of those accused in the scam.Going through an affidavit filed by the Railways, the apex bench of Justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said: “There is predominant presence of jhuggies in Delhi along with 140km route length of railway track in the region of NCT of Delhi… Out of this, about 70km route length of track is affected by large jhuggie jhopri clusters existing in close vicinity of the tracks.” These clusters aggregated to about 48,000 jhuggies, most of which were present within the security zone of the Railways, according to the affidavit filed by Ashwani Kumar Yadav, additional divisional railway manager at DRM Office, Delhi Division, Northern Railways. There are no official estimate as to how many people live in such slums. NGOs say that the land owning agency, the railways in this case, will have to do a survey to ascertain the number of dwellers.“The encroachments which are there in the safety zones should be removed within a period of three months and no interference, political or otherwise, should be there, and no court shall grant any stay with respect to removal of the encroachments in the area in question. In case any interim order is granted with respect to encroachments which have been made along with railway tracks, that shall not be effective.” the order added.Shivani Chaudhry, executive director of NGO Housing and Land Rights Network, said: “Forcibly evicting people is never a solution. It results in greater impoverishment, homelessness, and marginalisation. This is also not the time to carry out evictions, given the serious public health emergency in the country on account of the pandemic.” “Forcibly evicting 48,000 households will result in a grave human rights emergency that could threaten the lives of affected people. The government should ensure that consultations are held with affected people, and plans for providing adequate housing are developed with their prior informed consent,” she added.A similar direction was passed by the court with regard to removal of plastic bags and garbage from the tracks. The court directed the Railways, the Delhi government, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and concerned municipal corporations to meet next week and draw an action plan for cleaning tracks. The municipal corporations were asked to tell their contractors to lift the garbage from the designated places where the Railways dumps waste. The court apportioned the cost involved for the long-term cleaning plan to be shared by the Centre and Delhi government in a 70:30 ratio.The apex court had involved DUSIB -- the agency that provides temporary/night shelters for the homeless in Delhi -- for preparing an action plan to remove garbage and encroachment, and enable rehabilitation of the people evicted from the jhuggis. When contacted by HT, a spokesperson of the Northern Railways said that it will “comply” with the order issued by the Supreme Court.In its report dated July 9, 2020, the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) – an expert body assisting the top court on environment issues -- pointed out that Indian Railways is a bulk waste generator and, as such, it is required to comply with the Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, which require the waste generator to operationalise a plan for waste management. EPCA urged the bench to direct the Railways to make a time-bound action plan for solid waste management in the Northern Region, starting with Delhi and its vicinity.Going by the EPCA report, the court was convinced that there was no action plan to rid tracks of the filth generated by trains and the surrounding human habitations. The bench remarked, “The picture painted in the EPCA report as well as in the reply filed by the Railways indicates that nothing has been done so far and waste is being piled up and at the same time, there is human habitation which has come in the same area in an unauthorized way, which are required to be taken care of.” The court will take up the matter for compliance after one month.Speaking to HT, senior advocate and environmental expert Raj Panjwani welcomed the court’s decision, saying: “This order may appear to have thwarted the alleged right of encroachers to seek further redressal. However, they are not without relief. They can approach the Supreme Court for grant of further time. As far as Delhi is concerned, for people who have encroached on land belonging to the government, there is a policy for rehabilitation. Even this approach can be looked into by the Railways.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-removal-of-slums-around-delhi-rail-tracks-stops-courts-from-staying-eviction/story-rG2XRhGFXAs4M4lYH2XPMM.html
03-09-2020||India||Parliament to function minus weekend breaks||There will be no weekend break, no Question Hour and possibly no private members bill in the monsoon session of Indian Parliament to fit a tight schedule of legislative business and debate some key Opposition-sponsored issues. An internal note of the Lok Sabha, reviewed by HT, shows that the House will function every day, between September 14 and October 1, in daily shifts of four hours as it makes changes to work against the backdrop of the coronavirus disease. While Parliament has earlier seen special sessions on Saturday, according to officials, this will be the first time that a routine session will see Parliament working on Sundays .  Even with that, this monsoon session will last only 18 days. Typically, the monsoon session lasts for around 20-24 days spread across two months starting in July. On the inaugural day of the session, the Lok Sabha will start at 9am and continue till 1pm. After a gap of two hours, the Rajya Sabha will start at 3pm and continue till 7pm. But for the remaining part of the session, the Rajya Sabha will meet in the morning shift and the Lok Sabha in the afternoon. HT first reported on July 22 that daily shifts have been planned to ensure that MPs spend minimum time in Delhi for the session amid a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. The session, first amid a global pandemic of such magnitude, will see a logistical overhaul and an unprecedented seating arrangement where MPs of a House will spill over to the chamber and galleries of the other House as well. Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in the air-conditioning system to inactivate microorganisms, 10 display screens for live proceedings, special communication cables linking both Houses, and designated seats only for top leaders are all part of this process. The Lok Sabha is also planning doorstep Covid-19 tests for MPs, offering the option to lawmakers to undergo real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at their home-base (even if it is outside Delhi), and to allow them to deliver speeches wile seated. Usually a session also sees large footfall in Parliament complex but this time, visitors will not be allowed, and staff and media presence will be reduced to ensure there is no large congregation. While the government needs to clear 11 ordinances—including key ones on agriculture and banking—the Opposition wants to raise the India-China border issue, the economic situation, and the alleged mismanagement of the Covid pandemic by the government. Both Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla have held a series of preparatory meetings for the session with officials, health experts and various government ministries.The secretariat has also asked ministers and MPs to display their radio-frequency tags and identity cards for hassle-free entry into the House as most of them are expected to wear masks. “In view of the prevailing instructions of wearing of face mask to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, a difficulty in proper identification of Hon’ble Members is experienced at the entry points of Parliament House. Therefore, to facilitate hassle-free entry, all the Hon’ble Ministers/ Members are requested to carry and display their RF Tags/ Identity Cards while wearing face masks which would help in identification on gaining entry into Parliament House Complex. Kind cooperation of Hon’ble Members is solicited,” said a House bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-to-function-minus-weekend-breaks/story-Mo9yxYF4AfM4FBa4zTW1PK.html
03-09-2020||India||In cost-effective green push, govt to do away with calendars, diaries||The Union government on Wednesday asked all ministries and departments to stop printing wall calendars, desktop calendars, diaries and greeting cards in a move aimed at the use of digital versions of these, and which will also save costs. There will be no printing of wall calendars, desktop calendars, diaries and other such material for use in the coming year by any ministry, department, public sector companies, state-run banks and all other organs of the government, the finance ministry said in a statement. Almost every ministry and department used to have its own calendar and diary. Data on the number of calendars and diaries printed every year by various government arms, and the amount spent on this wasn’t immediately available, although it is likely to be substantial. Apart from saving costs and encouraging digitisation, the move is also extremely environment friendly. “All such activity shall go digital and online,” the ministry added. The department of expenditure, an arm of the finance ministry, issued an order on Wednesday emphasising that the decision came into force with immediate effect.“Integrating technology into our work is in line with his (Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s) vision,” it said.“There is to be a concerted effort towards incorporating innovative methods in such matters. Using technological innovations for planning, scheduling and forecasting is well known to be economical, efficient and effective,” it added.The order also banned publication of coffee table books in the physical form to encourage appropriate use of e-books, it said. “Innovative digital and online solutions which will achieve the same result as physical calendars or diaries are to be prioritized and to be put into practice,” it added. Government officials and executives working in public sector companies said the decision will stop the practice of distributing diaries and calendars by government departments, public sector banks and state-run companies before the beginning of every new calendar year.The department of expenditure said the decision has been taken as “the world is increasingly moving towards adopting digital force multipliers for productivity and given the fact that using technological innovations for planning, scheduling and forecasting is known to be economical, efficient and effective”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-cost-effective-green-push-govt-to-do-away-with-calendars-diaries/story-4OpEDptUmmWoj3nEBDK5fP.html
03-09-2020||India||Appointments committee picks Rlys board CEO||The appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) on Wednesday formally approved the restructuring of the Railway Board and approved the appointment of VK Yadav, the current chairman of the Railway Board as its first CEO.In December 2019, the Union Cabinet in a move to reform the 150-year-old board of the Indian Railways, approved the restructuring of the apex body of the Indian Railways by cutting its strength to half, and unifying its eight services into a central service called the Indian Railway Management Service.While Yadav has been appointed the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO); Pradeep Kumar has been appointed Member, Infrastructure; PC Sharma has been appointed Member, Traction and Rolling Stock; PS Mishara has been made Member, Operations and Business Development. Manjula Rangarajan has been appointed Member, Finance.With this rearrangement, three apex level posts -- Member (Staff), Member (Engineering) and Member (Materials Management) in the Railway Board have been suspended and the post of Member (Rolling Stock) has been utilised for creation of the post of Director General (HR) in apex grade as per Cabinet Decision, the ACC said.Indian railways will now have only a five-member railway board that will act as “Chief Executive Officer (CEO)” along with four members responsible for Infrastructure, Operations & Business Development, Rolling Stock and Finance, respectively.The Railway Board is the apex body of the Indian Railways which reports to the Parliament via the ministry of railways. At present, the railway board includes eight members -- member (rolling stock), member (traction), member (traffic), member (engineering), member (staff), member (material management), members (signal & telecom) and financial commissioner.As per the new structure, the Chairman shall be the cadre controlling officer responsible for Human resources (HR) with assistance from a Director General level officer. Three apex level posts shall be surrendered from Railway Board, and all the remaining posts of the Railway Board shall be open to all officers regardless of the service to which they belonged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appointments-committee-picks-rlys-board-ceo/story-JXRmccRTpiD0YuXxCZgWoL.html
03-09-2020||India||Muted at justice Mishra’s farewell, says SC Bar head||Lawyer Dushyant Dave, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA),wrote a communication to Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on Wednesday, protesting against how he was treated during a ceremonial farewell function for justice Arun Mishra.Dave alleged that although he had been invited by the Supreme Court to attend the event through video conferencing and had logged in using a web link sent by the court registry, his microphone was deliberately muted by court officials, preventing him from giving a speech.It is customary for the president of the SCBA, the representative body of lawyers practising in the Supreme Court, to deliver a speech at farewell functions for Supreme Court judges.“I wish to place on record my strong disappointment and condemnation at what happened today in the Supreme Court of India during the farewell to Justice Arun Mishra. The entire episode leaves much to be desired on the part of this great institution. The whole attempt was to prevent me from addressing on behalf of the SCBA and its Executive Committee, after having invited and invitation having been accepted. This was clearly an affront to the Bar and to me personally,” Dave wrote in his communication, a copy of which has been seen by Hindustan Times.Dave lamented that Supreme Court has reached a stage “where judges are scared of” the lawyers, while reminding the CJI that “judges are temporary while the Bar is permanent”.“I must confess, the Supreme Court has come to such levels where the judges are afraid of the Bar. Please do remember, judges come and go but we the Bar remain constant. We are the real strength of this great Institution because we are permanent,” Dave said. Supreme Court officials said that there had been no deliberate attempt to mute Dave, calling it a technical glitch that prevented even some judges from connecting to the video conference. Dave maintained that he had connected to the conference and was visible on the screen and had also been able to speak before the bench assembled.“I was duly connected and cleared by technical team (which manages video conference hearings at SC) for video and audio. I interacted with the Attorney General and others for over half an hour. I waited and remained connected all through but was muted once the bench assembled. If I was to speak, the CJI would have at least inquired if I was there. They all could see me and I could see them too. The inescapable conclusion is that the Registry has issued a false statement,” Dave said. When a Supreme Court judge retires, the retiring judge sits along with the CJI on his/ her last working day and Bar leaders including the attorney general, SCBA president and senior lawyers gather to bid farewell.A separate, elaborate farewell function is also usually organized by the SCBA on the Supreme Court lawns. After Covid-19 broke out and physical functioning of the court ceased, the SCBA had been organising its farewell functions through video conference. Justice Mishra had declined to participate in SCBA’s farewell function, saying his conscience did not permit him to do so at a time when the world is reeling under the effects of the pandemic.The ceremonial function organised by the Supreme Court was the only opportunity for Bar leaders to bid farewell to justice Mishra.Dave, in his letter to the CJI, stated that he had received a link at 10.06 am to join the ceremonial Bench of the CJI at 12.30 pm where justice Mishra was to bid farewell.Dave joined the conference at around 12.20 pm before the bench assembled and was seen engaging in casual conversations with attorney general KK Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta ,who were also present to wish justice Mishra on the occasion of his retirement.Dave alleged that after the bench assembled and heard all cases, it invited Venugopal and Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association president Shivaji Jadhav to speak, but he himself got disconnected frequently.“I persisted and rejoined each time. I saw and heard Shri Jadhav fully and at the end of his address again I was not requested to speak though Shri Jadhav acknowledged my presence in his address. After that Your Lordship (CJI) spoke which I saw and heard and then invited Justice Mishra to speak. At that stage, realising the game plan I exited in the larger interests of the dignity of the Bar and myself,” he wrote.Dave also said that he had contacted Supreme Court secretary general Sanjeev Kalgaonkar during the farewell, demanding to know why he was being muted, but did not get any response from Kalgaonkar in time.“Only at 1.02pm, he responded saying he is instructing Registrar to look into it , by which time it was too late and so I messaged him informing that I had exited,” Dave said.Dave has been a vocal critic of the Supreme Court in recent years and has engaged in heated exchanges with justice Mishra on more than one occasion. The most recent of such instances was when he was appearing on behalf of advocate Prashant Bhushan in the contempt case initiated against Bhushan for tweets criticising the court and CJI Bobde.What did Dave want to say during the farewell function?In his communication to the CJI, Dave also stated that he may have been prevented from speaking lest he say something unpleasant and went on to highlight what he wanted to say.“Let me tell you exactly what I was to say which I had written down: On behalf of the SCBA, the Executive Committee and myself, I wish you Justice Mishra happiness and bliss in remainder of your long life which by all accounts will be as fruitful and rewarding as it has been. May I pray to Lord Mahabaleshwar to bless you with strength to introspect and stir up your conscience,” the communication said.Dave’s communication ended by saying that he will not participate in any function organised by the Supreme Court until December this year when his tenure as the Bar president comes to an end.Haris Beeran, a Supreme Court lawyer, said if Dave’s allegations are true, it is a very serious issue. “The registry is saying that it was a technical issue but it appears to be a conscious decision to prevent him from speaking. At what level this decision was taken should be inquired into because it has always been a tradition at the Bar for the SCBA President to speak at the farewell of a retiring judge,” Beeran said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muted-at-justice-mishra-s-farewell-says-sc-bar-head/story-j6SvbWLc4Mv38Q0AVNxExI.html
03-09-2020||India||India rejigs deployment in Ladakh amid standoff||The Indian Army has rejigged its deployments at multiple points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, including the northern bank of Pangong Lake, to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from making aggressive manoeuvres to unilaterally alter the status quo in contested areas, officials familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. Tensions flared in the sensitive sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake four days ago to stop PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move.“Some readjustments of military positions have been carried out as part of precautionary deployment on the lake’s northern bank and other sensitive areas along the LAC. In the Finger area, we have moved up from our base at the lake level,” said one of the officials, asking not to be named. To be sure, the PLA holds dominating positions in the Finger area on the lake’s northern bank. The situation on the lake’s southern bank remains extremely tense with both armies sending in reinforcements to the area where the Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity -- India holds a series of positions near Black Top (a hill feature) and on Rezang La and Reqin pass. The PLA made a second provocative move on August 31 targeting these positions but the Indian Army’s swift defensive action thwarted the Chinese attempt. Both sides have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces; and are within each other’s rifle range, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. Brigade commander-ranked officers from the two sides met for the third time in Chushul on Wednesday to de-escalate tensions but the talks have hit a wall with neither army prepared to make concessions, said a second official. “From Depsang to Chushul and Chumar to Demchok, we have strengthened our military posture in all sensitive areas and are on high alert to deal with any adventurism by the PLA,” he said. The latest developments have deepened the trust deficit between the two sides and dealt a blow to efforts to reduce tensions in the Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. Experts said the taking of heights on the lake’s southern bank and the ensuing readjustment of deployments to hold positions in the higher reaches in other areas was a calculated move by the army. “We will talk to China from a position of relative strength when military and diplomatic negotiations happen. The heights we have occupied on the southern bank are operationally very important as they offer a sweeping view of Chinese military activity in the sector,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations.. Experts said the PLA would attempt to change the status quo in new areas and stressed that India has to stay prepared to fend off such moves. “We are in for a long haul. The development on the lake’s southern bank is not the end of the ongoing tussle. They will occupy heights in other areas and so will we. Friction will continue till talks yield results in the long run,” Bhatia said. Officials familiar with developments said New Delhi will continue to focus on finding a resolution to the border standoff even as it takes steps to thwart all Chinese efforts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC. “We want a resolution, which is something we have repeatedly said over the past few weeks,” said a third official who spoke on condition of anonymity. At the same time, he said, the Indian side will not accept any move by the Chinese side to transgress the LAC or to change the status quo in the Ladakh sector or elsewhere, as the external affairs ministry has pointed out several times. Although defence minister Rajnath Singh is in Russia to attend a crucial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), there are no plans to hold bilateral talks with his Chinese counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe. Since the fresh face-off emerged in public over the weekend, the Chinese side has repeatedly claimed the Indian troops had transgressed the LAC on the southern bank of Pangong Lake and near Reqin Pass, and called for the immediate withdrawal of Indian troops. A fourth official said the Indian troops were in possession of strategic heights which were within the Indian perception of the LAC and there had been no transgression of the disputed border. “The Chinese side is making these demands because the Indian side has made key gains by taking these strategically positioned hilltops and heights,” he added. The PLA has sparked fresh tensions along the LAC at a time when military and diplomatic talks with China to implement a complex disengagement plan have hit a wall. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly the northern bank of Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains an area of key concern for the Indian Army. The Finger area is a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the lake. Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4 overlooking Indian deployments, the army would patrol up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers as an integral part of its territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejigs-deployment-in-ladakh-amid-standoff/story-Fj2HRceTMeB6HCZ6ua1TOO.html
03-09-2020||India||Senior Karnataka IPS officer critical after bullet injury from service revolver||Director-General of Police Housing Corporation in Karnataka, R P Sharma, who is a senior IPS officer has been admitted to the Columbia Asia hospital in Bangalore with a bullet injury, said to have been inflicted from his service revolver. The incident is said to have happened in Kothnur police station limits and Sharma whose condition is believed to be critical according to hospital sources, is battling for his life.The controversial officer had earlier been in trouble after his letter to the then Congress-led Siddaramiah government criticizing its interference in the functioning of the department had been leaked. Some of his actions while heading the Bangalore Metropolitan Task Force had also earned the ire of the then government. His family including his IAS officer wife was accused of not disclosing certain land deals.It wasn’t clear whether the bullet injury had been inflicted accidentally or was a suicide attempt. DCP North East Bheemashanker Guled claimed that preliminary inquiries indicated “that it looks like it may have been an accidental discharge of his service weapon”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-karnataka-ips-officer-critical-after-bullet-injury-from-service-revolver/story-iGSRGYVIZuUnl36GSsSJUJ.html
03-09-2020||India||‘We dedicate ourselves to welfare of customers’: LIC on its 65th anniversary||Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) celebrated its 65th anniversary on September 1. “LIC has spread its wings from being the leading Life Insurance Company into an internationally recognized financial conglomerate with the presence in fourteen countries,” a press release issued by the company said.The comapany started with an initial capital of Rs 5 crore in 1956, and it has an asset base of Rs 31,96,214.81 crore today, with Life Fund to the tune of Rs 31,14,496.05 crore. As on March 31, 2020, the total funds invested for the benefit of the community at large is Rs 30,69,942 crore, the company press release said.“Today LIC offers a bouquet of 28 plans for sale under Individual Business, each catering to the needs of various segments of the society viz Endowment, Term Assurance, Children, Pension, Micro Insurance, Health Insurance and Unit Linked products etc,” the press release added.LIC has established a strong online presence and has provided digital platform for new business and servicing operations to both internal and external customers, including channel platforms like banks and other agencies. “The Customer Mobile App, which is available on both Android and iOS, has more than 34 lakh users. MPIN based access to mobile applications is in place for ease of use to the customers,” the release said.The company has leveraged various digital platforms for electronic premium payments to provide a ‘seamless’ experience to customers. “PayTM (directly), PhonePe and GooglePay (through BillDesk) are some of the more recent modes that are available to customers for premium payment digitally,” the release added.On the anniversary of its inception, the insurance company dedicated itself to the welfare of customers in spirit of their moto ‘Yogakshemam Vahamyaham’ (thy welfare is our responsibility).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-dedicate-ourselves-to-welfare-of-customers-lic-on-its-65th-anniversary/story-6FyV4LjW1vgIhKNoFA298I.html
03-09-2020||India||PUBG, Ludo World among 118 more Chinese apps banned by IT ministry. Check full list here||Ministry of Information & Technology on Wednesday banned 118 more mobile applications, including the app for mobile game PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds (PUBG).The Centre’s move comes in the backdrop of the tension between India and China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has, for over four months now, been trying to shift its boundary with India in Ladakh.This was the goverment’s third round of bans. On June 29, India banned 59 Chinese apps amid tension on the border. TikTok, UC Browser, Xender, SHAREit, WeChat and Weibo were among the notable apps that were banned in June. The second round of blocks came on July 23, when the minstry took down mirror appilcations that were functioning despite the ban.Here is the full list of apps banned by the government on September 2:1.APUS Launcher Pro- Theme, Live Wallpapers, Smart2.APUS Launcher -Theme, Call Show, Wallpaper, HideApps3.APUS Security -Antivirus, Phone security, Cleaner4.APUS Turbo Cleaner 2020- Junk Cleaner, Anti-Virus5.APUS Flashlight-Free & Bright6.Cut Cut – Cut Out & Photo Background Editor7.Baidu8.Baidu Express Edition9.FaceU - Inspire your Beauty10.ShareSave by Xiaomi: Latest gadgets, amazing deals11.CamCard - Business Card Reader12.CamCard Business13.CamCard for Salesforce14.CamOCR15.InNote16.VooV Meeting - Tencent Video Conferencing17.Super Clean - Master of Cleaner, Phone Booster18.WeChat reading19.Government WeChat20.Small Q brush21.Tencent Weiyun22.Pitu23.WeChat Work24.Cyber Hunter25.Cyber Hunter Lite26.Knives Out-No rules, just fight!27.Super Mecha Champions28.LifeAfter29.Dawn of Isles30.Ludo World-Ludo Superstar31.Chess Rush32.PUBG MOBILE Nordic Map: Livik33.PUBG MOBILE LITE34.Rise of Kingdoms: Lost Crusade35.Art of Conquest: Dark Horizon36.Dank Tanks37.Warpath38.Game of Sultans39.Gallery Vault - Hide Pictures And Videos40.Smart AppLock (App Protect) 41.Message Lock (SMS Lock)-Gallery Vault Developer Team42.Hide App-Hide Application Icon43.AppLock44.AppLock Lite45.Dual Space - Multiple Accounts & App Cloner46.ZAKZAK Pro - Live chat & video chat online47.ZAKZAK LIVE: live-streaming & video chat app48.Music - Mp3 Player49.Music Player - Audio Player & 10 Bands Equalizer50.HD Camera Selfie Beauty Camera51.Cleaner - Phone Booster52.Web Browser & Fast Explorer53.Video Player All Format for Android54.Photo Gallery HD & Editor55.Photo Gallery & Album56.Music Player - Bass Booster - Free Download57.HD Camera - Beauty Cam with Filters & Panorama58.HD Camera Pro & Selfie Camera59.Music Player - MP3 Player & 10 Bands Equalizer60.Gallery HD61.Web Browser - Fast, Privacy & Light Web Explorer62.Web Browser - Secure Explorer63.Music player - Audio Player64.Video Player - All Format HD Video Player65.Lamour Love All Over The World66.Amour- video chat & call all over the world.67.MV Master - Make Your Status Video & Community68.MV Master - Best Video Maker & Photo Video Editor69.APUS Message Center-Intelligent management 70.LivU Meet new people & Video chat with strangers71.Carrom Friends : Carrom Board & Pool Game-72.Ludo All Star- Play Online Ludo Game & Board Games73.Bike Racing : Moto Traffic Rider Bike Racing Games74.Rangers Of Oblivion : Online Action MMO RPG Game75.Z Camera - Photo Editor, Beauty Selfie, Collage76.GO SMS Pro - Messenger, Free Themes, Emoji77.U-Dictionary: Oxford Dictionary Free Now Translate78.Ulike - Define your selfie in trendy style79.Tantan - Date For Real80.MICO Chat: New Friends Banaen aur Live Chat karen81.Kitty Live - Live Streaming & Video Live Chat82.Malay Social Dating App to Date & Meet Singles83.Alipay84.AlipayHK85.Mobile Taobao86.Youku87.Road of Kings- Endless Glory88.Sina News89.Netease News 90.Penguin FM91.Murderous Pursuits 92.Tencent Watchlist (Tencent Technology 93.Learn Chinese AI-Super Chinese 94.HUYA LIVE – Game Live Stream 95.Little Q Album 96.Fighting Landlords - Free and happy Fighting Landlords97.Hi Meitu98.Mobile Legends: Pocket99.VPN for TikTok100.VPN for TikTok101.Penguin E-sports Live assistant102.Buy Cars-offer everything you need, special offers and low prices103.iPick104.Beauty Camera Plus - Sweet Camera & Face Selfie105.Parallel Space Lite - Dual App106.”Chief Almighty: First Thunder BC107.MARVEL Super War NetEase Games108.AFK Arena109.Creative Destruction NetEase Games110.Crusaders of Light NetEase Games111.Mafia City Yotta Games 112.Onmyoji NetEase Games113.Ride Out Heroes NetEase Games114.Yimeng Jianghu-Chu Liuxiang has been fully upgraded115.Legend: Rising Empire NetEase Games116.Arena of Valor: 5v5 Arena Games117.Soul Hunters118.Rules of Survival||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/118-more-chinese-apps-banned-including-pubg-here-is-the-full-list/story-Cr39p0cGAQWrMCrpYrQY7J.html
03-09-2020||India||India secures its east after western Himalayan clashes with China||India has moved troops to its eastern stretch of border with China since clashes erupted between the nuclear-armed rivals on the western part of their border in the Himalayas in June, a government official said.The June clash in the Ladakh region, in the western part of their border, was the worst violence between the Asian giants in decades and there has been little sign of a reduction in tension, with more military action in the past week.The movement of troops to the eastern district of Anjaw, in Arunachal Pradesh state, which China also claims, raises the prospect of a wider face-off though both government and military officials in India ruled out any imminent confrontation.“The military presence has surely increased, but as far as incursions are concerned, there are no verified reports as such,” said Ayushi Sudan, Anjaw’s chief civil servant, adding that several Indian army battalions were stationed there.“There has been an increase in troop deployment since the Galwan incident, and even prior to that we’d started,” she told Reuters by telephone, referring to the June clash in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.Arunachal Pradesh, which China calls South Tibet, was at the centre of a full-scale border war between India and China in 1962, and security analysts have warned that it could become a flash-point again.But an Indian military spokesman, Lieutenant Colonel Harsh Wardhan Pande, said there was no cause for concern and the troops arriving in the area were part of regular rotation.“Basically, it’s units changing. That’s happening as it happens every time, nothing much,” Pande told Reuters from near Guwahati, the largest city in northeastern India.“As of now, there’s nothing to worry about on that front.”But Tapir Gao, a member of parliament from Arunachal, told Reuters that Chinese troops had been regularly crossing into Indian territory.“It’s a regular phenomenon, it’s nothing new,” he said, identifying the Walong and Chaglagam areas in Anjaw as the most vulnerable.In the 1962 war, India says its outnumbered forces “blocked the thrust of the invading Chinese” in Walong, and the area of mountains, meadows and fast-flowing rivers is now a government focus for settlement and road-building.“What we’re trying to do is create more possibilities and opportunities for villagers,” said Sudan, referring to plans for clusters of villages in the disputed area.“It’s a push to resettle people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-secures-its-east-after-western-himalayan-clashes-with-china/story-guFLdtJa5YbxkNV7J74YLL.html
