04-09-2020||India||Sushant case: Rhea’s brother among 2 held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is looking into allegations of illegal drug use by the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his actor-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, arrested Rhea’s brother Showik and Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda on Friday night. Two others –Bandra residents Basit Parihar and Kaizan Ebrahim – were also arrested on Friday on charges of peddling drugs, taking the number of arrests in the case to seven. KPS Malhotra, deputy director of NCB, said, “We have informed the families of Showik and Miranda and both have been arrested under several sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.” Parihar was produced before a magistrate’s court which remanded him in NCB custody till September 9. Showik, Samuel and Ebrahim will be produced before a magistrate’s court on Saturday. The other three arrested for drug peddling are Zaid Vilatra, 20 (arrested on Thursday), Abbas Lakhani, and Karan Arora (arrested on August 27-28). Lakhani and Arora were arrested based on a specific input in another case and curated marijuana was seized from their possession. Their questioning led NCB to Vilatra, who told officials that he ran an eatery in Bandra (West), but was suffering losses owing to the lockdown and so started to peddle drugs. Vilatra alleged he was in touch with Ebrahim and Parihar. Parihar allegedly told NCB that he used to procure drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim, on the instructions of Chakraborty’s brother Showik who asked him to give it to Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda. Showik’s chats on a messaging application showed that on March 17, he shared Vilatra’s contact number with Miranda and asked to pay him ₹10,000 for 5gm. Miranda and Vilatra were tracked to the same location on March 17, said NCB officials, without elaborating on what the purchase was for.A senior IPS officer from NCB said, “We conducted searches at Miranda’s and Showik’s homes and collected some evidence. The investigation is at a preliminary stage and details of the evidence gathered can’t be revealed at the moment.” NCB officials said they have recovered Indian currency worth ₹955,750 and foreign currency – US$ 2081, 180 British Pound, 15 Dirham – from Vilatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-case-rhea-s-brother-among-2-held/story-uj3hZxmXNdMC8AclIha6ZP.html
04-09-2020||India||In Odisha, another MLA tests positive for Covid-19.He is the 22nd lawmaker to get infected||Biju Janata Dal MLA from Jagatsinghpur, Prasanta Muduli on Friday tested positive for Covid-19. He is the 22nd lawmaker from Odisha to be infected by the virus.The 57-year-old MLA said, after developing symptoms, he went for a Covid-19 test on Thursday and tested positive for the disease. The MLA is currently under home isolation and said his condition was stable.On Friday, BJD MP from Nabarangpur, Ramesh Majhi too tested positive for Covid-19 and requested everyone who came in contact with him to get themselves tested. Majhi is the 4th MP from Odisha to have tested positive for Covid-19. While Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan was the first to test positive for the virus, Suresh Pujari, BJP MP from Bargarh was the second. They were followed by Manjulata Mandal, BJD MP from Bhadrak.Among the ministers, labour minister Sushant Singh was the first to test positive for Covid-19 followed by higher education minister Arun Sahoo and textile minister Padmini Dian.BJP MLA from Nilagiri, Sukanta Nayak was the first among MLAs in Odisha to test positive for Covid-19. After him BJD MLAs Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, Bishnubrata Routray, Susant Rout, Ananta Narayan Jena, Bikram Panda, Byomakesh Ray, Debi Prasad Mishra, Pritam Padhi, Sanjib Mallick, Sunanda Das, Srikant Sahu, Sudhanshu Shekhar Parida and Prasant Behera had tested positive for the virus.Amid the rising infection among his MLAs, chief minister Naveen Patnaik has been attending meetings from his residence through video-conference where he is always seen wearing a mask.Meanwhile, the Odisha government on Friday approved the establishment of new Covid-19 hospitals and additional facility in the district of Cuttack, Koraput and Khurda as the infection surged in those areas. Odisha has so far reported 1,16,678 cases of which close to 26,000 are now in various hospitals. In Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, the 290 ICU beds are almost exhausted as the number of critical patients has increased.Additional chief secretary of health, PK Mohapatra said a 200-bed Covid-19 facility in SCB medical college and hospital of Cuttack would be set up. Similarly, a 70-bed facility at Shahid Laxman Nayak medical college and hospital will be set up at Koraput. A 110-bed facility at Kanungo Institute of Diabetes Specialities of Bhubaneswar and 55-bed ICU in Aditya Ashwini Hospital of Bhubaneswar would be set up in next 7 days. In Cuttack, a 155-bed facility would be started at SUN Hospital of Tulasipur and 77- bed facility in Srusti Hospital.All the Covid-19 hospitals will deploy adequate manpower and provide the required facilities for proper functioning of the ICU/HDU/OT/Labour Room/Dialysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-another-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-he-is-the-22nd-lawmaker-to-get-infected/story-WFkcBvtzSLaX4HvZG67L3H.html
04-09-2020||India||States told to review parole, furlough rules||New DelhiUnion home ministry has said that the release of prisoners on parole and furlough is not an “absolute right” and should be allowed only to selective prisoners on the basis of well-defined norms of eligibility while asking all the states and union territories to review the guidelines in this regard. Terrorists, people involved in heinous crimes, riots, dacoity or those involved in smuggling of drugs should not be eligible for release on parole or furlough as it could have adverse impact on society, the ministry said in its letter to states and UTs on Thursday. Decisions regarding release of prisoners on parole or remission in their imprisonment is taken by state governments on the basis of conduct, as prisons come under the state governments.The MHA suggested new guidelines should include that parole and furlough may not be granted as a matter of routine and may be decided by a committee of officers and behavioural experts keeping in view all relevant factors, especially for inmates sentenced for sexual offences, serious crimes such as murder, child abduction and violence. Officials, who requested anonymity, said that the advisory has been sent to states/UTs as there are reports from different parts of the country that many of those released from jails due to the coronavirus disease pandemic on parole were indulging in crimes. Referring to the Model Prison Manual, 2016, the MHA said prisoners whose immediate presence in the society may be considered dangerous or otherwise prejudicial to public peace should not be considered for release. The MHA said that prisoners convicted for heinous offences such as dacoity, terrorist crimes, kidnapping for ransom, smuggling of narcotic and psychotropic substances, “may not report back to the prison after completion of the furlough period and should not be released”. It added that concerns have also been raised regarding recidivism, as in some cases prison inmates on temporary release from prison either on parole or furlough or on premature release before completion of their sentence, have re-offended or indulged in criminal activities. “This underlines the need to carefully regulate the grant of parole, furlough, remission and premature release to prisoners,” the MHA said. It is, therefore, important for state authorities to review their guidelines to ensure that the facility and concession given to inmates, by way of parole, furlough and premature release, etc, with the intention of providing them relief and rehabilitation, “is not abused and misused by them and their advantage does not turn into disadvantage and nuisance for the society at large”, the ministry said. The MHA suggested that expert psychologist, criminologist and correctional administration experts as members of the Sentence Review Board, should be included in the committee which decides grant of parole and furlough to inmates. Neeraj Kumar, former Director General of Tihar said, “I believe that nobody should be labeled a hardened criminal or person involved in heinous crime and parole, furlough or premature release should be decided in a non-partisan, non-biased manner on the basis of behaviour of the person during his stay in jail and not the crime he is in for”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-told-to-review-parole-furlough-rules/story-YdShXveYr5PxyV4ZoUMnuN.html
04-09-2020||India||Strictly adhere to time limit in probes against officials: Shah to MHA depts||New DelhiUnion home minister Amit Shah has ordered the departments under him to complete departmental enquiries against officers facings allegations of corruption or administrative lapses in prescribed time limits. A communication, sent to all the divisions and organisations under the ministry of home affairs (MHA), said, “It is observed by the Hon’ble home minister that the prescribed schedule of time limits in conducting investigations and departmental inquiries is not being followed by the departments/divisions as per the instructions issued by Central Vigilance Commission (CVC)”. HT has seen the communication.According to the guidelines issued by CVC in May 2000 on time limits for departmental inquiries, once a complaint against an officer in any government department is received, a decision on whether it involves a vigilance angle or not has to be taken within a month and the department inquiry should be completed within six months. The letter sent to all divisions under the MHA and chief vigilance officers (CVOs) of all departments on behalf of Shah says that there should be strict compliance of the guidelines. The departments which report to the home minister include all central paramilitary forces - Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Assam Rifles, National Security Guard (NSG), Intelligence Bureau (IB), Natgrid, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), National Civil Defence College (NCDC) etc. The divisions in MHA under Shah’s authority are J&K, Ladakh, left wing extremism (LWE), border management, foreigners’ division, cyber crime, Centre-State division, prisons and others which are crucial in making day-to-day decisions on internal security. Officials familiar with the development, who didn’t wish to be named, said many inquiries linger on for years without any reasons. As reported by HT last month, the anti-corruption watchdog – Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) – had also written to all CVOs in all ministries and government departments to complete the disciplinary proceedings against officers facing inquiries for corruption or administrative lapses in time even if they were to conduct the proceedings through video-conferencing amid the Covid-19 pandemic. CVOs posted in every government department are responsible for finalising a disciplinary proceeding against officials indulging in any activity in violation of the norms or forwarding serious corruption complaints to CVC so that a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) can be requested if required. The CVC has repeatedly reminded government departments to finish their disciplinary proceedings in time. A July 2018 letter, written by CVC, to all departments stated that “the unexplained delays lead to Central Administrative Tribunals (CATs) and the high courts quashing the chargesheet(s) on the sole ground that the concerned disciplinary authorities had issued chargesheets to the delinquents (officer under investigation) after very long periods of commission of alleged misconduct etc and also for unexplained delays in conducting disciplinary enquiries”. “More so, such long delays in finalizing disciplinary matters are not unjust to officials who may be finally exonerated, but helps the guilty to evade punitive action,” CVC had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strictly-adhere-to-time-limit-in-probes-against-officials-shah-to-mha-depts/story-C49Fh29fibgbewrxl5XQ0O.html
04-09-2020||India||Life after Section 377: Read what four LGBTQ people have to say||Two years after the Supreme Court decriminalised homosexuality by reading down the colonial-era section of the Indian Penal Code, four young members of the queer community speak about what’s next for themAnish Gawande, 24, writer and translatorIn 2018, Anish Gawande, then 22, worked as a campaign aide for key politicians such as Ashok Chavan and Milind Deora of the Congress Party in the run up to the Lok Sabha elections. A few months after he joined the team, the Supreme Court verdict on Section 377 was delivered, decriminalizing homosexuality. “There were jokes made behind my back, but there was always an openness to engage,” he said. A few months later, as the country went to polls, Gawande and Smriti Deora co-founded Pink List India, as an archive of what the candidates had said of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) community and its rights. Today, Pink List offers more: Every single statement made by any Lok Sabha Parliamentarian on LGBTQI issues. “While there is an important legal battle for equality that must be fought in courtrooms, it’s time we go beyond requesting rights and start demanding rights. There is an avenue to discuss queerness in politics.”Megha Nandi, 25, graphic designerMegha Nandi, 25, still recalls the first Pride parade that she attended. It was a year before the Supreme Court verdict, and only a clutch of women had gathered at Hazratganj, the historic market area in the heart of Lucknow. “I felt empowered to be myself,” Nandi said, adding that she wanted other women to feel this way too. In February, she started an Instagram account called Humjinsi. “After the verdict, was easier to talk about the issue, and we could talk more openly about it,” she said. Many young women reached out to her through private messages over the social media platform and a group of them met up a coffee shop in Hazratganj Chowk. However, a year on, Nandi has closed her account. “There is still a lot of anxiety about meeting; parents don’t allow them to step out, and so many can’t show up at meetings,” she said. “If anyone wants to connect, they can reach me on my personal account,” she said.Sia, 20, tech professionalWhen Sia, 20, came out to her family as a transwoman, they hired men who abducted her one night and dragged her to a nearby “conversion” centre. She was forced to live with 170 men without her consent because her parents thought that living alongside men would “cure” her. However, what she faced at the centre was daily violence. But the judgment on September 6, 2018 changed everything. “I got some privilege. They didn’t behave so badly with me. The verdict gave me courage. I started to raise my voice and say I had rights, and that the Supreme Court had affirmed this,” she said. Now a professional with Tech Mahindra, Sia feels that the verdict helped her demand equal rights. “They treat us as equals. Not as something different. This is a big change.” Ramesh, 23, studentRamesh V, grew up in rural Andhra Pradesh and said he was unaware of terms like LGBT (an umbrella term that denotes the Lesbian Gay Bisexual and Transgender community) until he went to college. Moreover, coming from a poor Dalit family, he said there were not many resources to help him come to terms with her sexuality. The Supreme Court judgment against section 377 was when his friends started talking about homosexuality – and this helped him start exploring the LGBT community. “I am thankful to the court that it saw that people like me have rights. But to be honest, it didn’t change the attitude of my family and neighbours,” he said. Ramesh said he dreads going back home because not only is he forced to act straight but also fend off talk about his marriage. But in the city, too, he is bogged down by what he calls rampant discrimination that he faces as a Dalit student. “The court can give us rights but I wonder if it can take discrimination away,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-after-section-377-read-what-four-lgbt-people-have-to-say/story-Gr32nT7pEjneuVM552zqQI.html
04-09-2020||India||BRICS foreign ministers express concern at conflicts, call for resolution through dialogue||The Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping on Friday expressed concern at violence and conflicts in different parts of the world and said such situations should be resolved peacefully through political dialogue. The joint statement issued after a virtual meeting of Brics foreign ministers didn’t refer to any particular conflict, and the grouping has a convention of not taking up bilateral issues between its members. However, the meeting was held against the backdrop of the months-long border standoff between India and China, two of the grouping’s key members. “The ministers expressed concerns at the rise of violence and continuing conflicts in different parts of the world that have significant impact at both the regional and international levels,” the joint statement said. “They concurred that, irrespective of their historic background and distinctive nature, conflicts should be resolved by peaceful means and diplomatic engagement through political dialogue and negotiations in line with principles and norms of international law, particularly the UN Charter,” it added. The ministers pointed to the UN Security Council resolution 2532 of 2020 demanding a general and immediate cessation of hostilities in all situations, with the exception of operations against terror groups sanctioned by the Security Council, and calling for a “durable humanitarian pause” amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The ministers also “underlined the imperative of dialogue to address increasing international peace and security challenges through political and diplomatic means”, the joint statement said. A readout from the external affairs ministry said the discussions at the meeting centred round an overview of the global situation, including “new threats and challenges” and “regional hot spots”. The Brics meeting was to have been held in Moscow on September 11 but was advanced to Friday and made a virtual event after the foreign ministers of Brazil and South Africa said they couldn’t travel because of the pandemic. Besides external affairs minister S Jaishankar, it was joined by China’s Wang Yi, Russia’s Sergey Lavrov, who chaired the meeting. Brazil’s Ernesto Araújo, and South Africa’s Grace Naledi Pandor. Jaishankar spoke to Wang soon after the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley, and the two leaders have joined several virtual multilateral meetings. Jaishankar and Wang are also expected to meet on the margins of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10. The foreign ministers also discussed Brics cooperation at international forums, including on key issues on the 75 UN General Assembly agenda, and reviewed progress in activities under the grouping. Jaishankar said Brics has an important role to play in the wake of grave challenges in the economic, political, social and health fields. He highlighted India’s “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” initiative to foster mutually beneficial global economic engagement in economy, infrastructure, technology, demography and demand. He also emphasised the need to reform the UN to reflect global realities and called for expansion of the Security Council in the permanent and non-permanent categories. He also called for reformed multilateralism, including reform of international bodies such as the WTO, IMF and WHO. Jaishankar also highlighted the issue of terrorism and sought enhanced Brics cooperation in countering it. He expressed satisfaction at the conclusion of the Brics counter-terrorism strategy. India is set to become the Brics chair in 2021, and Jaishankar said the country will continue to strengthen cooperation under the grouping’s three pillars of political and security cooperation, economics and trade and people-to-people contacts. The ministers also reaffirmed support for a transparent, open, inclusive and non-discriminatory rules-based multilateral trading system, as embodied by the WTO, the joint statement said. They appreciated the role of the New Development Bank (NDB) in infrastructure and sustainable development financing and welcomed the NDB Board of Governors’ decision to establish an emergency assistance facility of up to $10 billion and the approval of four loans for a total of $4 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-foreign-ministers-express-concern-at-conflicts-call-for-resolution-through-dialogue/story-en76SLY7n7nMnTQLX4yKTN.html
04-09-2020||India||Bullet Train project may face delays due to Covid-19||The work on land acquisition and tendering for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor may face delays due to Covid-19 and the Bullet Train may fail to meet its 2023 deadline, officials aware of the development said.So far 63 percent land has been acquired for the project, according to the project implementing agency National High-Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL).The project connecting Mumbai and Ahmedabad has a deadline of December 2023. The Railways had said last month that the high-speed rail corridor is expected to be completed on time despite the Covid-19 outbreak.The project has had to contend with issues ranging from protests by landowners to rising costs because of a widening gap between the Indian rupee and the Japanese yen; 80 percent of the Rs 1 trillion needed to fund the project will come from a 20-year Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) loan.Also read: ‘Vaccine nationalism’ would prolong coronavirus pandemic, says WHO chief TedrosThe estimated total cost of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad project is Rs 1.08 trillion, of which 81 percent cost is planned for funding through the loan from the JICA, may be escalated, officials said. “Last year, the company had floated nine civil work tenders which could not be opened due to the pandemic. The deadline of the project is likely to be shifted further due to this,” the officials added.Centre has signed a loan agreement with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for providing Rs 15,000 crore, of the total loan amount of Rs 88,000 crore.“It is difficult to assess the impact of the pandemic (Covid 19) on the project as it still continuing,” NHRCL spokesperson told Hindustan Times.“As per the feasibility study, the target date for the completion of Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail project is December 2023. About 63 percent land has been acquired for the project and tenders for civil works for 345 kilometres out of 508 kilometres alignment (68 percent of civil works) is already floated. This includes six MAHSR stations (including one underground station in Mumbai). The works related to utility diversion are progressing well and the construction of Sabarmati passenger hub (a multi-modal hub) in Sabarmati, Gujarat has also started. The hostel building of High-Speed Training Institute (which is presently being used for Covid patients) and training tracks in Vadodara are also completed,” he said.One section of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor is likely to be tendered out within three months after nearly 90 percent of the land acquisition for the project is completed, according to railway board chairman VK Yadav, Hindustan Times had reported on August 4.Yadav had said there has been a “slowdown” in land acquisition due to Covid-19.“As on date, we have acquired 60 percent of the land... Due to Covid situation there was some slowdown in land acquisition but it has started picking up now and we are sure over the coming six months, most of the land will be acquired,” he had told HT earlier. Indian Railways has so far completed 76 percent of land acquisition in Gujarat and 24 percent in Maharashtra, he said.The national transporter has also begun feasibility studies on seven other potential high-speed corridors to gauge their financial viability and estimated traffic they will attract. The Indian Railways is exploring whether the corridors would be viable to run high-speed Bullet Trains with speeds above 300 kmph.The seven proposed corridors are Delhi-Varanasi, Varanasi-Howrah, Delhi–Ahmedabad, Mumbai–Nagpur, Mumbai–Hyderabad, Chennai-Mysore and Delhi–Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bullet-train-project-may-face-delays-due-to-covid-19/story-mxCkmXIRlZ4kYrKMPnSfQI.html
04-09-2020||India||How SC judgment has led to more measures against Prashant Bhushan||The repercussions of the criminal contempt case initiated by the Supreme Court against lawyer Prashant Bhushan have not ended yet. While the top court fined Bhushan with a paltry sum of Rs 1, the judgment left enough scope to also ensure that Bhushan’s license to practice law can be suspended.“Pursuant to the conviction in a criminal case, the Bar Council of India (BCI) can suspend the enrolment, if it so desires,” the judgment said at paragraph 89.The Bar Council of India has now cited the top court’s judgment to order the Bar Council of Delhi, where Bhushan is enrolled, to examine Bhushan’s tweets and take action as per law.Also read: Cash-strapped govt cuts non-essential expenditures amid Covid-19 crisis“The BCI is of the view that the tweets and statements made by Prashant Bhushan and the judgment of the Supreme Court need thorough study and examination… the General Council of the BCI has unanimously resolved to direct the Bar Council of Delhi, where Bhushan is enrolled as an advocate, to examine the matter and proceed as per law and decide the same as expeditiously as possible,” a press release issued by BCI stated.Section 24A of the Advocates Act provides that a person shall not be admitted as an advocate on roll of the bar council of the concerned state if he/ she is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude. Section 35 of the Act lays down that if an advocate is found guilty of professional or other misconduct, such an advocate can be suspended from practice for a limited period or their license can be cancelled altogether. Bar Council of India Rules also prescribe the professional conduct and etiquette required of an advocate towards the court.The BCI said that Bhushan’s tweets should be examined in the light of the above provisions. Bhushan was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-sc-judgment-has-led-to-more-measures-against-prashant-bhushan/story-yZ3uG9sr0fvU0kurR9P3OI.html
04-09-2020||India||Bengal BJP chief says TMC govt’s days are numbered||The ‘save democracy’ programme launched by the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday triggered an exchange of rhetoric between the saffron camp and the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). BJP leaders in some parts of north Bengal also alleged that their rallies were stopped by police on the ground of violation of social distancing norms. “People’s verdict will have the last word. Have faith in us. The TMC government’s days are numbered. The countdown has begun,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said at the party’s main programme held near the statue of Gandhi on Mayo Road in central Kolkata. Also read: Cash-strapped govt cuts non-essential expenditures amid Covid-19 crisisSimilar programmes were held in every district where senior state leaders took part. There was a clash between TMC and BJP workers at Mathabhanga in Cooch Behar district when the ruling party workers allegedly damaged some vehicles in which the BJP workers were travelling. In Kolkata, Ghosh also cautioned the police and alleged that the force was being controlled by the TMC. “Be prepared for the day when we come to power. BJP workers are framed in false cases and put in jail. They are murdered and their bodies are hung from trees,” said Ghosh. Reacting to his statements, TMC Lok Saba MP Saugata Roy said, “How many times have Dilip Ghosh, or any BJP leader for that matter, have been to jail? These are all baseless allegations. The TMC will remain in power. His dream will never be fulfilled.”To mount pressure on the Centre, the TMC will organize agitation in every community block and municipal ward of the state on September 8 and 14. “The states cannot be forced to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India to meet the shortfall in revenue from Goods and Services Tax (GST). Also, the Centre is yet to release funds for relief and rehabilitation of people affected by cyclone Amphan. It has given only Rs 1,000 crore,” said TMC spokesperson Om Prakash Mishra. “On September 20, we will hold another state-wide agitation against privatization of public sector units,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-chief-says-tmc-govt-s-days-are-numbered/story-CPaoKKbWR2Pr2wBD1XjrzO.html
04-09-2020||India||Crisis along LAC unprecedented, can’t be business as usual with China: Foreign secretary Shringla||The situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is “unprecedented” and it “cannot be business as usual” in the relationship with China until the status quo is restored on the disputed border, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. The standoff on the LAC is one of the most serious challenges India has faced in several decades and the current “magnitude of amassing of forces” on the border hasn’t been witnessed in recent years, Shringla said while speaking on the theme of Indian diplomacy amid the Covid-19 pandemic during a lecture organised by the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA). “We have had an unprecedented situation on the India-China border, we have never had this sort of situation since 1962. We have lost the lives of soldiers which has not happened in the last 40 years,” he said, referring to the brief but bitter border war fought almost six decades ago. “We have also seen that there has been an attempt to take unilateral action that seems to be an effort to change facts on the ground. We will be firm and resolute in resisting this, and as far as we are concerned, there will be no compromise on our sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Shringla said hours ahead of a planned meeting between the Indian and Chinese defence ministers on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow. Though India remains willing to talk with China and has kept the lines of communication open amid the pandemic, Shringla warned that it “cannot be business as usual unless there is peace and tranquillity in our border areas”. He added, “The normal bilateral relationship will be affected. There is a linkage between what is happening on the border and our larger relationship and that fact is very, very evident.” The only way to take things forward will be “revert to the status quo that existed before such aggressive actions took place” and to de-escalate and disengage frontline troops, he said. India have held several rounds of talks at the military and diplomatic level and even contacts between the two foreign ministers and Special Representatives on border issues haven’t led to a breakthrough since the standoff emerged in the open in May. Following a fresh faceoff on the south bank of Pangong Lake, there have been four rounds on inconclusive talks between brigade commanders on the ground. Shringla described the standoff as “one of the most serious challenges we have faced in many decades” but India remains committed to preserving its territorial integrity and sovereignty. He also focused on how India’s foreign policy is coping with the challenges brought on by the pandemic, which he described as “perhaps the greatest shock to the international system since World War 2”. The Covid-19 crisis has made India take a close look at the fundamental drivers of globalisation and the deficiencies and limitations of the existing global system, he added. At a time when every country is looking at its own interests, there is a need for some sort of balance and to broaden the agenda of the international system and institutions, he said. The world order also has to focus on ensuring that a Covid-19 vaccine is accessible and affordable, and that there is “some level of equitable distribution” for it, he added. India also has been at the forefront of digital diplomacy because its “global spread of interests and stakes makes us vulnerable on many fronts”, Shringla said. The government is now working to make the country the nerve centre of global supply chains and promoting it as an alternative manufacturing hub and innovation destination, he said. The government remains committed to its “neighbourhood first” policy, Shringla said. However, he acknowledged that the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) had taken a back seat to the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (Bimstec) because “one of our neighbours has been consistently involved in blocking Saarc in all of its constructive activities”. Though Shringla didn’t name any country, it was obvious he was referring to Pakistan. Bimstec, he said, had emerged as an alternative mechanism because it was a vital link between South and Southeast Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crisis-along-lac-unprecedented-can-t-be-business-as-usual-with-china-foreign-secretary-shringla/story-Oh2Lcv0fep4xOBJmv8iMJK.html
04-09-2020||India||Revise guidelines on parole, furlough, premature release of prisoners: MHA to states||The Union home ministry on Friday said that release of prisoners on parole and furlough is not an “absolute right” and should be allowed only to selective prisoners on the basis of well-defined norms of eligibility while asking all the states and union territories to review the guidelines in this regard. The ministry said that terrorists, people involved in heinous crimes, riots, dacoity or those involved in smuggling of drugs should not be eligible for release on parole or furlough as it could have an adverse impact on society. Prisons come under the state governments and decisions to release prisoners on parole or remission in their imprisonment is taken by them on the basis of conduct. In its letter, sent to states/UTs on Thursday, the MHA suggested new guidelines should include that parole and furlough may not be granted as a matter of routine and may be decided by a committee of officers and behavioural experts keeping in view all relevant factors, especially for inmates sentenced for sexual offences, serious crimes such as murder, child abduction and violence. Officials who didn’t wish to be named said that the advisory has been sent to states/UTs as there are reports from different parts of the country that many of those released from jails due to the coronavirus pandemic on parole were indulging in crimes. Referring to the Model Prison Manual, 2016, the MHA said prisoners whose immediate presence in the society may be considered dangerous or otherwise prejudicial to public peace should not be considered for release. The MHA said that prisoners convicted for heinous offences such as dacoity, terrorist crimes, kidnapping for ransom, smuggling of narcotic and psychotropic substances, “may not report back to the prison after completion of the furlough period and should not be released”. It added that concerns have also been raised regarding recidivism, as in some cases prison inmates on temporary release from prison either on parole or furlough or on premature release before completion of their sentence, have re-offended or indulged in criminal activities. “This underlines the need to carefully regulate the grant of parole, furlough, remission and premature release to prisoners,” it said. It is, therefore, important for state authorities to review their guidelines to ensure that the facility and concession given to inmates, by way of parole, furlough and premature release, etc., with the intention of providing them relief and rehabilitation, “is not abused and misused by them and their advantage does not turn into disadvantage and nuisance for the society at large,” the ministry said. The MHA suggested that expert psychologist criminologist, correctional administration expert as a member of the Sentence Review Board, should be included in the committee which decides grant of parole and furlough to inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revise-guidelines-on-parole-furlough-premature-release-of-prisoners-mha-to-states/story-m7rgZ6yoNh7qiPCXvraeqO.html
04-09-2020||India||‘Soaring higher’: Aviation minister says domestic flight operations picking up||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Wednesday said domestic flight operations were picking up as the centre has allowed flights’ capacity to increase to 60 percent.“Soaring Higher! Domestic Operations on 3rd September 2020, Day 103 till 2359 hrs. Departures stood at 1156 with 1,20,388 passengers handled and arrivals ar1156 with 1,20,269 passengers handled,” Puri tweeted.He added that the footfall at airports stood at 2,40,657 with total number of flyers at 1,20,388.“When we resumed civil aviation operations, the country witnessed domestic traffic of around 30,000 passengers and now slowly it has increased to nearly 120,000 passengers,” Puri had said at a press conference on Wednesday. The civil aviation ministry on Wednesday announced increasing the limited domestic flight operations from 45 percent to 60 percent.Also read: Eyes on economy, Finance Ministry bans creation of new posts in central ministries“After the review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demands for air travel in terms of the purpose specified in the initial order (01/2020) dated 21.05.2020, condition laid down....is modified as under 45% capacity may be read as 60% capacity. This order shall take effect from the date of issue of this order. The other terms and conditions shall remain the same,” the ministry said had said in its order.After resuming domestic passenger flights in India from May 25 following a two-month gap due to Covid-19-triggered lockdown, the Centre had allowed Indian airlines to operate with only 33 percent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. On June 26, the ministry had further increased the limit to 45 percent.At present, scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 22. However, special international flights have been operating under government’s Vande Bharat Mission since May under bilateral air bubble pacts signed with various countries.Domestic and international air traffic to and from India may decline by at least 50 percent in the current financial year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, causing significant job losses and force some airlines to ground aircraft to tide over the situation, according to centre’s estimates Hindustan Times had reported on August 18.According to aviation consultancy Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), domestic traffic is expected to decline by over 60 percent and international traffic by 70-80 percent in financial year 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soaring-higher-aviation-minister-says-domestic-flight-operations-picking-up/story-uB4WVCnLletOjsydL265RM.html
04-09-2020||India||Rhea’s brother Showik Chakraborty, Samuel Miranda arrested over drug allegations||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday night arrested Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and Samuel Miranda in connection with the drugs probe linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Deputy director KPS Malhotra of the NCB said, “We have informed Showik and Samuel Miranda’s family and both have been arrested under several sections of NDPS act”. Both will be produced in the court on Saturday, he added. A team from the bureau raided the residence of Showik in Santa Cruz (West) area and Miranda’s residence in suburban Andheri (West) area in the early hours of Friday. Some evidence had been collected from both the places.Earlier, the NCB arrested two drug peddlers operating in Mumbai named Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar.Also read: Shashank director says he met Sushant Singh Rajput’s family in Patna, ‘hinted’ at film: ‘Don’t know why they have reacted in this manner’NCB sources said both Vilatra and Parihar revealed Showik’s and Miranda’s name upon interrogation. An analysis of Showik’s chats revealed that on March 17, 2020, he shared Vilatra’s contact number with Samuel Miranda and asked to pay him Rs 10,000 for 5gms of drugs. Thereafter, Miranda contacted Vilatra for the first time on Showik’s behest, NCB officials added.Watch| Sushant death probe: Rhea’s brother Showik & Samuel Miranda arrested by NCB The bureau pointed out that there were several instances where Parihar arranged drugs and was in regular contact with Showik. Parihar is learnt to have links with the narcotics case registered against Rhea Chakraborty and many others. Rhea is the main accused in the death case of the 34-year-old actor which is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges and NCB. Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his Bandra apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/showik-chakraborty-and-samuel-miranda-to-be-arrested-soon-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb/story-3coLSS0u4DC8DHC7OmvGgN.html
04-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Finance Ministry bans new appointments and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Eyes on economy, Finance Ministry bans creation of new posts in central ministriesIn a significant move, the Ministry of Finance on Friday issued an order, banning creation of new posts in central ministries, taking into account the current fiscal situation and the consequent pressure on government resources. Read moreSupreme Court says JEE, NEET to be held as scheduledThe Supreme Court refused to entertain the petition filed by ministers of six opposition-ruled states seeking review of the top court’s August 17 order to conduct NEET and JEE (Mains) examinations as scheduled. Read more‘No compromise in territorial integrity’: Foreign Secretary Harsh V Shringla on India-China border disputeForeign Secretary Harsh V Shringla on Friday said India remains firmly committed to preserving its ‘territorial integrity and sovereignty’ amid tension on the border with China. Read morePak PM’s top aide Asim Bajwa resigns after report on corruption allegations surfacesPakistan prime minister Imran Khan announced on Friday that he would not accept the resignation of his Special Assistant on Information Lt Gen (retd) Asim Saleem Bajwa. Read moreAfter Suresh Raina, Harbhajan Singh pulls out of IPL 2020Terming the current scenario ‘difficult’, Chennai Super Kings(CSK) off-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Friday decided to pull out of IPL 2020. Read moreAkshay Kumar announces new game FAU-G after PUBG banAkshay Kumar is launching a made-in-India alternative to popular multiplayer action game PUBG, which was banned by the government earlier this week, amid fresh tensions over Chinese provocation in Ladakh. Read moreTwitter thread details hilarious experiences servers had working in the food industryHave you ever gone to give a food or drinks order and accidentally said or done something hilariously incorrect? If yes, then this Twitter thread is meant for you to read. Read MoreTeacher’s Day 2020: Quotes, wishes and messages to share with your favourite teachersAnnually on September 5, we celebrate National Teacher’s Day to express our gratitude and honour the teachers in our lives that have influenced us and taught us about everything the world has to offer. Read moreWatch: Indian, Russian Navy hold joint maritime exercise in Bay of Bengal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-finance-ministry-bans-new-appointments-and-all-the-latest-news/story-USNljCUht8TCl9S1pjIjKL.html
04-09-2020||India||Biomedical engineer builds kitchen garden, dedicated room for over 200 plants||Eighteen months ago, Thane resident Vijaykumar Katti, 60, brought home a potted plant, but it died within a few days. Defeated by the experience, the former technologist from Tata Memorial Hospital’s radiotherapy department learnt everything about safeguarding and growing plants at home. “Taking care of a plant is not as simple as it looks. It requires dedicated effort and I set out to find answers,” said Katti, a biomedical engineer who began acquiring plants from around his residence and studied their requirements. The Covid-19 lockdown gave him enough time to achieve what he set out for. Today, Katti, a social worker since 1993, has a dedicated room full of as many as 275 plants consisting of seven species in his two-bedroom flat at Balkum-Saket road. He also has a 3ftx6ft kitchen garden (with over 25 species) in his backyard and consumes only home-grown vegetables. Also read: Delhi logs yet another highest single-day spike of nearly 3,000 Covid casesKatti will inaugurate his project on Saturday on the occasion of Teachers Day. “This is an opportunity for me to share and express my knowledge and gratitude with all my teachers, parents and guides who have supported me,” he said. A 2015 study by Japanese and Korean researchers showed that plants help suppress psychological and physiological stress signals released by the nervous system. Taking care of them, however, is complicated. “There is a difference between putting up a plant for show, and actually monitoring its growth from being a sapling. When that first plant died on me, I needed to learn about correct temperature, moisture availability, adequate sunlight, water provision or correct soil content,” said Katti. He began by bringing home plants that were neglected or dried. “I was lucky that my family (wife and child) were willing to devote one room to nurturing these plants,” he said. The room (see image) has home flowering, decorative and high carbon-absorbing plants, and 17 bonsais created from cuttings of plants found on the road. Also read: Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi arrested in Bengaluru in drug probeExperts in urban rooftop greening said neglect and over-enthusiasm are the primary reasons why plants may not survive. “Most people ensure their efforts are not wasted by keeping a close watch, while others forget about them beyond visual pleasure. Some overwater their plants, while others are unaware of which season to grow them,” said Monisha Narke, founder and CEO, RUR Greenlife. “A balance is always needed.” During the Covid-19 lockdown, Katti was involved in disinfecting vehicles for the Thane road transport office and other government offices. “I came across farmers who had travelled from Nashik and who explained why their vegetables were immunity boosters. So I decided to put together my own kitchen garden with tomato, potato, onion, kadi patta, tea leaves, ginger, spinach etc. Four months on, I don’t need to depend on the local vegetable market,” he said. Therapists said the power of nature has a calming effect on mental health. “Caring for house plants requires more patience and a focused approach. We need to connect with nature before adopting a plant,” said Roshan Mansukhani, music therapist and counsellor. Katti said not a single plant has died under his care over the past year. “With the correct knowledge and attention to basic requirements, these plants have become my best friend. As I move into the latter stage of my life, this experiment that requires zero investment and 100 percent engagement is my way of giving something back to the environment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biomedical-engineer-builds-kitchen-garden-dedicated-room-for-over-200-plants/story-q55kXsVOwXQtQrPNRTiA9M.html
04-09-2020||India||Judge prods CBI to complete Moin Qureshi probe, seeks details on 9 points||The Central Bureau of Investigation has told a special judge that the agency’s probe against Moin Qureshi and former CBI chief AP Singh was impacted due to the Covid-19 pandemic and is resuming the investigation in the case that lay at the center of the agency’s two top officers, Rakesh Asthana and Alok Verma, feuding with each other.The CBI’s status report, submitted to special judge Sanjeev Aggarwal last month, said it had earlier halted this probe pending completion of the investigation in the 2018 bribery complaint filed by one of the suspects, Sathish Babu Sana. This complaint was directed at Rakesh Asthana who was supervising the probe. Asthana’s name was cleared in February this year. “However, not much progress could be made in the instant case since March 2020 onwards because of Covid-19 pandemic situation,” the CBI status report said.At an earlier hearing in early August, the judge had frowned at the lack of forward movement in the February 2017 case registered against millionaire meat exporter Moin Qureshi. In this FIR, the CBI had alleged that Moin Qureshi, apart from his day job of a meat exporter, also worked as a middleman for “certain public servants” and was helped by AP Singh who retired as CBI chief in 2012.JUDGE FLAGS 9 POINTS FOR CBIHow many documents have been collected/witnesses examinedWhat action has been taken against private persons who figure in BlackBerry messenger chatsWhat action has been taken / proposed to be taken against those public servants of whom Moin Akhtar Qureshi was allegedly acting as a middleman, as stated in FIRWhat favours were obtained in lieu of bribes allegedly paid to Mr Moin Akhtar Qureshi? By whom, through whomWhether any arrest proposal was made or drafted regarding the arrest of any of the suspects in this case till dateWhether ex-director of CBI AP Singh was ever examined in this caseWhether role of any CBI officer was examined in this case or that of any other public servant of any other departmentDoes, as mentioned in para 8 of the reply filed by CBI as above, merely because one person is complainant in RC 13(A)/2018/CBI?AC-III give him immunity in other cases or present case?What is the provisional timeline under which, final report in this case is proposed to be finalised by the investigating agency?The judge noted that the Moin Qureshi case, registered in February 2017 on information from the Enforcement Directorate, was yet to reach its logical end. “It appears to be moving at snail’s pace,” Aggarwal said, contrasting the pace with the “offshoot” of this case where a charge sheet had been filed earlier this year.“Therefore, such open-ended investigations which keep on gathering dust for years together may seriously erode the credibility/faith of public at large in premier investigating agency of india i.e. CBI, which is deleterious to rule of law, more so, when one of the accused in the above RC is Sh A.P. Singh Ex. CZAR or Ex. Director of CBI,” Aggarwal wrote in his 7 August order.Investigations into this case had gone for a toss after Sathish Sana Babu filed a corruption complaint against Rakesh Asthana. The allegation came around the time Asthana, who was overseeing the CBI’s special team put together to probe a bunch of complaints against Moin Qureshi, was pushing for Sathish Sana Babu’s arrest. Asthana had alleged that Sathish Sana Babu had paid off some CBI officials to stay out of trouble.In this FIR registered by the CBI in October when Alok Verma was still the director, Babu alleged that he had paid a Rs 2 crore bribe to Asthana via Dubai-based brothers - Manoj Prasad and Somesh Prasad - to be spared any action in the investigation linked to Qureshi. The money, he alleged, was paid over a 10-month period -- starting from December 2017. The CBI found no evidence to back this allegation against Asthana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judge-prods-cbi-to-complete-moin-qureshi-probe-seeks-details-on-9-points/story-w1mKYri5Waf3Vfrafiyj0H.html
04-09-2020||India||Cash-strapped govt cuts non-essential expenditures amid Covid-19 crisis||The government has decided to cut non-essential expenditures, such as expenses on celebrations, creation of new posts and appointment of consultants, to save scarce resources for priority sectors as country’s fiscal deficit has already crossed 103 percent of the budgeted estimated for the entire 2020-21.The department of expenditure (DoE) issued an order on Friday asking all government departments and autonomous bodies to cut administrative expenses. This is close on the heels of a similar order issued on Wednesday that banned the printing of diaries, calendars and coffee table books in physical forms.“ln the context of the present fiscal situation and the consequent pressure on Government resources, there is a need for further economy and rationalization of non-priority expenditure, while protecting and preserving priority expenditure,” the DoE order said. The department is an arm of the Union finance ministry.Also read: ‘No compromise on territorial integrity’ - Foreign Secretary Shringla on India-China border rowThe Union government has resorted to cutting costs after the economy saw a sharp 23.9 percent contraction in the first quarter of 2020-21, mainly because a 68-day hard lockdown across the country to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. The order prohibits the printing of books, publications and documents on imported paper, except for printing done abroad by the Indian missions. “Expenditure on functions such as celebrations of Foundation Day, etc. should be discouraged or if felt necessary be appropriately curtailed,” it said. Besides, it directed departments to avoid travel costs for such functions and distribution of bags or mementoes.It asked ministries to review individual consultants working there and reduce their numbers to the minimum. Due economy may be observed while determining the fees of the consultants, which should not be disproportionate to the quality and quantity of work to be carried out by them, it said.Also read: 4 months on, India and China to sit across table. Rajnath meeting today the firstThe government also banned creation of new posts, except with the approval of the DoE. “This ban will cover all creation of posts under powers which have been delegated to any organization regardless of the source of such authority or power,” it said.“lf any posts have been created after 01.07.2020 under delegated powers or authority, without the approval of Department of Expenditure and have not yet been filled, then such posts shall not be filled,” it said. Urgent vacancies will be filled only after the proposal is approved by the DoE, it said.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said, “Given the severe lockdown due to the pandemic, it was certain that there would be a strain on the fiscal deficit and that fiscal consolidation would not be possible. Various estimates are going around on the fiscal deficit for the year crossing 7 percent.”“In this backdrop, probity in cutting down avoidable expenditure was expected and the latest measures are welcome... Though the government is under criticism for its measures; given the gravity of the situation, austerity steps, especially on avoidable expenditure, is welcome,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-strapped-govt-cuts-non-essential-expenditures-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-eHD4dAEgLX4iGKoqyp4PlN.html
04-09-2020||India||‘No compromise on territorial integrity’: Shringla on India-China border row||Foreign Secretary Harsh V Shringla on Friday said India remains firmly committed to preserving its ‘territorial integrity and sovereignty’ amid tension on the border with China. He was speaking at the Indian Council for World Affairs (ICWA) webinar. “As far as we are concerned, there will be no compromise in our sovereignty and territorial integrity. At the same time, as a responsible nation, we are always willing to talk. Our communication lines are open,” Shringla said.He called the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at Ladakh ‘unprecedented’.“This is one of the most serious challenges we have faced in many decades. Also, I think if you look at the fact that we have not lost any lives on the border in the last 40 years, we have not seen this magnitude of amassing of forces on the border also in recent years, is something that we have to take stock of,” the Foreign Secretary said.At the webinar, the diplomat also spoke about India’s role in undertaking disaster-relief operations and shaping up of people-centric international order.“India has been a constructive actor in shaping up of people-centric international order. We have undertaken humanitarian assistance and disaster-relief ops well beyond our immediate neighbourhood,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-compromise-in-territorial-integrity-foreign-secretary-harsh-v-shringla-on-india-china-border-dispute/story-TCAFEo6Mcy1ZaEokVbwk1K.html
04-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand BJP MLA rape case: HC directs state govt to file response on FIR quashing woman’s plea||Uttarakhand high court on Friday directed the state government to file its response by October 12 on the writ petition filed by a woman against whom Dehradun Police had filed an FIR on August 14 on the complaint of BJP MLA Mahesh Singh Negi’s wife. The MLA’s wife has accused the woman of blackmailing her husband and trying to extort ₹5 crore, said BS Adhikari, counsel of the woman. The BJP MLA has been accused of raping the woman. The woman has claimed of having a daughter with Negi. The woman in her writ petition has sought quashing of the FIR against her. The court has also stated that till October 12, when the next hearing will be held in the matter, there will be stay on the arrest of the woman, said Adhikari. On August 13, Dehradun Police had started a probe in the alleged extortion case against the woman after the wife of BJP MLA lodged a complaint accusing the woman of demanding Rs ₹ 5 crore by threatening her to lodge a false rape complaint against her MLA husband. Negi is an MLA from Dwarahat Almora. Also read: Ready for any probe, says Uttarakhand BJP MLA accused of rapeThe accused woman, on the same day, released a video on social media in which she accused MLA’s wife Rita Negi of lodging a false complaint and alleged the MLA sexually had been harassing her for the last two years. She also claimed that she has a daughter with the MLA and demanded a DNA test of her daughter and the MLA to prove her claims. On August 16, the woman filed a counter-complaint against the MLA, accusing him of raping her on several occasions and fathering her child. The woman also moved a complaint with the state women’s commission claiming a threat to her life and property. Taking due cognizance of the same, the panel wrote to the Dehradun Police asking it to look into her complaint and take necessary action. On August 19, the MLA recorded his statement in the matter with Dehradun Police. Negi also wrote a letter addressed to the director-general of police (DGP) Uttarakhand stating, “Why the woman and other accused in blackmailing and extortion case have not been arrested yet?”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-rape-case-hc-directs-state-govt-to-file-response-on-fir-quashing-woman-s-plea/story-GY2ix0doassYEIFYdabNNO.html
04-09-2020||India||Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi arrested in drugs probe||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bengaluru arrested actor Ragini Dwivedi in connection with drug menace in the Kannada film industry.The CCB had carried out a search at the actor’s Bengaluru residence on Friday morning.The actor was served a notice on Wednesday and asked to depose before CCB on the next day, but she sent a team of lawyers seeking time till Monday. She was then directed to appear before them on Friday, news agency PTI reported.The CCB intensified its investigation into a drugs haul in Bengaluru after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested three persons who were allegedly supplying drugs to singers and actors in the Kannada film industry, also known as “Sandalwood”.Ragini Dwivedi made her debut in the movie “Veera Madakari” in 2009 and shot to fame for her role in Kempe Gowda, Ragini IPS, Bangari and Shiva.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-actor-ragini-dwivedi-arrested-in-drugs-probe/story-7gJRPfUN4DrBAtDp25mMNO.html
04-09-2020||India||Assam lifts weekend lockdown, night curfew in fresh Unlock guidelines||Lifting of weekend lockdown and night curfew are among the fresh Unlock guidelines issued by the Assam government on Friday. Chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna in his capacity as head of state disaster management authority issued the guidelines which will come into effect immediately and remain in force till September 30 midnight. “Weekend lockdown and night curfew have been lifted, however, please adhere to all the Covid-19 protocols to keep yourself safe and others around you safe,” Krishna tweeted. While most activities have been allowed outside containment zones, schools, colleges, education and coaching institutes will remain closed for regular classes till September 30. Fifty percent of teaching and non-teaching staff are allowed to attend educational institutions for online teaching, tele-counselling and related work. Students of classes 9 to 12 are allowed to visit schools on voluntary basis with written consent from parents for guidance from teachers. Higher educational institutions are allowed to operate only for research and unavoidable laboratory and experimental work only on issue of necessary guidelines by the department of higher education. Public transport will be allowed to operate from September 7 with strict compliance of social distancing and other Covid-19 safety measures. Social, academic, sports, entertainment, religious, political functions will be allowed with a gathering of maximum of 100 people from September 21 with mandatory wearing of face masks and other Covid-19 protocols. However, only 50 people will be allowed to gather for marriages and 20 people for last rites. This will remain in force till September 20 after which 100 people will be allowed for both gatherings. Cinema halls, swimming polls, entertainment parks, theatres and other similar places will remain closed. There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods and no separate pass or permits will be required for the same. Anyone not wearing a mask or found spitting in public places would be fined Rs 1000 on the spot and prosecuted under relevant provisions of the law. Assam has recorded 1,18,333 Covid-19 positive cases till date with 330 deaths and 90,697 recoveries. On Thursday, acting on a petition, the Gauhati High Court had directed the state government to punish those found not wearing masks or following social distancing norms. “We will have a meeting with senior police officers and heads of other departments on Saturday and will implement the HC directives very strictly. Detailed guidelines will be issued very soon,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-lifts-weekend-lockdown-night-curfew-in-fresh-unlock-guidelines/story-YANU296o6TAEL7YuaV4FfI.html
04-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh pays tributes at monument to Mothers of Winners||Defence minister Rajnath Singh paid his tributes at Moscow’s monument to the Mothers of Winners on Friday. “Paid tributes to the fallen soldiers by laying of flowers at the monument to the Mothers of Winners in Moscow, Russia,” he tweeted. The union minister is on a 3-day visit to Russia to attend the combined meeting of Defence Ministers of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO).Earlier in the day, he visited the main Cathedral of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, where is planted a sapling, and the Museum Complex in Moscow.  “Visited the main cathedral of the Russian Armed Forces and the museum Complex, ‘Memory Road’ in Moscow today,” Rajnath Singh said.  During his address at the combined meeting of defence ministers of SCO-CSTO-CIS member states, Singh said, “As we mourn our losses, let us not forget tens of millions of martyrs and sacrifice of an entire generation suffering destruction and agony in the Second World War – or “Great Patriotic War”, as our Russian brothers and sisters recall those years.”“Memory of the War teaches us of the follies of aggression of one State upon another, which brings destruction to all.Our forefathers, including those from India & former Soviet Union, who made supreme sacrifices to resist aggression & expansionism from the then Military States,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-pays-tributes-at-monument-to-mothers-of-winners/story-0tx6C0jwaqsP0Hyh69CZRN.html
04-09-2020||India||After brief disruption, traffic resumes on Jammu-Srinagar highway||Following disruption on Friday morning the 270 kilometre-long Jammu-Srinagar, the only all-weather surface link to Kashmir, was restored this afternoon, officials said.“Around 2 pm, the highway was restored and traffic to Kashmir is being allowed,” said deputy SP National Highway, Ajay Anand.Vehicular movement on the national highway halted around 4 am on Friday after light rainfall caused landslides in Panthial area of Ramban district.Also read: Terrorists used ambulance to escape after Pandach attack in J-K - PoliceRains triggered landslides at Panthial and other places on the highway in Ramban district around 4 am. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) cleared stones and debris from other stretches but stones continued to fall on the highway at Panthial. “However, after the weather turned stable and stones stopped falling from the hill on to the highway at Panthial, the NHAI cleared the stretch and thereafter up traffic was restored around 2 pm,” said the officer.India Meteorological Department (IMD) director Sonam Lotus said, “Presently, the weather is cloudy in all three regions of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, with light to moderate rain forecasted at scattered places in J&K.”He also said that light to moderate rain was likely during the next 24 hours at scattered places across J&K and mainly dry weather thereafter. “There’s no forecast of any significant weather change for next one week to 10 days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-brief-disruption-traffic-resumes-on-jammu-srinagar-highway/story-Abzb3sCZBcqmqyGSAdgE7O.html
04-09-2020||India||Former Navi Mumbai police commissioner tests positive for coronavirus||A day after handing over his charge to the new commissioner of Navi Mumbai police, IPS officer Sanjay Kumar has tested positive for Covid-19. Kumar, currently additional director general, training, is admitted at MGM Hospital in Vashi.Kumar had been commissioner since August 2018. As the pandemic hit, Kumar was instrumental in establishing quarantine facilities for the police staff and their families. Currently, a building in Kharghar under the Savali Trust is being used as a quarantine facility for the police staff. A facility was also created at the Navi Mumbai police headquarters in Kalamboli for treatment.“Inspite of all precautions and all sort of concoctions - Ayurvedic, homeopathic and rigorous physical activities, I have also become a victim of Covid-19. Started with muscle pain, fever, shivering and throat infection. Hospitalised. I’m fine. Will get released in a week. Good rest(sic),” Kumar tweeted.Bipin Kumar Singh, the new commissioner took charge as the new police chief on Thursday accepting a bouquet from Kumar at the commissioner’s office in CBD Belapur.“I have advised the new commissioner to isolate himself and get tested along with other officers who came in contact with me. I am doing fine and hope to recover soon,” Kumar said.Along with Kumar, an inspector from his office and a constable have also tested positive for the virus. They are admitted as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-navi-mumbai-police-commissioner-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-URFFvFE8G7gQJFiA3bXAJL.html
04-09-2020||India||6 cobras among 12 snakes rescued near Nainital in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand forest department on Thursday rescued 12 snakes, including six cobras, from Haldwani area of Nainital district, said forest officials. A copper-headed trinket snake, Forsten’s cat snake, Russell’s Viper, two rat snakes and a Python, were also among those rescued. These snakes were rescued by forest officials from different villages of Haldwani in Nainital district on Thursday. Kundan Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO) Haldwani forest division, said, “People from different villagers spotted these snakes and informed the forest department.” “Quick Response Team (QRT) of Haldwani forest division immediately rushed to these spots and rescued the snakes,” he said. Due to the ongoing monsoon season, snakes are being spotted in and around residential areas in the state. In the last week of August, state forest department officials rescued a 15.4 feet long King Cobra snake from Jamunwala area in Dehradun, claiming it to be the largest King Cobra they had ever rescued in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-cobras-among-12-snakes-rescued-near-nainital-in-uttarakhand/story-oxqGR3TWBrclIIhuYoUc7K.html
04-09-2020||India||‘Committed to inclusive global security’: Rajnath Singh reaffirms India’s stance at SCO meet||Defence minister Rajnath Singh spoke at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) ministerial in Moscow on Friday. “India values works of SCO Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure,” he said, adding that adoption of anti-terror mechanism by the SCO to counter extremist propaganda and deradicalisation was a significant decision.“We need institutional capacity to deal with both traditional and non-traditional threats. Above all, we need to deal with terrorism, drug-trafficking and transnational crime. As you all are aware, India unequivocally condemns terrorism in all forms and manifestations, and condemns its proponents,” the defence minister said.Also read: 4 months on, India and China to sit across table. Rajnath meeting today the firstAt the SCO meet, he reaffirmed that India was committed to evolution of a transparent and inclusive global security architecture which was anchored in international laws.Rajnath Singh also expressed concern over the situation in Persian Gulf. “India is deeply concerned about situation in Persian Gulf. We call upon countries in Gulf region to resolve differences through dialogue based on mutual respect and sovereignty.” Security situation in Afghanistan also remains a concern, he added.“In his address, Raksha Mantri stressed on the need for institutional capacity to deal with both traditional and non-traditional threats – above all, terrorism, drug-trafficking and transnational crime,” said Ministry of Defence spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-inclusive-global-security-rajnath-singh-reaffirms-india-s-stance-at-sco-meet/story-obX6j6XFNIGuRMbMpyOvYJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Intensive control operations reduced locust threat in India, Pak, says FAO||Intensive control operations in India and Pakistan have significantly reduced locust infestations in both countries, says UN’s Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) in its latest advisory released on September 2.“In southwest Asia, extensive hatching and hopper band formation occurred in India and, on a smaller scale, in southeast Pakistan. Intensive control operations have significantly reduced infestations in both countries. Consequently, the second generation of breeding that commences in September is expected to be on a much smaller and more manageable scale,” says the advisory.Dr K L Gurjar, deputy director at Locust Warning Organization at Jodhpur said that it is a big relief to the country which is facing threat of locust attacks since the past one and half year. Gurjar said that in its recent advisory FAO said that due to intensive control operations, India and Pakistan have reduced locust infestations. Gurjar added that in present situation there is no presence of locust anywhere in the country.He said that earlier FAO warned about a huge locust attack from Ethiopia and northern Somalia. It was advised that by the first week of September adult locust groups may enter in India and may cause huge damage. Gurjar said that in its recent advisory FAO said that there is no possibility for the groups from Ethiopia and northern Somalia to enter India.Summer breeding, said Gurjar, has taken place in many parts of Rajasthan, including Nagaur, Jodhpur, Hanumangarh and Barmer. He said that with better coordination of state and central government departments and with use of helicopters, drones, fire brigade and hand sprays, locust control operations were carried out successfully and at present there is no presence of locust.According to Gurjar, only summer breeding of locust takes place in India and winter breeding takes place in Iran, Baluchistan and in some parts of southeast Pakistan.“During the summer, we have successfully carried out locust control operations in India and simultaneously similar successful operations were carried out across the border in Pakistan, due to which now there is no chance of locust attack in India in near future,” said Gurjar.“We will continue to keep an eye on the spring breeding of locust which usually takes place in Pakistan,” he added. Since the past one and half year the country has faced huge locust attacks in more than 10 states, including national capital Delhi.After a long gap of 26 years, first locust attack was reported on May 21, 2019 in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer district. In the first attack locusts caused huge damage to Rabi crops in around ten lakh hectares in Rajasthan and Gujarat. However, by the second week of February locust attack was controlled with intense control operations.Later, On April 11, 2020, the country faced a second locust attack. This time, locust groups were spread in more than 10 states including Rajasthan, UP, MP, Haryana, Bihar, Gujarat, Uttrakhand, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. With an alarming situation, the issue was raised in many state assemblies and also in Parliament. As a result, the government swung in action and with locust control operations at large level locust infestations and breeding was controlled by the end of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intensive-control-operations-reduced-locust-threat-in-india-pak-says-fao/story-u4uBm3ykKO9xyID3CQmOQL.html
04-09-2020||India||PM Modi lauds police for untiring effort amid Covid-19 pandemic||Lauding the police for their untiring efforts during the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked them to sustain the “human face of the khaki uniform”. Interacting with probationers of the Indian Police Service through a video conference on Friday during the Dikshant Parade of 71 RR (Regular Recruits) at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy in Hyderabad, the Prime Minister said the human face of the khaki uniform has been engraved in public memory due to the good work done by the police especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is very important that you should be proud of your uniform instead of flexing the power of your uniform. Never lose respect for your khaki uniform,” PM Modi told the IPS probationers. Stating that policing is a profession where the factor of encountering something unexpected is very high, the PM said all police officials must be alert and prepared for any such situation. “There is a higher degree of stress and which is why it is important to keep speaking with your near and dear ones. From time to time, maybe on a day off, meet someone like a teacher or someone whose advice you value,” he said. The Prime Minister also underlined the importance of Yoga for those working under stressful conditions. “Yoga and Pranayam are good for all those working under stress. If you do any work from your heart, you will always benefit. You will never feel stressed no matter how much work there is,” he advised. On terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir, PM Modi said the youth of the country need to be prevented from taking the wrong path at the early stage itself. “Women police personnel can do that by involving women there,” he said. Union home minister Amit Shah also conveyed his best wishes to all the officers on parade and exhorted them to serve with sincerity and integrity for fulfilling the SMART Police Vision (strict and sensitive, modern and mobile, alert and accountable, reliable and responsible, techno-savvy and trained) of the Prime Minister. As many as 131 IPS probationers, including 28 women, have completed their 42 weeks of basic course phase-I training at the academy. They joined the academy on December 17, 2018 after completing their foundation course at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie and at Dr Marri Channa Reddy HRD Institute of Telangana, Hyderabad, with those from other central services like IAS and IFS. Director of SVP National Police Academy Atul Karwal presented the trophies to the winners of various competitions. The parade was led by the Best Probationer of the batch D V Kiran Shruti from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-police-for-untiring-effort-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-4m42xG2nKCKCI0oP2cDzZK.html
04-09-2020||India||Terrorists used ambulance to escape after Pandach attack in J-K: Police||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Friday claimed to have solved Pandach militant attack case, in which two BSF jawans were killed by militants in May on the city outskirts and their weapons were snatched, with the arrest of five persons and seizure of two ambulances and 2 two- wheelers allegedly used to ferry attackers into Srinagar from south Kashmir.Police spokesman said five uncategorized militants of ISJK, who helped in transporting, logistics, planning and executing the attack, have been arrested.“During the investigation, four vehicles were seized, which includes two private ambulances functioning at SKIMS, a bike and a scooty,” he said, adding that the DGP has accorded approval for the seizure of the vehicles used in the attack. “Also Read: J&K: 1 terrorist killed and army officer, police official injured in Baramulla encounterGiving further details, the spokesman said the ambulance JK01AD0915 was used to transport the militants from Bijbehara to Pandach, Srinagar. Also Read: Five vehicles in Kashmir seized, cops say they were ‘proceeds of terrorism’“Bike no JK01AH2989 and Scooty no JK01V 8288 were used to carry out the attack and escape after the looting of weapons from the injured jawans. Ambulance JK01AF 9417 was used to transport the militants back to Bijbehara from Srinagar,” the spokesman said, adding that categorized militants of ISJK involved in the attack have also been neutralized in two separate encounters at Zadibal, Srinagar and Hatigam, Bijbehara and the looted weapons of BSF jawans were recovered from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-used-ambulance-to-escape-after-pandach-attack-in-j-k-police/story-omS3YSHYBEPu2PyPMEo3bJ.html
04-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: SC rejects bail plea of ex-Congress leader Sajjan Kumar for role in 1984 anti-sikh riots and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.1984 anti-Sikh riots: Supreme Court rejects bail plea of convict Sajjan KumarThe Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the bail plea filed by former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is lodged in Tihar jail after he was convicted by the Delhi High Court in 2018 for his role in the 1984 anti-sikh riots. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde said that this was not an ordinary case, brushing aside concerns raised by Kumar’s lawyer regarding his health.Read moreDiverted Ranchi Rajdhani carries single lady passenger after she refused to deboardThe New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani special train brought a single lady passenger to Ranchi in the wee hours on Friday, hours after every other passenger had deboarded the train--when it was stranded for several hours at Daltonganj station due to a sit-in protest on tracks--- in favour of a bus ride to the destination city. Read moreEx-UP minister Prajapati gets bail in gang-rape caseAfter spending 41 months in Lucknow jail for allegedly gang-raping a woman and attempting to rape her minor daughter, former UP minister Gayatri Prajapati was granted an interim two months’ bail by the Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Friday. Read moreMexico struggles with US water debt, suggests audit from United NationsAs Mexico struggles to pay a water debt to the United States, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador said Thursday he might personally appeal to President Donald Trump for clemency, or invite United Nations experts to audit water payments. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘I can never think of leaving this team’ - Virat Kohli reveals why he’ll never leave RCBVirat Kohli is the only IPL player who has been with the same franchise from the very beginning. Kohli was an 18-year-old youngster with the Royal Challengers Bangalore when the IPL kicked off in 2008, and 12 years later, he’s heading into the tournament’s 13th edition as its second-highest run-scorer of all time and one of the best batsmen in the world.’ Read moreNEST Admit Card 2020 released at nextexam.in, exam on September 29National Entrance Screening Test (NEST) 2020 admit card has been released. Candidates who have applied for the exam can download their NEST 2020 admit card online from the official website, nestexam.in. The screening test will be held on September 29. Read moreJL50 review: Abhay Deol, Pankaj Kapur’s sci-fi mystery gets a smooth landingIndia has been famously shy of science fiction, especially when they are home-bred. The fault perhaps lies with the makers who get so busy with the shining lights and fancy gizmos when experimenting with this genre that logic goes missing. Read moreKnee-length hoodie dress or cool sweatshirt? Ankita Konwar-Manushi Chhillar become our fall outfit inspirationAs the last traces of monsoon linger in the air, fashionistas already have their autumnal ensembles ready to welcome the breezy, naturally languid ease of the season or so it seems from Ankita Konwar and Manushi Chhillar’s latest pictures on social media. Read moreWatch| ‘Don’t be a Singham’: PM Modi’s message to young IPS officersPM Modi interacted with young IPS officers via video conference during the ‘Dikshant Parade’ of IPS probationers at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy in Hyderabad. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sc-rejects-bail-plea-of-ex-congress-leader-sajjan-kumar-for-role-in-1984-anti-sikh-riots-and-all-the-latest-news/story-E086BHKLDWWov7DIE1V5xM.html
04-09-2020||India||Ex-UP minister Prajapati gets bail in gang-rape case||After spending 41 months in Lucknow jail for allegedly gang-raping a woman and attempting to rape her minor daughter, former UP minister Gayatri Prajapati was granted an interim two months’ bail by the Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Friday.A Chitrakoot-based woman had alleged that Prajapati and his six aides had gang-raped her and attempted to outrage the modesty of her minor daughter when he was a minister in UP.The court granted Prajapati, who was in jail since March 2017, bail on a personal bond of ₹ 5 lakh with two sureties of ₹2.5 lakh each. The bench of justice Ved Prakash Vaish granted the bail considering the medical grounds presented by the defense counsel. The counsel stated that the former minister was suffering from various diseases, including urinary tract infection and diabetes. The former minister had also undergone treatment at King George’s Medical University for multiple health issues while in judicial custody. The bench asked Prajapati to not leave the country during the bail period and also sought proper assurance that he will not cause any hindrance in the prosecution process.The bail order reads that the former minister should deposit his passport, if he had any, to the superintendent of jail and also share his contact number so that he could be approached whenever required.Also Read: 3-year-old girl raped, murdered in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, third such incident in 20 daysIt further reads that the bail period of two months will be considered from the time of his release. In the past, Prajapati’s bail plea was turned down multiple times by different courts. He had been in jail since he was arrested from Lucknow’s Alambagh area on March 15, 2017. On February 18, 2017, the 40-year-old woman from Chitrakoot had lodged an FIR against Prajapati and his six aides for allegedly gang-raping her and making a bid to rape her 17-year-old daughter at his official residence allotted in Gautampalli, Lucknow, when he was the mining minister in the Samajwadi Party government in UP between 2015 and 2016.Also Read: Lucknow man sets himself on fire at home, triggers blastThe police had booked the former minister for rape and other serious charges, including sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-up-minister-prajapati-gets-bail-in-gang-rape-case/story-OB6NgrwfUnh4H9sfUaGqtI.html
04-09-2020||India||After argument over leave, UP constable fires at senior with service gun||After a confrontation over leave, a police constable allegedly opened fire on a senior sub-inspector with his service rifle before training the gun on himself inside Ujhani police station nearly 15 kilometres from Budaun town area on Kasganj road on Friday morning, police officials said.Confirming the incident, deputy inspector general (DIG), Bareilly range, Rajesh Kumar Pandey said senior sub-inspector (SSI) Ram Aautar, in his 50s, suffered bullet injury in his abdomen and his condition was critical due to excessive bleeding. He said police constable Lalit Kumar, 25, however, suffered a wound on his shoulder.The DIG further said the initial probe revealed that Lalit Kumar, a 2016 batch constable, had been trying to get his leave sanctioned for the past few days. He said the SSI, who was in-charge of the police station as the inspector concerned had tested positive for Covid-19, turned down the constable’s leave application, stating that the leave will be sanctioned only when the inspector joins back.As per Pandey, the constable appeared before the inspector on Friday when the latter resumed his duty and Kumar’s leave was sanctioned. The DIG said the situation turned ugly when the SSI passed some comments when the constable was coming out of the inspector’s room after getting his leave sanctioned.“In a fit of rage, the constable opened fire on the SSI with his Insas rifle, injuring him critically, and later tried to harm himself,” he added.The DIG said the initial investigation suggested that the SSI and the constable had confrontation over the same issue multiple times in the past few days.He said the inspector was asked to register an FIR against the constable and conduct a thorough probe into the incident. Pandey said the constable will be taken into custody as soon as he is discharged from the district hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-argument-over-leave-up-constable-fires-at-senior-with-service-gun/story-u2hPuq6kWHzqXlT6FPzckN.html
04-09-2020||India||Prashant Kishor’s team asks select Left leaders to join TMC. This followed||Several Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders who are known for their clean image have been approached by I-PAC, the company owned by election strategist Prashant Kishor, for joining the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) ahead of the assembly polls in 2021. Kishor - who earlier helped the Bharatiya Janata Party, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the YSR Congress Party win elections - was roped in by chief minister Mamata Banerjee after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. The TMC’s tally came down from 34 seats to 22. The BJP poses a challenge to Banerjee in the run-up to the assembly polls. Five senior CPI(M) leaders, including a former information technology minister in the erstwhile Left government and a sitting legislator, told HT that they were contacted by Kishor’s team in August and offered “better career prospects in the ruling party”. They said they turned down the offer. All the Left leaders said that I-PAC representatives who met them spoke in Hindi and English and said they were from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh. They also claimed that the I-PAC teams told them that they were approached only after a survey confirmed their credibility as honest and effective politicians. “On August 4, a man called me up and said I had done good work while serving as legislator from the Entally constituency in Kolkata. He said I-PAC would like to interact with me. I said I was not interested and hung up,” said Debesh Das, former IT minister and a former professor at Jadavpur University. Laxmi Kanta Roy and Mamata Roy, former CPI(M) legislators, claimed that they were offered funds to contest on the TMC ticket. “A man came to my house on August 9. He looked around and asked how could I live in such a small house and why don’t I have a car. He said if I work for the TMC I would get funds and anything else that I might need. I told him communists cannot be purchased and asked him to leave,” said Mamata Roy. Laxmi Kanta Roy claimed to have had a similar experience. “I told the man who came to my home that Communists don’t deviate from their ideology and I am happy with my life,” said Roy. Rafikul Islam, the CPI(M)’s sitting legislator from Harirampur in South Dinajpur district, said, “I was urged to visit Kishor’s office in Kolkata. I said I am 67 and a man does not give up his ideology at this age.” A lawyer by profession, Subinay Ghosh, the former CPI(M) MLA from the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district, said a man from Hyderabad came to see him at the local court premises. “He said I-PAC has formed separate teams for every Lok Sabha and assembly constituency and I was selected during their survey. I said, having served the people as a councillor and MLA, there is nothing more I look forward to in life,” said Ghosh. HT contacted I-PAC and a top functionary confirmed that teams from the company are approaching handpicked leaders from the Left parties. “It is evident that the TMC and BJP are the main forces in Bengal. It is essentially a two-horse race and the Left is a marginal factor. Our teams are only telling some selected Left leaders that if they really want to serve the people they have a better chance of doing that as part of the TMC. The decision is for them to take,” said the I-PAC functionary who spoke strictly on condition of anonymity. Significantly, the functionary bulldozed claims made by a sitting MLA of the Forward Bloc, a partner in the Left Front, that Kishor himself insisted on meeting him and drove down to a star hotel on EM Bypass in Kolkata to offer ministerial berth in the next government. Forward Bloc’s youth leader Ali Imran Ramz, who won the Chakulia assembly seat in North Dinajpur district in 2011 and 2016, claimed that Kishor came to meet him at the hotel where he had gone to have dinner with his wife on July 17. “Anyone can check the hotel’s security camera footage to verify my statement. My wife and I had tea with Kishor at a lounge between 10 and 11 pm,” Ramz told HT. “It is a big lie. Ramz was repeatedly telling members of the I-PAC team that his wife is a fan of Kishor and the couple would like to meet him. Kishor has been staying at that hotel ever since he started working in Bengal a year ago. He does not meet MLAs like this. He showed the courtesy only because Ramz came with his wife,” said the I-PAC functionary. “When they met, Ramz and his wife sought Kishor’s advice. Ramz said he does not have much future in the Forward Bloc,” he added. “It is also a lie that the couple had dinner at the hotel. When Kishor offered them to have food with him they said they had come straight from a marriage ceremony where they had their dinner. So, Kishor offered them some tea. The couple had tea and coffee and the bill was paid by Kishor. We have the documents,” said the I-PAC functionary. When HT questioned Ramz, he went silent on his claim of having dinner at the hotel and admitted that Kishor paid for the beverages. “I was not aware that Kishor was staying at the hotel. But it is not true that it was I who insisted on meeting him. Also, my wife doesn’t even know who he is,” said Ramz. Senior TMC leader and state panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee dismissed the statements made by the CPI(M) leaders. “They lost their heads after losing the elections,” he quipped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-kishor-s-team-asks-select-left-leaders-to-join-tmc-this-followed/story-4VIYe1U3OCymkeJM4xxz9L.html
04-09-2020||India||Diverted Ranchi Rajdhani carries single lady passenger after she refused to deboard||The New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani special train brought a single lady passenger to Ranchi in the wee hours on Friday, hours after every other passenger had deboarded the train--when it was stranded for several hours at Daltonganj station due to a sit-in protest on tracks--- in favour of a bus ride to the destination city.The woman student refused to get down from the stranded train at Daltonganj railway station and board a bus to Ranchi—like every other passenger on the train—and instead chose to reach Ranchi several hours later once the train was allowed to resume its journey through a different route. Nearly 900 passengers of the Ranchi-bound Rajdhani Special train were stuck at Daltonganj station for several hours on Thursday following an ongoing stir by the Tana Bhagat community at Tori railway station in Jharkhand’s Latehar district.Every passenger except the woman was finally dispatched to the state capital by buses arranged by Palamu district administration. The woman stayed put in the stranded train.The railway and civil officials said that the lady passenger, Ananya, travelling in B-3 coach refused to leave the train and board one of the arranged busses for further journey. An official said, “She told us that she would not take a bus in any case. If she wanted to travel by a bus, why would she have booked a train ticket?”Also Read: Railways waits for state government’s nod to restart passenger trains Finally, the authorities relented and let her continue her journey in the empty train that was getting diverted to Ranchi through another route. In addition, they deployed personnel of the railway protection force (RPF) and some lady constables to accompany her. The train finally reached Ranchi via Gaya, Gomo and Bokaro, covering 535 km instead of the 308 km it would have travelled on its scheduled Barkakana route, blocked by protestors.Also Read: Life a struggle, can’t SC rethink decision, ask residents of Delhi slums along railway linesThe Dhanbad senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) AK Pandey, however, denied that the train was diverted at the insistence of the single lady passenger. In a statement, Pandey said, “On the basis of pure technical reasons, the Rajdhani express was allowed to run to Ranchi via GAYA-GMO-BKSC. And the running of empty rakes via the diverted route has nothing to do with the demand of any passenger.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diverted-ranchi-rajdhani-carries-single-lady-passenger-after-she-refused-to-deboard/story-cQ4qCMbO7djD6tScZJXLcL.html
04-09-2020||India||1984 anti-Sikh riots: Supreme Court rejects bail plea of convict Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the bail plea filed by former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is lodged in Tihar jail after he was convicted by the Delhi High Court in 2018 for his role in the 1984 anti-sikh riots. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde said that this was not an ordinary case, brushing aside concerns raised by Kumar’s lawyer regarding his health. “This is not a small case. We cannot grant you bail at all,” CJI Bobde remarked. The CJI, however, said that he will list the appeal filed by Kumar challenging the High Court verdict as soon as physical hearing restarts. The Delhi High Court had, in December 2018, convicted the 74-year-old politician and sentenced him to life imprisonment for his role in the 1984 massacre. The 1984 anti-sikh riots, targeting the Sikh community, broke out in retaliation for the killing of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards. Kumar’s counsel Vikas Singh said that his client had already spent 18 months in jail and asked for an interim bail for one month so that Kumar could regain his health and weight.“I will abide by any condition Your Lordships impose. Your Lordships may at least grant interim bail for 1 month,” Singh pressed. Senior counsel HS Phoolka, along with Jagjit Singh Chabra, who were representing the riot victims, opposed the bail plea. Phoolka said that loss of weight was merely an excuse and Kumar is being given good care in jail. The court, after taking note of a March 11 report of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, noted that Kumar’s weight has, in fact, increased, contrary to the claims made by him.“We will put it (appeal) for final hearing as soon as the physical court starts,” CJI Bobde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1984-anti-sikh-riots-supreme-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-convict-sajjan-kumar/story-un1f3oAwN0ma5M0GsvJ5uN.html
04-09-2020||India||Assam re-launches self-employment scheme worth Rs 1,000 crore||With assembly polls seven months away, the Assam government on Friday re-launched an old scheme with the aim of providing self-employment to around 2 lakh youths of the state. Called Swami Vivekananda Assam Youth Empowerment (SVAYEM), the scheme worth Rs 1000 crore, would provide Rs 50,000 each as seed money to selected youths to start business ventures. The scheme was part of the BJP-led government’s budget speech in 2017-18, but instead of benefitting 1 lakh youths as planned it managed to get only around 7,000 beneficiaries due to lack of adequate support from banks. “We are launching the redesigned SVAYEM with a budget of Rs 1000 crore which will be spent in the next three months without any banking linkage. The 2 lakh beneficiaries would have to be part of self-help groups, joint liability groups, etc. before September 1,” said finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. The groups seeking to avail benefits of the scheme will be able to register themselves at a new portal which will be launched on September 16. Sarma said the scheme could get repeated annually with the possibility of increasing the number of beneficiaries. “This is the biggest self-employment programme launched by any government in Assam since Independence. The Rs 1000 cr would come from our own revenue without any banking linkage,” the minister said. To claim benefit of the scheme, the applicants would have to be below 40 years of age, must have passed matriculation and should be part of existing self-help groups. A second scheme, which provides a Rs 50,000 subsidy to anyone who has taken an education loan will be launched again. Last year 1,545 persons had benefited from the scheme. “But due to the economic situation because of Covid-19, we had not launched the scheme this year. We already have 5,547 approved applications. Those who want to avail it can apply again. The amounts will be released next month. It will cost the exchequer Rs 25 crore,” informed Sarma. Another scheme worth Rs 250 crore would transfer a sum of Rs 3,000 each to nearly 8 lakh bank accounts of tea garden labourers in the state. Launched in 2017-18, the state government had provided Rs 2,500 each to 6.33 lakh bank accounts as part of the scheme and a similar amount the next year to 7.15 lakh bank accounts. No amount was transferred to the accounts last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-re-launches-self-employment-scheme-worth-rs-1-000-crore/story-Qzz1iYbGHFakg7noiB7aIL.html
04-09-2020||India||Bengaluru violence: Committee submits report to CM BS Yediyurappa||The Committee, headed by retired Chief Secretary Madan Gopal, submitted a report to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday in connection with Bengaluru violence last month.Violence broke out in parts of Bengaluru on August 11 over an alleged “derogatory” social media post. At least three people lost their lives and nearly 60 police personnel were injured during the incident. The police have arrested around 415 accused in connection with the violence.An FIR was registered on the complaint of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy at DJ Halli Police station three days after the violence broke out in parts of Bengaluru over an alleged “derogatory” social media post by his nephew, the police said.The accused who were arrested in the case include Naveen, the nephew of MLA Srinivas Murthy, and Kaleem Pasha, the husband of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike corporator from Nagwara ward Irshad Begum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-violence-committee-submits-report-to-cm-bs-yediyurappa/story-icRUAHhHcVlbjuGKPWypEJ.html
04-09-2020||India||‘No right to seek votes in Mumbai’: BJP under attack over Kangana comparing city to PoK||Shiv Sena and the Maharashtra unit of Congress party have upped the ante over actor Kangana Ranaut’s remarks equating Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) by attacking the actor and the Bharatiya Janata Party, which has been defending her.Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the political party backing Ranaut over the comments does not have the right to seek votes in Mumbai. Congress secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged that Kangana’s Twitter account is managed by the IT-cell of the BJP and that Devendra Fadnavis and state BJP should issue an unconditional apology over the issue.In a tweet, Ranaut accused Raut of threatening her. She alleged that Raut had openly threatened her to not return to Mumbai if she has no faith in Mumbai Police. Kangana also added that Mumbai now looks like Pakistan Occupied Kashmir to her. The tweet said: “Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena leader, has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?”Without naming the actress, the Sena leader said that Ranaut’s statements questioning the ability and the intent of Mumbai police is a “systemic campaign” to defame the city police.“The Mumbai police have constantly saved the city in all types of challenges including 1992 riots, terrorist strikes, etc. If some people not connected to Mumbai are making such statements then this a systemic campaign to defame the Mumbai police. The state home minister and police chief should take strong action otherwise the morale of the Mumbai police will be affected.”Sawant said that Kangana Team, the official handle of the actor, equals to “Kangana + BJP IT Cell”. “For the past few days, Kangana Ranaut through the IT Cell has been continuously defaming the Mumbai police. Now, she has compared Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir and insulted Maharashtra. Instead of condemning her actions, BJP’s Ram Kadam is supporting her, which is utterly shameful,” he said in a statement.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut’s PoK remark: MNS warns against defaming Mumbai Police Raut, meanwhile, refrained from naming the BJP and said, “Any political party, backing the one calling Mumbai, Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, does not have the right to seek votes in Mumbai and Maharashtra. Their representatives, who are elected from Mumbai, have they been voted in by people from PoK? That party should clarify this and they should be ashamed of equating Mumbai to Pakistan. Does this mean that Mumbai police is Pakistan police?”Also Read: Kangana Ranaut responds as Renuka Shahane slams her comment on Mumbai: ‘Were you also waiting like a blood thirsty vulture’The Sena leader indirectly said that the actor should seek mental help.“I will not name anybody if somebody is saying that I issued a threat, I would say this that I never give empty threats. We don’t do such things; I am a Shiv Sainik, and an action-oriented person… Such mental cases have increased in Mumbai; they should be treated by the health department and the home minister should immediately take action against people, no matter how big they are, for defaming the Mumbai police,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-right-to-seek-votes-in-mumbai-bjp-under-attack-for-defending-kangana-s-mumbai-like-pok-jibe/story-qzqoytuKzYG8KDKlNc0NQN.html
04-09-2020||India||Indian, Russian Navy to begin exercise in Bay of Bengal from Sept 4-5: Report||A spokesperson of the Indian Navy said that India and the Russian Navy will begin the 11th edition of the Indra Navy exercise- a biennial maritime exercise in the Bay of Bengal from September 4 to September 5. Earlier, defence minister Rajnath Singh met his Russian counterpart General Sergey Shoigu in Russia’s capital Moscow, where the two ministers had a discussion about deepening defence and strategic cooperation between the two countries. He termed the meet with the Russian defence minister as ‘excellent’.Singh, who arrived in Moscow on Wednesday is on a three-day visit to attend a crucial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) along with defence minister of seven member nations- Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India became a member of the SCO in 2017. Friday’s meeting is taking place amid a fierce border row between India and China, both members of the influential bloc.Meanwhile, it was taken into account that Thursday’s meetings coincided with the Indra Navy exercises which will be conducted off the Straits of Malacca over the course of the next two days. Singh noted that these naval exercises demonstrated the common interests of both the nations in maritime security in the Indian Ocean Region.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-russian-navy-to-begin-exercise-in-bay-of-bengal-from-sept-4-5-report/story-aLMFwpxwN8nom0EcVbzlYJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Two Chhattisgarh men killed allegedly by Maoists on suspicion of being police informers||Two Chhattisgarh villagers from Dantewada district were killed allegedly by Maoists on the suspicion that they were police informers, while they were on a trip to attend a function in Bijapur district, police said on Friday. “The incident took place on Thursday night in a forest near the border of Dantewada and Bijapur districts. The deceased-Ashok Kunjam and his friend Bandara Kunjam--were brutally beaten up due to which they died,” Dantewada Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Pallava told HT. The SP said that Ashok, with his five family members and friend Bandara, all natives of Kirandul town in Dantewada, had gone to fix his marriage with a girl of Dudi Tumnar village in Bijapur. “The villagers brought the bodies to Kirandul and it seems that they were beaten and strangled,” the SP said. Maoists have thrown a pamphlet, which was recovered from the spot, in which they claimed that the two men were police informers and were killed in Jan Adalat (Maoists’ kangaroo court). Also Read: Maoists deny Ganapathi surrender reports, call it Centre’s conspiracyThe Maoists also alleged that Dantewada SP was responsible for the deaths of the duo. “The deceased never had any association with the police. They were living peacefully in Kirandul. The Maoists want to create fear among the villagers so that the villagers never dare to cooperate with the police,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-chhattisgarh-men-killed-allegedly-by-maoists-on-suspicion-of-being-police-informers/story-yrmTfV4m9o7uyq7B5HfAiN.html
04-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Abdel Basit Parihar send to NCB custody till September 9||Abdel Basit Parihar, the 23-year-old Bandra resident arrested on Thursday as part of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)’s ongoing probe into the alleged drug angle in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, was produced before a metropolitan magistrate on Friday and remanded in custody till September 9.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s ex-aide Samuel Miranda detained by Narcotics Control BureauParihar’s arrest followed that of another accused Zaid Vilatra. The agency claimed that Vilatra’s interrogation revealed his connection with Parihar.During Parihar’s questioning, he revealed he would allegedly procure drugs from Vilatra and Kaizan Ebrahim on the instructions of Showik Chakraborty for Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager, Samual Miranda, the agency said in its application seeking Parihar’s custody till September 11.The agency claimed there were several instances when Parihar arranged drugs, and that he was in regular contact with Chakraborty. It also claimed that “he is an active member of drug syndicate connected with high society personalities and drug suppliers”.NCB on August 28, arrested Abbas Ali Lakhani, 21, allegedly with 46 grams of Ganja. On the basis of information given by Lakhani, his alleged supplier, Karn Arora, was arrested with 13 grams of ganja.Later, on the information provided by two, NCB arrested Vilatra. Parihar is the fourth person to be arrested in the case.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what police said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week quiet, a political controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart.The jurisdictional turf war spilled into the legal arena as the Supreme Court was approached to decide if CBI could investigate the matter. The issue became deeply acrimonious and divisive at multiple levels — between the Rajput and Chakraborty families, between the actors’ respective sets of fans, between the governments of the two states in question, and between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its former ally Shiv Sena — and left the entertainment industry split vertically.The case opened up a raging debate in and about the industry, devolving into a war of words and allegations between two camps largely made up of “insiders” (with generational links to Bollywood) and “outsiders” (first-generation actors and filmmakers). Chakraborty and her supporters alleged that the Bihar government was trying to hijack the emotive issue for political capital ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-abdel-basit-parihar-send-to-ncb-custody-till-september-9/story-pR8qMg8DNvw5D9mANA5D2J.html
04-09-2020||India||Court overturns ban on Assamese TV serial accused of promoting ‘love jihad’||The Gauhati High Court has overturned a ban imposed on an Assamese television serial last month and allowed its telecast as long as it doesn’t hurt religious sentiments. A single judge bench of Justice Suman Shyam on Thursday, acting on a petition by AM Television and its managing director Sanjive Narain, lifted the two-month ban imposed by Guwahati police commissioner MP Gupta on ‘Begum Jaan’, telecast by Rengoni TV, on the ground the order didn’t follow laid down rules. Based on four complaints from Hindu Jagaran Manch that the serial hurt religious sentiments and used content derogatory towards one religion, the police commissioner had banned it on August 24 for two months and issued a show cause notice to AM Television. The complainants had alleged that the serial promoted ‘love jihad’. The charge was denied by Narain who told journalists that it was “about a Hindu girl who gets into trouble in a Muslim locality and is saved by a Muslim boy”. Challenging the ban issued on recommendation of a monitoring committee, the petitioners informed the court that the order violated guidelines issued by Government of India as the committee didn’t include a representative from electronic media. The petitioners also informed the court that while the GoI guidelines require hearing versions of both parties before such a ban is imposed, in the present case it was not followed and the petitioners were not provided copies of the complaints or given a chance to air their views. After examining records, the court found both contentions of the petitioners to be true and castigated the police commissioner for issuing the ban without following laid down guidelines. “The respondent number 4 (Guwahati police commissioner) was clearly not justified in suspending telecast of the serial by an ex parte blanket order without giving an opportunity of hearing to the petitioners to explain their stand or recording any cogent reason for doing so,” the order read. The court disposed of the petition by setting aside the order issued by the police commissioner and sent back the matter to the authority concerned for a “fresh decision on the complaints in accordance with law” allowing the petitioners to view the complaints and file replies to them. The television company, the court said, would be able to telecast the serial provided any content which could disrupt communal harmony or hurt religious sentiments of any community is deleted before it is aired. “It is made clear that violation of the above condition, in any manner, shall be viewed seriously by this court,” the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-overturns-ban-on-assamese-tv-serial-accused-of-promoting-love-jihad/story-ecO4VkvNQxGUaSDpferVDK.html
04-09-2020||India||Humane side of police emerged during the Covid crisis: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the humane side of the police had come to the fore during the current Covid-19 crisis.In a virtual address to Indian Police Service probationers at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy in Hyderabad, Modi also discussed various challenges before the men and women in khaki. Responding to a question about Kashmir, Modi emphasised on a greater connect with the people of the state, adding that those taking the “wrong path should be dissuaded from doing so”.Modi said that police officers should also know how to develop relations with public representatives; governance is more effective if officers tap into the strength of the society.Modi said public representatives should be given due respect, but added that duty must be adhered to. He narrated how, during his initial days as Gujarat chief minister, police officer Atul Karwal, who presently heads the National Police Academy, had politely asked him to follow the security protocols that he was not used to then.In response to a question from an officer who worked in Jammu and Kashmir, Modi said the people of Kashmir had amazing strength. The kind of shawls they weaved were amazing, he said. He suggested that the lady officer, who had studied textiles, should make attempts to promote modern designing among the people of the state.“I have connected to the people of Kashmir and found them to be very lovely. The children who adopt a wrong path, we have to stop them from doing so. And this work can be done best by lady officers. To bring these children back, to explain to their mothers, our lady officers can do a superb job. I have complete faith we can stop children before they adopt a wrong path,” said the Prime Minister. A total of 131 probationers, including 28 women, were present at the event.In his address, Modi said that people from all professions were under a lot of stress these days and added that yoga and pranayama would be beneficial.One of the probationers also raised the issue of the need to protect the families of policemen who fall in the line of duty.The Prime Minister said the service rendered by the men and women in khaki during the pandemic has been seen by the people and a humane image of the police has emerged. Khaki should not evoke fear but pride, said Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humane-side-of-police-emerged-during-the-covid-crisis-narendra-modi/story-jwNGITTdYzfJaeyUEljFdP.html
04-09-2020||India||Five vehicles in Kashmir seized, cops say they were ‘proceeds of terrorism’||Jammu and Kashmir’s director general of police (DGP), Dilbag Singh gave an approval for seizure of five vehicles, used in terror crimes in different parts of Kashmir, during counter-terrorism operations after it was established that they were proceeds of terrorism.One such vehicle was seized on April 24 in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, when forces got an input that police constable Sartaj Ahmad Ittoo had been kidnapped by some unknown militants in a Santro car. “A search operation was launched by police along with other security agencies in Kharpora Frisal to nab the terrorists who were reportedly moving in a Santro vehicle. Subsequently, a Santro vehicle bearing registration No JK02-9795 was intercepted. When stopped by security forces, the terrorists sitting in the vehicle came out and started firing indiscriminately on security forces,” police spokesman said, adding that two terrorists were neutralized on the spot in return fire by the forces and the kidnapped policeman was rescued safely.“Driver Irfan Ahmad Dar of Wandena, Shopian, was apprehended and the vehicle was taken into possession. Upon investigation, a huge quantity of arms/ammunition and explosive substances were recovered. It was established that the vehicle, used to facilitate the movement of terrorists from one place to another, falls within the ambit of proceeds of terrorism and is accordingly liable to be seized,” the police spokesperson said.In another incident, on June 4, the station house officer of Yaripora police station, while patrolling at the main market, noticed a Santro car without a registration number and signaled it to stop for checking.“As the police party moved towards the vehicle, the terrorists sitting inside, four in number, started firing indiscriminately on the police party. The fire was retaliated to and the terrorists sitting in the Santro vehicle managed to flee from the spot leaving behind the vehicle, from which, a doctor’s slip, a waterproof jacket, two registration number plates and one VIVO phone were found,” the spokesman said.“During investigations, the identity of the driver of the vehicle was ascertained as Hilal Ahmad Malik of Tazipora Mehmoodpora, Kulgam. He was an associate of proscribed terror outfit LeT and after the commission of this crime, he became an active LeT terrorist,” the spokesman said, adding that during the investigation, it surfaced that the accused Hilal Ahmad Malik had ferried the militants in the above Santro vehicle for committing a terrorist act.Also Read: J&K: Army officer injured in Baramulla encounter with terroristsThe spokesperson added that Malik also used a motorcycle bearing registration No JK02BF-6620 and a truck bearing registration No JK03E-8904 for the transportation of terrorists and arms/ammunition from one place to another.All the vehicles including the Santro, truck and the motorcycle were taken into possession as they fall within the ambit of proceeds of terrorism and are accordingly liable to be seized, according to the spokesman.Also Read: PDP leaders prevented from leaving home for party meetingIn another incident in May, police said the incharge of counter insurgency unit, Nowbugh, stopped an i-20 vehicle bearing registration no JK01V-0180 at Kilkadal Chadoora for checking.“During the search, 10 posters, 01 matrix sheet of proscribed terror outfit JeM and cash of RS 42,000/- were recovered from the possession of Mohd. Lateef Koka and Younus Manzoor Waza, who were boarding the said vehicle. During the investigation, it was established that the vehicle has been used to facilitate the movement of terrorists and incriminating material from one place to another which falls within the proceeds of terrorism. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-vehicles-used-for-terrorism-in-j-k-seized-as-proceeds-of-terrorism/story-wOI94d7v58wiRZMzdiuhzL.html
04-09-2020||India||From working under stress to taking pride in uniform: Top quotes from PM’s speech to young IPS officers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday addressed the ‘Dikshant Parade’ of probationary Indian Police Service (IPS) officers graduating from the prestigious Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel National Police Academy in Hyderabad.Here are some of the key quotes from the Prime Minister’s speech to the young police officers:Working under stressThe Prime Minister stressed on the importance of yoga and pranayam for those working under stress. He said that anyone who does yoga and pranayam will never feel stressed no matter how burdened they are with work.Watch l ‘Don’t be a Singham’: PM Modi’s message to young IPS officers ‘Human’ face of policePraising the country’s police force for their work during the coronavirus pandemic, especially during the lockdown, PM Modi said that due to their good work during this period, the ‘human’ face of khaki uniform has been engraved in people’s memory.Pride in uniformHe then advised the young police officers to take pride in their uniform instead of flexing its power. “Never lose the respect for your khaki uniform,” the Prime Minister said in his virtual address.Don’t be a ‘Singham’He also remarked that after watching films like Singham, some police officers start thinking ‘highly’ of themselves. He advised them against doing any such thing because this would lead to their good work being ignored.Be alert and preparedPM Modi also stressed how in this profession, the probability of encountering something ‘unexpected’ is quite high. Therefore, he said, officers should be alert and prepared to encounter them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-working-under-stress-to-taking-pride-in-uniform-top-quotes-from-pm-modi-s-speech-to-young-ips-officers/story-QyK9mhhYZTRQVOAENAdL3K.html
04-09-2020||India||President Xi’s plan for Tibet fuels a pushback and a nudge to India||Gyari Dolma, the first woman contesting for the post of Sikyong, or President of the Central Tibetan Administration - Tibet’s Government-in-Exile - has asked India to abandon its cautious position on Tibet and acknowledge her homeland’s occupied status. Dolma’s nudge to India at a recent webinar came after President Xi Jinping’s call to sinicise, or reshape Tibetan Buddhism to bring it in line with the culture of the majority Han community and principles of the Communist Party of China.“India must recognise Tibet as an occupied nation and recognise that it shares a border not with China, but with Tibet. India has a legal, international obligation to stand for truth and recognise its relations with Tibet,” Dolma said. She was critical of India’s Tibet policy as well, contending that while India has been kind to the Tibetan people, the Indian government had always let its relations with China influence its stand. As the first step, Tibetans have argued India must start calling the ‘China border’ as the Tibet border.Also Read: 4 months on, India and China to sit across table. Rajnath meeting today the firstXi’s August 29 call at a meeting of the communist party isn’t the first time that the Chinese President has called for sinicisation of Tibetan Buddhism. Back in 2015 also, President Xi spoke about sinicising the five major religions practised in China- Catholicism, Protestantism, Islam, Buddhism and Daoism. This time, it was part of a four-point programme to build an “impregnable fortress’’ to maintain stability in Tibet. Also Watch | Amid India-China tension, Tibet govt-in-exile poll process begins | ExplainedThis is necessary, President Xi told the meeting, to strengthen border defence and frontier security of the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) that borders India and Bhutan. One of the tasks that President Xi spelt out at the meeting included educating Tibetans in Lhasa and beyond to strengthen the struggle against ‘splittism’. President Xi’s mention of splittism is seen as a reference to the exiled Tibetan supreme spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, who is frequently accused by communist Beijing of fueling separatism in TAR.President Xi’s fresh attempt to wipe out Tibetan identity comes around the time the People’s Liberation Army is engaged in a bitter stand-off with Indian soldiers in Ladakh, the last stronghold of Tibetan Buddhism, and Beijing’s deteriorating ties with the United States and its South China Sea neighbours.Also Read: Security along LAC enhanced, situation delicate and serious, says Army chief NaravaneIt was in this context that US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced in July that the US would restrict visas for some Chinese officials involved in blocking diplomatic access to Tibet and engaging in ‘human rights abuses’. Pompeo also supported what he referred to as ‘meaningful autonomy’ for Tibet.Sam Brownback, the United States Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom, rejected Xi’s fresh effort, describing it as the communist party’s plan “to eliminate the unique culture, religious and linguistic identity of Tibet. The CCP must respect and protect Tibetans’ human rights and fundamental freedoms, including religious freedom.”China watchers say that Xi Jinping’s Tibet plan was centred around cementing China’s grip on whatever autonomy remained of the territories under the Tibet Autonomous Region. Communist China ran over Tibet spread across 2.5 million square kilometres in 1950 in what it described as a ‘peaceful liberation’ that helped the remote Himalayan region throw off its ‘feudalist’ past. Buddhists led by the Dalai Lama called it ‘cultural genocide’. The Dalai Lama finally crossed into Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang in April 1959 to escape the Chinese.Also Read: In 2012, Dalai Lama spoke of Chinese plot to murder himIn 1965, China split half the territory of Tibet as its four provinces Gansu, Qinghai, Sichuan and Yunnan. TAR, as it stands, accounts for one-eighth of China’s area.Lobsang Sangay, the president of the Tibetan Government in Exile, said CCP general secretary Xi’s address at the 7th Central Symposium on Tibet Work in Beijing was misguided.“Evidently, such misguided repressive policies have only enhanced the plight of the Tibetan people leading 154 Tibetans to self-immolate. The Chinese government must acknowledge the failure of its policies in Tibet,” Sangay said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-xi-s-plan-for-tibetan-buddhism-fuels-a-pushback-and-a-nudge-to-india/story-WMksCDUNDuBBvSCxRPThlI.html
04-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: BMC finishes second phase of serological survey to access spread of Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: BMC concludes second serological survey, results expected by weekendThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) concluded the second phase of a serological survey on Thursday, and results are expected by the end of the week. Read moreLink between drug peddlers, Miranda and Rhea Chakraborty’s brother: NCBThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) investigating the drug angle in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, arrested one more resident of Bandra, Basit Parihar, based on Zaid Vilatra’s interrogation late Thursday night. NCB sources said the two had revealed the names of Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik. Read moreTata Motors adds XT+ variant with sunroof to Harrier, priced at ₹16.99 lakhTata Motors has launched the new XT+ variant of its flagship SUV – Harrier, at an introductory price of ₹16.99 Lakhs (ex-showroom Delhi). This announcement comes a few months after the launch of the highly appreciated Harrier BS6 in February 2020. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh shares meme on PUBG ban, fan asks if he played it. His reply is epicSince the Indian government’s ban on mobile gaming app PUBG, along with 117 other Chinese applications, Twitter has been flooded with reactions. From sharing their sadness over the ban to expressing how happy the parents may feel, the micro-blogging site is filled with funny memes and posts. Joining the trend, singer Diljit Dosanjh too shared a hilarious meme on the PUBG ban and now his conversation with a Twitter user who replied on his post has sparked laughter among people. Read moreAmid Ladakh tension, Rajnath Singh to meet China’s Defence Minister in MoscowDefence Minister Rajnath Singh to meet his Chinese counterpart in Moscow on Friday evening. The meeting has been sought by Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghi amid border tensions. The meeting will be held on sidelines of 3-day Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit. Rajnath Singh and Wei Fenghi are currently in Moscow to attend the SCO meet. This is the first major political contact between India and China since Ladakh clash in May 2020. Meanwhile, Rajnath Singh met his Russian counterpart General Sergey Shoigu. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-bmc-finishes-second-phase-of-serological-survey-to-access-spread-of-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-I2i3Wr02mPv2le9q5fmlEJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Gauhati HC orders punishment for Covid-19 safety norms violators in Assam||With Assam witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Gauhati high court has ordered the state government to punish those violating the safety norms by not wearing face masks. Acting on a public interest litigation filed by Tanmay Jyoti Mahanta, a division bench of the court comprising chief justice Ajai Lamba and justice Manish Choudhury issued the order on Thursday. In his petition, Mahanta pointed out that despite implementing the lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 and various notifications issued by Assam government regarding the use of masks and maintenance of social distancing, rules are being flouted by the public, resulting in over 1 lakh positive cases in the state. The PIL said that despite the state health department’s order, issued on May 8, stating those found without masks would be fined Rs 500 for the first, second and third offence and Rs 1000 for subsequent offences, people could be seen moving around in public places without wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Mahanta requested the court to issue a “strict and proper” direction to the authorities for implementing the use of masks and maintenance of social distancing norms in public and workplaces and enforcement of punitive measures against those found violating the norms. “It is common knowledge that residents of the state in market places and otherwise can be seen without wearing masks or with masks worn below the nose level, which would result in the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19),” the court mentioned in its order. “We further find that people get together in market places and in work environments without caring for their own health or the health of others. Surely, no resident or a citizen has the right to put his own life in jeopardy or put the life of others at risk,” the order added. Also Read: Over 3,000 hectares added to Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve in Assam The court observed that though various orders have been issued, they are being flouted because punitive action is not being taken against the violators. The court directed that anybody violating the instructions to wear face masks, issued on May 8, will be punished as provided in the order. “This order is being issued in view of the fact that the hospitals are overflowing with Covid-19 positive patients. Oxygen is already in short supply in the hospitals,” the order stated. Also Read: Manipur expects GI tag for its unique orange in TamenglongThe court directed the police department to be proactive on the streets and check whether the health department’s guidelines are being followed. It asked the police force to impose fines on those found violating norms. Similarly, directions were also issued to deputy commissioners of all districts to involve officers from various departments to inspect areas in the respective towns and check whether police officers are complying with the court’s order. “The direction that is being issued today is considering emergent conditions that have emerged as we have observed on the streets, at this stage, and the dangers associated with spread of the pandemic,” the order read. The matter has been listed for September 17, the next date of hearing. Assam has recorded 118,333 Covid-19 positive cases till date with 330 deaths and 90,697 recoveries. Last week, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed that the monthly requirement for oxygen is at present nearly 25 metric tonnes against the state’s production of 37.86 metric tonnes. Of this, nearly 8.25 metric tonnes of Oxygen is being supplied to COVID-19 patients at present. Sarma had expressed an apprehension that if the present trend of rise in COVID-19 positive cases continues, there might be a problem in getting adequate oxygen supply in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-orders-punishment-for-covid-19-safety-norms-violators-in-assam/story-2vv3lMCsFiIZ5jE3Dj5sQK.html
04-09-2020||India||Kashmir highway blocked at Panthial, 500 vehicles stranded||Vehicular movement on the 270-km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway halted around 4am Friday after light rainfall caused landslides in Panthial, Ramban district. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Traffic (National Highways), Ajay Anand said, “The rain caused landslides at Panthial and other places on the highway in Ramban district around 4 am. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) cleared stones and debris from other stretches but in stones continued to fall on the highway at Panthial. Vehicular movement has been disrupted since then.”He said that around 500 vehicles, including trucks carrying essentials to Kashmir, are stranded from Panthial to Udhampur.“NHAI tried to clear the stones from Panthial but intermittent rain hampered the work,” he said, adding that the stretch will be cleared once stones stop falling.India Meteorological Department director Sonam Lotus said, “Presently, the weather is cloudy in all three regions of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, with light to moderate rain forecasted at scattered places in J&K.”He also said that light to moderate rain was likely during the next 24 hours at scattered places in J&K and mainly dry weather thereafter. “There’s no forecast of any significant weather change for next one week to 10 days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-highway-blocked-at-panthial-500-vehicles-stranded/story-ngy5utmf6zUNoOa19FFkfK.html
04-09-2020||India||9 dead, several injured in explosion at firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu||At least nine people were killed and five others injured after an explosion in a firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu’s Cuddalore on Friday.The injured persons have been taken to hospital, news agency Associated Press quoted police officer Pandiyan as saying.The police have also launched a probe to ascertain the cause of explosion, which has completely damaged the building.The factory is located in Kattumannarkoil area of Cuddalore district, 190km away from state capital Chennai. Fireworks manufacturing is a big business in India, with firecrackers often used in festivals and weddings.Many illegal factories with little safety precautions produce firecrackers that are cheaper to buy than legally made ones. In September last year, a large explosion at a fireworks factory killed 22 people in Batala, a town in northern Punjab state, about 460 kilometers (285 miles) north of New Delhi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-five-dead-several-injured-in-explosion-at-crackers-factory/story-MR37WDhgJWgUpvEU2atJ0O.html
04-09-2020||India||‘Can’t argue from garden’: Orissa high court on ‘horrible’ virtual hearings||The Orissa High Court has asked the State Bar Council and High Court Bar Association to advise the lawyers to maintain basic decorum and decency in court proceedings while appearing via video conferencing.Expressing his unhappiness over the lawyers’ conduct while appearing for the cases via video conferencing, HC judge Justice Biswanath Rath said arguing for cases outside court premises does not mean doing the same from inside a running vehicle, from the garden lawn and from the drawing room, along with a spouse.While hearing a civil miscellaneous petition that was dismissed, justice Rath remarked that lawyers should argue at the minimum from his/her home or temporary residence and there should be maintenance of minimum decorum.Justice Rath referred to a case in which a lawyer argued his case from inside a moving car pleading that he had attended another case at Puri and so was unable to argue his case from his residence at Cuttack. “This court seriously condemns the conducting of a case inside a vehicle on the road,” Justice Rath said.“In the Covid-19 situation, extending arguing place beyond the court premises does not mean permitting one to argue matter inside a vehicle, from a lawn or from a drawing room allowing the wife to join in the proceedings. This court has had some horrible experiences while conducting court through video conference. A lawyer after finishing his case was joined by his wife even though the video-conference was still on. When the situation did not improve after frequent requests, the court had to disconnect the petitioner’s connection,” remarked justice Rath.In another instance, a lawyer argued his case from his garden on the plea that he could not get proper net connectivity from inside his house, which proved to be wrong. The judge remarked that the same lawyer while appearing through video conferencing went on eating.In June this year, the SC had upbraided a lawyer who appeared before a virtual court lying in bed while dressed in a T-shirt. The advocate had to tender an unconditional apology to the apex court later on. In April this year, a lawyer in Rajasthan high court had appeared in a bail hearing through video-conferencing dressed in a vest. The HC later pulled up the lawyer for not being properly dressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-argue-from-garden-orissa-court-on-horrible-video-conferences/story-4tedIAp2QkfVfdZa8BeVnN.html
04-09-2020||India||Probe ordered after photo of MP jailer talking to honey trap accused goes viral||Madhya Pradesh Prison department has ordered a probe after a jailer in Indore district jail was seen talking to a high profile woman, accused in a honey trap case, on the jail premises, in photos that went viral on social media on Wednesday, as per officials. A team led by deputy inspector general (DIG) of Jail department Sanjay Pandey visited the jail on Thursday and spoke with authorities in connection with the probe. In the viral photo, jailer KK Kulshrestha is seen sitting on a chair outside the video conference room of the women’s cell on the jail premises and the honey trap accused is seen standing before him. Their gestures suggest both were engaged in a conversation. The viral photos invited several comments including allegations of special treatment for the accused woman. The honey trap scandal came to light in September 2019 with the arrest of six persons, including five women, following a complaint by an engineer in Indore. In the preliminary investigation, police found that this gang was blackmailing politicians, bureaucrats, businessmen and even police officers by shooting their videos in compromising situations. All the accused from the gang are lodged in district jail, Indore.Also Read: CM Chouhan orders inquiry into sale of grain unfit for humans at govt shopDIG, jail, Sanjay Pandey, reached the jail in the morning with some woman officials and conducted an inspection, as per officials. Talking to media persons, Pandey said, “We are conducting an inquiry into the presence of the jailer outside the women cell and talking to a jail inmate? A separate inquiry will be conducted to find out who clicked the photo and posted the same on social media as the use of mobile phones or any other electronic device is strictly prohibited inside the jail.” Also Read: BJP believes in politics of development: ScindiaJailer KK Kulshrestha said, “There are 80 to 90 woman prisoners in the jail, many of whom approach authorities to make requests related to health, phone calls to their relatives, submitting applications etc. But someone deliberately snapped that particular photo with the honey trap accused illegally inside the jail premises and made it viral on social media to highlight it as part of a conspiracy against me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-ordered-after-photo-of-mp-jailer-talking-to-honey-trap-accused-goes-viral/story-OP1lVovV0RoTtyrzK0XkxM.html
04-09-2020||India||Security along LAC enhanced, situation delicate and serious, says army chief||Army Chief Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said that the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) was “delicate and serious” and the army has taken some precautionary measures to enhance security in the wake of the ongoing developments. Naravane reached Leh on Thursday for a two-day security review of the Ladakh sector, where India and China armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. He said the situation has been delicate for over three months. The army chief said talks were on at the military and diplomatic level to resolve the situation. “I am confident that talks can help resolve the border problem fully,” said Naravane, after visiting several forward areas. Also read: President Xi’s plan for Tibet fuels a pushback and a nudge to IndiaHe said soldiers were highly motivated and fully prepared to deal with any situation. “Our officers and men are the finest in the world and they will not only make the army proud but also the nation proud.” Also Watch | ‘Situation along LAC slightly tense’: Army Chief speaks on border row with ChinaAmid rising tensions with China in the Ladakh sector after provocative Chinese actions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso and India’s counter-manoeuvres to occupy key heights, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Thursday said Pakistan could try to take advantage of any threat developing along India’s northern borders but warned that the Pakistani army would suffer heavy losses if it attempted any “misadventure”. Rawat highlighted the threat of “coordinated action” by the militaries of China and Pakistan along the northern and western borders and stressed that the Indian armed forces were capable of handling the joint threat. Also read: President Xi’s plan for Tibet fuels a pushback and a nudge to IndiaThe CDS said India’s military strategy to deal with a twin challenge would be based on identifying a primary and a secondary front for conduction operations. The Indian Army has rejigged its deployments at multiple points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, including the northern bank of Pangong Lake, to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from making aggressive manoeuvres to unilaterally alter the status quo in contested areas. Tensions flared in the sensitive sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to stop the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. Brigade commander-ranked officers from the two sides have held a series of talks to de-escalate tensions, but the dialogue has yielded no result with neither army prepared to make concessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-along-lac-enhanced-situation-delicate-serious-army-chief/story-Jr9KrJU3SBPhqusBUbmpvL.html
04-09-2020||India||‘Situation along LAC is slightly tensed’, says army chief during Ladakh visit||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane visited Ladakh on Friday to review the situation amid the ongoing border tension between India and China.“The situation along LAC is slightly tensed. Keeping in view of the situation, we have taken precautionary deployment for our own safety and security, so that our security and integrity remain safeguarded,” the army chief was quoted as saying by ANI.“I visited different places after reaching Leh. I talked to officers, JCOs and took stock of preparedness. The morale of jawans is high and they are ready to deal with all challenges,” Gen Naravane said.“They (the soldiers) are highly motivated. Their morale is high and they are fully prepared to deal with any situation that may arise. I would like to reiterate that our officers & men are the finest in the world and will make not only the army but also the nation proud,” he added.”For the last two-three months, the situation has been tensed but we have continuously been engaging with China both at the military and diplomatic level. These engagements are ongoing and will continue in the future also,” said the army chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-chief-visits-ladakh-to-reviews-security-situation-amid-border-row-with-china/story-eI6JeJCXQTEpDhE4LDlDjM.html
04-09-2020||India||Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara in Uttarakhand Himalayas reopens, 150 pilgrims allowed on day one||The portals of famous Sikh shrine Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara situated in Uttrakhand’s Chamoli district opened its portals for pilgrims on Friday at 10 am following all the rituals and the necessary Covid-19 restrictions including capping the number of pilgrims per day to 200. The Gurudwara usually reopens in May every year but was delayed this year due to the ongoing pandemic. It was finally decided on August 19 to open the portals on September 4 following a meeting between the office-bearers of Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara Management Trust and the officials of Chamoli district administration. Narenderjit Singh Bindra, vice-president of Hemkund Sahib Management Trust said 150 pilgrims will visit the shrine on the first day. “This time, due to the pandemic, the number of pilgrims has been restricted to 200 each day. Accordingly, 150 pilgrims will be visiting on the first day,” he said, adding the majority of the pilgrims are from Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Maharashtra, with only four or five being from Uttarakhand. Bindra also said that the management trust is ensuring that all the pilgrims follow the Covid-19 containment and safety norms while visiting the shrine. Also Read: With 946 coronavirus cases, Uttarakhand reports its biggest one-day jump“Following the norms, only those pilgrims are allowed, who have tested negative for Covid-19 within 72 hours of starting their pilgrimage,” said Bindra. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also extended his wishes to all the pilgrims on the opening of the portals of Hemkund Sahib and Lakshman Mandir. Also Read: Uttarakhand BJP MLA writes to JP Nadda, expresses anguish over lack of development works in his areaRawat said, “My wishes are with all the pilgrims on this occasion. This time due to the pandemic, there are some restrictions in place and we humbly request all the pilgrims to follow the Covid-19 norms for a safe pilgrimage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hemkund-sahib-gurudwara-in-uttarakhand-himalayas-reopens-150-pilgrims-allowed-on-day-one/story-oWkK72tigtWjYTEKPmS5EI.html
04-09-2020||India||‘Never lose respect for your khaki uniform’: PM Modi interacts with IPS probationers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday interacted with the Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers and asked them to respect their job and uniform. He said the human face of the khaki uniform has been engraved within the public reminiscence because of the good work performed by police specifically throughout the coronavirus pandemic.The Prime Minister was interacting virtually with IPS probationers during the ‘Dikshant Parade Event’ at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy in Hyderabad.“Yours is a profession where the factor of encountering something unexpected is very high and all of you must be alert and prepared for this. There is a higher degree of stress and which is why it is important to keep speaking with your near and dear ones. From time to time, maybe on a day off, meet someone like a teacher or someone whose advice you value,” PM Modi said while addressing the IPS probationers.Talking about terrorism, PM Modi said the youth of the country need to be prevented from taking the wrong path at the early stage itself.PM Modi said he regularly interacts with young IPS officers who have graduated from the academy but was unable to meet them this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. “But I’m sure that during my tenure, I will surely meet you all at some point,” he said.This year, 131 IPS probationers, including 28 women, have completed their 42 weeks of basic course phase-I training at the academy.The IPS probationers joined the academy on December 17, 2018, after completing their foundation course at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie and at Dr Marri Channa Reddy HRD Institute of Telangana, Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-interacts-with-ips-probationers-through-video-conference/story-YyG8QQiYlmGLo9BlVMibNJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Eight vessels, two aircraft deployed to help control fire on supertanker off Sri Lanka coast||India has deployed eight vessels and two aircraft to help control the fire on a supertanker off the Sri Lankan coast, people familiar with developments said on Friday. The tanker MV New Diamond, which was chartered by the Indian Oil Corporation, was carrying 300,000 tonnes of oil from a Kuwaiti port to Paradip port in India. Following the fire and an explosion, at least one member of the 23-strong crew of the tanker was reported missing and presumed dead, a Sri Lankan Navy spokesman said. India has deployed five vessels from the Coast Guard and three from the navy to assist efforts by Sri Lankan authorities to control the blaze, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The Coast Guard ship ICGS Shaurya, equipped with a water gun, was diverted on Thursday to spray water on the burning tanker.The Coast Guard’s Samudra Pahredar, a pollution control vessel, was dispatched from Vishakapatnam on Thursday, while ICGS Sujay was deployed from Chennai, the people said. The Coast Guard ships Abheek and Ameya were deployed on Friday. Two Dornier aircraft of the Coast Guard were deployed for aerial reconnaissance flights, and the Indian Navy diverted three warships, Shakti, Sahyadri and Ranvijay, to help in efforts to douse the flames.Experts have expressed concerns that the fire could result in massive environmental damage, especially if the ship breaks apart and there is an oil spill. The Coast Guard tweeted that a two-metre crack had been spotted on the aft portion of the tanker at 10 metres above the waterline. The crew of the New Diamond, which is registered in Panama, included five Greek nationals and 18 Filipinos. The fire broke out in the vessel’s engine room on Thursday and spread to the bridge. The missing Filipino crew member was seriously injured when a boiler exploded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-vessels-two-aircraft-deployed-to-help-control-fire-on-supertanker-off-sri-lanka-coast/story-h5chF0Qy81fnOtaEojqNJN.html
04-09-2020||India||US NGO pitches in to restore 140-yr-old legacy in Rajasthan’s Udaipur||A 140-year-old haveli in Udaipur, owned by the Bachhawat Mehta clan and built by military commander-in-chief of the erstwhile princely state of Mewar in Rajasthan, is being restored using the same material that was used during its construction. An American non-governmental organisation (NGO) is funding the restoration work for the Bichli Haveli project. Malvika Mehta, a member of the Bachhawat Mehta clan and an architect by profession, had started the innovative restoration work in 2017.Later, she had got in touch with civil engineers from the School of Structural and Geo-technical Engineering at Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) last year. Material scientists from VIT had visited the three-storey structure, which has 46 rooms and two big courtyards, in March 2019 to collect the samples of existing lime plasters in a bid to study properties of the material. Restoration Works International, a US-based NGO, is funding the restoration project aimed at promoting the use of lime as a contemporary construction material. “In the structure, stone masonry was used along with mud mortar. Lime plaster, which was up to 70 millimetres (mm) in thickness, gave the artistic finishing touch called ‘ghutai’ or ‘arraish’ in local dialects,” said Malvika, who belongs to the seventh generation of the Bachhawat Mehta clan. The lime plastered walls breathe to regulate moisture and interior temperature and get stronger with the passage of time, she said. Such buildings have a much longer life span. For instance, if maintained properly, the Bichli Haveli can survive for another 500 years, she added.“It is my duty to enable the haveli to remain relevant -- forever growing and living,” said Malavika. She said the chain of the transfer of traditional building knowledge was disrupted for some generations, especially since cement emerged as the mainstream construction material in the 1950s. “The current form of defective lime-based practices also led to a loss of faith in lime as a viable building material,” she added. The project attempts to use the scientific and the industrial know-how to fill in the gaps of the traditional knowledge and evolve its own building material ecosystem as a happy blend of the old and the new, she added. According to Dr Thirumalini, an associate professor of civil engineering department at VIT, the team from the university collected samples of existing lime plasters and concrete and conducted several advanced analysis and micro-structure studies to identify the type and properties of the material used in the construction over 140 years ago. “The objectives,” he said, “was to characterise old and existing lime plasters from the site and simulate them with the currently available building materials.” “The original material was re-engineered and applied for restoration of the haveli. During the process of material studies, an old lost technology of production of low-energy materials surfaced, highlighting the use of materials such as lime, plant extracts and hemp fibres to reduce the cost and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The original materials used were also found to act as CO2-capturing materials, helping in mitigating global warming, paving its way to be used in modern constructions for low-rise buildings,” said Dr Thirumalini. According to an NGO official, the project aims to bring several benefits to the community such as job creation --- especially for women --- support local suppliers and services and also help the haveli residents to celebrate their heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-ngo-pitches-in-to-restore-140-yr-old-legacy-in-rajasthan-s-udaipur/story-bmcrcqnr3LyJXGYCAVryHL.html
04-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB claims to have found links between drug peddlers, Samuel Miranda and Rhea’s brother||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) investigating the drug angle in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, arrested one more resident of Bandra, Basit Parihar, based on Zaid Vilatra’s interrogation late Thursday night. NCB sources said the two had revealed the names of Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik. NCB officials conducted searches at their residences on Friday morning and both were summoned for inquiry at NCB office in South Mumbai. A senior IPS officer from NCB confirmed the development and said, “Parihar was arrested late night and we will produce him before a magistrate court in the afternoon.” “Some evidence has been collected from the house of Miranda and Showik during the searches conducted. But the investigation is at a very preliminary stage and details of the evidence gathered from their residence cannot be revealed at the moment,” said the officer. Zaid Vilatra was arrested on Thursday and he was produced in the court and remanded in police custody till September 9. Zaid and Basit were called from questioning on Wednesday for their alleged role in drug peddling. Also Watch | Sushant death: NCB raids Rhea’s home; Samuel Miranda detained l Latest updatesNCB officials said that they have been questioning Vilatra and Parihar, and recovered Indian currency Rs 955,750, foreign currency US $ 2,081, 180 British Pounds and 15 Dirhams from Vilatra’s possession and during inquiry, he confessed that those were the proceeds of drug peddling, added NCB officials. While NCB had registered a case in Rajput’s death, the current investigation is a result of a separate case the NCB had registered. NCB had registered a case based on specific input and had arrested two persons, Abbas Lakhani and Karn Arora, and seized curated marijuana from their possession. During their questioning, NCB found Abbas Lakhani’s links to Bandra resident Vilatra who told the officials that he runs an eatery in Bandra (West) which lost business during the lockdown so he began peddling drugs through which he earned a substantial amount of money. Vilatra revealed that he was in touch with another Bandra resident, Basit Parihar. NCB questioned Parihar and found that he was in touch with Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik. Showik had allegedly used chats with Parihar regarding drug consumption and procurement. An analysis of Showik’s chats revealed that on March 17, 2020, he had shared Vilatra’s contact number with Samuel Miranda and asked to pay him Rs 10,000 for 5g. Thereafter, Samuel Miranda had contacted Vilatra for the first time on Showik’s behest, said NCB officials. But before Samuel called, Parihar had called Vilatra. Samuel had called Vilatra three times, said NCB officials. During interrogation, Vilatra has disclosed that he was paid cash Rs 10,000 and handed over 5g to two persons. The location analysis reveals that on March 17, 2020, Vilatra and Samuel Miranda were at the same location, added NCB officials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-claims-to-have-found-links-between-drug-peddlers-samuel-miranda-and-rhea-s-brother/story-5R04UaHYqpLiib3WotcfKL.html
04-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut’s PoK remark: MNS warns against defaming Mumbai Police||Actor Kangana Ranaut’s comparison of Mumbai to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) on Thursday after Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut told her not to come back to Mumbai, continued to evoke mixed reactions for the second day in a row.Ranaut had criticised the Mumbai Police alleging that attempts were being made to silence her due to her statements against the Bollywood drug mafia.On Friday, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) jumped into the fray warning her not to criticise the Mumbai Police while the Congress blamed the BJP IT cell of working behind the curtains on behalf of Ranaut. In addition, two actors, Renuka Shahane and Urmila Matondkar, criticised Ranaut, calling her comparison uncalled for.  Also Watch | ‘More scared of Mumbai police than movie mafia goons’: Kangana RanautAmeya Khopkar, who heads the MNS film workers union, said his outfit will not tolerate anything against the Mumbai Police. “Today, Mumbai is safe only due to Mumbai Police as women can travel even at midnight. We will not allow anyone to unjustly criticise the Mumbai Police,” warned Khopkar.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged the entire campaign has been orchestrated by the BJP IT cell.“Ranaut is just a face but the whole campaign is run by the BJP IT cell to malign the state government,” said Sawant. He also demanded a narco analysis test of BJP legislator Ram Kadam for his defense of Ranaut.“We also demand a Narco test of Ram Kadam who seems to be having immense knowledge of drugs and suppliers since Vivek Moitra days. We would also want to know BJP’s connection to drugs and who Sandeep Ssingh was speaking to in @BJP4Maharashtraoffice when he called there 53 times,” said Sawant. Ram Kadam dismissed Sawant’s attack sand said the real issue is about attempts to pressurise Ranaut. “I am ready for a Narco test whenever they want me. I have never hidden my Bollywood connections. I organise the biggest Dahi Handi festival in Mumbai and all film stars including Shahrukh Khan come there. However, the issue here is of trying to pressurise Kangana and protecting the Bollywood Mafia,” said Kadam. Sanjay Raut, whose article in Saamana on Thursday asking Ranaut not to return to Mumbai had started the debate, said that undue importance is being given to her.“If she has proof of the drug mafia, she should submit the proof to the government or the Police instead of just using the social media,” said Raut.Defending Ranaut, BJP legislator Ram Kadam called this a diversionary tactic.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut’s tweet comparing Mumbai to PoK draws controversy“The whole attempt is to scare her from exposing the Bollywood nexus. The Maharashtra Government should remember Kangana is Jhansi Ki Rani,” said Kadam.Actor Renuka Shahane tweeted “I am all for criticizing govts. But “why Mumbai is feeling like POK” seems to me like a direct comparison between Mumbai & POK. Your comparison was really in bad taste. As a Mumbaikar, I did not like it! Maybe it was naive of me to expect any better from you.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut blocks Kubbra Sait on Twitter, Sacred Games actor says ‘Aiyo! I was silent all along’Similar was the reaction from Urmila Matondkar.“Maharashtra is cultural n intellectual face of India..land of Great Shivaji maharaj. Mumbai has fed millions of Indians n given them Name Fame n Glory. Only ungrateful can compare it with POK..Shocked n disgusted,” tweeted Matondkar.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut responds as Renuka Shahane slams her comment on Mumbai: ‘Were you also waiting like a blood thirsty vulture’Throughout the day on Thursday, Ranaut was trending on Twitter with several people supporting as well as criticising her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-s-pok-remark-mns-warns-against-defaming-mumbai-police/story-6Z7ZcENoofFFQ6kMM86nVI.html
04-09-2020||India||BJP protests against ‘illegal’ transfer of Puri dharmasala land in Odisha||Upping the ante on the allotment of plots of a heritage dharmasala in the holy town of Puri to a few lodge owners by the Naveen Patnaik government, the BJP on Thursday started an online petition against the move and pushed for its cancellation.The petition on change.org, seeking cancellation of the allotment of Bagala Dharmasala plots by the state government, was launched by party’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra and state unit president Sameer Mohanty.Patra, launching the campaign “Bagala bachao andolan”, said it was unfortunate that the state government wanted to give away part of the dharmasala’s land to influential persons for building their lodge.“A Jagannath devotee Kanheya Lal Bagala had donated the land of dharmasala in 1905 to cater to the needs of pilgrims and economically backward devotees as thousands of visitors had to suffer due to lack of accommodation in the holy town. As there was a widespread epidemic at that time, a lot of pilgrims had died. The dharmasala served the poor devotees of Lord Jagannath who used to pay a very negligible amount towards their stay. It is quite sad that the building once meant for housing poor devotees is being given away illegally,” alleged Patra.Since August last year, the Puri district administration had gone on a demolition spree, razing several mutts, lodges as well as private houses within 75-metre perimeter of the 12th century Jagannath temple over security threat. As part of relief and rehabilitation package to the lodge owners, the Puri district administration had allotted 0.34 acres of land of Bagala Dharmasala to five lodge owners whose lodges were demolished during the beautification drive last year.The BJP, which over last fortnight has been protesting against the move of the state government, said the act has hurt the sentiments of crores of Jagannath devotees and Odias across the world. “This callous action by the state government is a huge humiliation for the Jagannath devotees,” said BJP state unit chief Sameer Mohanty.The Odisha government in 2018, said the BJP leaders, had brought the dharmasala under the Central-assisted PRASAD scheme for its renovation work and an amount of Rs 21 crore was sanctioned. “The India Tourism Development Corporation started the work and spent approximately Rs 3.26 crore for the pile foundation after being allocated a plot near Jagannath temple. However, the state government abruptly stopped the work without any basis. It now seems the work was stopped so that some land of the dharmasala can be given to some BJD leaders,” alleged Patra.BJD leader Amar Satpathy, however, dismissed the charges, saying the BJP did not want development of the heritage city of Puri.Puri district administration said there has been no illegality in the allotment of plot as is being claimed.“Just 0.34 acres of land of Bagala Dharmasala has been given to private lodge owners who had lost their commercial establishment as per the Relief and Rehabilitation policy approved by the state government. The lodge owners were given options of taking cash or land in lieu of their commercial establishment. Just six persons opted for government land on the Grand Road and accordingly 0.34 acres out of 2.78 acres land of Bagala Dharmasala was allotted to five of them. One of the five persons is a servitor of the temple,” said Singh.The dharmasala building is still standing intact, he said.“The rehabilitation policy is being executed to ensure the security of the temple, increase in capacity as well as the provision of better quality accommodation for pilgrims so that Puri emerges as a world heritage centre. We should acknowledge and appreciate the sacrifices made by the servitors donating their centuries-old land properties for the cause of the Jagannath temple,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-protests-against-illegal-transfer-of-puri-dharmasala-land-in-odisha/story-CLgabVkppCcFywLX5O5ycI.html
04-09-2020||India||India records over 83,000 Covid-19 cases for second day; tally nears 4 million||India recorded more than 83,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second day in a row, taking its infection tally to over 3.93 million, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.There were 83,341 Covid-19 cases between Thursday and Friday morning, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am. On Thursday, India had reported 83,883 cases of the coronavirus cases.The country’s death toll reached 68,472 after 1,096 people succumbed to the viral disease, the ministry’s data showed. The number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease is now 3,037,151 after 66,659 patients were declared cured across the country. There are 831,124 active cases in the country.The health ministry said on Friday that less than 1/2% of the active cases are on ventilators, 2% are in ICUs and less than 3.5% are on oxygen support. “This is due to early detection, early hospitalisation and effective clinical management based on Standard Treatment Protocol,” it added.On Thursday, India had reached another peak of highest single-day recoveries at 68,584. There are 26 states and Union territories which have reported a recovery rate of over 70% and recovered cases are 3.6 times the number of active cases, the health ministry said on Thursday.Delhi recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases recorded in a day on Thursday since June-end, data from the daily health bulletin released by the government shows. The Capital recorded 2,737 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday with almost 33,000 tests having been conducted in a day.Delhi also recorded 19 more deaths due to the infection, taking the total toll in the city to 4,500. After recording deaths in single digits in August third week, the number of deaths started increasing and went up to 22 deaths a day recorded on three days during the last two weeks. The increasing number of cases and deaths in the national capital has led the Union home ministry to start “active engagement” with the Delhi government and lieutenant governor again.“The number of active cases and deaths in Delhi was on a decline, but in the last few weeks, both the parameters have gone up. Keeping that in mind, the ministry of home affairs has started active engagement with the Delhi government,” Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-83-000-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-tally-nears-4-million/story-842xvRGfmbtcOZzSWHBHWP.html
04-09-2020||India||With 946 coronavirus cases, Uttarakhand reports its biggest one-day jump||With 946 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Thursday reported its biggest single-day jump in cases since the first case was reported in the state on March 15. The state also crossed the 22,000 case-mark, taking the state’s tally of total cases to 22,180. It also reported the death of nine Covid-19 positive patients on Thursday. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 positive patients went up to 291 in the state. Out of the 300 deaths, 92 cases were of deaths due to coronavirus, while the others died due to comorbidities. Of the nine deaths reported on Thursday, four died due to coronavirus while others died due to comorbidities. According to the state health bulletin on Thursday evening, maximum 272 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by US Nagar (194), Haridwar (135), Nainital (105), Uttarkashi (50), Almora (48), Tehri (37), Pauri (31), Pithoragarh (28), Rudraprayag (24), Champawat (20), Chamoli (1) and Bageshwar (1). Haridwar district has reported the maximum 5136 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Dehradun (4710), US Nagar (4146) and Nainital (3004). Also, 508 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Thursday with a maximum of 299 from US Nagar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 21.85 days, while the infection rate is 5.54%. The state has so far tested over 4.24 lakh samples of which results of over 14,000 are awaited. Out of 22,180 a total of 14,945 people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 67.38%. Uttarakhand currently has 339 containment zones in seven districts. Meanwhile, Naveen Dumka, BJP MLA from Lalkuan in Nainital district, tested positive on Thursday. The MLA had recently attended an event with state party president Bansidhar Bhagat who tested positive last week. “On August 26, I attended a party event with state party president Bansidhar Bhagat who tested positive later. Taking precautions, I isolated myself and got tested on August 29. Today (Thursday) my results came back and I have tested positive. I have home-isolated myself,” said Dumka. In an order released yesterday, the state health department allowed children below ten years of age and senior citizens above 60 years of age, who are not suffering from any other disease, to be isolated at home in case they test positive for coronavirus. However, the order added that families of all such patients should have the facility of a personal vehicle, so that the patient can be rushed to a hospital if their health condition deteriorates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-946-coronavirus-cases-uttarakhand-reports-its-biggest-one-day-jump/story-mPvJvy6JUjMZTUAsfx3X0I.html
04-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh meets Russian counterpart, discusses ways to deepen defence, strategic partnership||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday met his Russian counterpart General Sergey Shoigu in Moscow, wherein the duo discussed about strengthening defence and strategic cooperation between both the two countries, said Defence Ministry.The ministry said that meeting coincided with Indra Naval Exercises to be conducted by Indian and Russia navies off Straits of Malacca over next two days, adding that Singh noted that these exercises demonstrated common interests of both countries in maritime security in Indian Ocean Region.It also said that Singh appreciated steadfast support provided by Russia, consistent with India’s defence and security needs and in this context, particularly noted the timely manner in which Russia had responded to requests for procurement of particular weapon systems.Singh reached Moscow on Wednesday on a three-day visit to Russia to attend the combined meeting of Defence Ministers of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO).Meanwhile, Defence Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar held a meeting with Dmitry Shugaev, Director, Federal Service of Military-Technical Cooperation, Russia.According to a tweet by Russian Embassy in India, Russian Defence Minister Sergey Shoigu thanked Defence Minister of India Rajnath Singh for visiting Moscow in June and highlighted colossal potential of collaboration between Russia and India. “Military and military and technical cooperation were discussed.” Minister of State for External Affairs, V Muraleedharan spoke at the India-Russia Young Scholars International e-Conference 2020 on the 20th anniversary of India-Russia Strategic Partnership. “The time tested India-Russia relationship is based on unparalleled mutual trust and respect, common interests and concurrence on fundamental issues of global affairs,” he said in a tweet.“The dynamism of the India-Russia relationship has propelled the bilateral cooperation beyond the traditional areas to almost all sectors of the economy benefitting the people of both countries. Our trade has also increased by 40,” he added.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-meets-russian-counterpart-discusses-ways-to-deepen-defence-strategic-partnership/story-UWZyD4yoM7N71w6bpDFgNJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Departments procrastinate probes against ‘corrupt’ officials, Amit Shah displeased||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is unhappy that departments under him are not completing probes against officers facing allegations of corruption or administrative lapses in time and has “strictly” ordered them to follow the rules. A communication sent to all the divisions and organisations that come under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), reviewed by HT, said “It is observed by the home minister that the prescribed schedule of time limits in conducting investigations and departmental inquiries are not being followed by the departments/divisions as per the instructions issued by Central Vigilance Commission (CVC)”. According to the guidelines issued by CVC in May 2000 on schedule of time limits on departmental investigations, once a complaint is received against an officer in any government department, a decision has to be taken within a month whether it involves a vigilance aspect or not and the departmental probe should be completed within six months. The letter sent to all home ministry’s divisions and chief vigilance officers (CVOs) of all departments on behalf of Shah stated that there should be strict compliance of the guidelines. The departments which report to Shah include all central paramilitary forces such as the Border Security Force (BSF), the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Assam Rifles, the National Security Guard (NSG), the Intelligence Bureau (IB), the National Intelligence Grid (Natgrid), the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the National Civil Defence College (NCDC) etc. The divisions in the MHA under Shah’s authority are the union territories of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) and Ladakh, left-wing extremism (LWE), border management, foreigners’ division, cyber crime, Centre-state division, prisons and others that are crucial in making day-to-day decisions on internal security. Officials familiar with the development, who didn’t wish to be named, said many investigations linger on for years. As reported by HT in August, the anti-corruption watchdog – Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) – had also written to all CVOs in all ministries and government departments to complete the disciplinary proceedings against officers facing probe for corruption or administrative lapses in time even if they have to be conducted through video-conference because of the unprecedented coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. CVOs posted in every government department are responsible for finalising a disciplinary proceeding against officials indulging in any activity in violation of the norms or forwarding corruption complaints to CVC in a bid to ensure that a probe by CBI can be requested, if required. CVC has repeatedly reminded government departments to finish their disciplinary proceedings in time. A July 2018 letter written by CVC to all departments stated that “the unexplained delays lead to Central Administrative Tribunals (CATs) and the high courts quashing the charge sheet (s) on the sole ground that the disciplinary authorities concerned had issued charge sheets to the delinquents (officers under investigation) after very long periods of commission of alleged misconduct etc and also for unexplained delays in conducting disciplinary enquiries”. “Such long delays in finalising disciplinary matters are not just unjust to officials who may be finally exonerated, but help the guilty to evade punitive action,” CVC had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/departments-procrastinate-probes-against-corrupt-officials-amit-shah-displeased/story-zEdRDn5fknTi73CuMFpY4N.html
04-09-2020||India||India paves the way for return of 410 Pakistani Hindus stranded across the border||The Indian government has extended the term of the NORI (No Objection to Return to India) visas issued to at least 410 Pakistani Hindu immigrants-- who were living in India on long-term visas (LTV) before their intended short-trip to Pakistan earlier this year left them stranded due to the travel restrictions imposed in the wake of Covid-19—to facilitate their return to India, according to an office memorandum issued by Union ministry of home affairs.The term of the lapsed NORI visas of such migrants will be treated as deemed extended for a period up to 15 days from the date of lifting of such travel restrictions by the government of India.HT has seen the memorandums sent by the MHA to the external affairs ministry (MEA) and to the additional director of the Bureau of Immigration on July 31, paving the way for the return of such immigrants to India.The migrants stranded in Pakistan include a 33-year-old Janata Mali, who travelled with her husband and three children to see her ailing mother in Mirpur Khas in February before the Covid-19 lockdown was clamped. Being Indian citizens, her husband and children returned to Jodhpur in the last week of June through a shuttle service operated for citizens stuck on both sides of the border but Janata Mali, a Pakistani living in Jodhpur on long-term visa since 2007, was denied permission to travel. The July orders were issued after an earlier decision taken on May 9 to extend the NORI visas could not be implemented properly by the Indian high commission in Islamabad due to some technical difficulties. The MEA then requested the MHA for a review of the order on June 17.Also Read: Pakistan trying to politicise UNSC’s terrorist listing process, says IndiaThe MEA gave details to MHA of 410 Pak nationals, who held NORI visas issued by India and had been registered with the Indian high commission in Islamabad for the purpose of return to India. It was then decided to allow return of these individuals through the integrated border check post at Attari, subject adherence to the health/ Covid protocols issued by the health ministry.“Due endorsement of the physical extension of their Return Visas would be made on their passports at ICP Attari at the time of arrival. The HCI, Islamabad shall intimate to MHA the names and particulars of all such Pak nationals who have registered with them for Return Visa extension,” the memorandum stated.Also Read: Russia reiterates it won’t supply arms to PakistanThe MEA and the HCI Islamabad have been asked to intimate date and time, along with detailed particulars, of these Pak nationals return to India, well in advance to the MHA to facilitate their arrival and necessary arrangements to quarantine them.The memorandum has also asked for details of other stranded Pak nationals holding NORI visas issued by India if and when they register with the Indian high commission in Islamabad, so that the matter may be taken up with the security agencies for prior clearance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-paves-the-way-for-return-of-410-pakistani-hindus-stranded-across-the-border/story-WfVKJY5vEUffgCwvwFNXjN.html
04-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB summons Showik Chakraborty, Samuel Miranda for questioning||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday searched the premises of Rhea Chakraborty’s brother, Showik Chakraborty, and Samuel Miranda in connection with the drugs probe linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, officials said.A team of NCB officials accompanied by police officials raided the residence of Showik in Santa Cruz (West) area and Miranda’s house in suburban Andheri (West) area from 6:30am, news agency PTI reported. Showik lives with Rhea.The search teams included some women officials and they were seen wearing masks and gloves and using multiple vehicles, PTI said.KPS Malhotra, NCB deputy firector (operations) who is heading the agency’s probe team, was seen leading the search and he told reporters that the houses of Showik and Miranda were being searched and that this is a “procedural” action. The bureau is looking to gather additional evidence through this action and some documents have been seized by the search teams, another official said.They said both Showik and Miranda, house manager of Rajput, were handed over summons to join the investigation during the search. “They have intended to go along (with the search team) due to media presence,” an officer said, according to PTI.They are taken by the NCB search team and will be questioned at the agency’s zonal office in the Ballard Estate area, the officer said.NCB has arrested two alleged drug peddlers operating in Mumbai in this case and three other people. The two arrested are Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar.Parihar, the 23-year-old Bandra resident arrested on Thursday as part of NCB’s ongoing probe, was produced before a metropolitan magistrate on Friday and remanded in custody till September 9.Bandra resident Parihar was arrested after interrogating Vilatra. Parihar is learnt to have “links” with the narcotics case registered against Rhea Chakraborty, 28, and others. Parihar is linked to a person who in turn was allegedly reported to be featuring in chats recovered from the mobile phone of Rhea and Showik, officials have said.Rhea is the main accused in the death case of the 34-year-old actor that is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges and NCB. The bureau is probing the drug angle in this case under the criminal sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act after the ED shared with it a report following the cloning of two mobile phones of Rhea.NCB has said that it is looking into “the drug citadel in Mumbai, and especially Bollywood” in this case. According to officials, the mobile phone chats and messages indicated procurement, transportation and consumption of drugs and these leads were shared by the ED with the NCB and the CBI. NCB is understood to have obtained the phone records of other accused in the case too.Rajput was found dead at his Bandra flat on June 14.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-actor-s-ex-aide-samuel-miranda-detained-by-narcotics-control-bureau/story-0cm9qFLT19v019AmB7NKmI.html
04-09-2020||India||1962 to the Emergency: When Question Hour was dropped amid extraordinary circumstances||Suspension of the Question Hour, or the first 60 minutes of a Parliament session in which lawmakers seek direct replies from ministers, has become a issue for the Opposition parties. But sifting through Parliament data showed that this will be the first time that there will be a temporary suspension of the Question Hour. In the past, the Question Hour had been suspended during wars and the Emergency. However, this time around the Opposition parties are arguing that there are no such exigencies and have alleged that the government is running away from answering their questions. 1962 winter session During the India-China war of 1962, Parliament’s winter session had skipped the Question Hour. “The Session was to commence on November 11, 1962, but due to the Chinese aggression, it was advanced,” a parliamentary report said. The war had started on October 20 and lasted until November 21. From October 26, Parliament also made a special provision: it started daily from 12 noon instead of 11 am. While the original schedule was for 34 days, ultimately the session conducted legislative business for 26 days. 1971 winter session In December 1971, when then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi announced the unconditional surrender of Pakistan, it saw the birth of a new nation, Bangladesh. Parliament’s winter session was in progress --- Gandhi had made that announcement in the Lok Sabha -- while the country was still at war. According to PRS legislative research, Parliamentarian Hari Vishnu Kamath had suggested that “Parliament of the nation must continue to be in session and have the privilege of advising and guiding the government in this emergency.” During the 1971 war, too, the daily schedule was changed. “From December 6 to 23 (due to Pakistani aggression), hours of sittings of the Lok Sabha were changed to 10 am from 1 pm and the Question Hour and Calling Attention matters were suspended,” according to the official data. The Emergency (June 25, 1975 –March 21, 1977)During the Emergency, imposed by the Indira Gandhi regime, Parliament continued to function but without Question Hour in at least two sessions. Between June 1975 and March 1997 — when the Emergency was in place — five parliament sessions were to be conducted. The monsoon session of 1975 — the first after the declaration of the Emergency — didn’t have a Question Hour or time for Opposition MPs to ask questions to different ministers. The winter session of 1976, too, didn’t have a Question Hour. Several constitutional amendments were cleared hurriedly during this period. One of the most significant one was the 42nd Amendment that added the words “Socialist” and “Secular” to the Preamble to the Indian constitution. 2020 monsoon session Unstarred questions, or written questions that ministers need to reply to, would be allowed during the monsoon session of Parliament, but the Question Hour would remain cancelled, according to people familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The decision has been taken at a time, when the Opposition parties have protested against the move not to schedule the Question Hour. They have called the decision an attempt by the government to avoid being questioned, and have also described it as a bid to curb their rights. The unstarred questions would have to be submitted to the secretariat and answers would be provided on the day the question is listed (it would also be uploaded on the website), the people cited above said. However, oral or starred questions will not be allowed -- in the interests of time -- and to ensure that the number of people in Parliament is kept low (when a question from a ministry is listed to be asked as a starred one, key ministry officials are expected to be present in Parliament). The session may also not allow private member bills — through which Members of Parliament (MPs) seek policy or legislative changes — and the Zero Hour through which MPs raise current issues may also be limited to just half an hour. These changes have been necessitated following an unprecedented coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country. The monsoon session is scheduled to start on September 14 and end on October 1 without any weekend breaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1962-to-the-emergency-when-question-hour-was-dropped-amid-extraordinary-circumstances/story-7608h3XMxPwVVuCiuOFRLJ.html
04-09-2020||India||4 months on, India and China to sit across table. Rajnath meeting today the first||In a bid to break the deadlock in Ladakh, defence minister Rajnath Singh is scheduled to meet his Chinese counterpart, General Wei Fenghe, on Friday evening on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) ministerial in Moscow. This is the first major political contact between India and China since the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) unilaterally changed the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in May 2020 in east Ladakh.According to people familiar with the developments in Moscow and Delhi, the meeting was arranged at the behest of both sides mutually to find a way out of the current stalemate in Ladakh with both the Indian Army and PLA deployed in full strength to counter each other. That the Ladakh stand-off will be the topic of discussion is evident from the presence of ministry of external affairs joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava in Moscow on Friday. Srivastava has held a series of conversations with his Chinese counterpart under the working mechanism for consultation and coordination on India-China border affairs towards disengagement and de-escalation of the PLA in the contested sectors.The meeting between two defence ministers is crucial as Rajnath Singh is number two in the Narendra Modi government and a former BJP president, Gen Wei, a former missile force commander, is a state councillor and member of the all-powerful Central Military Commission. The CMC, headed by chairman President Xi Jinping, controls the PLA.with the President as commander-in-chief.Also Watch | ‘Situation along LAC slightly tense’: Army Chief speaks on border row with ChinaAfter this meeting, External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar is expected to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at the same platform in Moscow on September 10.Also read: The curious link behind China’s Ladakh moves and a looming food crisis | AnalysisThe ministerial-level meeting between India and China comes at a time when PLA and the Indian Army are locked in a tense posture in Ladakh and occupied Aksai Chin with the former trying to impose 1960 claim map (demarcated by a green line) on the ground and the latter clear that its claim line (demarcated by a black line) is the true LAC.While PLA initially had made gains on the ground north of Pangong Tso in May and June, the Indian Army has nullified the dominance by repositioning on the heights overlooking Finger four on the lake and make tactical gains on south banks of the contested lake by pre-empting the Chinese troops.“It is a game of pressure and time. The first one who blinks loses the match. The only way out is that both sides restore status quo ante and walk out of the military cul de sac respectfully,” said a military commander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-eyes-on-rajnath-wei-meeting-in-moscow-to-break-ladakh-deadlock/story-kX2ga0ZzmDie8m9SclpQaJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Home ministry steps in again as cases, deaths rise in Delhi||The increasing number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and related deaths in the national capital has led the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to start an “active engagement” with the Delhi government and Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal again. Also read: Two dhabas in Haryana’s Murthal sealed after 75 workers test positive for Covid-19Delhi reported 2,737 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, while around 33,000 tests were conducted. This was the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases since June-end, the data from the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin showed. Delhi also recorded 19 fresh deaths due to the contagion, as the toll tally in the national capital rose to 4,500. The city was recording Covid-19-related deaths in single digits until the third week of August. But the fatality count went up to 22 a day on three occasions in the past two weeks.However, the case fatality ratio (CFR) – the number of deaths who tested Covid-19 positive – has been on the decline in the national capital. At present, Delhi’s CFR is 2.47%, but still much higher than the national average of 1.78%.“The number of active cases and deaths in Delhi was on a decline, but in the last few weeks both the parametres have gone up. Now, the MHA has started an active engagement with the Delhi government,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW). He said that Delhi government has been given guidelines to help control the number of Covid-19 cases and related deaths. “We are engaging with the Delhi government under the supervision of the MHA. We also held a meeting with the L-G recently, where the representatives from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), MoH&FW, and NITI Aayog were also present. We have given them some guidelines. If the guidelines are effectively followed, then the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths can be controlled,” said Bhushan. Bhushan said that Delhi was one of the five states that accounted for 70% of the total deaths in the country.Andhra Pradesh (AP), Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu (TN) are the other worst-hit states as far as the viral outbreak is concerned, he added.Bhsuhan pointed out that Delhi and Karnataka are the two among the five worst-hit states that have reported an uptick in the CFR in the past three weeks. The Delhi government authorities declined to comment.Delhi has ramped up its daily tests over the past two days in line with the Central government’s directive. The move has helped lower the positivity rate – the number of Covid-19 tests that show positive among the total swab samples tested – to 8.34% until Thursday. While the seven-day average positivity rate over the last week was 9.01%. Bhushan has also urged the states to conduct more real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. “There are states, where the optimal capacity of RT-PCR tests, of late, are not being utilised. We have drawn the attention of those states to the fact that they do have an installed capacity of conducting a particular number of RT-PCR tests, and they are doing less than their capacity. They need to scale up their RT-PCR tests,” said the secretary.“There is no uniform picture across the country, when it comes to RT-PCR and rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests. For instance, TN leads the pack as far as RT-PCR tests are concerned at over 90%. There are other states where the RT-PCR, TruNat (used for detection of tuberculosis), and CBNAAT (cartridge based nucleic acid amplification test) testing capacities are limited. ICMR has laid down guidelines that RAD tests are ideal for screening in densely populated areas, containment and buffer zones. So why not use them?” he asked. An expert has a different take on the nation-wide testing pattern.“Testing is going up in Delhi. If we test more, we are likely to have more new Covid-19 cases. However, the positivity rate should remain the same. Since, the positivity rate has also gone up, it implies that the transmission of the infection has risen again amid further easing of lockdown restrictions. Hence, there is a need to conduct more RT-PCR tests. But RAD tests cannot be used for large scale diagnosis. If a person gets a false positive report, he may think that he has not been infected and may end up spreading the SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, among others,” said Dr Lalit Kant, a former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at ICMR..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-steps-in-again-as-cases-deaths-rise-in-delhi/story-TcFx0aVhBrhH6mmtAXHPRM.html
04-09-2020||India||Only 2,717 coronavirus patients on ventilator support: Health ministry||Close to 3.5% of the active cases or those still recovering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country are on oxygen support. Fewer still _ 2.03% of the active cases _ are in need of admission to an intensive care unit. And, only 0.33% or 2,717 people with Covid-19 in the country are on ventilator, data released by the union health ministry shows. Also read: UNICEF says drugmakers can produce unprecedented vaccine quantities for Covid-19“This is due to early detection, early hospitalisation, and effective clinical management based on standard treatment protocol,” the health ministry said. At present, there are over 815,000 active cases of coronavirus disease in India. India reported 83,507 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, taking the country’s tally close to 4 million cases. Five states _ Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu _ account for 62% of the active cases in the country. Except Tamil Nadu, the average daily active cases in the other four states have gone up during the past week, data from the health ministry shows. Over 1,000 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been reported in a day across the country for three days in a row. On Thursday, 1,080 people died of it, taking the total toll of the infection to over 68,000 in the country, according to data from the HT dashboard. The union health ministry data shows that five states account for 70% of the cumulative deaths reported so far. However, only two of the five states have shown an increase in the number of deaths in the last three weeks – Karnataka and Delhi. Even as the numbers are on the rise, the case fatality ratio _ fraction of people who die among those who test positive for the infection _ has remained steady at 1.7%. On being asked why the government was reopening the economy even as the number of cases and deaths were on the rise, union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, “The government has adopted a graded approach to open up various economic activities. It is not as if suddenly everything has been opened up. Prior to that, the government also ensured that all prerequisites are in place _ we have ensured that the testing capacity in the country is adequate, that there are clear cut guidelines of standard clinical treatment protocol, that the hospital infrastructure is enhanced and there are adequate number of ICU beds, isolation beds, and oxygen beds. All these things have been firmed up and only then has the government gone for a graded opening of economy. At the end of the day, the government firmly believes that while lives are important, livelihoods are equally important.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-2-717-coronavirus-patients-on-ventilator-support-health-ministry/story-rui0zOgbl5bxvoHpgQFcbN.html
04-09-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath wants global publicity campaign for Ram temple in Ayodhya||Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed state government officials to chalk out an elaborate plan for a worldwide and world-class publicity campaign for the under-construction Ram temple in Ayodhya.The Ram temple would open new vistas of tourism in the near future, he said while addressing one of the two meetings held through video-conference to review the ongoing projects in the temple town and the Ayodhya division in eastern UP. He said at the other video-conference that the shrine would give Ayodhya a new identity. The need of the hour is to develop Ayodhya as a “solar city” in a bid to conserve the environment. “Ayodhya is known worldwide as Lord Ram’s birthplace and has an immense mythological significance. All development works in the town must be executed while keeping its ancient culture intact. Ayodhya, once developed, will also spur development of the other districts in the eastern UP region,” he said.“All ghats of Ayodhya should be conserved and beautified. A riverfront, stretching from Guptar Ghat to Naya Ghat, must be developed. The upcoming multi-level parking project should tap its commercial potential. The work on underground power cables also needs to be expedited,” he added.The CM laid stress on seamless movement of tourists and pilgrims in the ancient temple town. “Make two bus stations in Ayodhya, and develop the ‘Panchkosi’, ‘Chaudahkosi’, and ‘Chaurasikosi’ parikramas (circumambulations) around Ayodhya in a bid to decongest them. Widen all roads in Ayodhya on a priority basis. The Ram-Janaki path must be built as a world class facility,” he told the officers, who attended the video-conference.His call to action included opening more hotels in Ayodhya, as tourists and pilgrims’ footfall are set to rise in the temple town in the near future.“An increased footfall of tourists and pilgrims will lead to employment opportunities for local people,” Yogi said.The facilities at dharmshalas and restrooms must also be upgraded, he added.“The temple town should have a proper drainage system. Speed up the airport construction project in Ayodhya,” the CM directed to the officials concerned.Later in the day, Yogi chaired the Ayodhya divisional officers’ meeting on development works and ordered them to finish all the projects within the stipulated deadline. “Missing deadlines will lead to cost escalation,” he pointed out, as he reviewed projects worth over Rs 50 crore. “The projects won’t suffer due to want of funds,” he announced and warned the officials that there should be no compromise on the quality of the construction.He directed the officials to expedite construction of community toilets and gram panchayat buildings. He also asked them to digitalise all the secretariats in villages.The CM praised the officials in the Ayodhya division for their commendable performance regarding the payment of sugarcane dues to farmers and satisfactory power distribution. He lauded the reclamation of rivers through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), 2005. The officials were also directed to rejuvenate ponds in the Ayodhya division under the Atal Bhoojal Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-wants-global-publicity-campaign-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-XW9pXzwyWqAcXTTzS5IcXO.html
04-09-2020||India||After corruption allegations, Pakistan PM’s top aide Asim Bajwa resigns||Pakistan Prime Prime Minister Imran Khan’ top aide Lt Gen (Retd) Asim Saleem Bajwa announced his resignation on Thursday shortly after debunking allegations of corruption against him in a rebuttal that was posted on Twitter.Bajwa said he will step down as the Special Assistant to the Prime Minister (SAPM) Imran Khan, on information and broadcasting, Geo News reported.The former chief military spokesperson said this during a conversation with television show host Shahzeb Khanzada and said he will hand in his resignation to the prime minister today.Imran Khan’s top aide, however, said that he will continue his work as Chairman of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) Authority, which he said was a priority with the premier. “And I believe as well that this project is the country’s future,” he said.“I hope that the prime minister will allow me to concentrate all my focus on CPEC,” he added according to Geo News.The Dawn also quoted Bajwa as saying: “I decided to put all my energies into CPEC because we thought that a lot of focus is currently needed on the CPEC Authority”Bajwa decision to step down followed his detailed Twitter rebuttal to the “false and incorrect” allegations made against him and his family for assets concealment.“I strongly rebut the baseless allegations levelled against me and my family. Alhamdolillah another attempt to damage our reputation belied/exposed. I have and will always serve Pakistan with pride and dignity,” he said in a four-page press release posted on the microblogging website.An investigative report by Pakistani journalist Ahmed Noorani alleged properties and business worth millions of Bajwa and his close family members in Pakistan and abroad. The report claimed that Bajwa’s brothers, wife and two sons own a business empire, which has set up 99 companies in four countries including a pizza franchise with 133 restaurants worth an estimated USD 39.9 million.Refuting all the allegations, Bajwa in his rebuttal said, “It has been alleged that one of my sons had owned a company by name of Scion Builders and Estates (Pvt) Ltd, which has been registered in the SECP. It may be stated that this company has never done any business and same is dormant since inception.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-corruption-allegations-pakistan-pm-s-top-aide-asim-bajwa-resigns/story-CQb6Pq1KM7Ov3mO1RqjPZO.html
04-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Positivity rate double among healthcare workers in Delhi, Telangana and Maharashtra||The positivity rate for coronavirus among healthcare workers in three states _ Telangana, Maharashtra, and Delhi _ is double or more than the rate in general population, according to data shared by the union health ministry on Thursday.Positivity rate reflects the proportion of people who test positive among those who are tested. Also read: Virus can spread in public transport, reveals studyIndia’s positivity rate currently stands at about 7%. The country has ramped up testing and has been able to conduct over 1 million tests for three days consecutively. In comparison, the positivity rate among healthcare workers _ doctors, nurses, paramedical staff _ is the highest in Telangana where 18% of those tested were found to be positive. This is followed by Maharahtra with 16% and Delhi with 12%. The union health ministry has reached out to six states where the positivity rate among healthcare workers is on the “higher side.” The other states with high positivity rate among healthcare workers include – Karnataka where 13% of those tested are found to be positive, Puducherry with 12%, and Punjab with 11%, according to the data shared. “We have been tracking the positivity rate among the health care workers in the country. They are a precious resource and there is a need to protect them from the infection. We have brought this to the attention of these states and union territories through the ministry of home affairs,” said union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan in the press briefing on Thursday. He cited three reasons for higher infection among healthcare workers _ protocols for hospital infection control not being followed, protective gear not being used properly, and lack of containment measures in their area of residence. “The high positivity rate among healthcare worker begs the question, how are they getting infected? Is it from the hospital? That could be one reason. There is a standard protocol for hospital infection control. We have to see if that is being followed, if not we need to follow that. Then, we need to see if adequate protection is being taken by the healthcare workers, that is, proper donning and doffing of the PPE kits. We have also issued an SOP for that. We have recommended a buddy system where you have a group of two nurses or doctors with one seeing that the other has properly donned or doffed the PPE,” said Bhushan. He also said that if the healthcare workers are getting the infection from their area of residence, then proper containment measures would be needed. “We have also drawn the attention of the states and UTs to the localities where these doctors and nurses and support staff are coming from. If they are bringing infection from their localities, then we have to decide whether those localities have been contained or not. In case there is a need for containment or declaring them as buffer zone, then that must be done,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positivity-rate-double-among-health-care-workers-in-delhi-telangana-and-maharashtra/story-XQ4QrDIngN0E6CX1k5tUdK.html
04-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: To ensure social distancing, govt plans round-the-clock surveillance at Metro stations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Government plans round-the-clock surveillance to avoid crowding at Metro stations, will ‘name and shame’ violatorsMetro rail services across India, except for Maharashtra, will resume in phases from Monday (September 7) and will become fully operational by September 12 amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput case: Narcotics Control Bureau reaches Rhea Chakraborty’s residenceThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday reached actor Rhea Chakraborty’s residence in Mumbai to conduct a search in connection with its probe in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, news agency ANI reported. Read moreNational Nutrition Week: 5 protein sources to supplement your vegan dietNutrients are essential for the growth of the body and mind, not just at an early age, but throughout our lives. Read moreOver 180 Sikh families from Afghanistan arrive in India on ‘long-term’ visasMore than 180 Sikh families arrived in India from Afghanistan on Thursday. The families were welcomed at the IGI Airport by the World Punjab Organisation. Read more‘They’ve got Virat Kohli as captain, we’ve got average people on top’: Shoaib Akhtar on difference between India and Pakistan cricket teamsPakistan fast bowling legend Shoaib Akhtar, in a recent interaction, explained how the thinking of India and Pakistan cricket teams have changed over the years. Read moreBarber’s search for perfection while cutting hair makes for hilarious video, gets over 4 million viewsIf you’re a regular user of the Internet, you may have seen videos which are amazing and hilarious, all at the same time. This video, which is now going all kinds of viral, perfectly fits that description. Read moreKangana Ranaut responds as Renuka Shahane slams her comment on Mumbai: ‘Were you also waiting like a blood thirsty vulture’Actor Kangana Ranaut is receiving flak online for comparing Mumbai with Pakistan occupied Kashmir (POK). The actor received criticism from many Twitter users including actor Renuka Shahane, who called her out for not respecting the city that gave her stardom. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-government-plans-round-the-clock-surveillance-to-avoid-crowding-at-metro-stations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oHDtlrqz3Xgu7vM5rRe6zO.html
04-09-2020||India||Assured of safe stay by Priyanka Gandhi, Kafeel Khan arrives in Rajasthan||Dr Kafeel Khan, who stepped out of the Mathura jail late on Tuesday following the revocation of the charges under the National Security Act against him, landed in Jaipur on Thursday and claimed that Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi assured him of safe stay in Rajasthan. The suspended Uttar Pradesh doctor said his family feared that the Yogi government could frame him in another case and put him in prison again. “We were assured of a safe stay in Jaipur by Priyankaji, who spoke to my mother and wife and said that the UP government may slap other charges against me. We feel safe here in Rajasthan,” Dr Khan said during a press conference at Pink City Press Club in Jaipur on Thursday. Dr Khan was released after the Allahabad high court set aside the charges pressed against him for a speech on Citizenship Amendment Act in Aligarh Muslim University in January this year. He was arrested on January 29. The paediatrician from the BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur said he would appeal to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to revoke his suspension. “I shall write to UP CM urging him to revoke my suspension and give my service back so that I can work as a corona warrior. I want to volunteer in the vaccine research programme,” he said. Khan added that he will knock at the high court’s doors again if the suspension wasn’t revoked. He said despite the high court’s order to release him, the Mathura district administration delayed the release. “Mathura jail superintendent said he would only follow orders of DM [district magistrate] and DM was waiting for orders from Lucknow. They released me around midnight because they were looking for an opportunity to slap another charge against me,” Khan said. The doctor said his 65-year-old mother had to run from pillar to post - from the Aligarh lower court to the Allahabad High Court to Supreme Court - seeking justice for him for more than seven months. “They have ruined my family (brothers’) businesses. We have been crippled financially,” he said. Recalling the death of 70 kids at the BRD Medical College due to shortage of liquid oxygen, Khan said it happened because the state government had faltered on payment and people in Lucknow were demanding a cut to release payment of Rs 78 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assured-of-safe-stay-by-priyanka-gandhi-kafeel-khan-arrives-in-rajasthan/story-Qa44jgZYTKuk1jKIyyo6rJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Monsoon session of Parliament: Packed food may be served at House canteen||Indian Parliament’s much-publicised canteen may not dish out its cheap but mouth-watering hot dishes in this monsoon session amid severe restrictions to tackle the pandemic. Instead, only food packets are likely to be served and the thalis or wide-ranging ala carte dishes might be off the menu for this extraordinary session due to safety reasons, officials involved in the preparations for the session said. For the past five months, the canteen has only been serving tea and biscuits and its lunch service has been stalled. “It is almost decided not to cook food in the Parliament complex and serve food packets in a bid to reduce entry of people and crowding in Parliament,” said an official. The northern railway-run Indian Parliament usually dishes out sumptuous menu of 48 items at subsidised prices in the Parliament canteens. From boiled vegetables to Kesari bhat, the canteen now serves a total of 48 food items for lunch and evening snacks. But items such as poha, mutton cutlet or bonda are not available regularly. According to canteen officials, the vegetarian thali (Rs 40) and chapaati (Rs 2) are the most sought-after food in Parliament complex. According to the data available with officials, out of Rs 17 crore subsidy, only Rs 24 lakh was spent on account of the MPs. The rest was spent on account of visitors, security personnel and officials. During a normal session, an average 4,500 people eat daily at Parliament. In 2015, then Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan had approved a proposal to abolish subsidy on parliament food and run the canteens on a no-profit-no-loss basis. The decision came after years of public criticism that Parliament serves a plate of chicken curry for Rs 29 or dal for just Rs 2. Now, a fruit salad is sold for Rs 10 while the price of chicken curry is revised to Rs 50. A masala dosa is priced at Rs 20. But this session will see a far less footfall due to widespread restrictions to ensure that virus doesn’t spread in the Parliament complex. For this session, visitors would not be allowed to enter the complex, staff strength would be reduced and even media entry would be restricted. “All these measures would also mean that the pressure on canteens would be reduced,” said an official. Plans are also afoot to replace the northern railway with Indian government’s catering arm ITDC to run the parliament canteen. Some officials said that the monsoon session itself may see ITDC along with the railways start their service on a pilot basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-of-parliament-packed-food-may-be-served-at-house-canteen/story-ZpibxPT3UgbQXoS5Z1FfYL.html
04-09-2020||India||J&K: 1 terrorist killed and army officer, police official injured in Baramulla encounter||An Indian Army officer and a special police officer were injured during a gunbattle with terrorists in a village in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Friday. During the exchange of fire, one terrorist was also killed, said Indian Army.However, a police officer said two bodies could be seen at the encounter site.The encounter broke out in Yedipora village in Pattan area on Friday morning. According to a report by PTI, security forces were conducting a search operation in the area and they were fired upon, triggering the encounter.The officer was injured in the initial exchange of firing and has been rushed to a local hospital in Srinagar for treatment, reported PTI. Two to three terrorists are still trapped in a house while personnel of the police, army, and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) are engaged in flushing them out.The area has been cordoned off and the encounter is still underway.In the last two weeks, police and the army have launched several operations in the area after the presence of terrorists was reported.On Thursday evening, multiple checking points were established at Kralhar, after specific input regarding the movement of terrorists in Pattan, said Police.“During routine checking, three persons moving from Zangam crossing to main market Pattan on National highway Baramulla were observed moving in a suspicious manner. The individuals were challenged by the personnel at naka Aangam crossing as they tried to flee on being challenged from the spot. The security force personnel cordoned and apprehended the fleeing individuals and recovered three grenades from them,” a police spokesperson said on Thursday.The arrested men have been identified as Abid Parvaiz of Andergam, Javaid Hassan Ittoo of Goushbugh, and Jan Nissar Khaliq of Chanderhama Pattan.Police said all three were working as overground workers for Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-army-officer-injured-in-baramulla-encounter-with-terrorists/story-eQsMw5d4osSk321QajcRRL.html
04-09-2020||India||Government plans round-the-clock surveillance to avoid crowding at Metro stations, will ‘name and shame’ violators||Metro rail services across India, except for Maharashtra, will resume in phases from Monday (September 7) and will become fully operational by September 12 amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The government has warned of taking strict action against those violating social distancing norms, including “naming and shaming” of Metro rail passengers.Union Ministry for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Puri on Wednesday had said instructions have been given not to stop trains at those stations, where Metro rail passengers are seen violating social distancing norms. He said the government might be forced to review the decision of operating Metro rail services, if it found crowding at stations.“We will name and shame those violating norms of social distancing and those not wearing masks at Metro rail stations...If there is wilful disregard, you have CCTVs (closed-circuit TVs), there will be no hesitation (in acting against these violators). When a person misbehaves in an aircraft, we put them in a no flyers’ list ... I think there is also an element of naming and shaming. If an individual’s misbehaviour results in jeopardising a public utility which is vital in the life of a city or a country, obviously there is little tolerance for such behaviour,” Puri had said on WednesdayThe Centre on Wednesday had issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the resumption of Metro services under the unlock 4.0 guidelines in a bid to revive the economy that has been battered by the viral outbreak since end-March.The resumption of Metro rail services will significantly increase public transport capacity across India, and especially Delhi, despite a surge in Covid-19 cases in the past few days. “There will be marking at Metro stations for maintaining social distance and also on seats in trains. Passengers must ensure that they adhere to the rules. We will monitor each and every location through video cameras from our control rooms. If these norms are violated or crowding takes place, trains will not stop at those stations. This is part of the SOPs,” said Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs.Puri said that the entry points at stations would be monitored by the Metro rail authorities to keep a tab on the number of passengers. “If the number of passengers entering stations is more than what we can manage, we will certainly restrict their entry,” said Mangu Singh, chief, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC).Puri said the government has taken the decision to resume Metro rail services in a concerted bid to kick-start economic activity.“I am appealing through the media to all the consumers that while we welcome the resumption of Metro rail services, a decision which was been taken after very careful and deep consideration, the buzz word is ‘caution’ and ‘care’…resumption of economic activity is imperative, but it has to be done in a careful and calibrated manner,” said the minister.“We need the cooperation of the commuters to ensure that all the norms are being followed. We are going ahead with our eyes and ears open and will be carefully monitoring it. I hope we don’t have to revisit our decision. Emphasis has to be on review and caution. We are clear in our minds that this opening up in a graded and calibrated manner will need to be reviewed. If we find that the resumption of operations is not resulting in social distancing norms at Metro stations or if there is crowding or trains are getting congested…we might have no option but to review all these arrangements,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-plans-round-the-clock-surveillance-to-avoid-crowding-at-metro-stations-will-name-and-shame-violators/story-vwoT3DLBzrRmcRPEKpsrgP.html
04-09-2020||India||Man, 60, throws acid on govt officer after losing court case second time||A 60-year-old trader in a bid to ‘take revenge’, threw acid on a senior government officer inside his chamber in north Bengal on Thursday afternoon. The accused Ashoke Kumar Bansal has been arrested.Police said that Bansal went to the office of Dawa Wangel Lama, food controller of Cooch Behar town, and threw acid on the officer. Lama suffered minor injuries. The accused was immediately overpowered by other staff and handed over to the police. “Preliminary interrogation has revealed that the man had some personal grudges against the officer,” said Santosh Nimbalkar, superintendent of police of Cooch Behar district. A few years ago, when Lama was a sub-controller and posted in the adjacent district of Jalpaiguri, Bansal had filed a case in the Calcutta high court against the food supply department. He, however, lost the case. According to a statement released by the police, the accused later filed another case against the food control department. This time he filed it in the Haryana high court. Lama, however, took special initiative and the court quashed the case. “After being defeated for the second time, the man decided to take revenge against Lama. He threw acid to take revenge,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-60-throws-acid-on-govt-officer-after-losing-court-battle-for-2nd-time/story-S7OHFk5bvuwypmrTL6VDvI.html
04-09-2020||India||Riots: Jamia student held under UAPA denied bail||Delhi court has rejected the bail plea of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha, who was arrested under a stringent anti-terror law — the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — in a case related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that left 53 people dead. The court, while rejecting the bail, said the statements of the protected witnesses in the case reflected the role of many suspects, including Tanha, regarding the protest sites and how everything was planned.Tanha, a BA third-year student in Persian, was arrested in May in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. Appearing for Tanha, advocates Siddharth Aggarwal and Sowjhanya Shankaran, said he was falsely implicated in the case. They said the invocation of UAPA against him was bad in law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/riots-jamia-student-held-under-uapa-denied-bail/story-wlMzxDaHvBZaJf7Md6PBOM.html
04-09-2020||India||A skewed recovery, and systemic headwinds||August has been the best month (so far) in terms of economic activity since the imposition of a nation-wide lockdown in India on March 25. However, the ongoing economic recovery is skewed in nature and faces systemic headwinds from within.Services in contraction zone, even as backlog increasesPurchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for August shows that the service sector continues to be in contraction mode for the sixth consecutive month. To be sure, August has seen a faster recovery than July. Respondents however reported “a further weakening of demand conditions” which among other things was also a result of “among the steepest” contractions in new export orders received by Indian service providers. Ongoing lockdown restrictions have meant that firms are unable to process previously placed orders, even as job losses continued for the sixth consecutive month, the press release from IHS Markit, which conducts the survey, said.See Chart 1: PMI industry and services !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Employment intensive sectors were hit the hardest in the first quarterGross Value Added (GVA) data for the April-June quarter when read with sector-wise employment share numbers narrate a grim story. The sectors which have suffered the biggest contraction also have the largest share of employment. Trade, hotels, transport, storage and communication (18.5%); manufacturing (12.1%) and construction (12.1%), which together account for 42.7% of total employment according to the 2018-19 Periodic Labour Force Survey, have suffered the biggest contraction in the first quarter. This underlines the possibility of job losses having a cascading adverse effect on future demand.See Chart 2: Scatter plot of employment share and contraction in GVA !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Ongoing recovery could get jeopardized once pent-up demand is exhaustedRising infections that prevented a return to normal service sector activity, continuing job losses, and a massive negative shock from the contraction in the April-June quarter means that the economy lacks a solid demand anchor. Consequently, some of the ongoing recovery could just be one-time pent-up demand. Once this is exhausted, even the nascent recovery that is being seen in some sectors could dissipate. Firms seem to expect this. In the Reserve bank of India’s Industrial Outlook Survey, conducted in April-June 2020, net expectations of order bookings in the July-September quarter were the lowest since June 2009.See Chart 3: Net expectation of order books !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The situation emphasizes the importance of a co-ordinated policy response. “We believe policymakers have an important role to play in the recovery process beyond traditional monetary and fiscal stimulus. This would entail efficient re-allocation of capital from sectors that are not working to those that are. Improving the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code procedure is a key step here”, said a research note by Pranjul Bhandari, Chief India Economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets India Private Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-skewed-recovery-and-systemic-headwinds/story-aYd8RJwG5L5NTycTlvrLGJ.html
04-09-2020||India||After a wet August, subdued rain across India likely for a week: IMD||India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities have said that rainfall has reduced across the country following the most wettest August this monsoon in 44 years.There is a 27.5% rain deficiency in the first three days of September. The weather condition is likely to remain largely dry with isolated events of heavy rainfall in some parts of north-west and peninsular India, scientists said.“There is no weather system that’s likely to develop at least for a week. Monsoon will be subdued with some isolated cases of heavy rainfall in north-west India and the southern peninsula,” said RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC), IMD. All other zones, except for peninsular India, will be rainfall deficient in September. Peninsular India has recorded 71.5% excess rainfall for the first three days of September.The western end of the monsoon trough – the line of low pressure – is lying south of its normal position – from Ganganagar in western Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal – and is likely to remain that way for the next two days. The eastern end is lying to the north of its normal position. The monsoon trough is likely to shift north of its normal position from Saturday (September 5) onwards, IMD said in its Thursday bulletin. Vidisha in Madhya Pradesh (MP) recorded 12 centimetres (cm) of rainfall; while Mandi in Himachal Pradesh (HP) received 9 cm and Uttarkashi in Uttarakhand recorded 8cm on Thursday.A cyclonic circulation is lying over north-west Rajasthan. Under the influence of the circulation, isolated heavy rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over HP and Rajasthan on Friday; and over Uttarakhand between Friday and Monday (from September 4 to 7)A cyclonic circulation is also lying over east-central and adjoining south-east Arabian Sea off the coasts of Karnataka and north Kerala. Under its influence, widespread and heavy rain is very likely over peninsular India during the next three-four days.August received record rains at 26.3% excess – the highest in 44 years. Central and peninsular India received 61.5% and 36.7% excess rainfall, respectively, in August. However, the precipitation was 19.1% deficient over eastern and north-east India. While the north-western parts of the country received 1.9% excess rainfall. Monsoon rainfall since June 1 over the country is 8.8% excess to date, scientists added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-wet-august-subdued-rain-across-india-likely-for-a-week-imd/story-DyIZhNvdhv59lDXM46udBJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Narcotics Control Bureau reaches Rhea Chakraborty’s residence||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday reached actor Rhea Chakraborty’s residence in Mumbai to conduct a search in connection with its probe in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, news agency ANI reported.The houses of Chakraborty’s brother, Showik Chakraborty, and Samuel Miranda, who is Rajput’s former housekeeping manager, are also being searched according to rule under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, said NCB, according to ANI.Miranda was appointed by Rhea Chakraborty in May last year. He used to manage all the household expenses. Rajput’s family has alleged that Miranda helped Chakraborty in siphoning off his money and supplying drugs.ALSO WATCH | Rhea Chakraborty questioned by CBI for 2nd time in Sushant’s death case So far, NCB has arrested five people in the drugs angle in Rajput case.The bureau had said on Wednesday that it arrested Abdul Basit Parihar from Mumbai’s Bandra. “He had a connection with Samuel Miranda. Miranda is accused of procuring drugs on instructions of Showik Chakraborty,” ANI quoted an NCB official as saying.NCB has also arrested Zaid Vilatra from Mumbai in connection with the case, ANI reported. Zaid is understood to be involved in the supply of narcotics like bud or curated marijuana to the high-end party circles of Mumbai, news agency PTI reported quoting NCB officials.Agency sleuths claimed he was arrested after they obtained some “vital leads” into the narcotics case registered against Chakraborty and others, according to PTI.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also probing the case of Rajput’s death and has questioned Rhea Chakraborty and several others so far. It called Chakraborty’s father for the second round of interrogation on Wednesday. The agency had questioned Rhea Chakraborty’s parents for the first time in connection with Rajput’s death on Tuesday.The CBI continued the interrogation of Showik, who was called for questioning for the first time last week, on Tuesday also, an official said.Rhea Chakraborty and her parents are among those named in the first information report (FIR) registered by the Patna Police after a complaint from Rajput’s father, who has accused her of abetting his suicide and misappropriating his son’s money.The 28-year-old actor has been questioned for around 35 hours by the CBI in the last four days.Rajput (34) was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. The Supreme Court last week (not last week. Check the date and correct) upheld the transfer of the FIR lodged in Patna to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-reaches-rhea-chakraborty-s-residence/story-IkfEjZ3yNNTJ38ne81LEiM.html
04-09-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with IPS probationers today through video conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with IPS probationers through a video conference on Friday at 11 am during the ‘Dikshant Parade Event’ at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy in Hyderabad.An official statement said that 131 IPS probationers, including 28 women, have completed their 42 weeks of basic course phase-I training at the academy.The IPS probationers joined the academy on December 17, 2018 after completing their foundation course at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie, and at Dr Marri Channa Reddy HRD Institute of Telangana, Hyderabad, with those from other central services like IAS and IFS, the statement added.During the basic course, probationers are imparted training in various indoor and outdoor subjects like law, investigation, forensics, leadership and management, criminology, public order and internal security, ethics and human rights, modern Indian policing, field craft and tactics, weapon training and firing, the statement said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-ips-probationers-today-through-video-conference/story-IGoy62qW6osEo9ewOtcVGL.html
04-09-2020||India||Samajwadi Party shuts Lucknow office for six days after infections||The Samajwadi Party (SP) has voluntarily sealed its Uttar Pradesh (UP) headquarters in Lucknow for six days after some people working at the office tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Wednesday.The party in a tweet on Wednesday night announced that the office would stay closed until Monday. “Some people working at the SP office indicated initial symptoms of Covid-19. Later, they tested Covid-19 positive. As a precautionary measure, the party office in Lucknow will remain closed until Monday. May all recover at the earliest,” said the tweet from the SP’s official handle.This is the first instance of any political party in Lucknow closing its office due to the viral outbreak. However, restricted entry was in place at the SP’s UP headquarters since end-March, following the initial reports of the coronavirus disease outbreak in the country.The SP has also stopped all mass gatherings and public events because of the raging viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-shuts-lucknow-office-for-six-days-after-infections/story-V1HMmrsjJnORwsSV6GzClL.html
04-09-2020||India||BJP believes in politics of development: Scindia||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Thursday that the BJP believed in the politics of development and that he aimed to develop the Gwalior-Chambal region. Talking to journalists in Gwalior, Scindia said, “Despite the crisis the country is facing due to Covid situation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working wholeheartedly to make available all facilities in hospitals like beds, plasma etc for treatment of Covid patients. He has infused a sense of security in people.” Praising the PM and BJP, Scindia said, “On one side there is development-oriented thinking and on the other side there is negative thinking.” “I only believe in politics of development. If former CM Kamal Nath visits our hometown (Gwalior) he is welcome here. However, we will continue to work for development of the region. When it comes to elections, people of the region would send him back,” Scindia said.He said, “During the first five months of the present BJP government in the state, every state assembly constituency has development projects worth ₹100 to ₹300 crore. Chambal Expressway which was the dream of my revered father is going to link Gwalior-Chambal region to Uttar Pradesh on one side and to Rajasthan on the other side. Two major projects have been sanctioned for Gwalior also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-believes-in-politics-of-development-scindia/story-DMBRqhtob12omt0BOKUApL.html
04-09-2020||India||Note ban meant to hurt informal sector: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that the government’s hidden agenda behind demonetisation was to deliberately harm India’s informal sector, which survives on liquid cash. In his latest video series on the Indian economy, Gandhi dubbed the 2016 demonetisation as an “attack on India’s poor, farmers, workers and small shop owners”. He claimed that the hidden agenda of demonetisation, which saw the scrapping of all ₹500 and ₹1,000 currency notes, was to “clear the ground”. “Our informal sector works on cash. Small shopkeepers and workers survive on cash. The second target of demonetisation was to take out money from the informal sector. Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the nation that he wants a cashless India. If India goes cashless, small shopkeepers, farmers, and workers will be finished,” Gandhi said in his video series. The short videos are the new communication tools for the former Congress president to reach out to a larger audience on social media. Earlier, he had spoken on the India-China border conflict and the informal sector amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.India’s informal, or unorganised, sector absorbs about 95% of the county’s workforce and is the key to an equitable growth. Gandhi’s latest series comes in the wake of the Indian economy’s decline by a record 23.9% in the first quarter of April to June in the current financial year 2020-21. The deceleration reflected the economic impact of the 68-day Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions in the first quarter.Gandhi recounted the woes of millions of people, who suffered following demonetisation, and said that the exercise didn’t solve the black money problem. “What did the poor Indians benefit? Nothing. So who all benefitted? Only the country’s billionaires,” Gandhi alleged. “The government used your money to write off the loans of the billionaires,” he further alleged.Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party did not comment on the allegations when contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/note-ban-meant-to-hurt-informal-sector-rahul-gandhi/story-fyBpFrFKBh2i2QsPXpd4aM.html
04-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||One of the most frightening things I have read in recent times is a study titled Community Outbreak Investigation of Sars-CoV-2 Transmission Among Bus Riders in Eastern China published in JAMA (Journal of American Medical Association) Internal Medicine. According to this study, by researchers from the US and China, 23 of 67 passengers who took a round trip lasting 100 minutes by bus (in January, in Zhejiang in Eastern China) to attend a 150-minute event were infected by the 68th passenger on the bus (who was unaware about being infected). A few of those who attended the event (and weren’t on the bus) were also infected — and all of them said they had come in close contact with the so-called index patient. The researchers found that those who were on the bus were around 40 times more likely to have been infected than 60 others (none infected) on another bus attending the same event (lending an entirely different perspective to the great Ken Kesey’s quote — “you are either on the bus or off the bus”).RESEARCHA study by researchers from the US and China showed that 23 of 67 passengers who took a round trip lasting 100 minutes by bus to attend an event were infected by the 68th passenger on the bus. The bus was air conditioned and in indoor-circulation mode. And while there were high-risk and low-risk zones, there wasn’t an appreciable difference in the chances of infection of those seated in these — a clear indication of airborne transmission of the virus.The bus was air conditioned and in indoor-circulation mode. And while there were high-risk and low-risk zones, there wasn’t an appreciable difference in the chances of infection of those seated in these — a clear indication of airborne transmission of the Sars-CoV2 virus, especially in a closed area where the air is recirculating. The attack rate of the virus on the bus was around 34%, the researchers found, although people seated near the door and the one window that could be opened, did not get infected.The study was published on Tuesday, a day before India’s housing and urban affairs ministry put out guidelines for the resumption of 15 Metro services around the country (13 of these will begin services; two, one in Mumbai and the other in Nagpur, both in the state of Maharashtra which continues to be ravaged by the virus, will not). It isn’t just the Metro; many offices have opened; as have several malls; and some restaurants and gymnasiums. The challenge before all of them is along two dimensions — all arising from the fact that when the facilities (including Metro coaches and stations) were being designed, the emphasis was on optimising space to accommodate the most number of people. In addition, modern malls and offices worked hard on creating social spaces where people could mingle.THE CHALLENGES The first challenge for Metros and modern offices is social distancing. It is not very difficult to ensure the coaches don’t get crowded, but the stations are another matter altogether. The second challenge is the one presented by air-conditioning. Most modern offices have no openable windows and depend on air-conditioning for both maintaining the temperature and air circulation. The first challenge is social distancing. It is not very difficult to ensure the coaches don’t get crowded, but the stations are another matter altogether. HT reported last week that while Delhi’s buses are sticking to the 20-per-bus limit (by and large) necessitated by Covid-19-related social distancing norms, the stops are crowded, with people waiting for a long time, and then jostling to get into the bus before it reaches its capacity. According to another report in HT, Metro officials will monitor stations through CCTV and order trains to skip crowded stations — an exceptionally well-thought-out solution that assumes the waiting crowd will disperse quietly and in a socially distanced and disciplined manner, instead of continuing to wait for the next train.The second challenge is the one presented by air-conditioning. Most modern offices have no openable windows and depend on air-conditioning for both maintaining the temperature and air circulation. That is true of malls as well, and Metro stations. The coaches themselves are air-conditioned, simply because many Metros run underground. Experts say that with the right kind of filtration and circulation systems and settings, airborne transmission of the virus can be controlled.Finally, it all comes down to risk, return, and the absence of options (many people taking buses and the Metro during the pandemic aren’t doing so out of choice).PS: In a move with significant political undertones, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Wednesday communicated to all states that they should be ready to store, distribute and administer a vaccine to those at the front lines of the fight against Covid-19, and other vulnerable groups. The communication mentioned two vaccine candidates without naming them, although the New York Times said the specifications match those being tested by Pfizer and Moderna. Three vaccines are in Phase 3 (or combined Phase2/3) trials in the US: Moderna’s, Pfizer/BioNTech SE’s, and Oxford-AstraZeneca’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-XS1wort6vTWykGTLeqZsEP.html
04-09-2020||India||In Uttar Pradesh, Kafeel Khan becomes hot property for political parties||Political parties in Uttar Pradesh seem keen to rope in Dr Kafeel Khan into their fold, even though the doctor has only shown his bonding with some parties but not given any clear indication about his political leaning yet. On Thursday, a day after his release from Mathura jail on the order of the Allahabad high court, Kafeel thanked Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi for contacting him to find out about his well-being and that of his family members.“During the tough time Priyanka supported me,” he said on Twitter. After release from jail, Kafeel, instead of going to his home town Gorakhpur, went to Congress-ruled Rajasthan – an indication about his bond with the party. Former Congress legislature party leader Pradeep Mathur, who was present at the jail gate when Kafeel was released, said, “On the direction of senior party leaders, I was in regular contact with district administrations of Mathura and Aligarh to complete formalities for the release of Kafeel. I escorted him to the Rajasthan border as well.” When asked about Kafeel joining Congress, Mathur said “Priyanka had raised her voice in his support for the sake of humanity and to oppose the atrocities committed by the Yogi government on innocent people in Uttar Pradesh. It’s for Kafeel to decide if he wishes to work for Congress.” The doctor has already announced that he will visit Bihar, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to organize a health camp in the flood-hit areas, Mathur said. Another Congress leader, who did not want to be named, said Kafeel has potential to become the Muslim face of the party in the crucial 2022 UP assembly election, for which the party is working to regain the lost ground.“He has a large support among his community members in Uttar Pradesh as well as in other states,” he said. Meanwhile, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, who has launched a political party -- Azad Samaj Party (ASP) – also welcomed Kafeel’s release. Hitting out at the state government, Chandrashekhar said the high court has vindicated Kafeel’s fight for the weaker sections of society. During a Facebook live programme on Wednesday, Kafeel concluded his speech with ‘Jai Bhim’ and ‘Jai Mulnivasi, indicating his bond with the Bhim Army too that is working to spread its base in UP. Azad has already announced that ASP will contest the 2022 assembly election. A Bhim Army leader said when Kafeel was in jail, Azad not only supported him but also attacked the BJP government for slapping NSA against him, he said. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, in a tweet welcoming the release of Kafeel, said “all justice-loving people have welcomed the release happily and hope that soon Azam Khan (Samajwadi Party MP), too, would get justice. Injustice and atrocities by those who rule doesn’t last forever.” A BSP leader, who did not wished to be named, said party chief Mayawati has already called for Dalit-Muslim-Backward-Brahmin unity to defeat the BJP in the 2022 assembly election. The party has rallied in support of Kafeel after he was arrested following the oxygen tragedy in BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur in which about 70 children had died. “To hide its failure, the state government was committing atrocities on Dr Kafeel,” the BSP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uttar-pradesh-kafeel-khan-becomes-hot-property-for-political-parties/story-qJFsaIRAocSsekoylI9vWK.html
04-09-2020||India||Andhra bans online gambling, approves new free agriculture power supply policy||The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to ban online gambling by making necessary amendments to the statute in order to prevent spread of unhealthy trends in the society. A decision to this effect was taken at the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in Amaravati on Thursday. Briefing media after the cabinet meeting, state information and public relations minister Perni Venkataramaiah said online gambling would be banned by amending the State Gaming Act, 1974. Organisers of online gambling would get a jail term of one year along with a fine for the first-time offenders, while the jail term would go up to two years with fine for repeat offenders. Those playing online games will be sentenced for six months jail, he said. The cabinet approved the revised policy of supplying agriculture power supply free of cost. Stating that farmers would continue to get power supply to their crops free of cost, he said there would be absolutely no burden on them whatsoever. The government would make direct cash transfer into the accounts of farmers to the extent of power they consumed and they, in turn, could pay the power bills to the power distribution companies. “This gives a sense of feeling that the farmers have been paying for the power consumed and the Discoms will not go into the red. The pilot project will be introduced in Srikakulam and it will cover the entire state from April 2021,” he said. The chief minister also clarified that not a single connection would be removed and all the illegal connections would be regularized. “The cost of smart meters would be borne by Discoms and the state government. In order to meet the demand, plans are afoot for developing 10,000 MW solar power plant and the power reforms will not affect the farmers,” Jagan said. The cabinet also gave in-principle approval for constructing two barrages downstream to Prakasam barrage on Krishna river, each with a holding capacity of 3 tmc (thousand million cubic feet) at a total cost of nearly Rs 2,500 crore. The cabinet approved other irrigation project Babu Jagjivan Ram Uttharandhra Sujala Sravanthi for irrigating eight lakh acres in North Andhra region, with a budget of Rs 1539 crore and Varikapudisila lift irrigation project in Palanadu region of Guntur at Rs 1273 crore. As part of Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Project, the cabinet approved the works of 14 reservoirs and lift irrigation projects. The cabinet also decided to extended the ban on Maoist Party and its frontal organizations by one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-bans-online-gambling-approves-new-free-agriculture-power-supply-policy/story-0SFZtm4qEidJ0zBPAwkSxH.html
04-09-2020||India||SC to hear on Friday review petition for NEET, JEE postponement||The Supreme Court will hear on Friday a review petition filed by minister from 6 non-BJP ruled states seeking review of the August 17 order of the apex court which had allowed the National Testing Agency (NTA) and central government to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September despite the prevailing Covid -19 situationThe plea will be heard in chambers at 1.30 pm by a 3-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan. Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari will be the other judges on the bench.JEE, for those aspiring to join top engineering schools which is scheduled from September 1 to 6 has already commenced and the prayer concerning the same has, therefore, become infructuous (pointless).NEET for students seeking admission to medical and dental courses is scheduled to be held on September 13.A 3-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra had, on August 17, rejected a plea by 11 NEET/JEE candidates seeking postponement of the exams until after the Covid-19 crisis has passed.The review petition against the August 17 order was filed by ministers Moloy Ghatak (West Bengal), Rameshwar Oraon (Jharkhand), Raghu Sharma (Rajasthan), Amarjeet Bhagat (Chhattisgarh), Balbir Singh Sidhu (Punjab) and Uday Ravindra Samant (Maharashtra) in their individual capacity. They submitted that the top court’s August 17 order failed to consider the safety and security of students who are slated to appear for NEET and JEE and also did not take into account the logistical difficulties in conducting the examinations. “If the order of August 17, 2020 is not reviewed, then grave and irreparable harm and injury will befall the student community of our country and not only will health, welfare and safety of students appearing for NEET/JEE stand imperiled but also the public health at large would be in severe jeopardy in these Covid -19 pandemic times,” the petition filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes said. A review petition is a legal remedy available after the Supreme Court has pronounced its judgment in a case. The grounds for filing a review petition are limited and the petitioners seeking review should show that a new fact or evidence has come to light or that the court committed an obvious or apparent error while delivering its judgment. It is not necessary that a review petition should be filed only by those who were parties to the original case. However, the court is cautious while entertaining review petition filed by non-parties.The review petition as per law should also be heard by the same bench which heard the main case unless any of the judges has retired from office. Justice Bhushan replaced justice Mishra who superannuated on Wednesday.Justice Mishra while hearing the main case on August 17 had said “life has to go on” despite the outbreak of the viral disease and the court cannot put the career of students in jeopardy by interfering with the decision of the NTA to hold the examinations in September.“Life has to move on even in Covid times. Covid may continue but postponement of exams is a loss for the country. Are you (petitioners) ready to waste a whole year,” justice Mishra had said.In response to this remark, the review petitioners submitted that the “advice of ‘Life Must Go On’ may have very sound philosophical underpinnings but cannot be a substitute for valid legal reasoning and logical analysis of the various aspects involved in the conduct of the NEET UG and JEE exams.”“Only two reasons that can be discerned from the (August 17) order for dismissal of the petition — life must go on and students should not lose an academic year. With utmost respect, both the reasons, even if cumulatively taken, do not constitute an authoritative and comprehensive judicial scrutiny of the issue,” the review petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-on-friday-review-petition-for-neet-jee-postponement/story-cuf8PhHHvACkfkLH3UoklM.html
04-09-2020||India||Life a struggle, can’t SC rethink decision, ask residents of Delhi slums along railway lines||Sunil Kumar and his family -- wife and two children -- used to live in a south Delhi slum when their home was razed by a bulldozer during a demolition drive in December 2016. Civic authorities gave the family a few hours to pack their belongings and fend for themselves on a winter’s night.Kumar, a 42-year-old construction worker, and his family moved to his elder brother Anil Kumar’s house in a slum along the railway tracks in west Delhi’s Naraina Vihar where they have lived since.The family faces the risk of being displaced again after the Supreme Court on Monday ordered the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings situated along railway tracks within three months. And, to ensure compliance with its order, the top court also stopped any other court from passing a stay order on their removal. In case an order is passed, it shall have no effect on the eviction proceedings, the Supreme Court said.The top court’s order comes at a time when slum dwellers are already hard pressed in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic and loss of income during the subsequent 68-day lockdown.“People everywhere are getting infected. So many have died,” said Anil Kumar, whose family moved to the capital from Bihar’s Darbhanga district around 15 years ago and shifted from one slum to another until they settled in the same Naraina Vihar slum six years ago. “We have hardly got any work for months now because of the lockdown. The family is struggling to survive. There is no money. Can’t the court reconsider its decision,” asked 47-year-old Kumar.HT on Thursday visited other slums – in Azadpur, Vihar, Shakur Basti, Mayapuri and Anand Parbat -- that are all located alongside railway tracks and densely populated, with open drains and narrow alleys .Many slum dwellers lost their jobs during the nationwide lockdown that was imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.Some chose to head back to their villages, and others stayed back looking out for daily-wage work, the residents said.The Supreme Court’s decision came after Indian Railways informed the court that despite a special task force having been formed to remove encroachments, political interference was coming in the way of getting jhuggis (slums) alongside train tracks removed. An order for removal of all such encroachments was passed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on October 1, 2018.The Court said: “There is predominant presence of jhuggis in Delhi along with 140km route length of railway track in the region of NCT {national capital territory} of Delhi… Out of this, about 70km route length of track is affected by large jhuggi-jhopri clusters existing in close vicinity of the tracks.”These clusters aggregated to about 48,000 dwellings, according to the affidavit filed by the Delhi division of Northern Railways.The Supreme Court also involved the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board to prepare an action plan to enable rehabilitation of people who face eviction.A senior Delhi government official said on condition of anonymity that the Capital has around 750 slum clusters, of which around 52 prominent ones are located close to railway tracks. The precise population of these slums isn’t known because surveys planned to ascertain the number are still pending.“If we are rehabilitated in packed rooms with others, can the government agencies assure that none of the residents would get the coronavirus disease? In the slum, we at least have the safety of our homes. We are poor, but we can at least isolate ourselves to some extent,” said Rajan Jha, resident of a slum cluster along the rail tracks near the Mayapuri industrial area.The fear of infection by the coronavirus of losing their livelihood if they are relocated are among the top concerns of the slum dwellers.“Most residents here work in nearby factories, nearby streets where they set up their shops, neighbourhood localities where they work as domestic help. Work is slowly picking up pace now. Relocation shall leave us jobless and hungry again,” said Kamla Devi, resident of a slum along the railway tracks in Anand Parbat.On Thursday, Delhi recorded 2,737 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of infected individuals to 182,306. Also, 19 new deaths were recorded on Thursday, taking the toll to 4,500, even as 160,114 people have so far recovered from the disease, the government’s health bulletin said.“To evict people from their homes during this pandemic, when they have been asked by the government to stay at home to stay safe, would greatly amplify the risk to their health and lives,” said Shivani Chaudhry, executive director of Housing and Land Rights Network,which works among marginaliszed communities. “The United Nations has also warned that no one should be evicted and deprived of housing during this time, as losing one’s home could mean losing one’s life.” “The government should first conduct a comprehensive and inclusive survey, and then undertake a consultative and participatory exercise to develop a human rights-based rehabilitation plan, which ensures adequate housing with basic services and security of tenure in the vicinity of where people presently live, to protect their livelihoods. Given the public health and economic emergency and the high incidence of Covid-19 cases in India, no eviction or relocation should be carried out,” said Chaudhry.Sunil Kumar Aledia of the Centre for Holistic Development, a think-tank based in Delhi, said the group was seeking legal help to stop the eviction. “The plan is to file a review petition soon. The Covid-19 situation is bad and the slum residents are the poor people who have been the worst hit. At this juncture, they are struggling to live. Life will be no different in another three months. An eviction at this stage is a livelihood concern and also a major health concern,” Aledia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-a-struggle-can-t-sc-rethink-decision-ask-residents-of-delhi-slums-along-railway-lines/story-jwjLXw97m9XmpzlJVCU7LM.html
04-09-2020||India||UP cops arrest Odisha man over alleged hate posts against PM Modi, Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday arrested a 42-year-old small businessman of Odisha from a village of Cuttack district over several charges including sedition for allegedly posting threatening content against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Adityanath on social media.Police in Cuttack district said a team from police in Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh arrested 42-year-old Sayyed Hassan Ahmed from Kushambi village under Salepur police limits. In-charge of Salepur police station, inspector Nihar Mohanty said a police team from Singhbali police station in UP’s Baghpat district arrested Ahmed after booking him. “The man had allegedly posted derogatory and threatening content on social media against Prime Minister and UP chief minister Adityanath and a case was lodged in UP. Accordingly a team from UP police had arrived here today. The person runs a small electronics shop in Salepur. He would be put up before a local magistrate for grant of transit remand,” said the inspector.Police did not reveal any other details of the threatening message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cops-arrest-odisha-man-over-alleged-hate-posts-against-pm-modi-adityanath/story-WtCrCh1qs8yGxzV5PD4T8M.html
04-09-2020||India||Airlines get ready for in-flight meal services||Chefs wearing masks, sunglasses, hair nets, and gloves; an automated process using conveyor belts replaced with manual packaging of food; staff strength cut down by 90% to ensure social distancing; and a blaring alarm every 30 minutes reminding workers to sanitise their hands.These are glimpses from an Air India catering facility, where the activity has increased with the civil aviation regulator allowing in-flight service of meals on board. When HT visited the facility near the Delhi airport earlier this week, preparations were underway for the resumption of these services after around five-and-a-half months of restrictions in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Even though flight services resumed on May 25 in a phased manner — about two months after they came to a halt — it was only on August 27 that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) allowed airlines to serve meals on board.In line with the decision, national carrier Air India will serve in-flight meal services from Monday. “So far, we have been giving only ready-to-eat packed meals, which are placed on passengers’ seats before their boarding. But now, with DGCA allowing the service, we, at our ‘The Ambassador’s Sky Chef’ facility near the Delhi’s airport, have started preparations to resume serving hot meals in the sky,” said an Air India official from the catering facility.Apart from ready-to-eat snacks such as cheese paprika croissants and muffins, beverages such as packed juices, and chocolates and peanuts, flyers will now also get vegetarian biryani and stuffed parathas on board, the official said on condition of anonymity. Ambassador’s Sky Chef is one of the three catering facilities that prepare and deliver food to Air India passengers. “At present, we have cut down our staff strength from around 1,100 people to just 80-100 employees in order to ensure social distancing. This has also affected our productivity. Earlier, at this facility, we used to prepare 40,000 meal boxes every day, which has now come down to 5,000. Of these 40,000 boxes, 15,000 were taken by Air India alone (the facility also caters to some other private airlines). We are using 3,500 meal boxes out the total 5,000 prepared here every day because air traffic is low,” said the official quoted above who works closely with Ambassador’s Sky Chef. Air India said it will also resume serving alcohol on its international flights, and will start with beer for now.Vistara, which also operates on international routes as part of the “air bubble” arrangement with select countries, said it too was planning to serve pre-packed meals and beverages for domestic flights beginning next week.“While we are already serving pre-packed meals on international flights; we plan to serve hot meals and limited beverages from next week. The menus for meals and beverages are in the process of being finalised. Enhanced service will be introduced progressively from next week,” a Vistara spokesperson said.SpiceJet said pre-booking of sandwiches and cold beverages will open soon. “...We will also offer a ‘goodie bag’ for pre-booking, which would contain packed ready-to-eat food items along with beverages such as tetra pack juices, coconut water, buttermilk and aerated drinks,” a spokesperson said. “Customers who do not wish to consume hot meals or sandwiches can opt for this ‘goodie bag’. All food and beverages on our flights will be prepared, packed and handled with extreme caution.”Dr T Jacob John, a retired professor of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said the Sars-CoV-2 virus, said: “Food borne infection is unlikely as it is a respiratory infection, more like influenza. Food is not the worry, but people will have to remove their face masks while eating and there is more chance of them inhaling the virus if there’s any infected person on-board. Therefore, an airline must stagger the food service so that everyone isn’t eating at the same time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-get-ready-for-in-flight-meal-services/story-HedJPuy4iu44j8VvaQk6jN.html
04-09-2020||India||FM Nirmala Sitharaman, SC give breather to borrowers||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and the Supreme Court separately offered a much-needed breather to bank borrowers on Thursday, stepping in to prevent loans under stress from impairing their creditworthiness, two days after the lapse of a moratorium on loan repayments necessitated by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The top court passed an interim order that loan accounts that hadn’t been declared non-performing as of August 31 shall not be classified as such until further notice. And at a review meeting to assess banks’ preparedness to implement a loan resolution framework in the aftermath of Covid-19, Sitharaman urged the lenders to support both corporate and individual borrowers who may be under stress, the finance ministry said in a statement.Sitharaman asked banks to roll out loan resolution plans by September, the ministry added. “During her interaction, the finance minister focused on lenders immediately putting in place board-approved policy for resolution, identifying eligible borrowers and reaching out to them.”“The lenders assured {Sitharaman} that they are ready with their resolution policies, have started the process of identifying and reaching out to eligible borrowers, and that they will comply with the timelines stipulated by the Reserve Bank of India,” the ministry said.This meeting via video conferencing took place ahead of recommendations by a panel headed by former ICICI Bank chief KV Kamath on the eligibility parameters for restructuring of loans hit by the Covid-19 crisis. In August, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das said a resolution framework for all Covid-19 related stressed accounts will be finalised by September 6.Restructuring some loans will support economic recovery and help borrowers tide over the crisis. India’s economic growth contracted by a record 23.9% in the three months ended June as companies put investments on hold and households pared spending during the 68-day complete lockdown that was in place starting on March 25. Business activity is yet to return to pre-pandemic levels. Thursday’s intervention by the Supreme Court and the finance minister should assure companies, many of which had to stop production and shut their businesses, and individuals, many of whom suffered job losses or had their pay cut, that their accounts will not immediately be classified as bad loans after the August 31 lapse of the six-month moratorium on loan repayments. More importantly, analysts pointed out, they can borrow more. US investment bank Jefferies estimates that borrowers accounting for 31% of outstanding loans took up the offer of a moratorium, and this eased to about 18% by the end of June as businesses gradually reopened and some realised that postponing repayments could end up being costlier. Indian banks entered the pandemic laden with bad loans estimated at $140 billion.The apex court’s ruling came after it heard a batch of petitions seeking an interest waiver on the loan moratorium granted by RBI. In the aftermath of the pandemic, the central bank allowed the lenders to grant a loan moratorium for three months of equated monthly Instalments, falling due between March 1 and May 31. RBI subsequently extended this for three more month until August 31.The interim order was passed by a bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan and comprising justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah..Solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the bench: “The idea of the moratorium was to defer repayment to ease the burden caused by Covid-19 and lockdown so that business can manage working capital. The idea was not to waive interest. The effort is that those who are affected by Covid and facing distress get the benefit and those who are defaulters are not able to take the benefit.”“Question is about the demands of compound interest in the meantime. Moratorium and penal interest cannot go together. RBI will have to clarify,” said justice Reddy.(Mint and Agencies contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-sc-give-breather-to-borrowers/story-qP8mWQm36sLJQoNcyhYWhL.html
04-09-2020||India||Bars to open in Delhi on a trial basis from Sept 9||Restaurants, bars, clubs and hotels in Delhi will be allowed to serve liquor on a trial basis between September 9 and 30 as lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Thursday cleared the city administration’s proposal to allow the sale of alcoholic beverages to dine-in customers. The order came with stringent safety protocols and restrictions on the intake of customers that will have to be followed in all restaurants, pubs, clubs, bars and hotels. None of these will, however, be allowed to open in containment zones. Delhi has 922 containment zones, as of Thursday.The announcement was made on a day when Delhi reported 2,737 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in 67 days, but could be attributed to increased testing in the Capital, where a record 32,834 tests were carried out on Wednesday.“The LG (lieutenant governor) has approved the proposal, but all such facilities will have to follow very stringent SOPs failing which strict action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 by the district and excise officials against the owner and manager of the said facility. Besides, it will also lead to sealing of the premises forthwith and cancellation of the excise license,” the LG’s office said.The standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday mandated bars in restaurants, hotels and clubs to allow customers only up to 50% of seating capacity to ensure adherence to social distancing norms. It stated that no standing customer shall be served and only asymptomatic guests and staff will be allowed. For entry, wearing masks, thermal screening and hand sanitisation will be mandatory.Baijal’s approval came five days after the central government on Saturday allowed bars to resume operations across the country, even as it gave states the discretion to decide whether they wanted to permit them or not based on the prevailing Covid-19 situation. In the Unlock 4 national guidelines, the Centre had kept bars out of the list of places and activities that remained prohibited, thereby allowing them to resume operations.On August 20, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia directed excise officials to furnish “necessary permission” so that liquor could be served at restaurants as part of dine-in services and in hotel rooms. He said the decision was taken keeping “revenue implications” in mind.But, the excise department had then responded to Sisodia, saying the proposal would need the approval of the DDMA, headed by the LG. Restaurant owners and associations welcomed the move and said most facilities would choose not to open the dance floors in pubs and bars for the time being to ensure physical distancing and prevent violations of any rule laid down by the DDMA. Anurag Katriar, president, National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said the decision was significant because under the Unlock 3 guidelines, bars were specifically not allowed to resume operations. “This is a fantastic move and perhaps the first concrete step towards giving the sector some life in Delhi. Finally, we have good news after almost six months. Now, we need to work on building consumer confidence to trigger consumption with all safety norms in place. Not just the owners and the lakhs of employees engaged in this sector, but this news will also please the people of Delhi,” he said. When asked about the stringent norms put in place by the DDMA, Katriar said, “The norms are fine and can be complied with. Even as dine-in facilities were allowed to resume, there were several bars and pubs in Delhi that were shut all this while only because bars were not allowed.” Vinod Giri, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), said it will help in the liquidation of inventory with bars, hotels and restaurants, which were locked up for all these months.“Though this sector accounts for less than 10% of liquor sales, its rejuvenation is a major psychological milestone on the road back to normalcy in Delhi. In our estimates, 15,000 cases of liquor are locked up in inventory with bars and restaurants, and liquidation of that will be a great relief to the hospitality sector. It will also help in dealing with the livelihood crisis which the workers were facing due to closure of this particular business,” Giri said.The SOP mandates that bars and restaurants conduct frequent sanitisation of the premises. The staff will have to wear masks and gloves and the facility will have to ensure proper disposal of these items. While only asymptomatic staff will be allowed to report to work, it will be mandatory for all such facilities to put up posters and other audio-visual information on preventive measures for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bars-to-open-in-delhi-on-a-trial-basis-from-sept-9/story-NfCcLsHrxT9GltD8hkWglJ.html
04-09-2020||India||PM Modi pitches India as hub for global supply, value chains in post-Covid-19 world||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday highlighted India’s location, reliability and policy stability while pitching the country as a hub for global supply and value chains in the post-Covid-19 world. “This pandemic has also shown the world that the decision on developing global supply chains should be based not only on costs. They should also be based on trust,” he said in his keynote address at the annual leadership summit organised by the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum. Modi also highlighted his government’s belief in delivering results so that ease of living is as important as the ease of doing business. “You are looking at a country with political stability and policy continuity. You are looking at a country with commitment to democracy and diversity,” he said. Though China found no mention in his speech, it was apparent the Prime Minister was highlighting India as an alternative destination for trade and investment at a time when the world community is focused on developing new supply and value chains to replace those disrupted by the pandemic. “Along with affordability of geography, companies are now also looking for reliability and policy stability. India is the location which has all of these qualities,” he said. The “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” initiative is aimed at transforming India from a “passive market to an active manufacturing hub at the heart of global value chains”, he noted. India received more than $20 billion in foreign investments during the year and Google, Amazon and Mubadala Investments had announced long-term plans for the country, he noted. The pandemic hasn’t dented the aspirations of India’s 1.3-billion population and reforms have made business easier and reduced red tape, while work was underway on the world’s largest housing programme and on boosting connectivity, he added. The country, he said, also offers a transparent and predictable tax regime while the insolvency and bankruptcy code has reduced risk for the entire financial system. “Our comprehensive labour reforms will reduce compliance burden for employers. It will also provide social security protection to the workers,” he added. “The continued regulatory reforms in bond markets ensure improved ease of access for investors. There are tax exemptions to sovereign wealth funds and pension funds for infrastructure investment. FDI into India rose by 20% in 2019, this when global FDI inflows fell by 1%,” he said. Modi also highlighted the government’s efforts to contain Covid-19, saying India was among the first in creating a “responsive system of lockdowns” and to advocate the use of masks. Starting from one testing lab in January, it now has around 1,600 labs, and the country has one of the lowest death rates per million while the recovery rate is steadily rising. Businesses have responded pro-actively, making India the second largest manufacturer of PPE kits in the world, he said. “This is in line with India’s spirit of challenging the challenge to emerge stronger. In the last few months, the nation has battled Covid, and other crises such as floods, [two] cyclones [and a] locust attack. But it has only made the people’s resolve stronger,” he said. The government has also protected the poor, and the “Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana” is among the world’s largest support systems while free food grains have been provided to 800 million people, and free cooking gas to around 80 million families. Cash support has been given to around 345 million farmers and employment to migrant workers by creating almost 200 million person-days of work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pitches-india-as-hub-for-global-supply-value-chains-in-post-covid-19-world/story-2hyIxNxZ7HJIdQzCYowaFI.html
04-09-2020||India||PM Modi highlights location, stability in global pitch||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday highlighted India’s location, reliability and policy stability while pitching the country as a hub for global supply and value chains in the post-Covid-19 world. “This pandemic has also shown the world that the decision on developing global supply chains should be based not only on costs. They should also be based on trust,” he said in his keynote address at the annual leadership summit organised by the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum. Modi also highlighted his government’s belief in delivering results so that ease of living is as important as the ease of doing business. “You are looking at a country with political stability and policy continuity. You are looking at a country with commitment to democracy and diversity,” he said. Though China found no mention in his speech, it was apparent the prime minister was highlighting India as an alternative destination for trade and investment at a time when the world community is focused on developing new supply and value chains to replace those disrupted by the pandemic. “Along with affordability of geography, companies are now also looking for reliability and policy stability. India is the location which has all of these qualities,” he said. The “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” initiative is aimed at transforming India from a “passive market to an active manufacturing hub at the heart of global value chains”, he noted. India received more than $20 billion in foreign investments during the year and Google, Amazon and Mubadala Investments had announced long-term plans for the country, he noted. The pandemic hasn’t dented the aspirations of India’s 1.3-billion population and reforms have made business easier and reduced red tape, while work was underway on the world’s largest housing programme and on boosting connectivity, he added. The country, he said, also offers a transparent and predictable tax regime while the insolvency and bankruptcy code has reduced risk for the entire financial system. “Our comprehensive labour reforms will reduce compliance burden for employers. It will also provide social security protection to the workers,” he added. “The continued regulatory reforms in bond markets ensure improved ease of access for investors. There are tax exemptions to sovereign wealth funds and pension funds for infrastructure investment. FDI into India rose by 20% in 2019, this when global FDI inflows fell by 1%,” he said. Modi also highlighted the government’s efforts to contain Covid-19, saying India was among the first in creating a “responsive system of lockdowns” and to advocate the use of masks. Starting from one testing lab in January, it now has around 1,600 labs, and the country has one of the lowest death rates per million while the recovery rate is steadily rising. Businesses have responded pro-actively, making India the second largest manufacturer of PPE kits in the world, he said. “This is in line with India’s spirit of challenging the challenge to emerge stronger. In the last few months, the nation has battled Covid, and other crises such as floods, [two] cyclones [and a] locust attack. But it has only made the people’s resolve stronger,” he said. The government has also protected the poor, and the “Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana” is among the world’s largest support systems while free food grains have been provided to 800 million people, and free cooking gas to around 80 million families. Cash support has been given to around 345 million farmers and employment to migrant workers by creating almost 200 million person-days of work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-highlights-location-stability-in-global-pitch/story-ywjq2gE286VnUMwnlPICSJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court over Special Marriage Act provisions||The provisions under Special Marriage Act (SMA) requiring parties to an intended marriage to publish their private details for public scrutiny 30 days prior to the intended marriage violates the right to privacy of the parties, a petition filed before the Supreme Court said.The petition filed on August 31 by one Nandini Praveen, a law student from Kerala stated that the requirement was also in violation of right to equality under Article 14 of the Constitution since no other laws prescribe such a requirement.“Publication of personal details often might have a chilling effect on the right to marry. In other words, couples are asked to waive the right to privacy to exercise the right to marry. This infringes the rights of autonomy, dignity and the right to marry, of various couples,” the petition settled by advocate Kaleeswaram Raj said. The right to privacy is held to be an aspect of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution, the plea pointed out.The SMA is a law which allows solemnization of marriages without going through any religious customs or rituals. People from different castes or religions or states get married under SMA in which marriage is solemnized by way of registration.The SMA prescribes an elaborate procedure to get the marriage registered. First, one of the parties to the marriage has to give a notice of the intended marriage to the marriage officer of the district where at least one of the parties to the marriage has resided for at least 30 days immediately prior to the date on which such notice is given.Such notice is then entered in the marriage notice book and the marriage officer publishes a notice of marriage at some conspicuous place in his office. The notice of marriage published by the marriage officer includes details of the parties like names, date of birth, age, occupation, parents’ names and details, address, pin code, identity information, phone number etc. This is a peculiar requirement of the SMA.Anybody can then raise objections to the marriage on various grounds provided under the Act. If no objection is raised within the 30 day period, then marriage can be solemnized. If objections are raised, then the marriage officer has to inquire into the objections after which he will decide whether or not to solemnize the marriage.“Clauses (2) and (3) of Section 6 to the extent to which those direct to cause affixation of notice in some conspicuous place in the office of Marriage Officer are violative of the right to privacy of the parties to the marriage,” Praveen submitted.The petition highlighted the troubles faced by couples due to the requirement of making their personal details public.“Reports of honour killings and violence against inter-caste and inter-religious couples are predominant. One of the ways to access details of the couples marrying under the SMA is through the public notice under Sections 6(2) and 6(3) of the SMA,” the plea said.Besides, no other law except the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872 has a requirement to make personal details public, the petitioner submitted.“The prime purpose of the Act was to address Inter-religious marriages and to establish marriage as a secular institution bereft of all religious formalities, which required registration alone. But this same law discriminates against inter-faith couples through Sections6(2) and 6(3) by requiring publication of notice of intended marriage. No other personal law, except the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872 has a requirement like the above,” it was contended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-over-special-marriage-act-provisions/story-9zOfRimcSPkiHyRGHYRu0L.html
04-09-2020||India||Netflix India’s Bad Boy Billionaires series triggers controversy||Even as Sahara India Parivar chief Subrata Roy and Satyam Computers founder Byrraju Ramalinga Raju have managed to get an injunction on the release of Netflix’s latest documentary series, Bad Boy Billionaires, former liquor baron Vijay Mallya and diamond merchant Nirav Modi , two others who feature in the four-part series, will not be able to challenge the broadcast of series, according to the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act, 2018. Section 14 of the FEO Act says that any person or company, who has been declared fugitive economic offender, may be disallowed from putting forward or defending any civil claim by any court or tribunal in India. Both Mallya and Modi were declared Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEOs) in January and December 2019 respectively for fraud and money laundering. While a local court in Bihar’s Araria last week gave relief to Subrata Roy by ordering Netflix not to use his name in the series, a Hyderabad civil court on Tuesday restrained Netflix from releasing it on a plea filed by Raju. The Supreme Court has refused to give any relief to the company when it was approached concerning the Araria court’s order. Even though Netflix series doesn’t have a special episode on fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, accused in the Punjab National Bank fraud case, he approached the Delhi High Court last week seeking a preview of the series for himself before it is released arguing that it could prejudice the trial against him. The ministry of electronics and information technology (MeiTY) opposed Choksi’s plea saying it does not regulate the content on over-the-top platforms unless that interferes with national security. Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said: “Article 21 is available even to non citizens and if legal proceedings are pending then media cannot give their own versions and can only report facts. Netflix is calling its documentary to be investigative so this parallel investigation and conclusion is bound to breach right to fair trial under Article 21 of Constitution of India.” “My client (Mehul Choksi) has a presumption of innocence in his favour,” Aggarwal added. The high court junked Choksi’s plea but allowed him to go to a civil court. Sherbir Panag, a legal expert on white collar crimes said: “The Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, provides that on declaration as a fugitive economic offender, any civil claim put forward or defended by such person may be disallowed by the concerned court. While this doesn’t take away the right to file a civil claim, it does leave ample discretion with the court on whether or not to allow such claim being put forward. This position is contentious from a procedural fairness perspective, but shall hopefully be balanced by conscientious judicial interpretation.” Zulfiquar Memon, international extradition expert, said: “On account of Modi and Mallya being declared as FEO, they may have limited rights to approach the Courts, but their purpose seems to have been solved by the fact that the airing of the docu-series on Netflix has currently been stayed by different Courts. According to me, this matter is likely to go to the Supreme Court and until such time, the stay may remain in force”. This is the second time within a month when Netflix is embroiled in a legal tussle after a movie on the life of Indian Air Force (IAF) female pilot Gunjan Saxena, which the Centre has challenged saying it shows Indian armed forces in bad light. Netflix is tightlipped about the developments even as it plans to move the Bihar high court against the Araria court order and the appropriate court against the Hyderabad court order. The docu-series was supposed to be released on Wednesday. Company representatives declined comment on the matter. Senior Advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, who represents Netflix, said: “We have not tried to defame anyone. It’s an investigative docu-series based on interviews as well as the facts which are available in public domain.” Experts say government has powers to regulate OTT content: Irrespective of particular show or OTT platform, experts feel that the government should take a proactive approach in regulating the content over the digital platforms. Pavan Duggal, top cyber expert said : “OTT is a unique platform which has not been effectively regulated globally as well as India. However, as OTTs are available on communication devices and mobiles, they are already covered under the Indian cyberlaw. OTTs are intermediaries under section 2 (1) (w) of the Information Technology Act, 2000. Under section 79 (2) (c) of the act, these OTT players are mandated to exercise due diligence while they discharge their obligations as intermediaries. Some generic provisions of due diligence have been given under the IT Rules 2011 but these are not specifically designed for OTT platforms.” “The government of India has not yet come up with specific rules, guidelines, and parameters concerning OTTs but it doesn’t mean it cannot regulate such platforms. Under Section 87 of the IT Act, government has the powers to come up with rules and regulations for OTT players.” Duggal added that “India needs to revise its legal position and come up with a framework to govern OTTs because these platforms cannot exist in a legal and policy vacuum. If they are allowed to so exist, it will start prejudicially impacting the cyber sovereignty of India as well Indian security and integrity”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netflix-series-triggers-controversy/story-Mr47djEvqy3u1rYFKnnWQJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Study shows Covid-19 can spread in public vehicles||One Covid-19 infected person passed on the disease to 23 of 67 passengers on a bus, a new study published this week determined, showing the virus can spread readily in a closed, small setting like public transport. The findings are significant for India as it enters the fourth phase of the Unlock plan, with more public transport – including buses and metro trains – being allowed to run soon. According to the report in JAMA Internal Medicine, a journal of the American Medical Association, the spread happened in one of two buses that carried a group of 128 people who visited a worship event in eastern China. “Those who rode a bus with air recirculation and with a patient with Covid-19 had an increased risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection compared with those who rode a different bus,” said the authors, who studied the spread that took place on January 19 in Zhejiang province. The super-spreader, whose gender was not specified, had no symptoms such as a fever or cough at the time of travel, said the study, and this was a period before wearing of masks was made mandatory in China. Passenger mapping that the sickest people were in the front and back of the bus, outside the perimeter of 1-2 metres (three-six feet) that infectious droplets are believed to travel. “The investigations suggest that, in closed environments with air recirculation, SARS-CoV-2 is a highly transmissible pathogen,” said the study.A similar investigation of a outbreak cluster in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou, Sars-CoV-2 was found to have spread between diners’ tables more than one metre apart at a restaurant in, where three families dined on January 24. One person who had come from Wuhan developed a cough later that day and tested positive, and by February 5, nine other diners tested positive. The study was published in US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s journal, Emerging Infectious Diseases in April, found that the airflow direction was consistent with droplet transmission. An earlier experimental study published in NEJM in April had demonstrated that the virus remains viable in aerosols for 3 hours or longer, but epidemiological evidence from actual community transmission among people was missing. In early April, a high-level US scientific panel was the first to flag that the Sars-CoV-2 is airborne and could stay suspended in air in the ultrafine mist produced from normal breathing.Asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic spread of infection – studies show people are the most infectious one to two days before developing symptoms – further raise the risk of people infecting others in crowded public transport, such as buses and metros.For mobility to resume, safe behaviour is non-negotiable, experts say. “For buses, we must have thermal screening, spaced seating; masks (compulsory); supervised boarding (from back) and deboarding (from front); and open windows. For metros, thermal screening; orderly boarding and deboarding procedures ; and spaced seating, where possible,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. That apart, he suggests encouraging work from home, wherever possible. “We should try to encourage employers to stagger office hours to reduce crowd density of peak hours,” said Dr Reddy. The other option is using the government’s contact-tracking app Aarogya Setu, which is being used by 154.5 million users, to track risk and allow only safe passengers to board. “Many offices have done this, but it has to be done at a public-service scale. The app should be made stronger with personalised, useful and direct messaging to people, including tracking symptoms and communicating back to people, providing advice on how to protect themselves, and which routes to take and which areas to avoid. A more functional app will motivate people to use it, so people get into the habit of checking their Aarogya Setu before stepping out to minimize risk,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics an Integrative Biology, New Delhi.But simple masks are the best strategy, followed by safe behaviour. “Mandatory masks, and not riding if you have a cough, cold, fever or were in contact with a positive person are obvious precautions. Older adults, people with cancer, chronic diseases or compromised immunity must avoid crowded buses and metros even with protection. People take out masks when they are speaking, eating, or having a conversation, which is the worst thing that can happen,” said Dr Shiv K Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi.The challenge is asymptomatic spread and the fact that everyone doesn’t have a smart phone. “For that, you can have SMS, and those who have no phone should go through a queue to have their temperature and symptoms checked. It’s unlikely we will face a problem for which a solution is unimaginable,” said Dr Agrawal.“With public transport opening, people must take precautions and protect themselves. We need a bottom up approach, we need social change,” said Dr Sarin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-shows-covid-can-spread-in-public-vehicles/story-Kt5NW9dR5B4ydFsHFyBb7J.html
04-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Antibodies may not stop transmission in children||Some children may have the potential to transmit the coronavirus disease, or Covid-19, even if they have measurable antibodies in their system, said a new study that indicated immune response, by itself, may be inadequate to protect children from the pandemic. The study, conducted by doctors at the Children’s National Hospital in Washington DC and published in The Journal of Paediatrics on Thursday, analysed 6,369 children tested for Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and 215 children who underwent antibody testing between March 13 and June 21. Out of this, 33 showed the presence of both virus and antibodies at the same time. “With most viruses, when you start to detect antibodies, you won’t detect the virus anymore. But with Covid-19, we’re seeing both,” said Burak Bahar, lead author of the study. “This means children still have the potential to transmit the virus even if antibodies are detected.”She cautioned that the mode of transmission of a virus, which exists in the presence of antibodies, remained unknown. A clutch of recent studies have indicated that antibodies may last in a patient’s system for between three and six months, although no conclusive evidence has emerged. The researchers underlined that a lot was still unknown about the disease – especially at a time when many countries have pushed to open primary schools and kindergartens despite health experts cautioning that children were particularly susceptive to contracting the disease and transmitting it to family members and others. “Wearing face coverings, social distancing and personal hygiene are effective ways to decrease spread of this disease; however, these practices might be challenging in schools and similar environments that care for children. Antibody response, at its own, is not recommended to clear children from precautions,” Bahar told HT. Data of Covid-19 fatalities in India published in HT earlier this week showed that children were the least vulnerable group. But a number of other studies – notably, one last week in JAMA Paediatrics – have concluded that children can shed the virus even if they are asymptomatic or for long after their symptoms have cleared.Researchers from the Children’s National Hospital found patients between 6 and 15 took longer to clear the virus (median time of 32 days) compared to patients between 16 and 22 (median time of 18 days). In the study, women in the 6-15 group took longer to clear the virus (44 days) than males (25.5 days for males). “The takeaway here is that we can’t let our guard down just because a child has antibodies or is no longer showing symptoms,” said Bahar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibodies-may-not-stop-transmission-in-children/story-EiZ1xRq3qbqpH6jR1XuF3J.html
04-09-2020||India||CM launches probe into MP rice distribution case||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced that the economic offence wing (EOW) of Madhya Pradesh police will conduct an inquiry into distribution of sub-standard rice to beneficiaries through the Public Distribution System(PDS) in two districts of the state.Chouhan in a tweet on Thursday said, “The guilty who supplied bad quality rice to public distribution shops will not be spared. I have decided to conduct an EOW inquiry into it, so that truth could come to light. Stringent action will be taken against the guilty to check possibility of recurrence of such incidents.” The Congress, however, dubbed the CM’s announcement as an eyewash. State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “Had the Congress not raised the issue with a concrete evidence and there had not been a central government’s report on the quality of rice, the BJP government would not have taken any action. The central government’s report was lying with the state government for over a week. Will the CM conduct an inquiry as to why action was not taken against millers and government employees responsible for distribution of such rice of poor quality through PDS shops, so far?”The sub-standard rice was being distributed by millers in collusion with officials in tribal dominated Balaghat and Mandla districts.In Balaghat district, the administration in the past 24 hours sealed 18 rice mills and disconnected power supply to these mills. Five more employees of food and civil supplies department in the district were also suspended on Thursday. The administration is in process of filing more FIRs against rice mill owners, said Balaghat collector Deepak Arya. In Mandla district, 14 rice mills and a warehouse were sealed to facilitate the inquiry, said district collector Harshika Singh. On Wednesday night, the state government had terminated services of two quality controllers of Food and Civil Supplies department in Balaghat district and filed FIRs against eight millers in the two districts on the basis of an analysis conducted by a Central government lab on 32 samples of food grains, officials said. The lab report was submitted on August 21,2020 by ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, Govt of India to MP’s principal secretary food, civil supplies and consumer protection, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai. “The samples were analysed in the NABL accredited Central Grain Analysis Laboratory (CGAL), Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi….The stocks are found to be unfit for human consumption and in the categories of Feed-I which is meant to be suitable for livestock feed (such as goat, horse, sheep), Feed-II which is suitable for cattle feed and Feed-III which is suitable for poultry feed as per the guidelines for the issuance/disposal of the stocks,” Kidwai said. (With input from Monika Pandey in Jabalpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-launches-probe-into-mp-rice-distribution-case/story-e4gYKxMtv881O9FL7qupnL.html
04-09-2020||India||Monsoon pattern may see rapid shift||The pattern of monsoon rainfall in India may see a major shift by the end of this century with southern India likely to register the most increase in extreme rainfall , researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, in West Bengal, have found. The researchers also expect rainfall to increase in the Arabian Sea and south-Asian countries, including Myanmar, Thailand and Malaysia. “In the worst-case scenario of climate change, rainfall could increase by 2.7 mm per day in north India with the Himalayan foothills expected to receive the heaviest rain. In south India, rainfall could increase by 18.5 mm per day with the Western Ghats expected to be affected the most,” said Rajib Maity, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Kharagpur, who led the study.The scenario could play out towards the end of the century, between 2071 and 2100. The researchers analysed data of Indian Summer Monsoon precipitation for close to five decades (1971 – 2017), considering the period between 1930 and 1970 as the base. In meteorological terms, fifty years, the time it will take for the change to manifest itself, isn’t much. And the change itself, could have a significant bearing on cropping patterns in a country where much of the agriculture is still rain-fed. “South Asia, as we know, despite advances in irrigation systems, is highly dependent on the monsoons. Results of this study will be useful to the designers of water infrastructure and agricultural communities, especially in the southern parts of India and Himalayan foothills, to prompt a possible change in design criteria and agricultural practices including cropping pattern,” Virendra Tewari, director of IIT Kharagpur said, in a statement issued by the institute.The results have been published in the Scientific Reports journal brought out by Nature publishing group. “Our analysis shows a change in the direction of the southwest monsoon winds blowing towards the east over the Indian Ocean. This directional change will intensify the already observed precipitation contrast in future between South and North India, and cause more extreme precipitation events in countries such as Myanmar, Thailand and Malaysia” Maity added. The researchers said that the Indian Ocean Dipole – popularly referred to as the ‘Indian Nino’ because of its similarity to its Pacific equivalent – is intensifying which could lead to increase in rainfall activity throughout India. The Indian Ocean Dipole refers to the difference in sea-surface temperatures in opposite parts of the Indian Ocean which, in turn, affects rainfall patterns. “The possibility of such a shift can’t be ruled out but such projections need more research and analysis as the association between the Indian Ocean Dipole and monsoon is still not well defined,” said R Krishnan, executive director, Centre for Climate Change Studies at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM).To be sure, over the years, a significant correlation has been established between the Indian Ocean Dipole and the monsoon. IITM, in various studies, has documented the change in monsoon rainfall pattern and increase in extreme rainfall events since 1871. It has found that the period between 1981 and 2016 witnessed higher frequency of extreme rain during monsoon months. Studies by then IITM professor, M Rajeevan, now secretary ministry of earth sciences, have shown that monsoon rain has increased in western parts of India, namely Rajasthan and Gujarat and has declined in Central and north-western India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-pattern-may-see-rapid-shift/story-tJxHAoP7jegxIkVsDQIjBM.html
04-09-2020||India||Facebook bans BJP leader over hate speech||Facebook has banned the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Telangana legislator T Raja Singh, who has been at the centre of a political furore over a report in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) that the social media company adopted a soft approach towards purported hate speech by the MLA and other functionaries to protect its business interests in India.“We have banned Raja Singh from Facebook for violating our policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on our platform. The process for evaluating potential violators is extensive and it is what led us to our decision to remove his account,” a Facebook spokesperson said on Thursday.According to people aware of the specifics of the ban, Raja Singh has been banned under Facebook’s “dangerous individuals and organizations policy”. The ban means he will not be allowed on Facebook and Instagram and the social medial company will remove any pages, groups or accounts representing him if they come up. WSJ first reported the ban on Thursday morning. An August 14 report by the newspaper claimed that Facebook staff had considered taking down Raja Singh’s profile on the social media network in 2018 because of inflammatory messages posted by the Hyderabad-based legislator, targeting the Muslim community, before Ankhi Das, who leads Facebook’s policy efforts in New Delhi, intervened to block the move on grounds that it could potentially harm its interests in India. The Goshamahal legislator later in the day said that the posts were not made using his account and that he was hoping to return to the website. The claims in the reports prompted the opposition parties to seek an investigation into whether Facebook applies its content moderation rules in a politically partisan manner, a claim the August 14 article and subsequent news reports by the same paper and Time later repeated. All three reports cited comments from past and current Facebook employees who said Facebook India executives shared past links with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Amit Malviya, the head of the BJP’s information technology cell, did not comment on the specific case of Facebook’s ban on Raja, but said the determination of what constitutes hate speech should conform with the rules and laws of the land. “What constitutes hate speech in India will be decided by our constitutional framework and extant rules. It must be applied fairly to all irrespective of their political affiliation. Sonia Gandhi, whose divisive speech streamed live on Facebook, which led to wide-scale rioting, death, and destruction in Delhi recently, is equally guilty as is someone else. We can’t have double standards,” Malviya said. The Congress wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg twice complaining of a bias and asking him to specify the steps being taken to investigate the charges against its India unit. Earlier this week, union minister for Information and Technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, in a strongly worded letter to Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, alleged that the platform is the “latest tool” being used to create “internal divisions and social disturbances” by vested groups. The BJP has lashed out at its critics and has also insinuated that efforts are being made by some Facebook employees to discredit the democratic processes in the country. “Social media has democratised discourse and that is something they haven’t come to terms with,” Malviya said.Responding to a letter by Congress, a Facebook executive said the company was “‘non-partisan and strove to ensure its platforms remain a space where people express themselves freely.”“We take allegations of bias seriously & denounce hate & bigotry in all forms,” Neil Potts, Facebook’s trust and safety director, said in reply to a letter written by Congress’ general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal’s accusing the social media platform of “interfering in India’s electoral democracy.”.“On the question of hateful content by public figures, we want to assure you that our Community Standards prohibit attacks against people based on their protected characteristics, including religion, caste, ethnicity, and national origin. In line with our hate speech policy, we have removed and will continue to remove hateful content by public figures in India on our platforms,” Potts added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fb-bans-bjp-leader-over-hate-speech/story-VXMcpb82nKUKVTzjenUHPJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Court: Give ‘another opportunity’ to find lawyer for Jadhav||A Pakistani court on Thursday directed the government to give India another chance to appoint a lawyer to represent Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former naval officer sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying, and adjourned the case for a month. The Islamabad high court, after hearing arguments in the matter, asked attorney general Khalid Javed Khan to inform the government to send the court’s order to India and put off further hearings till October 3. The direction came after the attorney general informed the larger bench of the high court, comprising chief justice Athar Minallah and justices Aamer Farooq and Miangul Hassan Aurangzaib, that the Pakistan government hadn’t received a reply from New Delhi on the matter till date. Khan said it appeared the Indian government was not interested in availing the opportunity of legal representation and its “focus is on embarrassing Pakistan”. He said that despite the passage of a month from the time that the Islamabad high court directed the government to offer a chance of legal representation to New Delhi, no reply was received from the Indian side. Khan also said Pakistan is continuing the process of implementing the Internation Court of Justice’s (ICJ) judgment but “India is busy obstructing the right to review.” The ICJ asked Pakistan to stay Jadhav’s death sentence and carry out a comprehensive review of his conviction and sentencing by a military court.On August 3, a special bench headed by chief Justice Minallah had directed the registrar’s office to form the larger bench. The court also directed the government to make another offer to India and Jadhav through the Foreign Office to hire a lawyer. On August 6, the Islamabad high court formed a three-judge bench at the government’s request to hear the matter of allowing Jadhav to appeal against the death sentence. In its order, the court said that it was refraining from appointing a lawyer for Jadhav. It added the government of Pakistan should inform Jadhav about his rights under Article 36 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. The court further observed Jadhav should be informed of the ICJ’s decision, adding he should also be made aware of his rights under an ordinance issued by the Pakistan government to the ICJ’s verdict. Pakistan has alleged Jadhav was arrested on March 3, 2016 in Balochistan on charges of espionage. He was subsequently sentenced to death following a secret trial by a military court the following year. India has dismissed these charges and said Jadhav was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-give-another-opportunity-to-find-lawyer-for-jadhav/story-cwQEJMkQhEbZy3pGLFUppJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Twitter handle linked to PM’s portal hacked||A Twitter account linked to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal website was purportedly compromised early on Thursday, with a series of tweets sent out by an individual or a group identifying themselves as “John Wick” who later told HT that the hack was meant to clear their name in a separate breach involving a popular e-commerce website.A Twitter spokesperson confirmed that the page -- @narendramodi_in – associated with the PM’s website narendramodi.in, was compromised. Shortly after 3am, several posts were made, including some urging people to donate to a cryptocurrency wallet that the hackers said was linked to the “PM National Relief Fund”. “There is no other intention to hack this account. Recently fake news of our name saying PayTM Mall [was] hacked by us. So we have sent email to all news publishers in India [that] it’s not us, no one replied, so we decided to post something,” said a person who responded from the email address that was posted in one of the tweets after the hack. The tweets have since been taken down. To a query from HT, a spokesperson from Twitter said in an email: “We’re aware of this activity and have taken steps to secure the compromised account. We are actively investigating the situation. At this time, we are not aware of additional accounts being impacted.” Questions to the Prime Minister’s Office about the alleged hacking did not elicit a response till the time of filing this copy. The hackers did not respond to questions on how they carried out the hack and whether it was a compromise of the Twitter account itself, but identifiers seen on screenshots suggested the tweets were made using a tool titled “narendramodi_tweets_apps”. The hacker suggested that this was done by breaking into the website narendramodi.in, and not the Twitter account. “Yes, 100% not secured,” said this person, when asked if they exploited something called an API, which allows people to access and send out tweets without accessing an account through Twitter.com. “They have to increase the security and invest in people like us,” the hacker said.On August 30, US-based cyber security firm Cyble reported that a hacking group identifying itself as John Wick “was able to gain unrestricted access to the entire databases” of PayTM Mall, an online retail venture of the popular payments app PayTM. PayTM later issued a statement saying it was investigating the breach and assured that user data was safe.“We don’t yet know the root cause of this incident so it is difficult to say whether there was a security standards issue involved. The best we can do is to remind people to activate two-factor authentication for their accounts,” said Baptiste Robert, a French cyber security engineer who is better known by his online alias Elliot Alderson and has brought to light several major vulnerabilities in Indian government-run websites and services.A person aware of the preliminary analysis at Twitter, who asked not to be named, said “there was no indication or evidence at this stage of any correlation between this account compromise and the incident that took place in July”. The reference was to the breach of Twitter’s internal systems through which hackers similarly solicited payments in digital currency by making posts from the accounts of US presidential candidate Joe Biden and former US president Barack Obama and billionaire Elon Musk. The page @narendramodi_in is followed by 2.5 million users and is a platform for disseminating news about the PM’s activities, his statements and addresses. It was not immediately clear if any money was sent into the cryptocurrency account posted in the hacked tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-handle-linked-to-pm-s-portal-hacked/story-Duyb3naa3JbiUQcL5hK1YJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Parliament disruptions mar Question Hour: Data||Many opposition parties have turned vocal against the government’s decision to skip Question Hour in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, but data from the last 11 years shows that Question Hour has often been a victim of many opposition-sponsored disruptions. An analysis of Parliamentary data since 2009 —when Prime Minister Manmohan Singh entered his second term—by PRS Legislative Research underlines that Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha could not utilize 90% of the time alloted to oral questions and answers in any session barring one each in 2016 and 2019. Between 2015 and 2019, the Lok Sabha could use just 61% of its total allotted time for Question Hour. The Rajya Sabha faced a stiffer challenge as the ruling dispensation didn’t enjoy majority there for a long time, allowing rivals to influence the proceedings and leading to more disruptions -- in 2015-19, only about 40% of the total time was available for taking up questions.The opposition continued to protest against the suspension of Question Hour. Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said: “I challenge the PM and his ministers to come and debate with the Opposition on ‘The sanctity of Parliament and other institutions’. Come, debate this subject in the Monsoon Session. We are waiting.”Question Hour, or the first 60 minutes of the daily proceeding to seek replies from different ministers, is a key tool for lawmakers to keep a check on the executive. It is also the only opportunity for MPs to get guaranteed answers. The preparations for this vital part of parliament session require long, tedious hours of preparations. The two Houses of Parliament have decided that only written answers will be supplied to MPs in the upcoming monsoon session, but no oral questions will be allowed.The original decision was driven by a desire to reduce the presence of civil servants in Parliament to assist ministers amid restrictions put in place because of the Covid-19 pidemic. The move to allow written questions was a response to the opposition’s reaction. In the winter session of 2013, the Bharatiya Jabata Party-led opposition, adamant in its demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to look into the coal block allocation case, halted a large part of the Question Hour. The Lok Sabha could utilize just 2% of its time allotted for Question Hour and the Rajya Sabha failed to take up a single question in the shortest session that ran for just 10 days. Similarly, in the winter of 2016 when an aggressive Congress was vocal about the demonetization of old, high-value currency notes, the Lok Sabha could use 29% of the time for Question Hour and the Rajya Sabha, again, failed to take up a single Question. In the Budget session of 2018, when the Congress-led opposition was again up in arms over the Rafale deal and launched major protests, Question Hour saw disruptions and could function for just 11% and 3% of its allotted time in the Lower and the Upper Houses. A Rajya Sabha record of the last six sessions also shows that in every session, Congress-led opposition parties regularly demanded suspension of Question Hour. Out of the 23 days in the last session, the Opposition gave notice on 15 days to suspend Question Hour to take up other issues. In 2018, the Congress and other Opposition parties wanted suspension of Question Hour for 15 days in one session and for 16 days in another session. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, who is now a part of the panel to decide the party’s Rajya Sabha strategy, argued that “demand for suspension of Question Hour was because there was an issue of overriding importance. But it was not suspended. It is a legitimate parliamentary tactic as Arun Jaitley once said...But that is no excuse for the government to cancel the entire Question Hour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parl-disruptions-mar-question-hour-data/story-U8YIPyIRGEh7qCxnpFcUDJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Indian Army changes border posture||The Indian Army has changed its posture from border management to securing the border on the 1,597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh after aggression by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in the Chushul sector, followed by additional induction of troops and support elements, people familiar with the matter said.The PLA Air Force has also stepped up its activity in the occupied Aksai Chin area, with positions being militarily strengthened.“The Indian Army is now in a secure border mode to pre-empt any Chinese PLA transgressions in vulnerable areas of Ladakh. The repositioning of Indian forces has been done to take the Chinese aggression into account in the area and to ensure that all positions are defended,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The Indian Army has also matched the PLA’s troop reinforcement in the sector by deploying additional specialised forces such as the Special Frontier Force (SFF) that was raised to counter China after the 1962 war. SFF soldiers had played a lead role in pre-empting the PLA, which tried to grab Indian territory five days ago on the southern bank of Pangong Tso. Indian soldiers have since then occupied key heights on the southern bank.The Indian Army has deployed a combat group -- a mix of armoured and mechanised elements -- in the Depsang Plains to match a PLA mechanised brigade and another combat group in Chumar to signal to the PLA that it means business and will not allow even an inch of Indian land to be taken.India dominates the Demchok and Chumar areas, giving soldiers a clear line of sight to the Lhasa-Kashgar (219) highway, a critical artery for PLA logistics supply. The Indian posture in Chushul clearly indicates that any further PLA perfidy will receive a matching response, a military commander said.While the PLA, under Chinese President and Communist Party general secretary Xi Jinping, is blaming the Indian Army domestically for aggravating the border situation, Beijing is making no effort to sort out the border row diplomatically or militarily by just restoring status quo ante.“It is a dead-end posturing as this will not yield any results for PLA as neither side can deploy troops all along the 3,488 km LAC round the clock throughout the year,” said a second senior official .Although military and diplomatic talks are on, Indian Army troopers are leaving nothing to chance and are prepared for the worst case scenario, with decisions being taken on the spot, and not by headquarters.Tensions have escalated in the Ladakh sector after a June 15 military skirmish in the Galwan Valley left 20 Indian troops and unspecified number of PLA soldiers dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-changes-border-posture/story-WQmEuVP8fS4MoqKus2kjbN.html
04-09-2020||India||Standoff result of Chinese actions along LAC: India||India on Thursday squarely blamed China for the tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) over the past four months and said the only way forward was through negotiations – reflecting the impasse created by fresh attempts by Beijing to alter the status quo along the disputed border over the weekend. There was no word from Beijing on the latest situation on the LAC though the Chinese foreign ministry cited Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore and yoga’s popularity in the country to criticise New Delhi’s ban on 118 Chinese apps and subtly warned India not to join the US “clean network” programme, an initiative for an internet without security threats. China rejected recent comments from the US side on the tensions and said Beijing and New Delhi have the ability to resolve their border disputes bilaterally.Talks being conducted through diplomatic and military channels to end the standoff that began in May suffered a blow when Chinese troops resorted to what were described as “provocative military movements” on the south bank of Pangong Lake during August 29-30. They were thwarted by counter-measures by the Indian side, which quickly occupied several strategic heights and hilltops, and talks between local brigade commanders since Monday to ease the fresh tensions have been inconclusive. “It is clear that the situation we witnessed over the past four months is a direct result of the actions taken by the Chinese side that sought to effect unilateral change of status quo,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “Now the way ahead is negotiations, both through the diplomatic and military channels. The Indian side is firmly committed to resolving all outstanding issues through peaceful dialogue,” he said. The Chinese side, Srivastava added, should “sincerely engage the Indian side with the objective of expeditiously restoring the peace and tranquillity in the border areas through complete disengagement and de-escalation in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols”. Without going into details, he said the local military commanders are still holding discussions to resolve the situation that had arisen from the attempt by Chinese troops to unilaterally change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Lake. Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong refuted US deputy secretary of state Stephen Beigun’s recent remarks about China’s “outsized” territorial claims at Galwan Valley in the Ladakh sector and said: “China and India have the ability to resolve their border disputes bilaterally. We don’t accept countries outside the region pointing fingers, let alone meddling or making instigation, which will only endanger the regional peace and stability.” In a statement, Ji said China wants a “fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution through peaceful and friendly consultations”. She added that the two sides were in “talks at various levels to seek peaceful settlement of the boundary issue”. In Beijing, the foreign and commerce ministries criticised India’s ban on 118 Chinese apps and called for the “mistake” to be reversed. Foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying even questioned whether India was working with the US on such issues and called for New Delhi to adopt an independent policy. The foreign ministry said that unlike the reason behind India’s decision to ban the apps, the popularity of Tagore’s poetry and the popularity of Yoga among Chinese nationals didn’t mean that Beijing looks at such issues as “infiltration” or a “threat”. India on Wednesday banned 118 mostly Chinese mobile apps, including Tencent Holdings’s popular mobile version of video game PUBG, citing data security and privacy concerns. These apps collected and shared data in a “surreptitious manner and compromise personal data and information of users that can have a severe threat to the security of the state”, the Indian side said. Hua said the latest ban would harm the interests of Indian users and the rights of Chinese businesses. Both countries are ancient civilisations with exchanges going back thousands of years, she said, giving the example of Tagore, many of whose poems are popular in China. She quoted a line from one of Tagore’s poems: “We read the world wrong, and say that it deceives us.” She added, “Also, yoga is becoming more and more popular in China, including myself, I am very fond of Indian culture. But we do not think that Indian culture or the poems or other things are infiltrating here or posing any threat to Chinese culture.”Hua issued a subtle warning about ties between India and the US: “I have noted that the US state department on the same day said India banned more than 100 Chinese apps and called on other countries to join India to roll out the clean network initiative. “So, I don’t know if there is any correlation or interaction between India and the US. But India is an ancient civilisation with wise people. They should know what the US has done in cyber security, for example Dirtbox, Prism, Irritant Horn, Muscular and under-sea cable tapping.” Hua also said China hopes India will “stay committed to its precious independence [in] decision-making”. Commerce ministry spokesperson Gao Feng called on India to work with the Chinese side to maintain hard-won bilateral cooperation to build an open and fair business environment for international investors and service providers, including Chinese companies. External affairs ministry spokesperson Srivastava defended the ban on apps, saying they had engaged in activities prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of India. “What I can say is that we remain open, we continue to welcome FDI {foreign direct investment} in the country, including in the area of internet technology. However, what we would like to say is companies, when they operate here, they have to operate in accordance with the regulatory framework of the government of India,” he added. India first banned 59 Chinese apps on June 29, days after a clash that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. Another 47 apps were added to the ban in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/standoff-result-of-chinese-actions-along-lac-india/story-OK5QJEu4whaHjHGANjcUIP.html
04-09-2020||India||5-yr-old found dead was tortured with cigarettes, head crushed and arm chopped off||Jharkhand police on Thursday detained four people including the step father of a five-year-old girl a day after her body was found with cigarette burns, her head crushed and left arm chopped off.The autopsy conducted on Thursday confirmed abrasion marks on the neck, the head crushed with stones and her body having marks of several cigarette burns, said a police officer.Dr M Tamil Vanan, Jamshedpur’s senior superintendent of police (SSP), said they were waiting for the final post mortem report, which will also indicate whether the girl was raped or not.The police had recovered the badly mutilated body of the girl from Subarnarekha river bank on Wednesday morning in Jamshedpur’s Sonari area. The girl had gone missing from her house Monday evening.Vanan said the girl’s stepfather Supriyo Ghosh and his three friends have been detained apart from 10-12 other people.“We have interrogated about 25 people so far. We are confident of solving the case and arrest the accused by late tonight or tomorrow. We are awaiting the post mortem report to conclusively confirm if the victim was raped before murder,” he said.Ghosh, who had married the victim’s mother two years ago, however, has denied his involvement in the gruesome murder stating he had dropped the girl at her house in Kapali basti on Monday evening after taking her to Sonari market, police said.A medical board conducted the post mortem on Thursday following an order of Jamshedpur deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar. Meanwhile, an angry crowd from Kapali basti led by a local Congress leader, Usha Yadav, staged a protest at Sonari police station and blocked the road with the body of the victim, demanding that the accused be handed over to them for ‘public justice.’ The police deployed the quick response team (QRT) in the area to disperse the crowd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamshedpur-cops-detain-man-whose-minor-daughter-s-head-was-crushed-arm-chopped-off/story-QcTDCodf9kyiBiwViYBLZJ.html
04-09-2020||India||Indian Army changes posture at LAC after China’s failed midnight attempt||The Indian Army has changed its posture from border management to securing the border on the 1,597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh after People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) aggression in the Chushul sector followed by additional induction of troops and support elements, people familiar with the matter said. The PLA Air Force activity has gone up in the occupied Aksai Chin area with positions being militarily strengthened.“The Indian Army is now in a secure border mode to pre-empt any Chinese PLA transgressions in vulnerable areas of Ladakh. The repositioning of Indian forces has been done to take the Chinese aggression into account in the area and to ensure that all positions are defended,” said a senior official.The Indian Army has also matched the PLA’s pumping of troops into the sector by deploying additional specialised forces such as the Special Frontier Force that was raised to counter China after the 1962 war. SFF soldiers had played a lead role in preempting the Chinese PLA, which tried to grab Indian territory five days ago on the southern bank of Pangong Tso. Indian soldiers since then occupy key heights on the southern bank.ALSO WATCH | Explained: India bans PUBG, 117 more Chinese apps amid fresh border tussleThe Indian Army has paid special focus by deploying a combat group (a mix of armoured and mechanised elements) at Depsang Plains to match a PLA mechanised brigade and another combat group at Chumar to signal to PLA that it means business and will not allow an inch of Indian land to be taken.India dominates the Demchok and Chumar area, giving soldiers a clear line of sight to the Lhasa-Kashgar (219) highway, a critical artery for PLA logistics supply. The Indian posture at Chushul clearly indicates that any further PLA perfidy will receive a matching response, a military commander said.While the PLA, under General Secretary Xi Jinping, is blaming the Indian Army domestically for aggravating the border situation, the Chinese are making no effort to sort out the border row diplomatically or militarily by just restoring status quo ante.“It is a dead-end posturing as this will not yield any results for PLA as neither side can deploy troops all along the 3,488 km LAC round the clock throughout the year,” said a senior official.Although the military and diplomatic parleys are on, the Indian Army troopers are leaving nothing to chance and are prepared for the worst case scenario with the decisions taken on the spot not by the headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-border-army-changes-posture-at-lac-after-china-s-failed-midnight-attempt/story-W6DyRGMPa55bZScUO41rDP.html
