05-09-2020||India||Cong asks PM to give details of Rajnath’s Moscow meet||New Delhi: The Congress on Saturday said it was the “rajdharma” (the ruler’s duty) of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh to inform the nation about the outcome of talks with China on the border standoff in Ladakh. “What is the conversation about? What is happening? Will the Prime Minister and the defence minister take the country into confidence?” asked the Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala.The remarks came a day after Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe held an over two-hour-long meeting in Moscow on the border row in eastern Ladakh. Surjewala said it was the “rajdharma” of the Prime Minister and the defence minister to take the nation into confidence on the important issue. He also sought to know the outcome of talks at various levels — from foreign ministers to corps commanders and defence ministers. “What is the outcome of these repeated conversations? How will we ensure that Chinese transgressions are defeated,” Surjewala said in a video posted on his Twitter handle. Referring to foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s remarks that it was an “unprecedented” situation at the India-China border, Surjewala said: “We have never had this sort of a situation since 1962.” He said the people want answers to questions such as how the Chinese will be repulsed to “reclaim our motherland”. Later, addressing a virtual news briefing, Congress leader Rajeev Shukla expressed the hope that the issues between the two countries are resolved through talks. He, however, demanded that the government should give a clear picture of the situation. “Conflicting statements coming from the government are a matter of worry for us,” added Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-asks-pm-to-give-details-of-rajnath-s-moscow-meet/story-QCYO3G5bxFb9cUdLksowPI.html
05-09-2020||India||Kannada film producer, 11 others booked in drugs case||BengaluruThe Bangalore police have registered FIR against 12 people in the drugs haul case, which has put the scanner on several personalities of the Kannda film industry, locally known as Sandalwood.On Friday, the police had arrested Ragini Dwivedi, a noted Kannada actress, in connection with the case.The police have named, Shivaprakash, who reportedly produced some of Dwivedi’s movies, as the main accused in the case. Apart from the producer and Dwivedi, the FIR names Viren Khanna, Prashant Ranka, Vaibhav Jain, Abhiswamy, Aditya Alva, Simon, Prashant Babu, Ashwin, Rahul Tonse, Vinay and a Sengalese national, Loum Pepper. According to officials, the Sengalese national was the main supplier of the drugs.Various sections of the IPC including 120b (criminal conspiracy) and sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act have been invoked in the FIR against the 12. A regional transport office employee, Ravishankar, considered close to Dwivedi, and Rahul Shetty, a real-estate businessman, have not been named in the FIR. Both men are undergoing interrogation, people familiar with the matter said.Meanwhile, Dwivedi’s bail plea is scheduled to be heard on Monday, even as her mother insisted that she is innocent.On Saturday, the Karnataka police continued their sweep against drug peddlers across the state.In the first case, the anti-narcotics branch of Central Crime Branch of Bangalore police arrested three people -- Shejin, Vidhus and Subramani -- for peddling drugs on Saturday. Police also seized 2.1 kilogram of hashish and 2 kilograms of Ganja from the three. Bangalore police commissioner Kamal Pant said that this was one of the “larger seizures particularly of hashish, in the recent past”. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Crime, said that the three used to fill coconut oil boxes with hashish and ship them. In a separate incident, Athani police on Saturday arrested Sagar Kattikar and Gurulinga Dhole and seized 2 kilograms of marijuana. Police have registered a case and investigations are on in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-film-producer-11-others-booked-in-drugs-case/story-ynstMMx18MeImJNq7WJSfM.html
05-09-2020||India||Andhra tops ease of doing business rankings||Andhra Pradesh has bagged the top rank among states for the third consecutive time in the annual ease of doing business ranking of states and Union Territories. The rankings — based on the implementation of the Business Reforms Action Plan 2019 — were announced by the Department of Industrial Promotion and Internal Trade (DPIIT) in a video-conference chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal, too, was present on the occasion. Andhra industries minister Mekapati Gautam Reddy said these rankings were a testimony to the investor-friendly commitment of the state. The exercise was aimed at promoting competition among states with a view to improving the business climate to attract domestic as well as foreign investments.Registering a jump of 10 places in the rankings, Uttar Pradesh occupied the second position in 2019 as against 12th in 2018. Telangana slipped to the third position from second in 2018. It was followed by Madhya Pradesh (4th), Jharkhand (5th), Chhattisgarh (6th), Himachal Pradesh (7th), Rajasthan (8th), West Bengal (9th) and Gujarat (10th). Delhi’s position improved to 12th from 23rd in the last edition, while Gujarat slipped from 5th place in 2018. Among the laggards, Assam stood at 20th, J&K at 21st, Goa at 24th, Bihar at 26th and Kerala 28th place. Tripura was ranked at the bottom 36th.Releasing the report, Sitharaman said states had taken the exercise in its true sense and it would help states and UTs to become better place to do business.“Some states have shown extraordinary energy in putting together action plans and making sure that reforms happen. States have embraced the true spirit behind the State Business Reforms Action Plan,” she said.Goyal said these rankings reflected the efforts that states and UTs were doing to better their systems and processes. It is also a wake-up call for those states which have slipped in the ranking, he said.Goyal said the ministry was working on steps such as creating a single-window system for approvals and clearances.In the 2015 index — when it was first released — Gujarat featured at the top, with Andhra Pradesh grabbing the second position and Telangana 13th. In 2016, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana jointly topped the chart. In the last ranking released in July 2018, Andhra Pradesh topped the chart, followed by Telangana and Haryana (3rd).Haryana slipped to 16th position in the latest ranking.The Business Reform Action Plan 2018-19 includes 181 reform points covering 45 business regulatory areas such as access to information, single window system, labour, and environment.The DPIIT, in collaboration with the World Bank, conducts an annual reform exercise for all States/UTs under the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP).In the World Bank’s latest ‘Doing Business’ report, India has jumped 14 places to the 63rd position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-tops-ease-of-doing-business-rankings/story-iB1nl9JQuVdLPCt2mMafnI.html
05-09-2020||India||Kangana, Sena spar on Twitter||A public spat between actor Kangana Ranaut and the Shiv Sena continued on Saturday with the party’s parliamentarian, Sanjay Raut, telling her to use her own Twitter handle and not make post through the IT cell of a political outfit. This came in the wake of a row triggered by Ranaut’s allegation that Raut issued an “open threat” asking her not to return to Mumbai if she had no faith in the city police. “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan-occupied Kashmir?” she tweeted earlier this week.The Shiv Sena and Congress have alleged that the BJP IT cell was behind Ranaut’s Twitter account. The BJP, however, has distanced itself from the actor’s remarks, saying the party “does not subscribe to anti-Mumbai or anti-Maharashtra sentiments”.Ranaut’s comments sparked a political row with state home minister Anil Deshmukh saying on Friday that “she has no right to stay in Mumbai”. “I don’t want to say anything on the issue,” he said on Saturday. Deshmukh also evaded a question on Raut’s demand that the home ministry should act against Ranaut for casting aspersions over the credibility of Mumbai Police.Meanwhile, Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik said on Saturday that Sena’s women workers will slap Ranaut when she arrives in Mumbai. “This issue concerns the pride of Maharashtra and there will be no compromise on this front. Ranaut needs to apologise for her PoK remarks or else she will face the music from our women’s wing.”The National Commission for Woman (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday demanded Sarnaik’s arrest. “These are highly objectionable statements...will write to the DGP of Maharashtra to take action and arrest this man,” Sharma told ANI.The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, which has threatened to file a case against Ranaut for “anti-national activity”, said on Saturday that the Sena was adopting diversionary tactics to cover its government’s failure to handle Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-sena-spar-on-twitter/story-eDB0h7MQxg11ZaLFpG1t6H.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Ahead of state polls, Nitish busy wooing SC/STs for votes’: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday slammed the Janata Dal (United) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Bihar over what she called enticing the scheduled caste and scheduled tribes (SCs/STs) for their votes just ahead of the assembly polls in Bihar. Mayawati, a four-term Uttar Pradesh chief minister, was reacting to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s move to provide jobs to family members of people from the SC/ST community killed in the state.On Friday, the CM had instructed the chief secretary to frame rules for providing jobs to next of kin of persons from the SC/ST community killed in the state. He also directed officials to dispose of all pending cases registered under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe Act within a time frame.Also read: Jobs to kin of SC/ST killed in Bihar. What about OBCs, asks Tejashwi YadavAdvising people not to get swayed by allurements offered by the Nitish government, Mayawati tweeted that the Bihar government should have learnt from the rule of the BSP government in Uttar Pradesh. “Now, ahead of the Bihar polls the government is trying to woo SC/STs by making tall promises to them though the fact is that throughout their tenure the government didn’t pay attention to SC/STs and remained indifferent to them,” she tweeted. “If the Bihar government was actually so serious about the welfare of this section of society, why did it sleep over their demands and needs?” she stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-state-polls-nitish-busy-wooing-sc-sts-for-votes-mayawati/story-MoE0SxRjFVDPkCtYZRhJVL.html
05-09-2020||India||Bomb hoax stirs panic in Madhya Pradesh’s Chambal town||A bomb hoax created panic in a town in Bhind district of Chambal region in Madhya Pradesh, 502 kilometres north of Bhopal, and kept the police on their toes for several hours on Saturday. According to the police, an object was found on the premises of a private school in Mehgaon town, more than 20 kilometres from the district headquarters, and a letter was placed near it which read, “7 more bombs are placed in seven big schools of the town”. In the letter, the miscreant dared the police to avert the explosions on the school campuses.A heavy police force was called to the town along with bomb disposal squads from Gwalior and Bhind. No bomb or any bomb-like object was recovered after an extensive search by the police. However, schools are not running these days due to Covid-19 situation. Also read: New Telangana secretariat complex to have temple, church and two mosquesSuperintendent of Police Manoj Singh said, “The object found on the school premises was not a bomb. Soil was found wrapped in paper. It was nothing but mischief by someone to create panic in the town. Police will arrest the miscreants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bomb-hoax-stirs-panic-in-madhya-pradesh-s-chambal-town/story-elsrsY1Ly55J0rH2h2DH4L.html
05-09-2020||India||India’s security would be maintained in ‘extended neighbourhood’ as well: Gen Bipin Rawat||In the emerging defence paradigm, India’s security would be maintained not only along the northern and western borders but in the strategic space of the “extended neighbourhood” as well, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said on Saturday. He also said that India values its emerging relationship with the US and cherishes its traditional relationship with Russia, adding the country shares a mature and robust defence and security framework with both these powers. Addressing a symposium on defence exports, Gen Rawat said the armed forces will have to work through the budgetary constraints by finding the best solutions through new acquisitions and optimisation considering the macro-economic parameters. Referring to proposed reforms in the military structure, Gen Rawat said the Chief of Defence Staff and the theatre commanders would “conjointly” provide “unity of command” while the service headquarters and the “component commanders” could provide “unity of effort”. Under a big-ticket reform initiative, India is working on setting up of a number of theatre commands, integrating some of the commands of the three services, to deal with future security challenges facing the country. Each of the theatre commands will have units of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force and all of them will work as a single entity looking after security challenges in a specified geographical territory under an operational commander. The government had appointed Gen Rawat as India’s first Chief of Defence Staff on December 31 last year to bring synergy in the functioning of the three services. Talking about the regional security paradigm, he touched upon key aspects of India’s security doctrine. In this context, he mentioned International Border (IB) and Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan as about Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. “In the emerging security paradigm, India’s security would be maintained not, as hitherto, on the IB, LC or the LAC alone, but in the strategic space of the ‘extended neighbourhood’ and the ‘strategic frontier’,” he said without elaborating further. India has been ramping up defence and security ties with a number of countries in its extended neighbourhood like Indonesia, Singapore and several countries in the Gulf region in the last few years. Delving into the evolving security matrix in the region, the Chief of Defence Staff pitched for seamless integration of surveillance and communication resources of the three services, saying such a convergence is essential for evolving a framework for having a composite real-time air situation “picture”. Gen Rawat said robust interaction between the CDS, COSC (Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee) and political executive (Cabinet Committee on Security) must ensure single-point military advice, strategic direction and resource optimisation. On the modernisation of the Indian armed forces, he said it has been in line with the changing global security environment and with a focus on the utmost optimisation of resources. “We are witnessing seismic changes in geopolitics shaped by a ‘nation first’ approach and geo-economics,” he said, adding the armed forces should be structured in a manner that they provide the operational flexibility to pursue “wider strategic objectives”. The country’s first CDS also said the pursuit of disruptive technologies like artificial intelligence, robotics, big data analytics, drone technology, militarisation of space, quantum communications, along with manipulation of social media is leading to new threats, and further complicating the security environment. He said the asymmetric advantages created by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are being seen as opportunities by non-state actors, adding future defence systems must be qualitatively and quantitatively capable of dealing with the new threats. “In this era of multidimensional technology, we must focus on constant innovations and modern technological solutions, to keep ourselves ahead of the adversaries,” he said. Gen Rawat said the creation of the Department of Military Affairs headed by the CDS, having a central staffing scheme along with amendments to the business rules, in effect, admits the military into the central edifice of the government of India. “This restructuring of the Ministry of Defence gives us the opportunity to embrace forward-looking strategies to seize and exploit the moment and set in motion a dynamic transformation process,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-security-would-be-maintained-in-extended-neighbourhood-as-well-gen-bipin-rawat/story-EqBHzKsoOKoCiuT8x2mClI.html
05-09-2020||India||In absence of rains, Mumbai witnesses hot and sultry weather; pollution levels rise||Over the past two days, Mumbai witnessed hot and sultry conditions in the absence of rain activity. On Saturday, a thin layer of smog across the city skyline indicated a rise in pollution with a sepia-coloured sky during sunset.The city and suburbs witnessed recurrent flashes of lightning and loud claps of thunder between 1.30 am and 3 am on early Saturday morning. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted the possibility of thunderstorms in the evening or late night on Saturday and Sunday.Saturday’s maximum temperature in the suburbs was recorded at 33.6 degrees Celsius, 2.5 degree Celsius above normal. It was 33.8 degrees Celsius on Friday. Humidity levels were 90 percent during the day which dropped to 85 percent by the evening.The air quality index (AQI) for PM2.5 pollutant - particles that can easily enter the lungs and cause ailments - was at 78 (’satisfactory) for the first time this monsoon. AQI levels had been below 50 throughout the Covid-19 lockdown between March 21 to May 31 followed by monsoon onset on June 14. Also read: ‘Courts provide checks and balances, can’t be unelected governments’ - SC JudgeHowever, during the unlock phases there were isolated days when ‘satisfactory AQI’ was recorded. Saturday’s AQI was collated from all 10 locations where the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) monitors air quality.Bandra Kurla Complex was the most polluted location with an AQI of 215, falling under the ‘poor’ category followed by Worli at 149 (moderate). Remaining eight locations in the city either recorded ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’ levels of air quality. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as ‘good’; 51-100 as ‘satisfactory’; 101-200 as ‘moderate’; 201-300 as ‘poor’; 301-400 as ‘very poor’ and above 400 as ‘severe’. An AQI of 73 has been predicted for Sunday.Researchers said a drop in rain activity, increase in vehicular pollution and low wind speed, led to higher pollution level.Meanwhile, rumbling thunder on early Saturday morning sounded almost like mini explosions, citizens said on social media as they were awakened by the weather activity. However, there was hardly any overnight rain. Between 11.30 pm and 8.30 am, the suburbs recorded 6.9 mm rain while 15 mm was recorded in south Mumbai. No rain was recorded on Saturday. “On early Saturday morning, radar images showed very intense echoes over Alibag that slowly moved over Mumbai leading to thunder and lightning with light drizzling but faded soon enough. Similar weather is expected on Saturday and Sunday night or Monday early morning,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.After record-breaking rain in July and August, September began with a break in a rain activity with less than 20 mm rain over the first five days. “Hot and sultry conditions, combined with land heating during the day, is allowing tall cloud formation by the evening or late night. Rain activity is likely to be subdued over the next week for Mumbai,” said Hosalikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-absence-of-rains-mumbai-witnesses-hot-and-sultry-weather-pollution-levels-rise/story-Ay0SrdYbBdiE1x1zC86tRN.html
05-09-2020||India||New Telangana secretariat complex to have temple, church and two mosques||The new secretariat complex to be built by the Telangana government in place of the recently demolished old structures in front of the picturesque Hussainsagar lake in Hyderabad will reflect religious harmony.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday announced that the new secretariat premises will have a temple, a church and two mosques. He said he would lay the foundation stone for these places of worship soon. Rao said the government respects all religions equally and hence it had decided to build places of worship of all faiths at the secretariat. He made the announcement during his interaction with a delegation of Muslim leaders led by All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi. Also read: Chandrababu Naidu escapes unhurt as cars in his convoy collide in TelanganaThe delegation met him to discuss the plans of rebuilding the two masjids that were pulled down along with the other structures during the dismantling of the old secretariat complex in July. The chief minister said two mosques would be constructed in the same places where there were located in the past in the old secretariat premises. Each mosque would be built in an area of 750 square yards (total 1500 square yards) including a quarter for Imam. After the construction, the mosques would be handed over to the State Wakf Board. Similarly, a temple will be constructed in 1500 square yard area and after the construction, it will be handed over to the endowments department. Since there was a demand from the Christian community, the government will construct a church as well.KCR told the delegation that he would lay the foundation stone for all three places of worship on the same day after the completion of the monsoon session of the assembly commencing on September 7. “Construction works will be launched and completed on a fast note mirroring the true ‘Ganga Jamuna Tehjeeb’ of the state,” he said.KCR further said the government had decided to set up an Islamic Centre in Hyderabad with international standards. A piece of land was allocated for the purpose and works on this project would also be put on fast track very soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-telangana-secretariat-complex-to-have-temple-church-and-two-mosques/story-kIqKixSCL6un7Iz56bvVYP.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Courts provide checks and balances, can’t be unelected governments’: SC Judge||The role assigned to the judiciary by the Constitution of India is to provide checks and balances within the system and it cannot perform the role of unelected governments, Supreme Court judge Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said on Saturday underscoring the importance of courts and executive remaining within their spheres of functioning.The judge said that courts today are increasingly being asked to decide on political matters which are brought before it under the guise of public interest litigation and they face a lot of criticism due to the handling of such cases.“But I do believe that we have adopted a constitution where we have an elected government in power. Segregation of powers requires the judiciary to perform its role and executive to perform its role. Courts cannot be unelected governments. They provide check and balance,” justice Kaul, who was delivering the keynote address at a webinar organized by non-governmental organization, CAN Foundation on the topic, ‘Dissents that made a difference: India & Abroad’, said. Courts, he maintained, have their limitations and have not been tasked with the responsibility of running the system.Also read: Chandrababu Naidu escapes unhurt as cars in his convoy collide in Telangana“They (courts’ views) are inherently minoritarianism because the majority view is reflected by the government in power. There are limitations to the judiciary. The judiciary has not been assigned the role of running the system but (a role) to put check and balance on the system,” justice Kaul added.The judge pointed out that there is a “shrill discourse” today surrounding political cases and the courts bear the brunt of the attack.“They (courts) honestly face criticism today on how far it should go. Some say courts go too far while others say it is not going far enough. But I think the separation of powers must be kept in mind on this issue,” he said.Justice Kaul said that the system offers space for dissent – for the political system it is in the Parliament and on the streets, while for judiciary it is through dissenting judgments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-provide-checks-and-balances-can-t-be-unelected-governments-sc-judge/story-oohArHFJ14kqLEXiCCA8oK.html
05-09-2020||India||FIR registered against 12 in drug probe, Ragini Dwivedi’s bail plea on Monday||The Bengaluru police have registered FIRs against 12 people following investigations into the drug racket by some well-known personalities from the Kannada film industry. On Friday, the police had raided the residence and subsequently arrested Ragini Dwivedi a famous Kannada actress.Shivaprakash who is said to have produced a few movies, in which Ragini had acted as the heroine has been named as the A1 (or the lead accused), Viren Khanna who was arrested in Delhi and flown to Bengaluru on Friday night has also been named as one of the 12 accused.The other people named in the FIR registered in Cottonpet police station include, Prashant Ranka, Vaibhav Jain, Aditya Alva, Simon, Prashant Babu, Ashwin, Rahul Tonse, and Vinay apart from a Sengalese national Loum Pepper. The Sengalese national is said to have been the main supplier of drugs.They have been charged under various sections of IPC including 120b (criminal conspiracy) and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances act of 1985 under sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B and section 29.However, interestingly neither Ravishankar a government RTO (regional transport office) employee said to be close to Ragini nor Rahul Shetty a real estate businessmen who have been detained have been named in the FIR. Police sources told HT that interrogation of both of them are “ongoing and there are many layers to this”.The bail plea of Ragini is scheduled for Monday. Her mother has tried in vain to meet her daughter who has been kept at a women’s remand home. She claimed that Ragini was innocent of all charges levelled against her.Meanwhile, in several unrelated incidents Karnataka police continued their sweep across the state against drug peddlers.In the first case, the anti-narcotics branch of Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru , police arrested three people Shejin, Vidhus and Subramani an inter-state gang for peddling drugs on Saturday. Police also seized 2.1 kilogram of hashish and 2 kilograms of Ganja. Announcing this Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said that this was one of the ‘larger seizures particularly of hashish, in the recent past.’ All the three arrested are from Kerala and are said to have been selling drugs across all the Southern states.Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Crime said that the trio would fill coconut oil boxes with hashish and ship them. Vidhus one of the arrested holds a Masters degree in Computer Science from a college in UK, Patil disclosed.In a separate incident, Athani police on Saturday arrested Sagar Kattikar and Gurulinga Dhole both said to be residents of Sangli, Maharashtra and seized 2 kilograms of marijuana. Police have registered a case and investigations are on in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-police-register-fir-against-12-in-drug-probe-ragini-dwivedi-s-bail-plea-on-monday/story-mBERcgjlG4UxyhKbwGeEZI.html
05-09-2020||India||Poacher arrested from south Bengal with 13 kg of deer meat, snare||A 37-year-old man was arrested from a village in South 24 Parganas near the Sunderban forest early on Saturday and police have seized around 13 kilos of deer meat from him. “The man has been identified as Manindranath Das. We have seized around 13 kilograms of deer meat from him along with a 40’ snare,” said VK Yadav, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the Chital was killed somewhere in Ajmalmari, a compartment in the Sunderban. The Sunderban is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and home to the world’s only tiger that lives in mangroves. “Further investigation is on and joint raids are also being conducted with the police to nab the rest of the gang members,” said Yadav. Even though the incident has raised apprehensions of poaching activities in the Sunderbans that has around 100 tigers, this is not the first time that such cases have surfaced. In April 2019, a decomposed tiger was found dead with a snare around its waist in Ajmalmari. A decade ago in 2009, the skeleton of a tiger was recovered from the same area – Ajmalmari. In 2008, a tiger carcass with bullet injuries in its head was found floating in a river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poacher-arrested-from-south-bengal-with-13-kg-of-deer-meat-snare/story-O5cSJt73nmXlgglgOfSUxI.html
05-09-2020||India||Families allege 5 men kidnapped by China’s PLA from Arunachal, probe underway||Arunachal Pradesh police has launched a probe following reports that five people, who had gone hunting in a forest in Upper Subansiri district on the Sino-India border, were allegedly kidnapped by the Chinese military, a senior official said on Saturday.The alleged incident occurred on Friday in Nacho area of the district, their families said.Two others, who were in the group, managed to escape and informed police.“I have sent the officer-in-charge of the Nacho police station to the area to verify the facts and directed him to report immediately. However, the report will be available only by Sunday morning,” Superintendent of Police Taru Gussar said.Those allegedly kidnapped have been identified as Toch Singkam, Prasat Ringling, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngaru Diri. All of them belong to the Tagin community.Their family members living at district headquarters Daporijo said some of their relatives had left for Nacho Saturday morning to discuss the matter with the Indian Army.Nacho is around 120 kilometers from the district headquarters.The families urged the authorities to take steps to bring them back.The Army could not be reached for comments.Pasighat West MLA Ninong Ering said that befitting reply must be given the China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) for the incident.“Five people from Upper Subansiri district of our state Arunachal Pradesh have reportedly been abducted by Chinas Peoples Liberation Army (PLA). Few months earlier, a similar incident happened. A befitting reply must be given to #PLA and #CCPChina. @PMOIndia,” he tweeted.In March, a 21-year-old man was abducted by the PLA from Asapila sector near the McMahon line.While his two friends managed to escape, Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint, his family had said.After 19 days in captivity, the youth was released by the Chinese Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/families-allege-5-men-kidnapped-by-china-s-pla-from-arunachal-probe-underway/story-UuXBSyCs6LMjevUdmh0VaK.html
05-09-2020||India||Near escape for Chandrababu Naidu after cow on road causes cars to collide||Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had a miraculous escape when vehicles in his convoy collided with each other in Telangana’s Yadadri Bhongir district on Saturday evening, the police said. Three National Security Guard (NSG) personnel received minor injuries, while the bullet proof vehicle which they were travelling in was badly damaged. The incident happened at Dandumalkapuram village of Choutuppal block on the Vijayawada-Hyderabad national highway (NH-65) when Naidu was returning to Hyderabad from his Amaravati residence in his convoy of vehicles. According to Choutuppal police inspector Ch Venkanna, Naidu was travelling in a convoy of seven vehicles – three in front and three behind. “The former chief minister was in the fourth vehicle. The driver of the first vehicle applied sudden brakes in a bid to avoid hitting a cow crossing the highway,” he said. As a result, the second car in the convoy collided with the first escort car from behind and the other vehicles in the convoy also were forced to apply sudden brakes. “The third car, which was bullet proof, rammed into the second car and its front portion got mangled,” the inspector said. Naidu, who was in the fourth car in the convoy, escaped unhurt, as his car also came to a sudden halt but did not collide with the vehicle before it. Out of eight vehicles in the convoy of Chandrababu Naidu, three vehicles collided with each other.Though a TDP functionary familiar with the development said three security personnel of the NSG in the second car received minor injuries, the inspector said he had no such information. “They abandoned the damaged vehicle and left for Hyderabad in another car,” he said. The police did not register any case as no complaint was lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-escapes-unhurt-as-cars-in-his-convoy-collide-in-telangana/story-gELLCz187jKt2MyilHmGFL.html
05-09-2020||India||Rebuilding faith for displaced Sikh and Hindu Afghan families||A home is not just a physical place made of bricks and mortar; it is an eco-system cultivated with love. But when the very place that once was a refuge turns hostile, where does one go? The Afghan Sikh and Hindu families found themselves in a similar situation when radicals attacked a gurudwara in Kabul on March 25. In a bid to safely evacuate them and bring them to India, Vikramjit Singh Sahney, international president of World Punjabi Organisation (WPO) sprung into action. He arranged for three chartered flights, and not only helped these families, but also brought back the holy book, Guru Granth Sahib ji from Kabul. The last of these flights arrived in India on September 3.“The first challenge was to evacuate them. There were no flights, so we arranged approvals for chartered flights. We brought back 420 Sikh and Hindu families in three flights. We also brought back Guru Granth Sahib ji with full dignity”, says Sahney, who bore the expenses for these flights. These families were spread in various cities of Afghanistan, including Jalalabad, Kandahar and Ghazni, which further lead to problems. “We had to cancel a flight twice because the people were unable to reach Kabul due to the civil unrest in that country. We chose not to go to the media because we didn’t want anyone to face threats,” he explains.Read: Vande Bharat: 153 stranded Indians depart from Thailand for New Delhi in Air India flightFrom this experience, Sahney says that one thing is very clear: that the people do not want to fight. “Their Muslim neighbours never wanted them to leave. They lived like families and were in tears as they left. They were discouraging them from leaving. There is no animosity among people; only some radical groups create trouble,” he says.With the doors closed on their homes, the only way forward is to help rehabilitate these families in India. “I, along with Dalip Singh Sethi (Los Angeles) and Paramjit Singh Bedi (New York) have launched a programme called My Family My Responsibility, under which all the families are being sponsored by Sikh NRIs, World Punjabi Organisation and Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee under MS Sirsa. Three quarantine centres have been set up for them in Gurudwara Rakab Ganj, Bangla Sahib and Moti Bagh. They will stay there for two months till we can find them furnished accommodation,” he says. Under the progamme, they will help meet their household expenses for two years, including education of children. In addition to his duties at the WPO, Sahney is also the chairman of Sun Foundation, an NGO. “We set up a world class skill centre at Jail Road and will train some of these kids with job-oriented courses like data entry operator, mechanic, freighter, and for girls, fashion designing and embroidery,” says Sahney, with a hope that these families do not meet the fate of other displaced people.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rebuilding-faith-for-displaced-sikh-and-hindu-afghan-families/story-uzWjIzQCg3eMoGu9cwH61N.html
05-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Hyderabad to resume metro services amid strict Covid-19 norms on Monday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With abundant precautions in place, Hyderabad metro to resume service from MondayAfter nearly five-and-a-half months, Hyderabad metro rail services will resume on Monday under stringent guidelines to avoid the spread of Covid-19. Briefing reporters on Saturday, Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director NVS Reddy said on the first two days, the metro trains would be operational in two high-density corridors in two durations – from 7 am to 12 noon and again from 4 pm to 9 pm. Read more9,746 fresh cases push Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally to nearly 390,000Karnataka on Saturday registered 9,746 cases and 128 deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, taking the overall tally to 389,232, the state health department said. The total cases include 283,298 discharges and nearly 6,300 deaths. Read moreTop 10 states and region-wise position holders in ease of doing business ranking 2019Andhra Pradesh retained the top spot in the State Business Reform Action Plan 2019 rankings, while Uttar Pradesh and Telangana bagged the second and third positions respectively. The ranks were announced by the Department of Industrial Promotion and Internal Trade (DPIIT) during a virtual event chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Read moreCovid-19: France expects more severe infections in next two weeksFrance must stay vigilant as more people will be hospitalised in intensive care units in the next two weeks, reflecting a flare-up in Covid-19 infections in recent days, health minister Olivier Veran said on Saturday. Veran however ruled out the need for a new nationwide lockdown, telling BFM television that France had other means to fight the virus, including testing. Read moreIPL 2020 schedule to be announced on September 6, confirms chairman Brijesh PatelThe full schedule for IPL 2020 which is slated to begin from September 19 in UAE will be announced on Sunday, September 6, confirmed Indian Premier League chairman Brijesh Patel. “It (IPL 2020 schedule) will be announced tomorrow,” Brijesh Patel told Hindustan Times over phone. Read moreChaitanya Tamhane brings India back to Venice Film Festival after 19 years with The Disciple, cast and crew take over red carpetFilmmaker Chaitanya Tamhane is making India proud at the Venice Film Festival with his latest film, The Disciple. The film will mark India’s return to the main competition at the festival for the first time in nearly two decades. The festival’s official Twitter page shared pictures of Chaitanya and the rest of the cast and crew as they descended on the red carpet. Read moreThis soulful rendition of Arijit Singh’s Laal Ishq will soothe your soulHave you ever come across such a video which instantly brings a smile on your face? If yes, you know what we’re talking about. In case you are yet to experience that, let this video be your first. It’s a clip which captures a beautiful rendition of the song Laal Ishq from the movie Goliyon Ki Rasleela Ram-Leela sang by Arijit Singh. Read moreTeacher’s Day 2020: The funny side of online classes during pandemic“I gave a half-an-hour trial class to a pre-schooler and she started running all over the place,” says a Gurugram-based teacher, and another teacher adds, “Apne aap ko unmute aur camera off kar lete hain.” Read moreWatch| Chinese army kidnapped 5 youths from Arunachal Pradesh: Congress leader||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-hyderabad-to-resume-metro-services-amid-strict-covid-19-norms-on-monday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CRbCVldj7g8zQfNtqJmBgN.html
05-09-2020||India||Pak violates ceasefire in Kashmir’s Nowgam sector, one soldier killed||An Army soldier was killed and two others got injured during an incident of ceasefire violation in north Kashmir’s Nowgam sector on Saturday.Defence spokesman said that Pakistan initiated an unprovoked Ceasefire Violation (CFV) along the Line of Control in Nowgam sector, Baramulla on the morning September 5 by firing Mortars and other weapons. “Befitting response was given. One soldier laid down his life in the line of duty. Two soldiers sustained injuries and have been evacuated to 92 Base Hospital. Their condition is stable.” The soldier who was killed has been identified as gunner Bhupinder Singh of 17 Brigade.Officials said that Pakistani troopers used light weapons and mortars. The Indian soldiers deployed on the forward posts also responded to the ceasefire violation.Also read: Congress urges PM Modi, Rajnath Singh to take nation into confidence on India-China border rowNowgam sector falls under the jurisdiction of strategic 19 infantry division. This year, Nowgam sector has been very volatile as many ceasefire violations were reported in the sector in the last four-five months. Last month, the army also foiled an infiltration bid in the same sector and killed two militants.Senior army officials blamed Pakistan for frequent ceasefire violations in the sector to facilitate infiltration. Recently army’s top commanders in Kashmir had said that militants are waiting to sneak into Valley from the launching pads, however, the army is alert to face any challenge, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-violates-ceasefire-in-kashmir-s-nowgam-sector-one-soldier-killed/story-5kABLOVZPvtyR7Fc8avF7K.html
05-09-2020||India||Railways to reassess timeline on Bullet Train project, timeframe to emerge after few months||The timeline of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor will need to be reassessed due to Covid 19, but the real timeframe for its completion can be provided only within the next three to six months, railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said on Saturday.Hindustan Times on Friday had reported that the work on land acquisition and tendering for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor may face delays due to Covid-19 and the Bullet Train may fail to meet its 2023 deadline.Yadav said that the bullet train project was “progressing well” but the project can only be assessed over the next few months when the status of land acquisition will be clearer.ALSO READ | Bullet Train project may face delays due to Covid-19“In any linear project like the bullet train project, work can only begin when a certain amount of land is available. Within three months we are expecting to acquire 95-100% land in Gujarat. In Maharashtra also we are expecting that in next three to six months the land acquisition will improve a lot and that is why I am mentioning that once the land acquisition is clear the tenders for the civil work and we will start the physical work. So that will be the appropriate time to reassess project implementation time,” Yadav said at a press conference on Saturday.“As of now I can just mention to you that we are fully geared up, as far as design is concerned, tender documents are concerned everything is fully ready and we will definitely start the work. But yes, as far as timeline is concerned, we have to make reassessment of all these components and work, and that can be done only when there is some sort of the clear picture about the land acquisition. We will come back within a period of three months and then we will share the timeline,” he added.So far 63% land has been acquired for the project, according to the project implementing agency National High-Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL).The project connecting Mumbai and Ahmedabad has a deadline of December 2023. The Railways had said last month that the high-speed rail corridor is expected to be completed on time despite the Covid-19 outbreak.Yadav said that 82% of the land has been acquired in Gujarat while in Maharashtra land acquisition stood at only 23%.The project has had to contend with issues ranging from protests by landowners to rising costs because of a widening gap between the Indian rupee and the Japanese yen; 80 percent of the Rs 1 trillion needed to fund the project will come from a 20-year Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) loan. The estimated total cost of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad project is Rs 1.08 trillion, of which 81 percent cost is planned for funding through the loan from the JICA, officials said.ALSO READ | Land for Bullet train project: Tendering to start within three months, says Railway board chiefThe Centre has signed a loan agreement with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for providing Rs 15,000 crore, of the total loan amount of Rs 88,000 crore.“At this stage its impact is not known in certainty as the pandemic is still continuing,” NHRCL spokesperson said. One section of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor is likely to be tendered out within three months after nearly 90 percent of the land acquisition for the project is completed, according to railway board chairman VK Yadav, Hindustan Times had reported on August 4. Yadav had said there has been a “slowdown” in land acquisition due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-reassess-timeline-on-bullet-train-project-timeframe-to-emerge-after-few-months/story-VaOMGG9lOFHrSyu9fEFJdJ.html
05-09-2020||India||With abundant precautions in place, Hyderabad metro to resume service from Monday||After nearly five-and-a-half months, Hyderabad metro rail services will resume on Monday under stringent guidelines to avoid the spread of Covid-19.Briefing reporters on Saturday, Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director NVS Reddy said on the first two days, the metro trains would be operational in two high-density corridors in two durations – from 7 am to 12 noon and again from 4 pm to 9 pm. From the third day, services would be operational across the three corridors from 7 am to 9 pm. “The frequency of trains will be around 5 minutes and it will be increased or decreased based on passenger traffic and to avoid crowding,” he said.In order to ensure social distancing, suitable markings at stations and inside the trains are being done for passengers to stand and alternate seats will be kept vacant. “Social distancing will be monitored through CCTV cameras,” he said.Also read: Top 10 states and region-wise position holders in ease of doing business ranking 2019Wearing of face mask is mandatory for all passengers and staff and for those who come to the station without masks, the HMRL authorities would supply them on payment basis. “Those who don’t wear a mask during the travel would be penalised as per the rules,” Reddy said.All passengers entering the station would be subject to thermal screening and those who showed higher temperature would be advised to go to nearby Covid Care Centre or hospital for testing and medical attention. Use of Aarogya Setu App would be encouraged but not mandatory, he said.The passengers would have to sanitise their hands before entering the stations which will be disinfected thoroughly in the night hours. All human contact areas like lift buttons, escalator handrails and customer handling points will also be disinfected every four hours.All the employees and security personnel would be provided with PPE kits and sanitizers as they are likely to be in proximate contact with commuters and for a longer duration. “Considering the potential of coronavirus to spread quickly, security personnel and private guards have been instructed to ensure adequate safety while frisking commuters without diluting security drills,” the official said.The HMRL has done away with the sale of tokens to the passengers for travel. Instead, only Smart Card and Mobile QR ticket with cashless and online transactions would be allowed. Intake of fresh air in the air-conditioning system will be increased to about 75 percent. Temperature inside the train would be maintained in the range of 24-30 degree Celsius depending on local climatic conditions. “Train doors shall remain open at terminal stations to let fresh air in,” Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-abundant-precautions-in-place-hyderabad-metro-to-resume-from-monday/story-vn4zRz4Y4lg4QqCVkcYXNO.html
05-09-2020||India||Sushant’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant arrested by NCB||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested Sushant Singh Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant in connection with the drugs probe being linked to the late actor’s death.“NCB has arrested Dipesh Sawant, the house helper of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, in connection with the late actor’s death case,” said KPS Malhotra, Deputy Director, NCB. “The arrest has been made based statements and digital evidence against Sawant for his role in procuring and handling drugs. He will be produced before court tomorrow at 11 am. Cross-examination of arrested people underway,” Malhotra added.Main accused Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and Rajput’s hourse manager Samuel Miranda were arrested by the NCB under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Friday and remanded to NCB custody till September 9. Showik will be confronted with his sister who will be summoned for questioning on September 6.The NCB launched an investigation after it received communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-domestic-help-dipesh-sawant-arrested-by-ncb/story-kgqijwN6jutJrRz57rlBwO.html
05-09-2020||India||Railways to run 80 special trains from Sept 12, will add more where occupancy is high||The Indian Railways will deploy 80 special trains from September 12, in a bid to cater to demand which will be in addition to the 230 special trains that are currently operating, the railway ministry announced on Saturday.The reservation for the special trains will begin from September 10, the ministry said. The government will also deploy ‘clone trains’ on routes where the occupancy is more depending on the waitlist for the trains.“We will notify 80 new special trains or 40 pairs of trains that will start operations from September 12. The reservations will begin from September 10. This will run in addition to the 230 trains already in operation,” Railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said.“Wherever there is demand for a particular train, wherever the waiting list is long, we will run a clone train ahead of the actual train, so that passengers can travel,” he added.Yadav said the stoppages of the clone trains will be less than the special trains. “The idea is to have stoppages at major stations for clone trains to meet demands of people,” he said.In July, the overall occupancy of the special trains stood at 75%. According to railway ministry data, only a fourth of these trains had an occupancy rate of 100%. Yadav said the occupancy of the trains has gone up to 80-85% now and about a dozen trains are low occupancy now.Yadav said that the key factors in deciding the 80 new trains was the fact that there were many stations from where the migrant workers are going back to their workplaces from their hometowns. Railways is also coordinating with the state governments while deciding on the introduction of new trains, he added.“Many of these trains are running in reverse direction of the Shramik Special trains. So, they are leaving their homes and going towards their workplaces. The occupancy of 12 trains is very less among the 230 trains, so we are running them, but will reduce the number of coaches. We are monitoring the occupancy of trains and will run more trains as per demand,” Yadav said.He also said that the Railways will run trains whenever there is demand from states for exams. The railway ministry had said it will run special trains across states for students appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEE) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) . The National Testing Agency (NTA) is conducting the NEET on September 13 and JEE from September 1 to September 6.The announcement comes in the backdrop of the Unlock 4 plan announced by the Centre on August 29. While issuing “Unlock 4” guidelines, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said the latest plan was aimed at reopening more economic activities outside containment zones and that it was issued after receiving feedback from states and Union Territories, and extensive consultations with the central ministries and departments.Under the plan, metro services across India, except in Maharashtra, will resume in phases from September 7, with all becoming operational by September 12, according to the ministry for housing and urban affairs -- a move that will significantly increase public transport capacity across India, and especially Delhi, but also one that comes against the backdrop of a surge in cases in the country.The Railways have currently suspended all regular passenger trains indefinitely. Regular trains have remained suspended since March 22. Earlier in June the ministry had said passenger trains, including express and suburban services that were earlier suspended till June 30, will not operate till August 12. The 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country, which began on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains, which began on June 1, will continue to function.On August 11 the ministry had clarified that all regular trains will continue to remain suspended but additional special trains will be operated based on the requirement.“This is to bring to the notice of all concerned that, as decided and informed earlier on as well, regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended till further notice. It may be noted that 230 Special Trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate…The occupancy of special trains is being monitored on a regular basis. Additional special trains may be run based on the requirement. However, all other regular trains and suburban trains run before lockdown, will remain suspended for the time being,” the ministry had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-run-80-special-trains-from-september-12-will-add-more-where-occupancy-is-high/story-xAkZWIx2sG0gKMgX8TxBGM.html
05-09-2020||India||Give credit to central schemes instead of hijacking them: JP Nadda tells Naveen Patnaik||BJP President JP Nadda on Saturday said Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik should be “large-hearted” to give credit to the Centre for its welfare schemes, which were being “hijacked” by the BJD government in the state.Nadda said he has received reports of the state government inserting its logo on central schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.“Naveen Babu... ‘chhota dil chod dijiye, bada dil rakhiye’ (shun meanness and be large hearted),” he said, urging the ruling BJD to acknowledge welfare programmes of the central government in the state.Also read: Congress urges PM Modi, Rajnath Singh to take nation into confidence on India-China border rowThe BJP chief also came down heavily on the Odisha government for not adopting the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, which he said would benefit around 2.40 crore poor people of the state.Those people could not avail the Rs 5-lakh medical coverage because of the BJD government’s refusal to adopt the scheme, he said.“It has been two years since the Ayushman Bharat Yojana was introduced, but it has not been implemented in Odisha. Naveen Babu, please do not become a hurdle for the poor, who face difficulties in getting proper healthcare services,” Nadda said, addressing the party’s state executive meeting through video conference.“The state government is there to look after your (Patnaik’s) health issues. But, what about the poor and needy who suffer from different deadly diseases like cancer? I appeal to you to adopt the Ayushman Bharat scheme,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed towards the development of Odisha and has sanctioned several projects for the state and its people, the BJP president said.Also read: Govt took care of economy, turned tragedy into opportunity: JP Nadda“I am informed that the state government is taking credit for central schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) by putting its logo on the housing projects. This is not fair to deny credit to the Centre, which funds such schemes,” Nadda said.He further said there were reports of corruption in the implementation of the PMAY in the state, reiterating that politics should not come in the way of Implementing programmes meant for the poor.“We have been in politics for decades, but never seen such kind of central funding to states to the tune of thousands of crores. The states should also give credit to the Centre for that,” he said.Nadda said the people of Odisha have recognised BJP’s contributions and that is why it emerged as the state’s main opposition party.“We got 38 per cent votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, much higher than 21 per cent votes in the 2014 polls.“Similarly, the party also bagged 32 per cent votes in the 2019 assembly elections as against 18 per cent five years ago,” he said, appealing to BJP workers to ensure that it gets over 50 per cent votes in the next Lok Sabha and assembly elections.Nadda also asked BJP state president Samir Mohanty to prepare a plan for the ensuing urban polls in the state.“Days are not far when we will form the government in Odisha. We take a vow to achieve this,” the BJP chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-credit-to-central-schemes-instead-of-hijacking-them-nadda-tells-patnaik/story-LfhFrAi16kaUuYz8lPFNwO.html
05-09-2020||India||Congress urges PM Modi, Rajnath Singh to take nation into confidence on India-China border row||The Congress on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to take the nation into confidence on talks with China on the border row in Ladakh, saying people want to know about the outcomes of the repeated conversations with the Chinese side. The Opposition party’s demand comes a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe held an over two-hour-long meeting in Moscow with a focus on easing escalating border tension in eastern Ladakh. Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said it was “Rajdharma” of the prime minister and the defence minister to take the nation into confidence on the important issue. Listing the various levels of talks held with the Chinese from the foreign ministers level and corps commanders level to the defence ministers’ discussions, Surjewala asked what is the outcome of these talks. “What is the conversation about, what is happening. Will Prime Minister Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh take the country into confidence?” he asked. Surjewala also referred to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s remarks that it was an “unprecedented” situation at the India-China border and “we’ve never had this sort of a situation since 1962”, to underline the seriousness of the issue. “The important part is what is the outcome of the repeated conversations with the Chinese counterparts by our government.... How will we ensure that Chinese transgressions are defeated,” Surjewala said in a video posted on his Twitter account. He said people want answers to questions such as how the Chinese will be repulsed to “reclaim our motherland”. “We hope Prime Minister Modi and the defence minister will come forward and take the nation into confidence. That is the true Rajdharma. We will await an answer,” he said. Later, at an online briefing, Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said, “We hope that the issue can be resolved through talks.” He, however, demanded that the government should give a clear picture of the situation. “Conflicting statements coming from the government is a matter of worry for us,” he added. The tension between the two sides had escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-urges-pm-defence-minister-to-take-nation-into-confidence-on-india-china-border-row/story-HXUwlbrzyxnjH0iqJ6muvK.html
05-09-2020||India||President Kovind confers National Award to 47 educators in virtual ceremony||A teacher from Odisha who worked on developing technologies for visually impaired children, another who used theatrical concepts to inculcate the love of learning among tribal children in Uttarakhand and a third who works on ways to encourage gender parity were among 47 educators who were conferred with the National Award by President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday.This was the first time that the awards were given in a virtual ceremony.In his speech, Kovind observed that about 40 percent of the winners were women and appreciated the role women have played as educators. Paying tributes to Dr. S Radhakrishnan, President Kovind said that he was a visionary, statesman and most significantly an extraordinary teacher. Celebrating his birthday as Teachers’ Day is a mere token for the services he had rendered.Emphasizing on the importance of digital technology in the challenging times of the Covid-19 pandemic, President Kovind said that our teachers are taking the help of technology to reach out to children. Pointing out the digital divide, he also emphasized that steps should be taken so that children from tribal and far-flung areas are also benefitted. Talking about the National Education Policy, President Kovind opined that it is now the teachers who would be at the center-stage for making the policy successful and productive.Union Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said the main responsibility of a teacher is to be aware of the changing social needs and individual needs of the learners and also to take into account the past experiences, educational priorities and national development goals in the teaching-learning process.Among the teachers who have won the awards were Tapas Kumar Mohanty, Teacher, Bhima Bhoi School for the Blind in Khorda, Odisha. Mohanty has brought out many publications dealing with teaching practices for the visually challenged as well as many audio books for them to keep up with learning needs at higher education levels.Sudha Painuli, as a Vice Principal in an Eklavaya Model Residential School near Dehradun created programmes in order to inculcate the love of learning amongst tribal children through innovative concepts like theatre education, youth parliaments and ecological projects.Snehil Pandey, as a Head Teacher of a government Primary School has transformed her school with innovative and joyful learning activities, emphasis on gender parity, the use of ICT for learning support and regular early grade reading practices.Jyoti Arora of Delhi’s Mount Abu Public School was also among the awardees. Surender Singh of MCP School in Adarsh Nagar in Delhi also won the award. Singh has shown himself to be a dedicated and motivated teacher who has worked very hard for the improvement and performance of his school. The school caters to some of the most deprived sections of the society and he has worked hard to make the school attractive and effective, the citation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-confers-national-award-to-47-educators-in-virtual-ceremony/story-Nw57mMYusHsTtXTB3GX9ZM.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Ram mandir construction to begin after Sept 17’: Temple trust general secy||Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai has said that the construction of the Ram mandir at Ayodhya would begin after September 17 after the fortnight-long ‘pitru paksha’ ends. Pitru Paksh refers to the period when Hindus express gratitude to their ancestors. Rai said country’s leading construction company Larsen and Toubro is all set to lay the foundation of the grand temple, which would come up in 12,879 sq metre area on Ram Janmabhoomi campus. The company is carrying out construction without charging any fee. Around 1,200 pillars will be laid around 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. These pillars will be of stone and no iron will be used. Again on these pillars, another layer of foundation will be laid. The construction company has sourced machines from Mumbai and is in the process of sourcing machines from Hyderabad. To start with, the Trust is expected to engage around 100 labourers to lay the foundation of the temple.Also read: 80 new special trains to start from Sept 12 - Here is the full list In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, these labourers will be tested for the virus and thermal-scanned before allowing entry into the Ram Janmabhoomi campus. Earlier this week, the Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) approved two layouts - one of Ram mandir and another of the entire Ram Janmabhoomi campus. The ADA also handed over the layouts to the Trust on September 4 after it deposited requisite fee of Rs 2.11 crore in the development authority’s bank account. The proposed Ram mandir will be 360 feet long, 235 feet wide and 161 feet high and will have five domes.According to the Trust, the temple’s foundation will be laid by using modern techniques so that it could be preserved for over 1,500 years and its structure for 1,000 years.Experts from the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee and IIT Madras have been roped in to make the temple’s foundation strong so that it can withstand earthquakes and storms. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of Ram mandir ending decades-old Ayodhya title dispute. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the temple during the groundbreaking bhoomi pujan of the mandir in Ayodhya last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-mandir-construction-to-begin-after-sept-17-temple-trust-s-general-secretary/story-nHizXn7331oSV0HPgFQzTL.html
05-09-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh tops ease of doing business rankings, Telangana on 3rd spot||Andhra Pradesh has bagged the first rank among all the states in the country in the state business reforms action plan-2019 (BRAP-2019), representing ease of doing business for Atmanirbhar Bharat.The ranks were announced by the Department of Industrial Promotion and Internal Trade (DPIIT) during a virtual event chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in the presence of Union minister of commerce Piyush Goyal and all state industries ministers on Saturday.While Uttar Pradesh stood in the second position, Telangana bagged the third spot in the overall ranking of the state business process reforms undertaken during 2019.Andhra Pradesh minister for industries Mekapati Gautam Reddy said these rankings represent the ease of doing business in the state with increased transparency, efficiency and effectiveness of the government regulatory functions vis-a-vis the business enterprises. He said these rankings, which were done through a survey of the investor community during January and February 2020, truly stand testimony to the investor-friendly commitment of the state and a transparent governance in place.Highlighting the efforts taken by the state government in ensuring true business reforms, Reddy said the state government had initiated steps for starting an enterprise with low-cost and quick single desk approvals. He said Andhra Pradesh was the first state to have come up with the “ReSTART” package in post-Covid scenario for business continuity of micro-small-and-medium enterprises (MSMEs).Andhra Pradesh has undertaken several reforms in the last year, ranging from the development of online systems, enhancing transparency to regulating inspections covering the entire lifecycle of the business. “The Business Reform Action Plan 2019 released by the Centre contains a list of 80 reforms (187 reform action points) to be implemented by 19 State departments. Andhra Pradesh has achieved 100 percent compliance to the 187 reform action points by DPIIT-World Bank as a part of BRAP 2019,” the minister pointed out.Some of the reforms for facilitating setting up of industries included exemption of all shops and establishments from renewal under AP Shops & Establishments Act, 1988, the introduction of single Integrated returns under all labour laws; the amendment to Single Desk Policy, 2015 to include new features and services and setting up of special court in Vijayawada with a jurisdiction to exclusively deal with commercial disputes in addition to the special court in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-tops-the-list-of-states-in-business-reforms-action-plan-brap-telangana-on-third-spot/story-nL6ylra8zdITH007ZrsJBJ.html
05-09-2020||India||80 new special trains to start from Sept 12: Here is the full list||Amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak in the country, Indian Railways on Saturday said that 80 more special trains will start from September 12 adding that reservations for the same will begin from September 10. Railway board chairman VK Yadav said these 80 trains will run in addition to the 230 trains already in operation. He also said that trains will operate whenever there is a demand from states for examinations or similar purposes. Also read: Railways to start 80 more special trains from Sept 12, reservations from Sept 10Here is a list of the special trains that will begin operations on September 12 and reservations for these will start from September 10:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-new-special-trains-to-start-from-sept-12-here-is-the-full-list/story-qtrsdKoKggUDpfQUpSjyDJ.html
05-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: P Chidambaram seeks explanation from PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.‘PM must explain’: Chidambaram targets govt on Covid-19, economy“I had predicted that total number of infections will reach 55 lakh by September 30. I am wrong. India will reach that number by September 20. By end September, the number may touch 65 lakh,” Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. Read more‘Situation under control in Delhi, spike in Covid-19 cases due to increased testing’: CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Covid-19 situation in the national capital is “totally under control” despite the recent spike in daily cases, and urged people not to hesitate to go out and get tested. Read moreMust continue talks to ensure full restoration of peace: Rajnath Singh to Chinese defence ministerDefence minister Rajnath Singh held “frank and in-depth” discussions with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe on Friday over the border stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh as well as on India-China relations. Read hereJacob Blake pleads not guilty to charges prior to Kenosha shootingJacob Blake, the 29-year-old Black man whose shooting by a white police officer in Kenosha, Wisconsin, reignited nationwide protests over racism and police brutality, pleaded not guilty on Friday to criminal charges filed prior to the shooting. Read more‘Every woman who is with relatively more successful man isn’t a gold digger’: Taapsee PannuActor Taapsee Pannu is calling out the treatment meted out to actor Rhea Chakraborty online. Rhea was the girlfriend of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and is accused of abetment to suicide by his family. Read moreThese are the top ten selling cars in AugustMaruti’s dominance in the top selling cars in India is a no-brainer. As many as seven of them are expectedly on the list, including some of the models which have been ruling the segment for years. Read moreHow an animator created creepy yet fascinating video of himself sitting inside his eyeballKevin Parry shared a video which shows himself sitting inside his own eyeball, and it’s absolutely intriguing to watch. However, it’s not just that video which has now enthralled people. Read moreMan, his car swept away by flash flood in UP’s MathuraA man and his car were swept away by flash flood in Uttar Pradesh. The scary incident took place in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura. According to locals, the man is a police inspector and had come to drop a girl. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-p-chidambaram-seeks-explanation-from-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-pavRTSqTkd1Upph0IlcUEK.html
05-09-2020||India||Railways to start 80 more special trains from Sept 12, reservations from Sept 10||Railway Board chairman VK Yadav on Saturday said 80 new special trains will start from September 12 and reservations for the same will begin from September 10 adding that trains will be notified later in the day. “Eighty new special trains or 40 pair of trains will start operations from September 12. Reservations will begin from September 10. This will run in addition to the 230 trains already in operation,” Yadav said.The chairman of the railway board pointed out that all trains that are currently in operation will be monitored in order to determine which trains have a long waiting list. Railways will run trains whenever there is demand from states for exams or other similar purposes, Yadav added. Also read: 80 new special trains to start from Sept 12: Here is the full listEarlier, the Indian Railways said it will run special trains across states for students appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEE) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) . The National Testing Agency (NTA) is conducting the NEET on September 13 and JEE from September 1 to September 6. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-start-80-more-special-trains-from-sept-12-reservations-to-begin-from-sept-10/story-4QjpbrDZjhCBUARtUErLQP.html
05-09-2020||India||PLA faces off Indian Army at two points in Chushul, China talks peace||The tough meeting between Indian and Chinese defence ministers in Moscow on Friday evening converged on both sides willing to explore the peace option albeit the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has beefed up its positions south of Pangong Tso with its troops facing the Indian Army at two points.According to diplomats based both in New Delhi and Moscow, Indian defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe both held their positions while indicating that both countries were willing to give peace a chance in Ladakh. Singh is en-route to Delhi via Tehran.Also Watch | Amid tiff with China, Rajnath Singh heads to Russia for SCO meet: Key details Also read: Rajnath meets Chinese counterpart amid border tensions. Here’s what they saidWhile General Wei wrote down all the points raised by Singh during the two and a half-hour meeting, he claimed that the Indian media was very negative and also said that just like India was not of 1962, the PLA had also moved way ahead of skirmishes with Indian Army in 1962. Minister Singh expressed his helplessness in controlling the Indian media saying that India was a democratic country and the media was totally free.Although both sides refused to give in an inch of land in Ladakh or occupied Aksai Chin, there were indications and hints towards both the armies returning to the previous positions. Perhaps the difference was that the Chinese wanted the previous positions of May, while India was clear that PLA goes back to the positions it occupied in April this year.Also read: At SCO meet, Rajnath Singh tells China to restore status quo at LACHowever, even as the two senior leaders discussed the issue, the PLA continued to be aggressive mode south of Pangong Tso as it faces Indian Army troopers at the bump feature and at Rechin La in the Chushul Valley. According to senior officials, around 150 PLA troops are deployed at the bump feature with an anti-aircraft gun being moved up the Black Top by the Chinese army on its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Indian and Chinese troops are face to face at Rechin la with the PLA moving in armour early this week to cow down Indian troopers. The Chinese PLA Air Force is continuing with combat air patrols in the area and the troop build-up continues not only in Ladakh but there are signs of force accretion on the Chinese border with Bhutan.With India matching the PLA in not only troop build-up but also heavy artillery, the road to disengagement and de-escalation is long and tenuous. Now that the two defence ministers have had candid conversations, the stage is set for external affairs minister S Jaishankar to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the SCO sidelines on September 10 to give a further push to peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-defence-ministers-agree-to-give-peace-a-chance-but-pla-build-up-in-ladakh-continues/story-RqzQnnklnhPHdUyjJQKq5J.html
05-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand excludes Vigilance Dept from RTI purview, Opposition and experts call move regressive||The BJP-led Uttarakhand government has decided to exclude the state vigilance department from the purview of Right To Information (RTI) Act in its Cabinet meeting held on Friday. The move has drawn sharp criticism from Opposition Congress and experts who have termed the move “regressive and an attempt to hide corruption”.The decision was taken in the Cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.Also read: Uttarakhand BJP MLA writes to JP Nadda, expresses anguish over lack of development works in his areaTalking about the decision, minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “The government has decided to exclude the state vigilance department from RTI’s purview because there is confidential information with it which should not be revealed to the public.”He, however, added, “Under the move, information will be shared regarding corruption in the department but if anyone seeks information about any probe, trapping of accused or filing of charge sheet in any case by the vigilance department, that it won’t be shared.”The Vigilance Bureau investigates cases related to corruption against public servants and the Cabinet decision has blocked seeking of any information from the commission. The RTI laws clearly state that information related to cases of corruption has to be shared in the larger public interest.The Opposition Congress and RTI experts have criticised the decision. Haldwani-based RTI activist Hemant Gauniya, who has been actively filing RTI applications to seek information from various government departments to expose corruption, termed the move as an attempt to ‘cover-up corruption.’He said, “Every department should be covered under the RTI which is a law enacted by the government itself to provide information to public. Then why is the state government excluding vigilance department from its purview? The public should know everything about how the government is functioning.”“The move will surely decrease the importance of RTI Act and stop exposure of corruption in the government departments which should not happen,” said Gauniya. Legal experts have called the decision ‘regressive’. Kartikeya Gupta, senior advocate in Uttarakhand high court, Nainital said, “There is a democracy in the country where nothing should be hidden from the public.”“This is not the British era where information will not be shared with the public citing the Official Secrets Act enacted in 1923. The RTI Act aims to bring more transparency in the governance and reduce corruption. But this move seems to be regressive on the government’s part which is condemnable,” said Gupta. The Congress termed the move as contrary to the government’s claim of zero tolerance to corruption. “On the one hand, CM Rawat and his government claims that they have zero-tolerance towards corruption and on the other, they are excluding vigilance department from RTI’s ambit. This just proves the difference between its words and actions,” said Pritam Singh, Congress state president. Singh said, “RTI was a weapon given to the people to make governance more transparent and corruption free, but the government seems to weaken it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-excludes-vigilance-dept-from-rti-purview-opposition-and-experts-call-move-regressive/story-Ng7ckAaQ1Nhbzr7Ngty9PO.html
05-09-2020||India||Congress MP Remya Haridas heckled, two held in Kerala||Congress member of parliament (MP) from Kerala Remya Haridas was allegedly waylaid and verbally abused by a group of workers belonging to the CPI(M) youth wing, Students Federation of India (SFI), on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. The police have arrested two SFI workers in the matter.The state has been witnessing a series of attacks against Congress offices in the wake of the murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India activists. While the ruling CPI(M) alleges they were killed by Congress workers, the latter said both lost their lives in a gang rivalry.In her complaint, the young MP said her vehicle was forcibly stopped and she was showered with verbal abuses by a group of people. She said they forcibly tied a black flag on her vehicle and threatened to eliminate her. She was on way to Kottayam from the state capital.Also read: ‘PM must explain’ - Chidambaram targets govt on Covid-19, economy“Angry protestors did not consider I am a woman. They showered choicest abuses at me and tried to damage my vehicle. I was literally in tears,” she said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has condemned the attack on Haridas.Tension is brewing in many parts of the state since the murder of two DFYI activists, Midhilaj (30) and Mohammad Haq (28), on last Sunday. While the Congress disowned the murder saying it was part of a gang rivalry between two groups the ruling CPI(M) insisted that it was a political murder. The Congress party later released the CCTV visuals which showed the deceased also carried lethal weapons and resisted the attack which continued for 15 minutes. State Congress president Mullappally Ramachandran said more than 140 party offices were vandalised since Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-remya-haridas-heckled-two-held-in-kerala/story-lmarlj3X9uDPBfmKPUhfEN.html
05-09-2020||India||Shiv Sena continues tirade against Kangana Ranaut; party MLA Pratap Sarnaik says willing to go to jail||The public spat between actor Kangana Ranaut and Shiv Sena continued on Saturday with Sena leader Sanjay Raut advising her to use her own social media handle and not run it through the IT cell of a political party. Raut said, “One needs to use their Twitter handle themselves instead of allowing the IT cell of a political party to do so.” The Shiv Sena and Congress have been alleging that BJP IT cell is behind Ranaut’s tweets.Also read: BJP under attack over Kangana comparing Mumbai to PoKMeanwhile, Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik stuck to his stance that his party’s women workers will slap Ranaut when she arrives in Mumbai and he was willing to go to jail for that.National Commission for Woman (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday had demanded Sarnaik’s arrest for threatening Ranaut.The legislator said that Ranaut had insulted Maharashtra with her PoK remarks. “This issue concerns the pride of Maharashtra and there will be no compromise on this front. Ranaut needs to apologise for her PoK remarks or she will face the music from our women’s wing,” he said.On Saturday, Sena workers held demonstrations across the state and key leaders continued their tirade against Ranaut.The issue had started on Thursday when Ranaut tweeted “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffiti in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?”This was in reaction to Raut’s article in Saamna, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, where he asked Ranaut not to return as she criticised the Mumbai Police.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has called the whole controversy diversionary tactics adopted by the Shiv Sena to cover up its government’s failure to handle the Covid-19 pandemic. “She (Kangana) is just hungry for publicity and I cannot understand why the Sena gives so much importance to her. This seems to us a tactic to divert attention from its mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-continues-tirade-against-kangana-ranaut-party-mla-pratap-sarnaik-says-willing-to-go-to-jail/story-R88CwhNsfg4kKYIHJ3zd3J.html
05-09-2020||India||4 held for two murders aimed at stirring communal tensions in MP||Madhya Pradesh police has arrested four people in connection with two murders—committed in the last three months with an aim to stir up communal tensions in Khandwa district-- following the death of a Hindu group leader in a clash between two communities in May earlier this year, the police said on Friday.Police in Khandwa, 271 km south west of Bhopal, arrested four persons on Thursday in connection with the two separate murders committed in July and August with a common link --- murder of a Hindu group leader Rajesh Phoolmali.“Murder of Phoolmali in May led to the murder of Abdul Hafeez as revenge in July, whose murder led to the killing of Dhanraj Kanade in August,” said Khandwa superintendent of police Vivek Singh.Both Hafeez and Kanade were innocent, with no link to Phoolmali’s murder, he said.It all started with a clash between two religious communities on May 18 which resulted in the death of Rajesh Phoolmali, a former member of a Hindu group. He died in a hospital on May 31. The clash took place following a social media post hurting religious sentiments of one community.The police arrested 24 persons in connection with the clash and murder, according to town inspector of Kotwali police station, Khandwa, Neeraj Mandloi. On July 20, the police found the body of Abdul Hafeez, 48, a truck driver, with stab and gun-shot wounds near a railway line. Singh said six persons, including Nikhil Deware and Amit Jain, were arrested on September 3 for murdering Hafeez with the motive to take revenge for Phoolmali’s killing.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh HC grants 2-month bail to rape accused to marry survivorOn August 10, Dhanraj Kanade, 20, a resident of Chhota Aanwaar Padmkund ward in Khandwa city, was found with stab wounds. He died during treatment at Khandwa hospital.Police said that it arrested Sohel alias Sonu and main accused Feroz, both residents of Khandwa city, on August 11 and 13 with the help of CCTV footage.During interrogation, they said they killed Kanade to avenge Hafeez’s murder.Also Read: Farmer commits suicide in Bundelkhand region“As Feroz and Sohel believed that the members of Mahadevgarh Sangthan were behind the murder, they planned to kill a member of the said organisation. Kanade, a vegetable vendor, who was wearing a T-shirt that had ‘Mahadevgarh’ written over it, was stabbed near a car showroom on Pandhana road. Kanade was not a member of the organisation,” the statement said. Police said the murders of Hafeez and Kanade were committed with the sole motive of disturbing communal harmony in Khandwa district and both the victims were innocent persons from the weaker section of the society and had nothing to do with any of the earlier incidents.Singh said that despite the murders, people of the area have remained calm and maintained communal harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-held-for-two-murders-aimed-at-stirring-communal-tensions-in-mp/story-5KzTsIUML6MzMdfShIOlIO.html
05-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Showik, Samuel Miranda sent to NCB custody till September 9||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is looking into the allegations of drug use by the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his actor-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, produced Rhea’s brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and Kaizan Ebrahim before a magistrate court on Saturday. Also read: CBI officials visit Rajput’s Bandra house with his sister Meetu and staff membersNCB was granted Showik and Miranda’s custody till September 9, while Kaizan was send to judicial custody till September 19. Showik and Miranda were arrested under sections 8 (c), 20 (b) (ii), 27A, 28 and 29 of the NDPS Act. In its remand application, NCB has not mentioned drug seizure or any other material evidence, in the searches conducted, either from Showik or Miranda. In its remand application, NCB said that Showik had to be confronted “with other accused who are in its custody to uncover the linkages of network which indulged in selling and purchasing drugs”. The agency also claimed that it needed Showik’s custody to confront him with his sister Rhea and Rajput’s manager Dipesh Sawant. The agency also claimed that it had to verify the financial trail of all transactions. According to NCB, there are other ‘characters’ who are absconding and were, as per call data record analysis, part of the drug syndicate. Showik and Miranda were arrested after NCB arrested two Bandra residents, Abdel Basit Parihar, 23, and Kaizan Ebrahim, on Friday on charges of peddling drugs. The other three arrested for drug peddling are Zaid Vilatra, 20 (arrested on Thursday), Abbas Lakhani, and Karan Arora (arrested on August 27-28). Lakhani and Arora were arrested based on a specific input in another case and curated marijuana was seized from their possession. Their questioning led NCB to Vilatra, who told officials that he ran an eatery in Bandra (West), but was suffering losses owing to the lockdown and so started to peddle drugs. Vilatra claimed he was in touch with Ebrahim and Parihar. Parihar reportedly told NCB that he used to procure drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim on the instructions of Chakraborty’s brother Showik who asked him to give it to Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda. Showik’s chats on a messaging application showed that on March 17, he shared Vilatra’s contact number with Miranda and asked to pay him ₹10,000 for 5gm. Miranda and Vilatra were tracked to the same location on March 17, said NCB officials. A senior IPS officer from NCB said, “We conducted searches at Miranda’s and Showik’s homes and collected some evidence. The investigation is at a preliminary stage and details of the evidence gathered can’t be revealed at the moment.” NCB officials said they have recovered Indian currency worth ₹955,750 and foreign currency – US$ 2081, 180 British Pound, 15 Dirham – from Vilatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-showik-samuel-miranda-sent-to-ncb-custody-till-september-9/story-9ma6fVFyFiiK91F8u16PtM.html
05-09-2020||India||With Bollywood dreams put on hold, UP artistes stare at uncertainty||Monika Shilpkar, a 24-year-old TV actor, returned home in Lucknow for Holi in March thinking she would be back in Mumbai later than month. But six months on, she is still in Lucknow even as shooting for serials has restarted after it was halted in March as part of measures to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a limited number of artistes and technical staff have been allowed to resume shooting, Shilpkar is unsure whether she would get enough work to sustain herself as many artistes are finding it hard to make ends meet in Mumbai.Also read: TV shoots resume post Covid shutdown“Actors go to Mumbai with dreams to make it big. They mostly depend on the money they get from assignments on a daily basis. But with no shooting these days, they are finding it difficult to survive. That is why most of the artistes have returned [to their homes]. Some serials have begun to be shot again, but [with] a limited number of artistes and technical staff,” said Shilpkar, who has worked in Ram Siya Ke Luv Kush serial. “My father has been diagnosed with cancer. In Mumbai, my rent deposit with the landlord has exhausted. I do not know what to do.”Shilpkar is not alone. Amit Sinha, 38, who has worked in Mumbai for 15 years, said even he found it difficult to survive there and now is back in Lucknow despite working in films like Mission Mangal and Mardani.Akanksha Awasthi, 22, who has worked in serials like Crime Patrol, CID, Shapath, Crime Alert, said artistes in Mumbai get paid after 90 days of work. “There are many producers who pay after three months of the date of telecast [of a serial]. The money of most of the artistes is held up there even as they face hardships.”Cine and TV Artistes Association joint secretary Amit Behl said they have written to the Union government seeking help for artistes. “[Actor] Hema Malini, who is an MP [member of Parliament] from Mathura, has spoken to finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman for help to artistes. The good news is that the government has asked for the account number and IFSC codes of all artistes registered with us and we have shared the same with them,” he said. “We have urged producers to follow the 30-day payment cycle instead of 90.”Veteran actor Anil Rastogi said he knows a number of artistes affected adversely due to the sudden closure of the Industry. “If they do not get help from the government, they would be in trouble. I have also lost a lot of work.”Uttar Pradesh Kalakar Association general secretary Vinod Mishra said they have helped over 40 artistes forced to return to their homes. “I have started making a data bank of such artistes to provide further help.” Mishra said he met Uttar Pradesh Film Vikas Parishad chairman Raju Srivastava to discuss the situation and also sought an appointment with chief minister Yogi Adityanath to highlight their problems.Srivastava said he has written to Adityanath seeking help for the artistes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-bollywood-dreams-put-on-hold-up-artistes-stare-at-uncertainty/story-5UADiQcbNkjUZwacVXbjBL.html
05-09-2020||India||Minor fire in operation theatre of Pune Cantonment Board hospital||A fire broke out in an operation theatre at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital of the Pune Cantonment Board on Saturday morning. Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot.The fire is suspected to have started as a result of a short circuit in the air-conditioning unit inside the operation theatre, according to a fire officer.“There were 3-4 attendants inside the operation theatre. They were preparing for surgery when the air-conditioner caught fire. Four ACs and furniture was damaged in the fire. Nobody was injured in the blaze,” Prakash Hasbe, Fire Superintendent, PCB fire brigade said.Amit Kumar, CEO of PCB, has not yet responded when he was contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-fire-in-operation-theatre-of-pune-cantonment-board-hospital/story-RMQAYV2qQPgTwaqPiuDHYL.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Delhi declares war on corona’: Kejriwal after city records over 10K cases in 4 days||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Capital will tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak with more testing and isolating patients amid a spurt in the number of infections.“Delhi declares war on Corona. We have doubled testing, started testing at markets, bus stands, Mohalla Clinics etc. Test, test, test. Isolate infected people and provide them good treatment,” Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi declares war on Corona. We have doubled testing, started testing at markets, bus stands, Mohalla Clinics etc. Test, test, test. Isolate infected people and provide them good treatment. I have told officers not to worry if the numbers increase due to multifold testing. pic.twitter.com/0F5rabHAagThe Delhi chief minister’s tweet came after he said that the recent rise in the cases of the coronavirus disease is due to increased testing. “I want to assure you that Covid-19 situation in Delhi is completely under control but there is no room for complacency,” Kejriwal said during a press conference.Also read | Don’t panic, Delhi’s Covid-19 cases rising due to more testing: Arvind KejriwalThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader added that he has told officers not to worry “if the numbers increase due to multifold testing”.The call for the war on the virus outbreak in the national capital comes after Delhi recorded more than 10,000 cases in the last four days. Delhi on Friday recorded 2,914 fresh cases -- the highest single-day spike in 69 days.Kejriwal also assured citizens of the national capital, saying that the recent rise in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is due to increased testing.Kejriwal said, “I want to assure you that Covid-19 situation in Delhi is completely under control but there is no room for complacency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-declares-war-on-corona-kejriwal-after-city-records-over-10k-cases-in-4-days/story-oeD0P5rLIUK2Sso46TxknJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Tripura ministers to stay at Covid hospital to prevent deaths by negligence||To ensure that no Covid-19 patients in Tripura dies due to negligence, the state government has decided to deploy cabinet ministers, if necessary, at Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital-- the first dedicated Covid hospital in the state—for strict monitoring. “Unfortunately, cases of deaths are on a rise in our state. But no one should die due to negligence. In case negligence is observed, one Cabinet minister will take turn to stay at the hospital,” Law minister Ratan Lal Nath told the media. Almost eight days ago, a case of negligence was lodged against doctors after the death of a three-day old infant in August. The baby’s mother alleged that the infant died after his swab samples were collected. The samples were taken since the mother had tested Covid-19 positive. The state has recorded a total of 134 Covid-19 deaths from amongst the 13,836 Covid-19 cases registered so far. 8,483 of these infected patients have recovered. Two Covid-19 patients in the state have died by suicide. On Friday, Tripura BJP legislator and former health minister, Sudip Roy Barman, alleged that the health department has failed to tackle the Covid-19 situation as many patients are dying untreated. Roy Barman was removed from his ministerial position in June last year. The health portfolio is currently with chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb.Also Read: 1st vessel to arrive in Tripura from Bangladesh using Indo-Bangla inland waterways route He also demanded that a full time health minister be appointed for dedicated management of the health care system. He said that a total of 28 departments, including health, were currently with the chief minister. “The current authorities have failed to tackle the Covid-19 situation. How will the chief minister manage the health department when he is holding charge of 28 departments alone? The state requires a separate dedicated health minister,” Roy Barman told media persons in Agartala. He alleged that the body of a person remained in the hospital for three days and his relatives were not informed. “Daughter of the dead person managed to get photographs of the body and take it for cremation with the help of a sweeper. I have documents to prove that,” he said. He also alleged that the state government was not procuring enough anti-viral medicines and not adopting plasma therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-ministers-to-stay-at-covid-hospital-to-prevent-deaths-by-negligence/story-R4iQrg16YfhreGtA7FgbBJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Showik remanded to NCB custody, to be confronted with Rhea Chakraborty tomorrow||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda were on Saturday remanded to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) custody till September 9. According to the NCB, Showik will be confronted with his sister who will be summoned for questioning on September 6.“We will be asking her (actor Rhea Chakraborty) to join the investigation,” said Mutha Ashok Jain, Deputy DG, South-Western Region, NCB.WATCH | 4 days in lock-up for Rhea’s brother, Sushant’s house manager as NCB gets custodyChakraborty and Miranda were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Friday.Kaizen Ebrahim, also apprehended by the NCB on Friday, was granted bail by Mumbai’s Esplanade court after he was sent 14-day judicial custody earlier today.On Friday morning, teams of NCB searched the residences of Showik Chakraborty in Santa Cruz (West) area and Samuel Miranda in suburban Andheri (West) area, news agency PTI reported.The NCB launched an investigation after it received communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.The ED had on July 31 registered a case in the late actor’s death after a First Information Report (FIR) was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28.Rhea is the main accused in the death case of the 34-year-old actor. The case is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges and the NCB. Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-s-brother-showik-chakraborty-samuel-miranda-remanded-to-ncb-custody-till-september-9/story-pUIZ6xpXZ2LlXoGHGadfxJ.html
05-09-2020||India||1st vessel to arrive in Tripura from Bangladesh via Indo-Bangla waterways route||After a long wait, Tripura is going to witness the arrival of the first vessel from neighbouring Bangladesh on Saturday, connecting the state’s Gomati river with India’s national waterways through Bangladesh’s Meghna river. The trial run of the inland waterways protocol route between India and Bangladesh started on Thursday with a boat carrying 50 metric tonne of cement from Bangladesh, set to arrive later today at Sonamura in Sepahijala district, 60 kilometres from Agartala. The Sonamura (Tripura)-Daudkandi (Bangladesh) route was included in the Indo-Bangladesh Protocol (IBP) routes signed by Indian high commissioner in Bangladesh, Riva Ganguly Das, and Bangladesh shipping secretary, Mohammad Mezbah Uddin Chowdhury, at Dhaka this May.According to a survey conducted by the Bangladesh authorities, 89.5 kilometres out of the 90 kms of the Sonamura-Daudkandi protocol route falls in Bangladesh and the remaining 500 metres falls in India.Earlier in July, a floating jetty on Gomati river was launched as part of the Indo-Bangla international inland waterways project.Also Read: India-Bangladesh inland waterway route to be operational from today: All you need to knowSince 2018, a series of expert visits from the inland waterways authority of India and the land port authority of India were carried out to check the feasibility of using river Gomati, the longest river of the state, for the waterways connectivity route. According to the plan, dredging of the Gomati riverbed would be done enabling small boats and ships’ movement from Sonamura to Bangladesh’s Ashuganj port. Construction of a terminal building was also part of the plan to check the imported goods. Earlier in July, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said the project would boost Indo-Bangla bilateral trade making Tripura a key trade hub in the northeast region. He predicted that the export volume would increase from Rs 30 crores to Rs 400 crores and the state would import goods worth of Rs 2,000 crores in one year.Also Read: India, Bangladesh to create new mechanism to monitor bilateral projectsCurrently, goods worth Rs 645 crores are imported.Welcoming the new project, president of the Tripura chamber of commerce and industries ML Debnath said, “Unidirectional rivers like Gomati river are without tidal waves and don’t have large volume of water across the year. Except the monsoons, proper dredging may keep the route in operation for at least six months a year. As it is first of its kind, we welcome the move.” According to an economic expert, 150 times higher volume of goods are imported through roadways via Akhaura Integrated Check Post (ICP) compared to the 50 metric tonnes of goods that could come through the project jetty. The expert also said that the potential of the project for local employment generation might not be so high. All Tripura merchant association sees hope in the waterways project saying that imported goods from Bangladesh would be available at affordable rates. An Agartala-based export-import trader said that Tripura would benefit from the transit charges of goods transported through Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-vessel-to-arrive-in-tripura-from-bangladesh-using-indo-bangla-inland-waterways-route/story-nxzljSKXWe0MBiZyfoM8tN.html
05-09-2020||India||Govt took care of economy, turned tragedy into opportunity: JP Nadda||India not only took the bold and timely step of imposing a lockdown to save the lives of 1.3 billion people from Covid-19 but also took care of the economy to turn the tragedy into an opportunity, BJP president JP Nadda said on Saturday.Addressing a meeting of the party’s Odisha executive committee, Nadda said that while powerful nations were helpless in combating the pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was clear in his mind as he took the decisive action of imposing the lockdown in order to save the lives of the people.PM Modi made it clear that the lives of 1.3 billion people must be saved. He said Jaan hai to Jahan Hai as public health was at the top of his mind, the BJP chief said.The lockdown was imposed well in time and also implemented effectively across the country as a weapon against the pandemic, he said.Besides taking care of the health-related matters, the Modi government also addressed the economic issues through several programmes such as the ‘Garib Kalyan Yojna’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, Nadda said.Even the UN secretary-general has acknowledged Indias steps in this regard, he added.The tragedy and challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic were effectively turned into an opportunity by the BJP-led government at the Centre, he said.Nadda’s comments came amid the criticism of the government by the opposition over the sharp decline in the GDP.The countrys economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 per cent as the coronavirus-related lockdowns weighed on the already-declining consumer demand and investment.Noting that all the political parties except the BJP became “inactive” after the lockdown was imposed, Nadda said his party took to the virtual mode and continued to serve the people.Asserting that the healthcare infrastructure of the country was given a major boost by the government, he said that when the lockdown was imposed India did not have a single Covid hospital, and over 1,500 such facilities with 2.5 lakh beds have been set up in the last few months.Similarly, daily Covid-19 testing has also increased to over 10.10 lakh, he said.Nadda also hit out at the BJD government in Odisha, accusing it of refusing to implement the ‘Ayushman Bharat’ programme because of narrow and petty politics, depriving 2.74 crore people of quality healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-took-care-of-economy-turned-tragedy-into-opportunity-jp-nadda/story-ZKR8tRgUEfPvMiR8npLrrK.html
05-09-2020||India||No need to panic, Covid-19 situation is completely under control in Delhi: Kejriwal||Amid a rise in the number of coronavirus cases in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday sought to assure people that there is no need to panic as the situation is completely under control. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal asserted that the number of cases is rising as the AAP government has doubled testing in the city. Appealing to Delhiities to follow preventive measures against Covid-19, the chief minister said there is no scope for negligent attitude. He said that his government has taken several steps to reduce deaths due to the virus in the national capital. Kejriwal said that there is no shortage of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi and added that out of 14,000 beds, only 5,000 are occupied. “Out of 5,000 beds, 1,600-1,700 beds are occupied by those who belong to other states,” he said. On Friday, Delhi recorded 2,914 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike here in 69 days. This is the fourth successive day in September when over 2,000 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in a day. Also, over 36,000 tests were conducted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-panic-covid-19-situation-is-completely-under-control-in-delhi-kejriwal/story-0qENEFHjbHJcfMDRAjGogP.html
05-09-2020||India||Modi dispensation’s thinking - minimum govt, maximum privatisation: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the Centre over the issue of recruitment to government posts, alleging that the Modi dispensation’s thinking is “minimum government, maximum privatisation”. With his tweet attacking the government, Gandhi tagged a media report which said there would be a freeze on creation of new posts except with the approval of the expenditure department. “Modi government’s thinking -- ‘Minimum Govt Maximum Privatisation’,” Gandhi said in a tweet. The Covid-19 pandemic is just an excuse and the intention is to make government offices “free” of permanent staff, he alleged. “(Intention is to) Rob the future of the youth and promote (his) friends,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi targeting the prime minister, and urged people to speak up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-dispensation-s-thinking-minimum-govt-maximum-privatisation-rahul-gandhi/story-EWAUvwlCsK1HLfub13TEDM.html
05-09-2020||India||CBI team visits Sushant Singh Rajput’s flat again||A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, visited his flat in suburban Bandra again on Saturday as part of its investigation, an official said.In the last two weeks, the central probe agency had visited the flat at least two times to reconstruct the sequence of events leading to the actor’s death, among other things, he said.“The probe team along with forensic experts reached the late actor’s flat in Mont Blanc Apartments around 11.30 am,” the official said.Rajput’s cooks Neeraj and Keshav, and his flatmate Siddharth Pithani accompanied the team, he said.“After inspecting the flat, the investigators went to the terrace of the building. Later, the team members left the place for the DRDO guest house at Santacruz, where they are stationed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-team-visits-sushant-singh-rajput-s-flat-again/story-OJNB0MpR6A17zXWe73vNCP.html
05-09-2020||India||‘PM must explain’: Chidambaram targets govt on Covid-19, economy||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday criticised the government’s response to coronavirus pandemic in the country as he predicted India’s infection tally may touch the 6.5-million mark by the end of September.“I had predicted that total number of infections will reach 55 lakh by September 30. I am wrong. India will reach that number by September 20. By end September, the number may touch 65 lakh,” Chidambaram said in a series of tweets.I had predicted that total number of infections will reach 55 lakh by September 30. I am wrong. India will reach that number by September 20 By end September, the number may touch 65 lakh“PM Modi who promised that we will defeat coronavirus in 21 days must explain why India failed when other countries seem to have succeeded,” he added.The only country that is not reaping the benefit of the lockdown strategy appears to be IndiaPM Modi who promised that we will defeat coronavirus in 21 days must explain why India failed when other countries seem to have succeededAlso read: GDP estimates a matter of shame for Modi government, says ChidambaramIndia registered the highest single-day jump of 86,432 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s caseload past the 4-million mark, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday. With 1,089 more deaths in the last 24 hours, the cumulative toll reached 69,561, it said.The former Union finance minister also alleged that the country has not been able to reap the benefit of the lockdown strategy.Chidambaram also hit out at the Union finance ministry for the state of India’s economy. Targeting the Nirmala Sitharaman-led union finance ministry, Chidambaram said, “MoF does not have a word of explanation for the unprecedented negative growth in Q1 of 2020-21. But it is back to its old game of misleading the people of India and predicting a V shaped recovery.”Also read | ‘Will the messenger of god answer?’: Chidambaram’s jibe at Sitharaman“The people have not forgotten that the V shaped recovery has been promised by MoF for the last 15 months,” the former finance minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-must-explain-why-india-failed-chidambaram-targets-govt-on-covid-19-economy/story-kucwbm1BOgBNjG1sfEnupK.html
05-09-2020||India||India-Bangladesh inland waterway route to start from today: All you need to know||India and Bangladesh are set to operationalise a new riverine trade route on Saturday, when a Bangladeshi vessel will transport a cargo of cement to Tripura, as part of efforts to boost connectivity between the two countries.A trial run of an inland waterways protocol route between the two nations began on Thursday with a cargo vessel leaving for Sonamura port in Tripura from Munshiganj in the neighbouring country.Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb in a tweet on Thursday night said, “First Vessel with consignment started its trial run today from Munshiganj, Bangladesh for Sonamura port, Tripura.” First Vessel with consignment started its trial run today from Munshiganj, Bangladesh for Sonamura port, Tripura.With the successful run, Indo-Bangla waterways will open up new avenues for economic development in both the countries where Tripura will play an important role. pic.twitter.com/Y2vV90XA45Here’s all about India-Bangladesh inland waterway route:• The route connects Tripura with the National Waterways of India through Bangladesh. With the successful run, India-Bangladesh waterways will open up new avenues for economic development in both the countries where Tripura will play an important role.• The boat-sized vessel with a consignment of cement set sail for Sonamura port in Sepahijala district of the northeastern state from Munshiganj on Thursday.• Union minister for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya will welcome the vessel carrying 50 tonnes of cement from Daukandi in Bangladesh to Sonamura on Saturday through video conferencing from Delhi, officials said.• The inland waterways protocol route would be made operational in the presence of the chief minister and chairman of the Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) Aditya Mishra, secretary of Tripura’s Industry and Commerce Department Kiran Gitte said.• The 90-km long Sonamura-Daudkandi route, included in the list of Indo-Bangla protocol (IBP) routes in May this year, is expected to boost trade, Gitte had told reporters on Sunday.• A floating jetty was set up on the Gomati river on July 4 as part of the Indo-Bangla international inland waterways connectivity project.• A high-level team of officials of the Bangladesh shipping ministry had surveyed the riverine protocol route on August 12, Sonamura sub-divisional magistrate Subrata Majumder had said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-inland-waterway-route-to-be-operational-from-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-zTdnz9Gz9mP4lJAOPXOytI.html
05-09-2020||India||R40 lakh incentive for mobile towers in select Uttarakhand border villages||Uttarakhand government has decided to offer incentives of up to ₹40 lakh to telecom companies for installing mobile signal towers in ‘dark’ villages of the state in an attempt to boost mobile phone connectivity, said officials. The decision was taken during the state Cabinet meeting led by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday.Dark villages are those situated in remote areas, without mobile phone and internet connectivity. There are over 200 such dark villages in the state, especially in the districts of Pithoragarh, Chamoli and Uttarkashi, bordering China and Nepal. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, an official privy to the development, said, “The decision was taken after amending the Information & Communication Technology and Electronics Policy of the state to facilitate installation of mobile signal towers in such villages by telecom companies.”He informed that it was decided last year during a meeting on the policy, in the presence of CM Rawat, to attract investment from telecom companies by offering them an incentive of 30% of the total cost of project or ₹50lakh, whichever is less, in case they install mobile signal towers in remote areas. “The aforementioned policy was amended on Friday, clearing an incentive of ₹40 lakh or 30% of the total cost of the project, whichever is less, for telecom companies,” the official said. Also Read: At SCO meet, Rajnath Singh tells China to restore status quo at LACHT had earlier reported that villagers in the hill districts bordering Nepal are using SIM cards of Nepalese telecom companies as their signals are stronger in their area in comparison to the signal strength of phone service provided by Indian telecom companies.The official added that the decision was also strategic in nature considering the recent border tensions with Nepal and China, countries, with which Uttarakhand shares borders. Also Read: Very nasty situation along India-China border: TrumCabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik refused to reveal much on the development, saying “There have been certain decisions taken during the Cabinet meeting on the telecom sector, which are related to policy matters.”He added that any announcement on policy decisions will be done in the approaching assembly session as per the tradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/r40-lakh-incentive-for-mobile-towers-in-select-uttarakhand-border-villages/story-3Bl8fy1ZyGS2CYNaVNT40K.html
05-09-2020||India||Centre plans to tighten law against manual scavenging||The Centre is considering making the law against manual scavenging more stringent and forcing someone to manually clean a sewer could soon attract up to seven-year imprisonment and also a fine, people aware of the matter said. The Union social justice and empowerment ministry is working on legislation in this regard even as it was not immediately clear whether it would be introduced during Parliament’s monsoon session from September 14. The new law may provide for a fine of Rs 10 lakh to discourage the practice of manual scavenging.In September 2013, Parliament passed a bill prohibiting the employment of individuals as manual scavengers. It prescribed stringent punishment, including imprisonment of up to five years, to those employing such labour.The law also provides for the rehabilitation of manual scavengers and their family members.Despite the strong legislation on the issue, manual scavenging has continued to be one of the concerns.The Supreme Court last year equated the practice with “sending people to gas chambers,” while expressing concerns over the working conditions of manual scavengers. A three-judge bench questioned the Centre over the lack of protective gear like oxygen cylinders and masks given to those involved in such work.According to the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (sanitary workers), 50 workers died cleaning sewers in the first half of 2019 alone. A survey of The Centre in 2018 identified around 40,000 manual scavengers across 14 states.Most scavengers belong to the economically weaker and socially backward strata of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-to-tighten-law-against-manual-scavenging/story-jhUXkxrmGfYC6x4wzSRe2M.html
05-09-2020||India||Rajnath meets Chinese counterpart amid border tensions. Here’s what they said||Marking India’s first high-level political meet with China amid a simmering border row, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday met his Chinese counterpart, General Wei Fenghe, in Moscow. India and China have been involved in a bitter border standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.India has accused China of making a fresh attempt to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong Lake and said that the Chinese side “engaged in provocative military manoeuvres in the late night of 29th and on 30th August”.Here’s what happened during Singh’s meeting with China’s Wei:• The meeting between Singh and Wei took place on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in the Russian capital Moscow.• Singh left on Tuesday for the SCO meet and on the same day, India accused China of resorting to provocative action a day earlier when it attempted to change the status quo on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake even as military-level talks were underway. China’s actions this year have been in clear violation of agreements, India said in a statement issued by the ministry of external affairs.• A day later, the Chinese side sought a meeting with Singh, HT had reported earlier this week. This was the third attempt made by the Chinese defence ministry for talks with Singh after the standoff erupted in early May.Also read: Rajnath Singh meets Chinese defence minister, calls for bringing ties ‘back on right track’• On his third day in Moscow, Singh delivered an indirect message to China at the SCO’s ministerial meeting. “Peace and security in the SCO region demand a climate of trust, non-aggression, respect for international rules and peaceful resolution of differences,” he said.• The Indian defence minister also spoke about the unilateral aggression between states and the need to refrain from it. “This year marks the 75th anniversary of the end of the Second World War as well as the formation of the United Nations which underpins a peaceful world, where international laws and sovereignty of states are respected and states refrain from unilateral aggression on another,” Singh said at the meet on Friday.• After the defence minister’s address, Chinese and Indian delegations held their first high-level political face-to-face meeting later in the evening.• In the meeting that lasted over two hours, Singh pushed for the restoration of status quo ante at all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and called for disengagement of troops in an expeditious way during the much-expected meeting.Also read | ‘Committed to inclusive global security’: Rajnath Singh reaffirms India’s stance at SCO meet• According to China’s official news agency, Xinhua, Wei told Singh that the responsibility of the ongoing tension lies entirely with India – an allegation that New Delhi has brushed off repeatedly, saying that the border aggression has actually been shown by the troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).• Singh was quoted by a Xinhua report in Mandarin from Moscow as saying that India hoped that two sides will “…adopt a responsible attitude, fully disengage front-line forces as soon as possible, avoid taking measures that may escalate or complicate the situation, and avoid turning differences into disputes so as to bring bilateral military relations back to the right track as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-meets-chinese-counterpart-amid-border-tensions-here-s-what-happened/story-xQIxN3w66wBq0248tw7LWJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Oil tanker on fire off Sri Lanka coast towed to safety||An India bound vessel from Kuwait with a crude shipment that caught fire off the Sri Lankan coast has been towed to safe waters while fire fighting continues and there has been no oil slick, defence authorities said here on Saturday. The blaze in the oil tanker, which also bore the brunt of two explosions and a two metre crack, has now subsided, they said. “Indian Coast Guard and Sri Lankan ships and aircraft along with tug ALP Winger successfully towed MT New Diamond more than 35 NM (Nautical Mile) away from Sri Lanka coast to safe waters. Fire Fighting continues and fire now reduced. No oil slick reported,” a defence release said. An oil tanker carrying crude from Kuwait to India burst into flames off the eastern coast of Sri Lanka on Thursday, leaving one of its 24 crew members missing and another injured while explosions and a crack was noticed on September 4. The Panama registered tanker New Diamond was carrying 2,70,000 tonnes of crude oil from Kuwait to India when its engine room caught fire off the coast of Sangamankanda in the eastern district of Ampara. Indian and Sri Lankan authorities are liaisoning continuously to put off the fire expeditiously and they have deployed various assets for the purpose. An Indian Coast Guard Dornier aircraft (with Oil Spill Dispersants and Pollution Response Spray pods)was sent from here on Friday for aerial assessment and to tackle oil spill if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-tanker-on-fire-off-sri-lanka-coast-towed-to-safety/story-3zSMg3mhQvSIquXKdArLiM.html
05-09-2020||India||8 migrant workers killed in Chhatisgarh bus accident||At least eight migrant workers from Odisha’s Ganjam district on their way to Surat in Gujarat were killed and seven others injured when a bus carrying about 59 of them collided head-on with a truck at Cherikhedi in Chhattisgarh on Saturday.Also read: 5 friends headed to Nagarjunasagar dam crushed to death in Telangana car accidentOdisha police chief Abhay said he has spoken to his Chhattisgarh counterpart about the accident and added the bus had left for Surat from Ganjam’s Aska area at 12 am on Saturday. He added the injured were being treated at Raipur Medical College and Hospital.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs 2 lakh each from his relief fund to the next of the kin of those killed in the accident and free medical treatment to the injured. He sent state labour minister Sushant Singh to Raipur to extend necessary assistance to the victims and asked Abhay to remain in touch with Chhattisgarh police for coordination.Tens of thousands of migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 pandemic spread returned to Odisha this summer. Ganjam emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in June and July with the return of over 500,000 migrant workers from Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Kerala, and Karnataka.The migrant workers have begun returning to their places of work with an increase in testing and recoveries.The state government has tried to offer jobs to migrant workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme but there is hardly any work for skilled workers.Many textile mill agents from Surat have been camping in Ganjam to take back the migrant workers to Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-migrant-workers-killed-in-chhatisgarh-bus-accident/story-pW1pXDUByT6mBH5VTDbIDP.html
05-09-2020||India||Pakistani troops shell three sectors along LoC in J-K’s Poonch||Pakistani troops engaged in firing and intense mortar shelling in three sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday in violation of a ceasefire agreement, a defence spokesman said.The firing and shelling from across the border in Shahpur, Kirni and Degwar sectors started around 9.15 am.Indian Army personnel guarding the LoC gave a strong and befitting response to the cross-border fire, the spokesman said. He said the exchange of fire was going on when last reports were received.There was no report of any casualty on the Indian side, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-troops-shell-three-sectors-along-loc-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-GTtbPOfzBLICwYcVaHCiHI.html
05-09-2020||India||Sushant’s family lawyer suspects bigger forces at play after Showik’s arrest||The lawyer of Sushant Singh Rajput’s family alleged on Saturday that Mumbai Police were hiding “something very big” after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and the late actor’s housekeeping manager, Samuel Miranda.“Arrests by NCB prove the fear of the family that there was something very big that Mumbai Police wanted to hide. Clearly, there are several angles in this case. The family hopes that more angles will come out,” Vikas Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.ALSO WATCH | 4 days in lock-up for Rhea’s brother, Sushant’s house manager as NCB gets custodyNCB arrested Rhea Chakraborty’s brother and Rajput’s housekeeping manager Miranda under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act late on Friday night. Basit Parihar, Kaizan Ebrahim, Zaid Vilatra, Abbas Lakhani, Karan Arora and two others have also been arrested by NCB, which is looking into allegations of drug use by the late actor and his actor-girlfriend Chakraborty.Showik, Miranda and Ebrahim, are at Sion Hospital and are scheduled to undergo medical tests, including a coronavirus test, before they are produced in a court. Vilatra and Parihar have applied for bail at the Mumbai sessions court.Apart from NCB, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are also probing the case. Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Bandra on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-arrests-show-there-were-bigger-forces-at-play-family-lawyer-says/story-86RivgSys4sw9435MejzeN.html
05-09-2020||India||How India reached the grim figure of 4 million Covid-19 cases||India has become the third country in the world to record more than four million cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after the United States and Brazil.The US has 6,200,186 Covid-19 patients and Brazil has confirmed 4,091,801 infections, according to Johns Hopkins University.With the highest single-day spike of 86,432 fresh Covid-19 cases and 1,089 deaths on Saturday, India’s tally stands at 4,023,179, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll in the country reached 69,561. India has registered more than 80,000 new Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row.The rise from three million to four million Covid-19 cases took just 13 days. India passed three million coronavirus disease cases on August 23. India had recorded 3,041,463 Covid-19 cases after 70,182 fresh infections and 914 new deaths were reported on that day.India took 17 days to jump from two million to three million Covid-19 cases. On August 6, India reported more than 62,000 cases of the coronavirus disease, for the first time in a single day, and over 880 deaths across the country, the Union health ministry’s data shows.The country, which had been recording over 50,000 fresh cases every day since July 30, saw 62,538 Covid-19 cases and 886 fatalities between August 6 and 7, pushing its infection tally to 2,027,074 and death toll to 41,585, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.India crossed two million Covid-19 cases, three weeks after it crossed a million cases on July 16. According to an HT analysis, nearly 38% of new cases since the day India’s tally crossed a million Covid-19 infections have come from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar. These five states together were responsible for less than 19% of cases before July 16 when India hit the million-mark.The number of Covid-19 cases in India reached five lakh (or half a million-mark) on June 26, in just a little over 19 days. The next half-million came on July 16, according to an analysis of data from states and Union territories. After the one million-mark, India crossed the 1.5 million milestone on July 28.It took 110 days for coronavirus infections in the country to reach one lakh, while just 39 days more to go past the five lakh-mark.The case fatality rate (CFR) due to the coronavirus infection has further declined to 1.73%. There are 846,395 active cases of coronavirus infection, which is 21.04% of the total caseload, according to the health ministry data on Saturday.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 4,77,38,491 samples have been tested up to September 4 with 10,59,346 samples being tested on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-india-reached-the-grim-figure-of-4-million-covid-19-cases/story-BCnUUHzWBiamPSFGM63qNM.html
05-09-2020||India||3 die in road mishaps on Kashmir highway in Ramban||Three people died in two separate road accidents on Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Ramban district on Saturday morning with a truck and a mini-truck plunging into a deep gorge.“A driver of a mini truck and his helper died when their Srinagar bound mini-truck (JK-19-7275) rolled down into a deep gorge at Digdol near Ramban this morning,” said a police officer.The dead were identified as driver Rouf Ahmed, 32, and his helper Usman Ahmed, 18, of Magerkote in Ramsu.Earlier, at about 6 am, another truck (JK18 A -0557) on its way from Jammu towards Srinagar, rolled down into a 120 feet deep gorge near Chamalwas in Banihal.Truck driver Mayssar Ahmed, 24 of Pampore in Srinagar, died while two others identified as Basid Ahmad and Furkan Ahmad of Pampore were injured.Also Read: After brief disruption, traffic resumes on Jammu-Srinagar highwayThey were shifted to the district hospital in Banihal for treatment.The 270 kilometre-long Jammu-Srinagar, the only all-weather surface link to Kashmir-- has seen disruptions in the last few days due to heavy rains and landslides. The highway reopened for traffic on Friday afternoon after a brief disruption caused by landslides due to persistent rains. Earlier, this week, fresh traffic on the highway was affected for about 5 days due to landslides washing away a portion of the road in Ramban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-die-in-road-mishaps-on-kashmir-highway-in-ramban/story-tSQkjYxHz7dJrqrh3cTdlO.html
05-09-2020||India||India allows testing on demand for Covid-19||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed testing on-demand for Covid-19 even as it has allowed states to adapt to the recommendation as per their requirements. “ICMR’s advisory is generic in nature and may be modified as per the discretion of state health authorities,” said the national research agency in its advisory.Also read: India registers highest single-day spike with 86,432 new Covid-19 cases; death toll reaches 69,561The advisory came after the Delhi high court asked the state government to re-strategise its policy to include asymptomatic patients for testing. ICMR told the court it is just an advisory body and states were free to make changes as per their needs.Rapid antigen testing (RAT) is the preferred strategy for screening in Covid-19 containment zones. People with influenza-like illnesses, all direct and high-risk contacts (family members, colleagues, those above 65, immunocompromised, or have conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, or heart, kidney, and lung diseases), are required to be screened.The new strategy lists situations where molecular testing such as reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) should be preferred over the cheaper and faster but less accurate RAT. “Ideally, it is suggested that 100% of people living in the containment zones should be tested by RAT particularly in cities where there has been a widespread transmission of the infection,” say ICMR guidelines.In non-containment areas, the ICMR strategy suggests that preference should be given to molecular methods to test all those with influenza-like symptoms, all symptomatic contacts of confirmed cases, and all asymptomatic high-risk contacts. Testing methods like RT-PCR should also be used for routine surveillance of all symptomatic travellers within seven days of illness and healthcare or frontline workers involved in Covid-19 management.The ICMR strategy says that molecular tests should be preferred over RAT within hospitals for testing those with severe acute respiratory infections, all patients with influenza-like symptoms, all asymptomatic high-risk contacts in need of hospitalisation, asymptomatic patients undergoing surgery or other invasive procedures, and all pregnant women in or near labour.The guidelines say that no emergency procedure should be delayed for the want of a test.Hospitals have been directed not to refuse admission to pregnant women citing lack of testing facility. “All arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to a testing facility. Mothers, who test positive for the infection, have been advised to wear masks, wash hands frequently while handling babies, and cleaning breasts before feeding them.The ICMR guidelines say all neonates with acute respiratory or sepsis-like illnesses– or those with non-respiratory symptoms such as fever, lethargy, poor feeding, seizures, and diarrhoea -- should be tested for Covid-19 using RT-PCR.The strategy also suggests testing those with the atypical presentations for Covid-19 such as stroke, encephalitis, blood mixed sputum, pulmonary embolism, acute heart conditions, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-allows-testing-on-demand-for-covid-19/story-JWprzSKRd4l2ZRXkGBp4AO.html
05-09-2020||India||The significance of dignity in human rights jurisprudence||In Navtej Singh Johar & Others v. Union of India, the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court struck down a part of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code as unconstitutional as it offended right to privacy. As noted in K.S. Puttaswamy, privacy has been treated as a fundamental right and a premise for this upliftment was that the privacy of the individual is an essential aspect of dignity. The Court held that Section 377 of the IPC insofar as it criminalizes consensual sexual acts between adults of whatever sexual orientation is an anathema to a constitutional order in which liberty must trump over stereotypes and prevail over the mainstreaming of culture. The following passage from the said judgement brings home the notion of dignity. “From the aforesaid, it has to be appreciated that homosexuality is something that is based on sense of identity. It is the reflection of a sense of emotion and expression of eagerness to establish intimacy. It is just as much ingrained, inherent and innate as heterosexuality. Sexual orientation, as a concept, fundamentally implies a pattern of sexual attraction. It is as natural a phenomenon as other natural biological phenomena. What the science of sexuality has led to is that an individual has the tendency to feel sexually attracted towards the same-sex, for the decision is one that is controlled by neurological and biological factors. That is why it is his/her natural orientation which is innate and constitutes the core of his/her being and identity. That apart, on occasions, due to a sense of mutuality of release of passion, two adults may agree to express themselves in a different sexual behaviour which may include both the genders. To this, one can attribute a bisexual orientation which does not follow the rigidity but allows room for flexibility.” (...)This evolving concept of dignity has encompassed liberal individualism as well as collective identities into ‘we the people’, thereby bringing the aspects of inclusiveness into our Constitution. Many other facets of dignity jurisprudence, pending before the courts in different forms, are going to enrich the concept of Dignity in times to come. From the aforesaid discussion, it follows that dignity as a jurisprudential concept has now been well defined by the Supreme Court.Its essential ingredients can be summarized as follows:1. The basic principle of the dignity and freedom of the individual is an attribute of natural law, which is manifested as basic or fundamental rights of all individuals in a constitutional democracy.2. Dignity has a central normative role as well as constitutional value. This normative role is performed in three ways: First, it becomes basis for constitutional rights; second, it serves as an interpretative principle for determining the scope of constitutional rights; and third, it determines the proportionality of a statute limiting a constitutional right. Thus, if an enactment puts a limitation on a constitutional right, and such a limitation is disproportionate, such a statute can be held to be unconstitutional by applying the doctrine of proportionality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-significance-of-dignity-in-human-rights-jurisprudence/story-E84el5defLUNJ8WntdSmMJ.html
05-09-2020||India||India registers highest single-day spike with 86,432 new Covid-19 cases; death toll reaches 69,561||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 4,023,179 after 86,432 new cases were recorded across the country in the highest single-day spike, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday.The death toll in the country – third worst-hit after the United States – reached 69,561 after 1,089 patients succumbed to the viral disease between Friday and Saturday.India has registered over 80,000 new coronavirus cases for the third day in a row.Also read | Covid-19: 4 million milestone paints a grim picture nationallyAs of Saturday, there are 846,395 are active cases, 21.04% of which account for India’s total caseload. After 70,072 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, the country’s recovery rate has reached 77.23%, according to the health ministry data. India had surpassed the four million-mark in terms of the total cases on Friday as the virus’ spread continued to widen in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-highest-single-day-spike-with-86-432-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-reaches-69-561/story-tcXJPJree619J9wVpuXycL.html
05-09-2020||India||Heavy rain expected in east Rajasthan and Uttarakhand today||Heavy rain is likely in some parts of Uttarakhand and parts of east Rajasthan on September 5 and 6. There is also likelihood of heavy rain with thunderstorm activity in some parts of peninsular India for the next 4 to 5 days, India Meteorological Department said in its Saturday morning bulletin.Also read: IIT study reveals South India will witness extreme rainfall by end of centuryThe monsoon trough (line of low pressure) lies north of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal). A cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Rajasthan and another over northwest Madhya Pradesh. Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation, heavy rain in some places accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning is likely over Uttarakhand on September 5 and 6 and east Rajasthan on September 5.Heavy rain in isolated places is also likely over Bihar and Odisha during September 6 to 9; Chhattisgarh on September 7 to 9 and Vidarbha on September 8 and 9.A cyclonic circulation is also lying over the southeast and adjoining east central Arabian Sea off Karnataka and north Kerala coasts. This circulation is likely to meander over the same region during the next 3-4 days. Under its influence, widespread rain with isolated heavy rain and thunderstorm is likely over Peninsular India during the next 4-5 days.IMD, in its two-week forecast issued on Friday, said below normal rains are likely in most parts of the country except over north-eastern states, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala between September 10 and 16. Development of features for monsoon withdrawal from western parts Rajasthan is likely during the same week||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-expected-in-east-rajasthan-and-uttarakhand-today/story-zrPgCdJKIaZ9pP5VYgwmhI.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine developers plan pledge, Russian shot ‘passes early trial test’: All you need to know||As the world looks forward to a shot against the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19), several major drug developers have decided to establish a pledge to not seek government approval until their vaccine candidates are proven to be safe.The move is being considered to be a bulwark against increasing political pressure to introduce a vaccine in a pandemic-ravaged world.Additionally, the president of the United Nations General Assembly has warned that a Covid-19 vaccine must be made accessible to everyone as the exclusion of even one country from the global recovery measure will mean that the world will still face the coronavirus crisis.Coronavirus disease outbreak has killed nearly 870,000 people and infected more than 26 million others worldwide as well as upended hundreds of millions of lives and wreaked havoc on the global economy.Also read | Covid-19: 4 million milestone paints a grim picture nationallyHere is all you need to know today about the race for Covid-19 vaccine:• Covid-19 vaccine developers, including Pfizer Inc, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna Inc, have said they will pledge to adhere to high scientific and ethical standards in the conduct of clinical studies and in their manufacturing processes, Wall Street Journal reported. WSJ added the draft of a joint statement that is still being finalised. The companies might issue the pledge as soon as early next week, reports added.* Russia continues to spearhead the race of Covid-19 vaccine as results of early tests have shown encouraging results. The Russian coronavirus vaccine “Sputnik V” was tested in two small trials, with each including 38 healthy adults aged between 18 and 60 who were administered a two-part immunisation. Twenty-one days after the first dose, the candidates were given the second shot with a booster and then were monitored over 42 days. All candidates developed antibodies to fight the virus contagion within three weeks, allowing Russia to lead the race for vaccine despite concerns raised by experts.• Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, the president of the UN General Assembly, said a vaccine for the virus must be made available to everyone who needs it because if just one country is left out the world will still face a crisis from the coronavirus. “Inclusion is key, because without inclusion the suffering of those who are already left behind, will continue — and we cannot guarantee peace in that kind of a context,” Muhammad-Bande said.• The turmoil around Covid-19 vaccine in Brazil sparked a new debate after President Jair Bolsonaro said vaccination for coronavirus should not be mandatory and “no one can force anyone to get a vaccine”. Bolsonaro’s critics and opponents slammed his latest take and said immunization cannot be viewed as a personal decision. “It is sad that once again Brazil’s president is setting a denialist example. It should be obligatory, except in special cases or under health circumstances that justify not taking a vaccine. An infected person infects others, and makes possible the death of others,” Sao Paulo state governor João Doria, a former Bolsonaro ally turned foe, said.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine distribution not expected until mid-2021: WHO chief scientist• Amid rising global expectations to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic, the World Health Organization (WHO) has taken a step back and said it does not expect widespread immunisation against Covid-19 until mid-2021. The statement from WHO comes as the US is expected to release a vaccine within weeks.• WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has also said the global body will not endorse a vaccine that is not safe and effective. Covid-19 has claimed hundreds of thousands and infected more than 26 million people, increasing the pressure on players in the fray to develop a vaccine for the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-developers-plan-pledge-russian-shot-passes-early-trial-test-all-you-need-to-know/story-jHVgnGvw5RoYv83D7stMKJ.html
05-09-2020||India||7 die as bus transporting labourers collides with truck in Chhattisgarh||Seven people were killed and seven others injured on Saturday as a truck and a bus transporting labourers collided in Cheri Khedi area of Chhattisgarh’s Raipur, news agency ANI reported.Ajay Yadav, Raipur’s senior superintendent of police, said the labourers were headed towards Surat in Gujarat and were coming from Odisha’s Ganjam.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-die-as-bus-transporting-labourers-collides-with-truck-in-chhattisgarh/story-OVUjlgxSqUzwhgl8CxEdiN.html
05-09-2020||India||Pro-Khalistan group alleges India disrupted secessionist referendum, Canada rejects theory||Canadian law enforcement has rebutted claims made by pro-Khalistan separatist group, Sikhs for Justice or SFJ, that armed men violently attempted to disrupt a voter registration drive related to its secessionist programme named Punjab referendum 2020.On August 15, as local SFJ activists were proceeding to the Indian consulate in Toronto to conduct the drive, eight men were arrested on a complaint from an unidentified “concerned citizen”, and five were charged with firearms-related offences after a loaded handgun was recovered from their vehicle.SFJ had alleged that the vehicle was flying the Indian Tricolour and the intent was to sabotage their drive, and this was also reported in local media.However, Peel regional police has denied there was a political slant to this incident. Asked whether this had any connection to the pro-Khalistan group’s proposed event and the allegations levelled by SFJ, a spokesperson for the PRP said she had “not received information in regards to the persons being ‘Indian agents’.”In another response to the outlet Indo-Canadian Voice, a different PRP spokesperson said, “There have been comments made by local media outlets referring to threats of a political nature, our investigation did not find this to be so.”Also Read: Canada: 5 found dead after shooting in Ontario home, say policeThe charges specified by the spokesperson did not relate to threats of the nature that were stated by SFJ.The men were picked up from a parking lot in the city of Brampton in the Greater Toronto Area and were identified as Simerjit Singh, 23, from Georgetown, Arundeep Sood, 40, from Brampton, Manpreet Singh, 21, who was cited as having no fixed address, Shivampreet Singh, 21, from Brampton and Mehakdeep Maan, 22, from Brampton.Also Read: HC asks Punjab to submit details of FIRs against all police officers SFJ’s general counsel Gurpatwant Pannun had alleged the men threatened to shoot a local activist belonging to the separatist organisation and termed it as a “wake up call” for the government of Justin Trudeau.The men were charged by investigators from the 21 division criminal investigation bureau with firearms-related offences. They were released on bail after making an appearance before the Ontario Court of Justice in Brampton.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pro-khalistan-group-alleges-india-disrupted-secessionist-referendum-canada-rejects-theory/story-TjlPb2aTQCVwEGArsUipyJ.html
05-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: Pop-up Covid-19 testing centres near govt offices soon and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 pop-up test centres near govt offices, weekly markets soonThe Delhi government will set up next week pop-up Covid-19 testing centres in and around central government offices in the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area, and mobile ones in weekly markets held around the city, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. Read moreCovid-19: 4 million milestone paints a grim picture nationallyThe number of total Covid-19 cases in India surpassed the 4 million-mark on Friday with little sign of the virus’s pace slowing in the country. Read moreTeachers’ Day 2020: Google honours educators with a quirky doodle on its homepageThe birthday of the second president of India, Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, is commemorated as Teachers’ Day in the country as per the veteran’ wish ever since September 5, 1962. Radhakrishnan was an accomplished teacher himself and while the day is celebrated in India by showing our appreciation for those who have shaped us, search engine Google too did the same through its quirky doodle. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Doesn’t matter whether you get 2 crore or 20’ - Harbhajan Singh’s friend clarifies Covid-19 cases in CSK camp had no role in pull outOff-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Friday became the second high-profile Chennai Super Kings cricketer after batsman Suresh Raina to pull out of IPL 2020 in UAE due to personal reasons. Read moreEveryone loves Pankaj Tripathi: On his birthday, we list his five best performancesFrom gangster dramas to family entertainers, from indie gems to mainstream potboilers, Pankaj Tripathi is the trump card in them all. The actor has made a name for himself for scene-stealing supporting performances and commanding lead roles, and on his birthday, we could not help but talk about our favourites. Read moreKannada actor Ragini Dwivedi arrested in Bengaluru in drug caseKannada actress Ragini Dwivedi was arrested by the Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru. She was arrested in connection with a case related to drug abuse. CCB of Bengaluru is probing the drug menace in the kannada film industry. An FIR has been registered at the cottonpet police station of the city. She is likely to be produced before a magistrate via video conferencing. Earlier in the day, the police had raided her residence. Two people named rahul and viren khanna were also arrested. Police had arrested another person, K Ravishankar on Thursday. A total of four people have been arrested in the case. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-pop-up-covid-19-testing-centres-near-govt-offices-soon-and-all-the-latest-news/story-v9fZfOxhice4wJnNoyK2EP.html
05-09-2020||India||PM Modi tweets on Teachers’ Day, says grateful for their contribution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed his gratitude to teachers for “their remarkable efforts” in shaping minds and building the nation on the occasion of Teachers’ Day.“We remain grateful to the hardworking teachers for their contributions towards shaping minds and building our nation. On Teachers Day, we express gratitude to our teachers for their remarkable efforts. We pay tributes to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti. #OurTeachersOurHeroes,” PM Modi tweeted. We remain grateful to the hardworking teachers for their contributions towards shaping minds and building our nation. On Teachers Day, we express gratitude to our teachers for their remarkable efforts. We pay tributes to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti. #OurTeachersOurHeroesTeachers’ Day is celebrated across the country in the memory of Dr S Radhakrishnan, a philosopher-author and India’s second president who was born on September 5, 1888. His contributions to the field of education are exemplary.The tradition to celebrate Teachers’ Day started in 1962 to honour Radhakrishnan and other teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grateful-to-hardworking-teachers-for-their-contribution-towards-building-nation-pm-modi/story-jbhv8dtJubVaIXVPjZLWUP.html
05-09-2020||India||SC dismisses plea for deferring JEE, NEET||The ongoing Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) for admission to engineering colleges will go on as per schedule and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges will be held as planned on September 13, with the Supreme Court on Friday rejecting the review petition filed by ministers from six non-BJP ruled states seeking a review of the August 17 order of the court allowing the National Testing Agency and central government to hold the exams amidst the Covid-19 pandemic.A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan considered the petitions in the chambers and decided that they had no merit. “We have carefully gone through the review petitions and the connected papers. We find no merit in the review petitions and the same are accordingly dismissed,” the bench which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari held.The review petition was filed by ministers Moloy Ghatak (West Bengal), Rameshwar Oraon (Jharkhand), Raghu Sharma (Rajasthan), Amarjeet Bhagat (Chhattisgarh), Balbir Singh Sidhu (Punjab) and Uday Ravindra Samant (Maharashtra) in their individual capacity.Two other review petitions, filed by RKR Anantharaman, a Congress MLA and government whip in the legislative assembly of the Union territory of Puducherry and by one N Vinoba Bhoopathy from Tamil Nadu were also dismissed.“Since the time I filed this review petition, I have been overwhelmed with inquires from aspirants/students on social media who were desperately praying that we succeed in this review and the exams get postponed. I can only imagine the disappointment and anxiety of lakhs of such students. There were so many issues that were yet to be argued that I felt the review petition deserved at least an open court hearing. Anyways, the Supreme Court’s verdict is final and must be respected and accepted by all. I urge the students to focus all their energies on their exams and keep themselves safe at all times,” advocate Sunil Fernandes, who represented the 6 ministers before the Supreme Court said.A 3-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra , on August 17, rejected a plea by 11 NEET/ JEE candidates seeking postponement of the exams until the Covid-19 pandemic passed.The review petition against the August 17 order was filed on August 28 but was listed only on Friday.By the time the petition was listed JEE, scheduled from September 1 to 6 had commenced, thereby, rendering the prayer for postponement infructuous.NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13.The ministers challenged the August 17 order highlighting the safety and security concerns of students and the logistical difficulties in conducting the examinations. “If the order of August 17, 2020 is not reviewed, then grave and irreparable harm and injury will befall the student community of our country and not only will health, welfare and safety of students appearing for NEET/ JEE stand imperiled but also public health at large would be in severe jeopardy in these Covid -19 pandemic times,” the petition stated.A review petition is a legal remedy available after the Supreme Court has pronounced its judgment in a case. The grounds for filing a review petition are limited and the petitioners seeking review should show that new facts have come to light or that the court committed an obvious or apparent error while delivering its judgment. The review petition as per law should also be heard by the same bench which heard the main case unless any of the judges has retired from office. Justice Arun Mishra, who heard the main petition on August 17, retired on September 2 and justice Ashok Bhushan replaced him on the review bench.Justice Mishra while hearing the main case, said that “life has to go on” despite the outbreak of the viral disease and that any order from the court postponing the exams could put the careers of students in jeopardy.“Life has to move on even in Covid times. Covid may continue but postponement of exams is a loss for the country. Are you (petitioners) ready to waste a whole year,” he remarked.The review petitioners rebutted this contending that the “advice of ‘Life Must Go On’ may have very sound philosophical underpinnings but cannot be a substitute for valid legal reasoning and logical analysis of the various issues” involved in holding the exams.“Only two reasons that can be discerned from the (August 17) order for dismissal of the petition — life must go on and students should not lose an academic year. With utmost respect, both the reasons, even if cumulatively taken, do not constitute an authoritative and comprehensive judicial scrutiny of the issue,” the review petition said. On Friday, the court ruled that they indeed did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-for-deferring-jee-neet/story-wkn13fsZlbnAfyJ2I7MtcJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||A week from now, perhaps a day earlier or a few days later, India will have a million active cases of the coronavirus disease. It will become the second country in the world after the US to have active cases in excess of a million — the US has around 2.5 million active cases currently (the highest it has had). Brazil, which has seen more cases than India, has never crossed 820,000 active cases. At the current pace, India will overtake Brazil early next week to become the country that has seen the second highest number of cases.The number of daily new cases of Covid-19 in the US and Brazil are off their peaks; India’s daily tally continues to rise. Some states are still not testing enough, so there’s no telling when India could reach its peak, or what that peak will be — 100,000? 120,000? Any number would be a guess. India ended Friday with 87,691 new cases, taking its overall case number to 4,016,037 and the number of active cases to 844,396. The country saw 1,056 deaths on Friday. On average, since Monday, it has recorded 1,001 deaths a day. Its case fatality rate, based on Friday evening’s numbers may be 1.7%, but in absolute terms, an average of 1,001 deaths a day is worrying. At this fatality rate, Friday’s new cases may result in 1,517 deaths — and that isn’t a small number either.These are depressing numbers to wake up to on a Saturday morning, but this is the situation India finds itself in — and a struthious mindset isn’t going to help.WHAT INDIA MUST DOTest aggressively and set targets for the statesWork with pharma companies to develop accurate antigen testsReview health care infrastructure in hinterland statesEnforce social distancing, wearing of masks, and ban public eventsEvaluate the costs and benefits of opening upMaharashtra, which along with Delhi and Tamil Nadu was among the early hot spots of the disease, continues to be one, accounting for around a fifth of the daily cases in India on average. Tamil Nadu has been on a long plateau for months. And Delhi, which saw a sharp decline in cases, followed by a slight reduction in testing, is now seeing cases increase as the local administration gets more aggressive with testing. It’s too early to say, but the Capital may well settle into the kind of long plateau Tamil Nadu is seeing. Caveat: anecdotal evidence suggests that at least some of the cases being seen in Delhi are of patients from neighbouring (and hinterland) states who are making a beeline for the Capital’s superior medical facilities. Meanwhile, cases in other states in the peninsula and the hinterland continue to rise.Six months to a day after the first local cases were recorded in India (in Delhi, in early March), it is clear that no Indian state can claim to have defeated the virus. Kerala’s early claims were more a publicity drive than anything else, and Delhi’s rejoicing in early August proved premature.NO RESPITE A week from now, India will become the second country in the world after the US to have active cases in excess of a million. At the current pace, India will also overtake Brazil early next week to become the country that has seen the second highest number of cases. The number of daily new cases in the US and Brazil are off their peaks; and India’s daily tally is continuing to rise. There’s no telling when India could reach its peak, or what that peak will be. As India crosses four million cases, this is the situation in which it finds itself. There is no certainty that a vaccine will be found by the end of the year, and be available to India. The country should work on the sourcing, distribution and administration of the vaccine, but be prepared for the eventuality of it not being available before the end of 2021. And there is no certainty that India will achieve herd immunity. Sero surveys (blood tests for antibodies) are a good way to assess prevalence of the disease, but high (or moderate) exposure levels shouldn’t lull administrations into complacency.This is the 150th instalment of this column, so I will end with five things that I believe India should do now.One, it should test widely and aggressively, set targets for the states, and insist that unless time is a constraint, only molecular tests such as RT-PCR be used.Two, it should work with pharma companies to develop quick antigen tests that are accurate (like the new Abbott Laboratories one, launched in the US), or other tests (such as the Institute of Genetics and Integrative Biology’s spectroscopic test that HT wrote about earlier this week) which can be set up in offices, airports and railway stations, and other public areas for quick and accurate testing.Three, it should review health care infrastructure, especially hospital beds with oxygen facilities and ventilators in the hinterland states which will see a spike in the coming months.Four, it should enforce social distancing, the wearing of masks, and ban all public events (even 50 people is too large a group).Five, it should carefully evaluate the costs and benefits of opening up — especially recreational facilities, public transport and schools (when India crossed a million cases, on July 16, this column recommended that the government work on giving every schoolchild who needs one, a device; there’s been no movement on this).The virus is still at large and spreading. And there’s still no cure for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-SlWhrrpQxiBptpm851DOXP.html
05-09-2020||India||At SCO meet, Rajnath Singh tells China to restore status quo at LAC||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday pushed for restoration of status quo ante at all friction points in eastern Ladakh during talks with his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe in Moscow, in the first highest level face-to-face contact between the two sides after the border row erupted in Ladakh in early May. The focus of the talks that lasted nearly two and a half hours was on ways to resolve the prolonged border standoff, sources said. Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and Indian Ambassador to Russia D B Venkatesh Varma were part of the Indian delegation at the talks that began at around 9:30 pm(IST) at a prominent hotel in Moscow following a request from Gen. Wei. “The meeting between Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh and Chinese Defence Minister, General Wei Fenghe in Moscow is over. The meeting lasted for 2 hours and 20 minutes,” Singh’s office tweeted.Met with the Chinese Defence Minister, General Wei Fenghe in Moscow. pic.twitter.com/Jex9gKCf98 External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has previously held telephonic talks with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the border standoff. Sources said the Indian delegation strongly objected to Chinese army’s fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh and insisted on resolution of the standoff through talks. The Indian side wanted restoration of status quo ante at all friction points in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. Both Singh and Wei are in Moscow to attend a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) defence ministers which took place earlier in the day. Hours before the talks, Singh, in his address at the SCO ministerial meet, said peace and security in the region demands a climate of trust, non-aggression, peaceful resolution of differences and respect for international rules. Singh’s comments in the presence of the Chinese defence minister was seen as a veiled message to China over the border row in eastern Ladakh. In his address, Singh referred to the Second World War and said its memories teach the globe the “follies of aggression” of one state upon another that brings “destruction” to all. “Peaceful stable and secure region of SCO member states, which is home to over 40 per cent of the global population, demands a climate of trust and cooperation, non-aggression, respect for international rules and norms, sensitivity to each other’s interest and peaceful resolution of differences,” Singh said. The meeting took place amid heightened tensions between the two countries triggered by China’s fresh attempts to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake. As both sides increased deployment of troops in Ladakh, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane, wrapping up a two-day visit to the region, said the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is “tense” but added that the nation can count on the Indian Army. “The situation along the LAC is tense. We have undertaken precautionary deployment in some areas. The troops are prepared for all contingencies that may arise. All these actions have been carried out only along the LAC,” he said after holding a series of meetings with top army commanders. Separately, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said there will be no compromise on India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and asserted it cannot be “business as usual” in bilateral ties unless there is peace and tranquility in the border areas. At the same time, he said India is open to resolving outstanding issues through dialogue. “This is one of the most serious challenges we have faced in many decades,” he said, adding, “we have not seen this magnitude of amassing of forces on the border also in recent years”. Shringla was speaking at an Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA) webinar. In the meantime, Brigade commanders of Indian and Chinese armies held a nearly three-hour-long interaction near Chushul in eastern Ladakh, exploring ways to bring down tensions. The outcome of the interaction is not immediately known. Three rounds of Brigade commander-level talks between the two armies earlier this week remained inconclusive. Tensions flared up again in eastern Ladakh after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake five days ago when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the prolonged border row. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India’s move. However, India has maintained that the strategic heights are on its side of the LAC. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following China’s transgression attempts. Following China’s fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake, India has further bolstered its military presence in the region. “It was very satisfying to see our soldiers and local commanders in high morale and good health. It gives me confidence that they are well prepared to safeguard the territorial integrity of our nation. The Indian Army is known for its commitment and resolve,” Gen. Naravane said. “We will continue to utilise all existing mechanisms to reduce tension and to ensure that the status quo is not unilaterally changed,” he added. “Over the past three months, both sides are engaged in resolving the situation. Military and diplomatic channels are functioning. Indian side is firmly committed to resolve the current situation along the LAC through engagement,” Gen. Naravane said. In a statement, the Army said Gen. Naravane interacted with soldiers and local commanders deployed in difficult high-altitude forward areas. It said he appreciated their high morale and standards of professionalism exhibited by the units in safeguarding the country’s territorial integrity. The Army chief was briefed about the overall security scenario by Lt Gen. YK Joshi, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Northern Command, and Lt Gen. Harinder Singh, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. In Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing earlier in the day that on issues left over from history, like the boundary issue, China always believes finding a fair, reasonable, mutually acceptable solution through peaceful consultations. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-sco-meet-rajnath-singh-tells-china-to-restore-status-quo-at-lac/story-ylvhTnX21W0A9A8nEsFRRK.html
05-09-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee’s gesture to save East Bengal football club has a political connotation||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has helped the century-old East Bengal football club to land an investor thereby removing the biggest hurdle in the club’s path to play in the Indian Super League (ISL), India’s top football league. As the announcement was being made at the state secretariat on Wednesday and the program aired live on the Trinamool Congress’ social networking page, congratulatory messages were popping up with the club’s fans hailing the Trinamool Congress chief for her efforts to “save the club from being a refugee”. “In their 100th year, East Bengal were nearly deprived of playing in ISL. Mohun Bagan had signed an agreement (to play in ISL) earlier but there was a lot of uncertainty over East Bengal. It was not desirable that millions of their supporters would be deprived,” Banerjee had said while making the announcement from the state secretariat. Political experts said that even though the initiative might have helped Banerjee and her party strike a chord with the club’s millions of fans in one go and woo the sentiments of football-loving Bengalis, they were skeptical whether such efforts would materialise into electoral gains in the crucial 2021 elections. “This would surely help her to strike a chord with the East Bengal club’s fans and gain some political mileage over the BJP in the tussle over establishing control over the clubs. But I don’t think it would give her any electoral mileage in the 2021 elections. Elections are not fought over which party is helping a football club,” said Udayan Bandyopadhyay, professor of political science at Kolkata’s Bangabasi College. Experts said that control over the clubs is an age old practice among the ruling parties. The CPIM did it in the past when it was in power in the state. The BJP does it at the centre and the TMC is doing this at the state level. The BJP’s Bengal unit which had been nibbling at every opportunity to make inroads into the Trinamool Congress’s support base in West Bengal had also been trying to score brownie points in the tussle over the clubs. The party had been trying hard over the past few years to find solution for the crisis the East Bengal and Mohan Bagan clubs have been facing. While in 2017 had written to the Prime Minister requesting his intervention to include Mohun Bagan and East Bengal in the ISL, a year ago the two clubs had approached BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya to find a solution. “Mamata Banerjee knows very well that he is losing ground and her popularity is fading among the youths of Bengal. So she is trying to make every effort to woo them. By these stunts won’t help,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary of the BJP. And it was not just East Bengal. Banerjee on Wednesday also tried to touch the emotional chord of millions of football loving Bengalis saying that her government is planning to come up with three gates in Kolkata after the three top football clubs – East Bengal, Mohun Bagan and Mohammedan Sporting - in Kolkata. Political experts however feel that such efforts may have given the TMC some edge over its opposition but won’t fetch votes when it comes to elections which are fought out based on hard realities. “In a democratic country, clubs and organsiations should run in an autonomous manner. But that hardly happens now-a-days. The reason is two-fold. While on one hand the clubs lack powerful leaders and need an umbrella for their existence which they get from the ruling party, on the other hand the ruling party also gives them patronage and interfere to grab more power. It’s a symbiotic relation,” said psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty, a professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University. Even though the club was formed in 1920 in Kolkata, the founding fathers of East Bengal hailed from Bangladesh (then known as East Bengakl). As a result it was though that a sizeable chunk of the people who came to settle in India from Bangladesh after the 1971 war, were East Bengal fans. Many of them settled in north Bengal and hence north Bengal has a chunk of the club’s fan base. Interestingly the TMC is eyeing for north Bengal in the coming elections as the BJP had won seven out of the eight seats in the region and the Congress bagging one in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-gesture-to-save-east-bengal-football-club-has-a-political-connotation/story-UqDcw8effeppXvJdUSpatL.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19 test mandatory for lawmakers attending Telangana assembly session from Monday||Lawmakers of Telangana have to test negative for Covid-19 if they want to attend the monsoon session of the state assembly beginning on September 7. This was announced by speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy on Friday, while speaking to reporters on the preparedness for the assembly session. He said it was mandatory for all MLAs and MLCs to undergo tests for Covid-19 and only those who produced certificates to prove that they had tested negative for the virus would be allowed to attend the session. “Even if the MLAs do not have fever but are suffering from cold and cough, it is better they avoid attending the assembly,” he said. Reddy said similar conditions would be applicable to the police, assembly staff members, department officials and employees and even mediapersons covering the session. “Before the commencement of the session, they should compulsorily undergo tests for Covid-19. They should produce certificates showing that they tested negative. Only then would they be given passes for entering the assembly,” the speaker said. He said already two of the 119 MLAs had tested negative and others had undergone tests but were awaiting reports. They should come to the assembly premises only with negative reports. “No permission would be given for personal assistants of MLAs, but the personal secretaries of ministers would be allowed to attend the session,” Reddy said. He said all the lawmakers would be given a medical kit that comprises an oximeter, thermometer and sanitiser. “If the blood oxygen percentage is less than 90, they should not come to the assembly at all,” the speaker said. Facilities like thermal screening and sanitisers would be provided at the entrance itself. Thorough sanitisation of the premises would be done twice a day in the morning and the evening. “Even microphone to be used by the member would be sanitised. Unlike in the past, only one MLA would be allowed to sit in one seat. We are hoping that the session would run for 20-21 days,” the speaker said. He appealed to the legislators and others who come to the premises not to visit the residences of their friends and relatives and attend any functions during the period of the assembly session. “No visitor would be allowed to the assembly during the session. Even the visitors’ gallery would be allotted to media persons. There is no separate media point for the MLAs and ministers to address the media this time,” he said. To be on the safe side, ambulances, doctors and paramedical staff would also be kept ready in the assembly premises in case of any emergency for anybody, Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-test-mandatory-for-lawmakers-attending-telangana-assembly-session-from-monday/story-Kx3HOGJ0kzJ2oGLkERFwiN.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19: 4 million milestone paints a grim picture nationally||The number of total Covid-19 cases in India surpassed the 4 million-mark on Friday with little sign of the virus’s pace slowing in the country. States with a large number of cases, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka (Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 by cases), continue to exhibit signs that the contagion is spreading fast with no peak in sight, according to data analysed by HT. States such as Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Punjab face the risk of becoming the new hot spots due to a rapid increase in new cases, rising positivity rates and (in the first two) low testing.To identify the new hot spots of the outbreak, HT analysed data from India’s 20 most populous regions, looking for three factors — a rising positivity rate, a high growth rate of daily cases, and low tests per million residents — that have marked all hot spots globally. A similar analysis by HT on July 27 identified Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar as possible outbreak states – and all reported a sharp increase in cases through August.Delhi, the only region in the country that had reported a clear turnaround with performance improving on the three parameters at the beginning of August, saw its performance drop in two of these parameters – it has seen a significant resurgence of daily cases coupled with a rise in positivity rate. To be sure, with improved testing, the Capital has been showing glimpses of improved numbers in the past few days.Bihar, meanwhile, appears to have set an example of how a state can improve its numbers by aggressively improving testing numbers as both its doubling and positivity rates improved. CASE RATEThe rate of increase in cases for a region is generally measured by what is known as doubling rate — the number of days it takes for the total infections in the region to double (the higher the number, the better).At 13.7 days, Chhattisgarh has the worst doubling rate in India and is one of only three states that have seen this metric worsen in the past month (the other two being Haryana and Delhi). It is followed by Jharkhand (16.5 days), Odisha (22 days), and Punjab (24.1 days). To be sure, the national doubling rate is 32.4 days, which has improved from 20.7 days at the start of August, but this has come even as the quantum of cases has risen sharply – India had 1.7 million cases at the start of August and was adding around 55,000 cases a day; this has since increased to around 80,000 daily cases in the last week or so.Among the major hot spots, Karnataka features in the bottom quartile with a doubling rate of 27.2 days. Andhra Pradesh has a doubling rate of 28.6 days. The doubling rate in Maharashtra, the country’s worst-hit state, is only slightly above the national average – 34.6 days. In Tamil Nadu, the plateau of cases is evident in its relatively better doubling rate — 48.3 days.The resurgence of cases in Delhi, meanwhile, has seen its doubling rate drop from nearly 90 days to 57.7 days – the biggest change among the states analysed. However, it still has the best doubling rate in India.Bihar’s doubling rate went from one of the worst in the country in August (11.9 days) to 49.4 days on September 3, the third highest. POSITIVITY RATE AND TESTINGIn 12 of the 20 states analysed, the positivity rate – the proportion of people testing positive to those tested – increased in the last month. Positivity rate shows how widespread the virus is in the region, and when coupled with a rise in new cases, indicates that the virus is spreading fast.Maharashtra continues to have the highest 7-day average positivity rate in the country at 21.7% (up 3.4 percentage points in the last month; the data is for the week ended September 3). Even at the start of August, the state had the highest positivity rate in the country, a statistic that highlights the magnitude of the challenge that faces the western state.Andhra Pradesh, with the second highest caseload in India, has the second highest positivity rate as well — 17.1% (up 2.3 percentage points). Chhattisgarh has the third-worst positivity rate – 13.8% over the last week (an increase of 8.1 percentage points). Though Karnataka’s positivity rate dropped 3 points to 12.9%, it remains in the worst performing zone. Delhi, meanwhile, saw an increase of positivity rate from 5.9% to 9% — which means the Capital had the fifth worst figure in the country.In Punjab, the positivity rate increased 1.8 percentage points (from 6.3% for the week ended August 1 to 8.1%) over the last month.For the week ending September 2, 7.7% of tests came back positive across the country (an improvement of 2.9% from August 1). In total, 8.4% of tests have come back positive across the country till date.Bihar, meanwhile, witnessed the biggest improvement in positivity rate. For the week ending August 1, 14% of the tests were positive for Covid-19 in the state; this dropped to 1.7% for the week ending September 3. Much of this is because of the increased rate of testing – average daily tests in the state went from 20,000 at the start of August to 113,000 by September.In terms of testing rate, Madhya Pradesh was at the bottom, with 17,554 tests performed per million of the population, followed by West Bengal (20,853) against the national average of 35,020. Chhattisgarh was again among the worst performers, with the third lowest testing rate – 21,430. It was followed by UP (26,893) and Jharkhand (27,206).Testing, however, is a parameter that offers hope for residents of Delhi (84,251 tests per million, the highest in India), Andhra Pradesh (74,793), and Karnataka (47,477) — all perform much better than the national average of 35,020 tests per million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4mn-milestone-paints-a-grim-picture-nationally/story-yb6x54tUOtLZBaYQIkNjeK.html
05-09-2020||India||In message to China, India cautions against aggression||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday held talks with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe on the sidelines of the ongoing Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow at a time when the two nuclear powers have been locked in a bitter border row in eastern Ladakh for around four months, officials familiar with the developments said.In the highest level of government contact between India and China since the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) unilaterally changed the status quo on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in May, the two ministers are understood to have discussed the border stalemate and the way forward to reduce military tensions in the Ladakh sector. The Chinese side had sought the meeting, the officials said.The meeting, details of which were yet to emerge at the time of going to press, came days after fresh tension erupted in the Ladakh sector following provocative Chinese actions on the southern bank of Pangong Lake and India’s counter-manoeuvres to occupy key heights that offer the Indian Army a sweeping view of Chinese military activity in the area.Hours before meeting Wei, Singh, while speaking at an SCO ministerial meeting in Moscow, underscored the need for countries in the SCO region to be sensitive to each other’s interests and resolve differences peacefully, with a climate of trust, non-aggression, sensitivity towards each other.The comments were made in the presence of Fenghe.“Peaceful stable and secure region of SCO member states – which is home to over 40% of global population, demands a climate of trust and cooperation, non-aggression, respect for international rules and norms, sensitivity to each other’s interest and peaceful resolution of differences,” Singh tweeted, summing up his address at the combined meeting of defence ministers of SCO, Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) member states.“I reaffirm today that India is committed to the evolution of a global security architecture which will be open, transparent, inclusive, rules-based and anchored in international laws... This year marks the 75th anniversary of the end of the Second World War as well as the formation of the United Nations, which underpins a peaceful world, where international laws and sovereignty of states are respected and states refrain from unilateral aggression on another,” Singh was quoted by PTI as saying in his address.Singh and his Chinese counterpart met on a day Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the situation along the LAC was “delicate and serious”, and soldiers were prepared for any contingency. In Ladakh for a security review, Naravane said India would use existing mechanisms to reduce tensions and ensure that the status quo along the LAC is not unilaterally changed. The army chief said the Indian side was firmly committed to resolving the current situation through dialogue. The external affairs ministry on Thursday blamed China for the tensions along the LAC over the past four months and said the only way forward was through negotiations.In July, Singh said the progress in negotiations with China should help resolve the ongoing border dispute but he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved”.Tensions flared in the Ladakh sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to stop the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.The PLA made another provocative move on August 31, targeting these positions but the Indian Army’s swift defensive action thwarted the Chinese attempt. Both sides have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces; and are within each other’s rifle range.The Indian Army has readjusted its deployments at multiple points along the LAC, including the northern bank of Pangong Lake, to prevent the PLA from making aggressive moves to unilaterally alter the status quo in contested areas.In his address earlier during the day, Singh also flagged concerns about the situation in the Persian Gulf region. He said: “India has vital interests and links of civilisation and culture with all states in the Gulf. We call upon countries in the region – all of which are dear and friendly to India, to resolve differences by dialogue based on mutual respect, sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of each other.” Singh said the security situation in Afghanistan was a matter of concern and New Delhi would continue to support the efforts of the people and Afghan government for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled inclusive peace process.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Friday termed the ongoing border tension with China as “unprecedented situation” and said that India remains firmly committed to preserving its territorial integrity and sovereignty.“It is an unprecedented situation; we have never had this kind of situation since 1962. We have lost for the first time, lives of soldiers which has not happened in the last 40 years,” Shringla said while speaking at the Indian Council for World Affairs (ICWA) webinar on India-China border issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-message-to-china-india-cautions-against-aggression/story-ARiPifkWi7x1UkgqgGI2hM.html
05-09-2020||India||Andhra poll panel chief seeks CBI probe into a state CID case filed against him||More than a month after being reinstated as the Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner (SEC), following a prolonged legal battle with the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government, retired IAS officer Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Friday moved the high court again seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against the state Crime Investigation Department (CID).In a petition, the SEC brought to the notice of the court that the Director-General of Police and the CID authorities had filed a false and frivolous case against him on April 21 at the behest of the ruling YSR Congress party.He requested that the high court directs the Central government to order an inquiry through any Central agency, preferably the CBI, into the case filed against the SEC by the CID.Ramesh Kumar also wanted the court to stop the state government, the DGP and the CID authorities from interfering with the functioning of the election commission, thereby stifling its autonomy guaranteed under Article 243 K of the Constitution of India, as being illegal, manifestly arbitrary and in contravention of the spirit of Article 243K of the Constitution.He also asked the court to quash the FIR registered against the SEC and grant a stay on the CID inquiry, pending disposal of the petition. All the material seized by the CID from the office of the SEC be returned forthwith, Ramesh Kumar said.The petition is likely to come up for hearing on September 7.It may be mentioned that the CID, based on a complaint lodged by YSRC general secretary V Vijay Sai Reddy, registered a case on April 21. The CID charged Ramesh Kumar with forcing his staff at the SEC to destroy certain files in the office computer pertaining to his complaint to the Union home secretary seeking protection by the central agency. Ramesh Kumar wrote to the Union ministry stating that he needed security form central forces as he was facing threat to his life from the YSRC leaders. He pointed out that none other than chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy himself made wild allegations against him and his cabinet colleagues had used abusive and threatening language against the SEC.As part of the investigation, the CID seized the central processing unit (CPU), scanner and laptop of the SEC, postal register and mobile phone of one of the employees K Samba Murthy, who allegedly erased all the files in the system. Ramesh Kumar expressed the apprehension that the seizure was aimed at tampering with the election process that was underway.Subsequently, the Jagan government removed Ramesh Kumar from the SEC post through an ordinance but the latter moved the high court challenging the same. After a prolonged battle in the high court and later in the Supreme Court, the Jagan government reinstated him as the SEC on July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-poll-panel-chief-seeks-cbi-probe-into-a-state-cid-case-filed-against-him/story-CN3BnQuWEUmUfImvAYAcOP.html
05-09-2020||India||Man arrested for rape-murder of 3-year-old UP girl||A man accused of raping and killing a three-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district was arrested after an encounter with the police on Friday, police said.The accused, identified as Lekhram, 35, from the girl’s village, sustained a bullet injury on his leg during the gunfight near Bamhanpur village in Nighasan area in the district. He was rushed to Nighasan health centre, where he is undergoing treatment and his condition is said to be stable. A policeman from the special weapons and tactics (SWAT) team also suffered minor bullet injuries in Friday’s encounter that was led by the district police chief, Satendra Kumar.Deputy superintendent of police, Nighasan, Pradeep Kumar Verma confirmed the arrest.The girl’s body was found in a sugarcane field near her village under Singhai police station limits of the district on Thursday, a day after she was reported missing by her family. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police, Satendra Kumar, said on Friday the post-mortem examination had confirmed sexual assault. “The postmortem report has confirmed rape... strict action will be taken against the accused,” he said, adding: “If needed, NSA will also be invoked against the accused.”The girl died after being strangled, according to the postmortem report.Kumar said that IPC section 376, pertaining to rape, and charges under the protection of children from sexual offences (POCSO) Act had been added to the FIR on the basis of the findings of the post-mortem report.The police initially suspected it to be a murder over enmity between two families. The girl’s father had then accused Lekhram in the FIR filed on Wednesday, the day the girl had gone missing.This is the third such incident reported from the Kheri district in recent weeks. Last month, two men were arrested for allegedly raping and killing a 13-year-old girl in Isanagar police station area of the district. On August 25,the body of a 17-year-old Dalit girl was found in a pond outside her village under Neemgaon police station limits in the district. She was allegedly raped and killed near her village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-rape-murder-of-3-year-old-up-girl/story-sdXunt6g3KH06IrUgQ5q1M.html
05-09-2020||India||Declassified White House tapes: Criticism over Richard Nixon’s racist, sexist remarks||Richard M Nixon, the late president who left the White House in disgrace, used racist and sexist language to vent his frustration with India over the 1971 War, especially Indian women, possibly triggered by his well-known antipathy towards then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, according to recently declassified White House tapes.The comments have come under severe criticism from the Indian community in the US, and bodies representing them have described the statements as “appalling” but in line with Nixon’s “bigoted views”.“Undoubtedly the most unattractive women in the world are the Indian women,” Nixon said in June 1971, adding, for emphasis, “Undoubtedly.”He continued: “The most senseless, nothing, these people. I mean, people say, what about the Black Africans? Well, you can see something, the vitality there, I mean they have a little animal-like charm, but God, those Indians, ack, pathetic. Uch.”The tapes show that Nixon told his National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger: “To me, they turn me off. How the hell do they turn other people on, Henry? Tell me.”These remarks are from a fresh lot of declassified White House recordings obtained by Gary Bass, writer of “The Blood Telegram”, the seminal book about the independence of Bangladesh, and they were reported by him first for The New York Times on Thursday.Indira Gandhi had met Nixon ahead of the 1971 war that broke out in December with India liberating Bangladesh — then East Pakistan — from Pakistan. The United States had sided with Pakistan in that war and Nixon had sent the Sixth Fleet to intimidate India.Nixon’s antipathy for Gandhi and Indians has been reported before. He had used foul language to describe the late PM in an earlier lot of recordings declassified in 2005. He had also used insulting language for Indians, calling them “a slippery, treacherous people”.In the recently declassified tapes, Nixon used explicitly racist and sexist comments. “They turn me off, he said for Indians. “They are repulsive and it’s just easy to be tough with them.”On November 12, 1971, in another conversation the president said, “I don’t know how they reproduce.”The shockingly insulting language used by the then US president for Indians is in character for Nixon. “I was appalled when I learned about the prejudice against Indians and people of other nationalities exhibited by a former American president and his national security adviser,” said Sanjeev Joshipura, the executive director of Indiaspora, a group that works with the Indian diaspora. “We already knew about Nixon’s and Kissinger’s bigoted views, but the visceral nature of these comments does not behove American government leaders, and is extremely offensive to so many around the world! Moreover, it is disgustingly unprofessional to conduct foreign policy and global diplomacy hinging upon the base instincts of humankind.”“Thankfully,” he added, “the tone and trajectory of US-India relations today is the polar opposite of the attitudes expressed by Nixon and Kissinger.”There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the new tapes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criticism-over-nixon-s-racist-sexist-remarks/story-RL7mz6Nt3PpPfElKqDQ6RO.html
05-09-2020||India||Marking two years of freedom||When the Supreme Court decriminalised homosexuality in 2018, it was a burst of relief for Nikesh Usha Pushkaran after a decade of battling depression, anxiety and bigotry. The 36-year businessman from Kerala came out as gay to his parents and friends in 2009, only to be stung by hostility. He tried to convince them with literature and science that homosexuality was natural and not a disease, but social strictures in conservative Thrissur and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code – which outlawed “unnatural” sex against the order of nature – swayed their opinion. The prejudice was cemented when the top court in 2013 upheld the 160-year-old colonial law. “I cried all day,” he said. On the morning of September 6, 2018, Nikesh and his partner Sonu, an IT professional, woke up early and parked themselves in front of the television. The couple had got married in July that year in a private ceremony but kept it under wraps, fearing the wrath of family and society. “When the judgment started flashing, I was so happy. India got freedom in 1947. But September 6 was when people like us got freedom,” he said. They came out as a gay couple shortly afterwards, to public adulation and brickbats. “I used to be so afraid to tell anyone I am gay but the verdict gave us the courage,” he said. On September 6, 2018 – responding to 34 petitions – the top court read down Section 377 in the Navtej Johar and Others vs Union of India case. The judgment by a five-judge Constitution Bench lifted a veil of ignominy, violence and bias. Two years down the line, the verdict’s impact is still being felt and while bias hasn’t disappeared – the suicide of a 21-year-old student in May after months of conversion therapy a prime example – the decriminalisation has spurred many ordinary LGBT persons to approach the courts on issues ranging from employment and identity to marriage and police protection.Nikesh is one of them. In January this year, the couple challenged the Special Marriage Act 1954 before the Kerala high court and demanded legal recognition for same-sex marriage. “We all came into the world in the same way so why do heterosexuals have more rights than me? This is not fair,” he said. The case may come up for hearing this month. His hope is not unfounded. In April 2019, the Madras high court upheld the marriage of a transwoman by deciding that the word “bride” in the Hindu Marriage Act encompassed transgender women. The case, Arunkumar vs the Inspector General of Registration, relied on the Navtej Johar judgment as well the top court’s landmark 2014 decision that affirmed the rights of transgender people (National Legal Services Authority vs Union of India).When asked what moved them to go to the court, Arunkumar and his wife Sreeja had a simple answer – they wanted their marriage to be legal and on the same footing as anyone else’s. “This will set an example,” she said. Long battleFor two decades, the battle for LGBT rights in India coalesced around Section 377, which was seen as the root issue for a series of problems – violent “therapy” to cure homosexuality, forced marriages, violence by police or state, lack of access to health care or education. After September 2018, the overarching issue has been replaced by a number of issues important to different groups. “The LGBTQI community after the 377 decision has not articulated anything concrete. While different groups may have certain different concerns… what is unifying is the need for recognition of equality for all…an overarching equality and non-discrimination law is needed in the country,” said Jayna Kothari, a senior SC advocate. The Centre for Law and Policy Research, an organisation that she co-founded, has taken cases related to reservations and concessions in age and cut-off marks for transpersons in police force to the Madras high court, among others. Internationally, too, the 2018 judgment made waves. It was cited in anti-sodomy law challenges in Kenya, Singapore and Botswana – and in the last case, the challenge was successful and the high court of Bostwana decriminalised homosexuality in 2019. Back home, the judgment encouraged a clutch of LGBT persons to approach lower courts to demand police protection from their families or demand constitutional rights. In August this year, the Odisha high court ruled in favour of a 24-year-old transman and his woman partner, saying the two had the right to live with other and relied on the 2014 and 2018 judgments of the apex court. In the last two years, reports of violence against LGBT people, especially transgender persons, have poured in from across India.Moreover, as legal researcher Gowthaman Ranganathan argued, a number of other laws such as anti-beggary, anti-sex work and obscenity statutes exist on the books and police often use them to intimidate LGBT persons. “Plus a host of issues around employment, discrimination, workplace harassment, education have also become LGBT issues. There is a western logic that decriminalisation leads to marriage and inheritance rights. India has a great opportunity to break that logic, focus on questions of basic rights and benefit the most marginalised,” said Ranganathan, currently at the University of Texas, Austin. In his opinion, formal declarations by court – such as in the Navtej Johar judgment – are helpful, but how they play out in everyday life or in police station often varies. This was visible in the Uttarakhand high court in June, when a single-judge bench upheld the right of same-sex couples to live together. The judgment – which came on a habeas corpus petition by one of the partners – was widely hailed in the press and legal circles, but what was largely unreported is that the petition itself failed because the other partner decided to go back to her family after coercion and pressure, reportedly from her parents. Fear and longingFew people embody the dichotomy of the promise and perils faced by the LGBT community better than Delhi residents Kajal and Bhawna [both go by their first name].Kajal, a 26-year-old Dalit woman and Bhawna, a 21-year-old woman who belongs to an Other Backward Class decided to live together after reading about the Supreme Court verdict in an Instagram post. “We felt, we’re not criminals anymore. No one can stop us now,” Kajal said.Yet, barely a few months later, they sought the protection of the Delhi high court. They asked the court to protect their constitutional right to live with a partner of their choice, and said that Bhawna’s family was threatening to harm them.“One of Bhawna’s relatives threatened to kill me and my family members,” Kajal said. Bhawna who grew up facing gender-based discrimination at home was assaulted by members of her family after her relationship came to light. They stopped her from going to college, confiscated her phone and kept her virtually imprisoned.In May 2019, the court ruled that they were free to live with each other, being consenting adults, and provided them police protection. In a later hearing, however, it also asked Bhawna to keep in touch with her family, and withdrew police protection.A year later, Bhawna still faces harassment from her family members. They turned up outside her college in February, while she gave her exams.“My family approached the principal of my college and asked for her help to send me home. So I told the principal that I am a lesbian, and that the Delhi high court has given me an order that allows me to live with my partner. The principal said, no one will touch you,” Bhawna said.“I’m always afraid that my family members will turn up. But the shelter home [where the couple stayed last year after the court order] was amazing to us. I am so thankful for the people who help us to be together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marking-two-years-of-freedom/story-AEFGN8bwX8E0qiyrKBy0UI.html
05-09-2020||India||Review Prashant Bhushan case: BCI to Delhi bar council||The Bar Council of India has asked the Bar Council of Delhi to examine the contempt case conviction and Re 1 fine imposed on Prashant Bhushan by the Supreme Court and take a decision on his role as a lawyer.“Pursuant to the conviction in a criminal case, the Bar Council of India (BCI) can suspend the enrolment, if it so desires,” the judgment said in paragraph 89. The Bar Council of India has now cited the top court’s judgment to ask the Bar Council of Delhi, where Bhushan is enrolled, to examine his tweets mentioned in the case and take action as per law.“The BCI is of the view that the tweets and statements made by Prashant Bhushan and the judgment of the Supreme Court needs thorough study and examination… the General Council of the BCI has unanimously resolved to direct the Bar Council of Delhi, where Bhushan is enrolled as an advocate, to examine the matter and proceed as per law and decide the same as expeditiously as possible,” a statement issued by BCI stated.The Bar Council of a state grants licence to a person to practise as a lawyer and has powers such as suspending or taking away the right of its members in certain situations.Section 24A of the Advocates Act provides that a person shall not be admitted as an advocate on roll of the bar council of the concerned state if he/she is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude. Section 35 of the Act lays down that if an advocate is found guilty of professional or other misconduct, such advocate can be suspended from practice for a limited period or their license can be cancelled altogether. Bhushan was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/review-bhushan-case-bci-to-delhi-bar-council/story-Isfc0DpLEHpcgSE7Lz1VJN.html
05-09-2020||India||Economy to LAC: Opposition charts plan to corner Centre||The Centre’s inability to pay GST compensation to the states, the ongoing border issue in Ladakh between India and China, allegations of Facebook playing favourites when it comes to the Bharatiya Janata Party, and the economic situation arising out of the pandemic will be the focus of the Opposition parties when they meet next week, leaders involved in the discussions said on Friday.Barring last-minute changes, the web meeting, visualised as a show of strength is scheduled for next week, ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament that starts on September 14. The date for the meeting is yet to be finalised.At least 20 opposition parties are likely to meet, which may be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi with the immediate objective of identifying pressing issues and to look at the possibility of launching a people’s movement on key economic issues faced by people under the current regime. A similar meeting took place on May 22 to discuss the Modi government’s decision to impose a federal lockdown to slow the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. In that meeting, the opposition parties described the ₹20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by the government as a “cruel joke” on the country and noted that “the spirit of federalism is all but forgotten” in the NDA regime.Leaders of the Congress, Janata Dal (Secular), Shiv Sena, Trinamool Congress, JMM, NCP, DMK, CPIM, CPI, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), RJD, IUML, National Conference, AIUDF and RLD are expected to join the meeting.The Centre’s inability to pay GST compensation to the states is set to be one of the key issues that will be raised by states ruled by non-BJP parties. The Centre has offered two options before the states to meet the ₹2.35 lakh crore-shortfall in GST revenues in the current fiscal. One involves the states borrowing ₹97000 crore from a special window of the Reserve Bank of India, with the interest and principal to be paid from the compensation cess collected on luxury and sin products. Another involves the states borrowing the entire shortfall of ₹2.35 lakh crore shortfall under the special window, but paying the interest themselves. Many non-BJP ruled states have expressed their displeasure with both options. They want the centre to borrow to make good the shortfall. The states also blame the Narendra Modi government for economic mismanagement. India’s GDP fell by 23.9% in April-June quarter. The upcoming meeting will seek to start campaign on these key issues but it will look for a suitable method due to Covid-related restrictions. The leaders have identified the government’s “failure in both containing pandemic and providing relief”, the imperative to “protect constitutional order which is being eroded” and the immediate need for e “immediate relief to people” in the backdrop of the economic woes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-to-lac-opposition-charts-plan-to-corner-centre/story-elS4ZMpOS1TGp4DYqOlDyJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Can’t be business as usual: Foreign secy on China ties||The situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is “unprecedented” and it “cannot be business as usual” in the relationship with China until the status quo is restored on the disputed border, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. The standoff on the LAC is one of the most serious challenges India has faced in several decades and the current “magnitude of amassing of forces” on the border has not been witnessed in recent years, Shringla said while speaking on the theme of Indian diplomacy amid the Covid-19 pandemic during a lecture organised by the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA). “We have had an unprecedented situation on the India-China border, we have never had this sort of situation since 1962. We have lost the lives of soldiers which has not happened in the last 40 years,” he said, referring to the brief but bitter border war fought almost six decades ago. “We have also seen that there has been an attempt to take unilateral action that seems to be an effort to change facts on the ground. We will be firm and resolute in resisting this, and as far as we are concerned, there will be no compromise on our sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Shringla said hours ahead of a planned meeting between the Indian and Chinese defence ministers on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow. Though India remains willing to talk with China and has kept the lines of communication open amid the pandemic, Shringla warned that it “cannot be business as usual unless there is peace and tranquillity in our border areas”. He added, “The normal bilateral relationship will be affected. There is a linkage between what is happening on the border and our larger relationship and that fact is very, very evident.” The only way to take things forward will be “revert to the status quo that existed before such aggressive actions took place” and to de-escalate and disengage front-line troops, he said. India have held several rounds of talks at the military and diplomatic level and even contacts between the two foreign ministers and Special Representatives on border issues haven’t led to a breakthrough since the standoff emerged in the open in May. Following a fresh face-off on the south bank of Pangong Lake, there have been four rounds on inconclusive talks between brigade commanders on the ground. Shringla described the standoff as “one of the most serious challenges we have faced in many decades” but India remains committed to preserving its territorial integrity and sovereignty. He also focused on how India’s foreign policy is coping with the challenges brought on by the pandemic, which he described as “perhaps the greatest shock to the international system since World War 2”. The Covid-19 crisis has made India take a close look at the fundamental drivers of globalisation and the deficiencies and limitations of the existing global system, he added. At a time when every country is looking at its own interests, there is a need for some sort of balance and to broaden the agenda of the international system and institutions, he said. The world order also has to focus on ensuring that a Covid-19 vaccine is accessible and affordable, and that there is “some level of equitable distribution” for it, he added. India also has been at the forefront of digital diplomacy because its “global spread of interests and stakes makes us vulnerable on many fronts”, Shringla said. The government is now working to make the country the nerve centre of global supply chains and promoting it as an alternative manufacturing hub and innovation destination, he said. The government remains committed to its “neighbourhood first” policy, Shringla said. However, he acknowledged that the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) had taken a back seat to the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (Bimstec) because “one of our neighbours has been consistently involved in blocking Saarc in all of its constructive activities”. Though Shringla didn’t name any country, it was obvious he was referring to Pakistan. Bimstec, he said, had emerged as an alternative mechanism because it was a vital link between South and Southeast Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-be-business-as-usual-foreign-secy-on-china-ties/story-IcjQD9knNNpxL2hgy8LO8O.html
05-09-2020||India||Brics wary of global conflicts||The Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping on Friday expressed concern at violence and conflicts in different parts of the world and said such situations should be resolved peacefully through political dialogue. The joint statement issued after a virtual meeting of Brics foreign ministers didn’t refer to any particular conflict, and the grouping has a convention of not taking up bilateral issues between its members. However, the meeting was held against the backdrop of the months-long border standoff between India and China, two of the grouping’s key members. “The ministers expressed concerns at the rise of violence and continuing conflicts in different parts of the world that have significant impact at both the regional and international levels,” the joint statement said. “They concurred that, irrespective of their historic background and distinctive nature, conflicts should be resolved by peaceful means and diplomatic engagement through political dialogue and negotiations in line with principles and norms of international law, particularly the UN Charter,” it added. The ministers pointed to the UN Security Council resolution 2532 of 2020 demanding a general and immediate cessation of hostilities in all situations, with the exception of operations against terror groups sanctioned by the Security Council, and calling for a “durable humanitarian pause” amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The ministers also “underlined the imperative of dialogue to address increasing international peace and security challenges through political and diplomatic means”, the joint statement said. A readout from the external affairs ministry said the discussions at the meeting centred round an overview of the global situation, including “new threats and challenges” and “regional hot spots”. The Brics meeting was to have been held in Moscow on September 11 but was advanced to Friday and made a virtual event after the foreign ministers of Brazil and South Africa said they couldn’t travel because of the pandemic. Besides external affairs minister S Jaishankar, it was joined by China’s Wang Yi, Russia’s Sergey Lavrov, who chaired the meeting. Brazil’s Ernesto Araújo, and South Africa’s Grace Naledi Pandor. Jaishankar spoke to Wang soon after the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley, and the two leaders have joined several virtual multilateral meetings. Jaishankar and Wang are also expected to meet on the margins of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10. The foreign ministers also discussed Brics cooperation at international forums, including on key issues on the 75 UN General Assembly agenda, and reviewed progress in activities under the grouping. Jaishankar said Brics has an important role to play in the wake of grave challenges in the economic, political, social and health fields. He highlighted India’s “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” initiative to foster mutually beneficial global economic engagement in economy, infrastructure, technology, demography and demand. He also emphasised the need to reform the UN to reflect global realities and called for expansion of the Security Council in the permanent and non-permanent categories. He also called for reformed multilateralism, including reform of international bodies such as the WTO, IMF and WHO. Jaishankar also highlighted the issue of terrorism and sought enhanced Brics cooperation in countering it. He expressed satisfaction at the conclusion of the Brics counter-terrorism strategy. India is set to become the Brics chair in 2021, and Jaishankar said the country will continue to strengthen cooperation under the grouping’s three pillars of political and security cooperation, economics and trade and people-to-people contacts. The ministers also reaffirmed support for a transparent, open, inclusive and non-discriminatory rules-based multilateral trading system, as embodied by the WTO, the joint statement said. They appreciated the role of the New Development Bank (NDB) in infrastructure and sustainable development financing and welcomed the NDB Board of Governors’ decision to establish an emergency assistance facility of up to $10 billion and the approval of four loans for a total of $4 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-wary-of-global-conflicts/story-DEdpmDcY6ZG2dnndgyQiDL.html
05-09-2020||India||Khaki should evoke pride, not fear: PM Modi||The humane side of the police has come to the fore during the Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a batch of new Indian Police Service (IPS) officers on Friday, saying that rather than trying to inspire awe they should seek to build bridges with society.In a video interaction with officers passing out of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy in Hyderabad, Modi referred to the image of policemen as conjured in movies such as Singham as compared to his own experience when a steadfast officer ensured that he did not violate any safety norms as chief minister.“Some policemen when they initially join duty feel that they should make people fear them and hold them in awe. And that anti-social elements should feel chills at the mere mention of my name,” Modi said, adding that the movies also created such an impression.Modi said because of such feelings, many things that should be done get ignored.“If you have 100-500 people under you, how to bring qualitative change in them. Do you want to create influence or build bridges?” the prime minister asked. “If you create influence it will be short-lived but if you create bridges of affection people would remember you for years,” he said.Modi said often one of the first interactions that policemen have is with political leaders. In a democracy, public representatives have huge importance, be they from any party, he said. Even if there are differences, there is a way to resolve them, he said.Modi said when he became chief minister for the first time, IPS officer Atul Karwal, now the head of the National Police Academy, was his security incharge.“All the paraphernalia, police arrangements, I do not feel comfortable with it. But I had to stay within them. However, sometimes, I would go and shake hands with people in a crowd or get out of the car. One day Atul Karwal came to my chamber and expressed his disapproval. It was 20 years ago when he was relatively junior. He looked at his chief minister in the eye and told me you can’t do this. You can’t get out of the car on your own or mingle with crowds,” said Modi.Modi said he asked Karwal if he would dictate what to do. “He did not flinch but courteously said you are not just a person but belong to the state and it is my duty to protect you and to ensure that rules are followed.”Responding to a question on Kashmir, Modi emphasised on greater connect with the people of the state and said those taking the wrong path should be dissuaded. “I have connected to the people of Kashmir and found them to be very lovely. The children who adopt a wrong path, we have to stop them from doing so. And this work can be done best by lady officers. To bring these children back, to explain to their mothers, our lady officers can do a superb job,” he said.Khaki should not evoke fear but pride, said Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khaki-should-evoke-pride-not-fear-pm/story-oSus5W5ibn054AlXL1nMjK.html
05-09-2020||India||Situation at LAC is serious: Army chief||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said that the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) was “delicate and serious”, and the army has taken some precautionary measures to enhance security in the wake of the standoff with China in the Ladakh sector.He said the troops were prepared for all contingencies, and that India would use existing mechanisms to reduce tension and ensure that the status quo along the LAC is not unilaterally changed. “The situation along the LAC is tense. We have undertaken precautionary deployment in some areas. The troops are prepared for all contingencies that may arise. All these actions have been carried out only along the LAC,” the army chief said in Ladakh.Top commanders briefed Naravane on the army’s operational preparedness and the logistics arrangements for sustenance of forces through the winter, the army said in a statement. The army is preparing for a long haul in the sensitive sector, with no immediate resolution of the border row in sight. The Indian Army has moved 30,000 extra troops, several squadrons of front line tanks, additional artillery pieces and mechanised infantry squads to the Ladakh sector, as part of its efforts to strengthen its deployments in response to fortified Chinese military presence in the region during the last two to three months. “We can’t take things for granted in the Ladakh sector keeping in mind the behaviour of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). No matter what diplomatic statements come from China, we should not trust the PLA. China’s leadership is arrogant, overambitious and land greedy. The PLA is not going to go back in the winter months and we have to stay vigilant 24x7 as a nation and as a military,” said Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd), whose report on enhancing the army’s combat potential is under implementation.Naravane reached Leh on Thursday for a two-day security review of the Ladakh sector, where the Indian and Chinese armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. He said the LAC situation has been delicate for more than three months and talks were on at the military and diplomatic level to resolve the situation. “I am confident that talks can help resolve the border problem fully. The Indian side is firmly committed to resolve the current situation along the LAC through engagement. We will continue to utilise all existing mechanisms to reduce tension and to ensure that the status quo is not unilaterally changed,” said Naravane, after visiting several forward areas to get a firsthand assessment of the situation along the LAC. He said soldiers were highly motivated and fully prepared to deal with any situation. “Our officers and men are the finest in the world and they will not only make the army proud but also the nation proud,” the army chief said, while appreciating the high standards of professionalism shown by units in safeguarding India’s territorial integrity. He asked them to remain vigilant and maintain a high order of operational readiness. “The Indian Army is known for its commitment and resolve. The nation can count on us,” he said. The Indian Army has rejigged its deployments at multiple points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, including the northern bank of Pangong Lake, to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from making aggressive manoeuvres to unilaterally alter the status quo in contested areas. Tensions flared in the sensitive sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to stop the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. Brigade commander-ranked officers from the two sides have held a series of talks to de-escalate tensions but the dialogue hasn’t yielded any results with neither army prepared to make concessions. Amid rising tensions with China in the Ladakh sector after provocative Chinese actions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso and India’s counter-manoeuvres to occupy key heights, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Thursday said Pakistan could try to take advantage of any threat developing along India’s northern borders but warned that the Pakistani army would suffer heavy losses if it attempted any misadventure. Rawat highlighted the threat of “coordinated action” by the militaries of China and Pakistan along the northern and western borders and stressed that the Indian armed forces were capable of handling the joint threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-at-lac-is-serious-army-chief/story-4ZEDvIjT9lsdoMywKhd38K.html
05-09-2020||India||Kannada actress held in drug case||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bangalore police arrested Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi in connection relation to an ongoing probe into a drugs case following a huge haul of marijuana in late August. An FIR has been registered in the Cottonpet police station of the city and the actress is likely to be produced before a magistrate via video conferencing.Earlier in the day, police raided her residence.The case is related to another one involving a haul of MDMA on August 20 in the state, which lead the police to start investigating personalities from the Kannada film industry, locally referred to as Sandalwood. Some arrests have been made in that case too. The CCB on Wednesday issued a notice to the actress to appear before it for investigations on Thursday, but the actress sent a team of lawyers who had requested time till Monday. CCB police responded by raiding her residence after obtaining a court warrant on Friday.Ragini was detained for questioning and arrested after seven hours of sustained interrogation. Her request for anticipatory bail is pending before the sessions court which has posted it for hearing on September 7.Speaking to reporters at a press conference, Bangalore Commissioner of Police Kamal Pant said the raid was conducted based on credible information provided by two people Ravishankar and Rahul , arrested for involvement in the drug trade. The investigations began after the police seized a truck carrying 204 kg of marijuana on 27 August which lead them to Ravishankar and Rahul. While Ravishankar is a government employee working with RTO (regional transport office) and a close friend of Ragini’s , Rahul is a real estate developer said to be close to another Sandalwood actress Sanjana Galrani. Pant did not specify whether any other Sandalwood personalities would be called for investigation or arrested. “You have only seen the trailer, wait for the full movie,” he said. Both Ravishankar and Rahul have confessed to not only using but procuring drugs and selling them to Sandalwood celebrities. Pant said. “They have told us who used to supply them and we are investigating.” Karnataka home minister Basvaraja Bommai said earlier on Friday that the probe into the drug racket in the state would continue till full details emerged. “Our investigations indicate deeper links which are being probed and we cannot reveal all information at this stage.”Tourism minister C T Ravi said that the government would come down hard on those dealing in illegal drugs. “Drug mafia is trying to influence the investigation but our government will not be cowed down and all those involved will be brought to book.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-actress-held-in-drug-case/story-yhjigQ7b9O44JnIiod3hDO.html
05-09-2020||India||House canteen likely to serve food packets||Parliament’s much-publicised canteen may not dish out its cheap but famous dishes this monsoon session amid strict restrictions meant to control spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, only food packets are likely to be served this session -- which runs from September 14 to October 1 -- officials involved in the preparations said.That means the thaalis or wide-ranging a la carte dishes are likely to be off the menu.“It has almost been decided not to cook food in the Parliament complex and serve food packets in a bid to reduce entry of people and crowding in Parliament,” said an official who asked not to be named. To be sure, for the past five months, the canteen has only been serving tea and biscuits, and its lunch service has been stopped. From boiled vegetables to Kesari bhat, the Northern Railway-run canteen normally dishes out a sumptuous menu of 48 items at subsidised prices. According to canteen officials, the vegetarian thali (Rs 40) and chapatti (Rs 2) are the most sought-after items.During a normal session, an average 4,500 people eat at Parliament every day. According to the data available with officials, out of Rs 17 crore subsidy for three years, only Rs 24 lakh was spent on account of MPs. The rest was accounted for by visitors, security personnel and officials. In 2015, then Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan approved a proposal to abolish subsidies on Parliament food, and to run the canteens on a no-profit-no-loss basis. The decision came after years of public criticism that Parliament serves a plate of chicken curry for Rs 29 or dal for just Rs 2.Now, under the new prices, chicken curry costs Rs 50, masala dosa Rs 20, and fruit salad Rs 10.But this session, with lower footfall in Parliament due to various Covid restrictions, visitors will not be allowed to enter the complex, and staff strength will be reduced. “All these measures would also mean, the pressure on canteens would be reduced,” said an official cited above.There are also plans in the works to replace Northern Railway with government’s catering arm ITDC to run the canteen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-canteen-likely-to-serve-food-packets/story-sO9pFZqKtUOeuMwEKJ8AGJ.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Not a small case’: SC rejects Sajjan Kumar’s bail plea in 1984 riots case||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a bail plea filed by former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is lodged in Tihar jail after being convicted in 2018 by the Delhi high court for his role in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said that this was not an ordinary case, brushing aside concerns raised by Kumar’s lawyer regarding his health. “This is not a small case. We cannot grant you bail at all,” CJI Bobde remarked.“The application for grant of bail is dismissed,” the order passed by the bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said.The CJI, however, said that he will list the appeal filed by Kumar challenging the high court verdict as soon as physical hearing restarts in Supreme Court.The Supreme Court is functioning through video conference since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. It has been hearing only a limited number of cases -- mostly those which require urgent relief.On May 13, the apex court declined an interim bail plea by Kumar, saying he does not require immediate hospitalisation. The court had called for a medical report from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on March 4 after Kumar’s lawyers first raised health concerns.The Delhi high court, in December 2018, convicted the 74-year-old politician and sentenced him to life imprisonment for his role in the 1984 massacre. The riots, targeting the Sikh community, broke out after the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was killed by her Sikh bodyguards.In Delhi alone, 2,733 persons were killed. Kumar was convicted for murder (section 302 of Indian Penal Code), criminal conspiracy (section 120B), promoting enmity between religious groups (section 153A), destroying houses and places of worship using fire or explosive substances (section 436) and defiling places of worship (section 295).Kumar’s counsel Vikas Singh submitted on Friday that his client has already spent 18 months in jail, and cited ill-health as a ground to release him, but the bench was firm.Singh then pressed for interim bail for one month, saying this would allow Kumar to regain his health and weight. “I will abide by any condition Your Lordships impose. Your Lordships may at least grant interim bail for 1 month,” Singh said.Senior counsel HS Phoolka, along with Jagjit Singh Chhabra, who were representing the riot victims, opposed the bail plea. Phoolka said that loss of weight was merely an excuse, and that Kumar is being given good care in jail.The court, after taking note of the March 11 report of AllMS, remarked that Kumar’s weight has, in fact, increased, contrary to the claims made by him.“We will put it (appeal) for final hearing as soon as the physical court starts,” CJI Bobde said while dismissing the plea.The Supreme Court, on July 1, declined to grant bail to another 1984 riots convict, Mahender Singh Yadav who had approached the top court after he contracted the coronavirus disease. Yadav, who was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash hospital in Delhi, argued that his relatives were not being allowed to visit, and he should be granted interim bail so as to enable his family members to take suitable steps in view of his deteriorating health.The court rejected the plea saying a convict who is coronavirus positive and is in a hospital cannot get any special treatment or favours. Yadav died three days later.“It is a well conceived order. The main plea taken by them was that he (Sajjan Kumar) has lost weight. But the medical report from AIIMS said that he has gained weight. Judges appreciated this fact and said that they cannot grant bail. The order will assuage the feelings of the victims who have been demanding justice for the last 35 years. It is a perfectly good order,” advocate Chabbra who appeared on behalf of riot victim Jagdish Kaur told HT. Kaur was a resident of Palam Colony in Delhi when the riots broke out in which she lost her husband, sons and cousins.“It is a right order. Though he has been convicted for murder, the criminal acts were in the nature of genocide and does not deserve bail. Court has rightly pointed out the emotive nature of the issue,” SC lawyer Philip Mathew told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-sajjan-kumar-s-bail-plea-in-1984-riots-case/story-Iy8LTQ0IFdQAWujwXmGjgP.html
05-09-2020||India||Police framing anti-CAA protestors in Delhi riots cases, allege activists||A group of activists on Friday accused Delhi Police of falsely implicating people, who had participated in protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) in parts of the national capital between December and February, in north-east Delhi riot cases. In a virtual press conference on Friday, a panel consisting of Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, Swaraj Abhiyan founder Yogendra Yadav, activist Harsh Mander, former JNU student Umar Khalid, and president of the Delhi unit of the Left-affiliated All India Students Association (AISA), Kawalpreet Kaur, alleged the police had been trying to collect “false” affidavits (statements) against the protestors in riots cases.Delhi police’s public relations officer, Eish Singhal, did not wish to comment on the investigation. HT tried to contact special commissioner of police Praveer Ranjan, who did not respond to text messages and calls. Apoorvanand, who was summoned by police last month in connection with the riots, said, “Instead of investigating the violence as they should, Delhi Police are investigating who all had participated in the anti-CAA and NRC protests and trying to falsely implicate them. This current witch-hunting of anti-CAA protesters is not only an attack on a few individuals. Such a sinister profiling of the democratic mass movement basically criminalises our basic right to protest.” Delhi Police in their charge sheets before the court had said the riots were planned at the anti-CAA protest sites by some student leaders, activists and local politicians. The police had arrested several student activists, including Sharjeel Imam, Safoora Zargar, Devangana Kalita and Meeran Haider among others, in connection with north-east riots cases. The activists have denied the changes against them and accused the police of launching a witch-hunt against them. Mander, an activist and founder of Karwan-e-Mohabbat, said the conspiracy behind the north-east Delhi violence was to “punish and crush” the largest non-violent movement in Independent India. Clashes between pro- and anti-CAA groups in north-east Delhi had blown into full-scale communal riots between Hindus and Muslims, which left 53 people dead and more than 400 injured in February this year.“Delhi police has claimed that the protests were the conspiracy (behind the violence) and its non-violence nature was just a facade. In pursuit of this story every day for the last several few weeks, the special branch of Delhi Police, which normally investigates grave crimes such as terrorism, is busy summoning mostly young people, and sometimes seniors, grilling them and intimidating them. A large number of youngsters are languishing in prisons since the last few months without bail in the name of the so-called conspiracy,” Mander said. Yadav said when an arrested persons were granted bail in one case, police booked them in another case under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act to keep them behind bars. “Is this a ploy to keep protestors in jail for long periods, without the need to provide evidence or frame charges? Why is a draconian anti-terror law like UAPA being used to probe this case? It has also come to our notice that the police have been coercing people it has summoned for questioning to give false statements,” he said. Khalid and Kaur, who were also summoned in connection with the riots, accused Delhi Police of speaking the language of BJP and RSS leaders. They alleged the police did not investigate the roles of BJP leaders, including Kapil Mishra, in the violence. “Since December last year, leaders and supporters of the BJP have been seen inciting people and making hate speeches. It would have been reasonable to expect any fair investigative agency to probe the impact such speeches had on the gradual breakdown of law and order in Delhi.” Reacting to the allegations, Mishra said, “They want to divert attention from real issues, and that’s why they are targeting me. Now since the reality of the Delhi riots is coming out in public, and Tahir Hussain , Khalid Saifi and others are confessing in their statements, there is a clear desperation among the masterminds of Delhi riots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-framing-anti-caa-protestors-in-delhi-riots-cases-allege-activists/story-idTlgVHLtvhfWFeO3eeLtM.html
05-09-2020||India||Court restrains from publishing book titled ‘Gunning for the Godman : The True Story behind the Asaram Bapu Conviction’||The Patiala House Court of Delhi on Friday directed the defendants to restrain from publishing the book titled “Gunning for the Godman: The True Story behind the Asaram Bapu Conviction” till the next date of hearing.Additional District Judge RS Meena on Friday granted interim relief to Sanchita Gupta and restrain the publication of a book.Sanchita is a co-accused in a case related to self-styled Godman Asaram Bapu and had approached the Court seeking urgent relief against the publication of the book as the pre-released chapter published on a web portal was defamatory of her and was likely to prejudice her appeal pending before the High Court of Rajasthan.Sanchita Gupta had approached the Court in a civil suit filed by her advocates Naman Joshi and Karan Khanuja and the matter was strongly argued by Advocate Vijay Aggarwal.Arguing for Sanchita, Advocate Aggarwal informed the Court that the book was being published by Harper Collins and scheduled to release on September 5, 2020, both physically and online.The book authored by Ajay Lamba, Additional Commissioner of Police, Jaipur and Sanjiv Mathur claims to be a true story, however, is at variance with the trial record and most importantly interfered with Sanchita’s appeal which was sub-judice and where the High Court of Rajasthan had already suspended her sentence.Advocate Aggarwal argued that an appeal is nothing but a continuation of the trial and when the sentence had been suspended, Sanchita was entitled to a presumption of innocence.Aggarwal also argued that it was completely possible that the High Court of Rajasthan could order a re-examination of witnesses or even a retrial and in such a circumstance the publication of the book in its present form could not be allowed. Aggarwal also contended that publication of the book claiming to be the true story would prejudice Sanchita and run counter to her rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.Aggarwal cited numerous precedents where courts had restrained publication of books and movies to protect the rights of an accused person including those whose appeals were pending before courts. After hearing substantial arguments, the court directed the defendants to restrain the publication of the book till the next date of hearing which is September 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-restrains-from-publishing-book-titled-gunning-for-the-godman-the-true-story-behind-the-asaram-bapu-conviction/story-bQlpi6qn80qT7kKt8jb0xL.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19 pop-up test centres near govt offices, weekly markets soon||The Delhi government will set up next week pop-up Covid-19 testing centres in and around central government offices in the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area, and mobile ones in weekly markets held around the city, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. The centres are part of the government’s effort to scale up testing in Delhi, in light of an increase in cases and positivity rates. Over the past few days the number of tests have increased significantly from 24,198 according the state’s Tuesday bulletin to 36,219 according to the Friday bulletin, even as the positivity rate dipped from 9.55% to 8%. The number of tests was the highest for the third consecutive day. The official said that the locations where the centres will be set up will be decided over the next few days. “The focus will be to make it convenient for central government employees in the city to get tested, even though the centres will be open for all,” added the official.Weekly markets, once a common sight in Delhi, have been restarted on a “trial basis” according to the official, will also see on-site testing through mobile centres using vans that district authorities already have. “This strategy is a part of a larger plan to scale up Covid-19 tests in the city,” the official explained. On August 26, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the capital would double its testing from the around 20,000 level it was at the time and take it up to 40,000 in a week. The official said that the temporary test centres would use rapid antigen kits which are capable of showing results within 45 minutes. Individuals who test negative despite having influenza-like symptoms will be sent for RT-PCR tests, he addedDelhi on Friday recorded 2,914 new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of cases recorded in the Capital to 185,220 so far. It also recorded 13 deaths, taking its death toll to 4,513.Of the total 36,219 tests recorded on Friday, 8488 (23.43%) were RT-PCR tests and the remaining 27,731 were rapid antigen tests. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are considered to be more accurate and the office of the Director General of Health Services in Delhi is working on a plan to increase the number and proportion of RT-PCR tests in the coming days, a second government official said, also on condition of anonymity.Dr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “It is a good thing that the government has scaled up testing. But they should rely more on RT-PCR tests at this juncture. Rapid antigen tests can be done aggressively in containment zones, in hospitals and among high-risk groups and special surveillance groups.”Currently, 207 government dispensaries and 38 public hospitals in the city have Covid-19 rapid antigen testing facilities open for all, free of charge. Temporary test centres have been set up in the Anand Vihar inter-state bus terminal and New Delhi railway station, which witness a high footfall of migrants who are returning to the city as lockdown restrictions are eased. There are also centres outside the Delhi High Court , Supreme Court, and Delhi Secretariat buildings, said the second government official.The first official said Delhi will reach the 40,000 tests-a-day mark in two to three days. On Tuesday, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal directed officials to draft a policy to introduce a ‘test-on-demand’ programme, where people can call a helpline and fix an appointment at the nearest Covid testing centre without having to wait in a queue. He also directed the government to set up test centres near prominent construction sites in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-centres-around-govt-offices-and-weekly-markets/story-iJZNMxYyRurQ9ebTfSpdoM.html
05-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty’s brother, Samuel Miranda to be produced in court||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is looking into the allegations of drug use by late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his actor-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, arrested Rhea’s brother Showik and Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda on Friday night. Two others – Bandra residents Basit Parihar, 23, and Kaizan Ebrahim – were also arrested on Friday on charges of peddling drugs, taking the number of arrests in the case to seven. Watch | Sushant death probe: Rhea’s brother Showik & Samuel Miranda arrested by NCB KPS Malhotra, deputy director of NCB, said, “We have informed the families of Showik and Miranda and both have been arrested under several sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.” Parihar was produced before a magistrate’s court which remanded him in the NCB custody till September 9. Showik, Samuel and Ebrahim will be produced before a magistrate’s court on Saturday. The other three arrested for drug peddling are Zaid Vilatra, 20 (arrested on Thursday), Abbas Lakhani, and Karan Arora (arrested on August 27-28). Lakhani and Arora were arrested based on a specific input in another case and curated marijuana was seized from their possession. Their questioning led the NCB to Vilatra, who told officials that he ran an eatery in Bandra (West) but was suffering losses owing to the lockdown and so started to peddle drugs. Vilatra alleged he was in touch with Ebrahim and Parihar. Parihar allegedly told the NCB that he used to procure drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim on the instructions of Chakraborty’s brother Showik who asked him to give it to Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda. Showik’s chats on a messaging application showed that on March 17, he shared Vilatra’s contact number with Miranda and asked to pay him Rs 10,000 for 5 grams of drugs. Miranda and Vilatra were tracked to the same location on March 17, said NCB officials. A senior IPS officer from the NCB said, “We conducted searches at Miranda’s and Showik’s homes and collected some evidence. The investigation is at a preliminary stage and details of the evidence gathered can’t be revealed at the moment.” NCB officials said they have recovered Indian currency worth Rs 955,750 and foreign currency – US $ 2,081; 180 British Pound, 15 Dirham – from Vilatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-arrests-rhea-chakraborty-s-brother-showik-samuel-miranda-over-allegations-of-drugs-use/story-CJzI76nc5uexTUuvmGVofI.html
05-09-2020||India||Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi arrested in Bengaluru in drug probe||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bengaluru Police arrested Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi in connection with an ongoing probe of drug menace in the film industry. An FIR has been registered at the Cottonpet police station of the city. She is likely to be produced before a magistrate via video conferencing.Earlier in the day, the police had raided her residence. The CCB on Wednesday had issued a notice to the actress to appear before it for investigations on Thursday, but the actress had sent a team of lawyers who had requested for time till Monday. However, CCB police had raided her residence after obtaining a court warrant on Friday.Ragini was detained for questioning and arrested after seven hours of sustained interrogation. Her request for anticipatory bail is pending before the Session’s court which has posted it for hearing on September 7.Earlier in the evening, speaking to reporters at a press conference, Bengaluru Commissioner of Police said the raid had been conducted based on credible information provided by two people Ravishankar and Rahul who have been seized a truck carrying 204 kilograms of marijuana on August 27 which led them to Ravishankar and Rahul.While Ravishankar is said to be a government employee working with RTO (regional transport office) and very close to Ragini, Rahul is a real estate developer said to be close to another actress Sanjana Galrani. Pant did not specify whether any other Kannada film personalities would be called for investigation or arrested cryptically saying, “You have only seen the trailer, wait for the full movie”.Both of them during interrogation are believed to have confessed to not only using but procuring drugs and selling them to celebrities. Pant said, “They have told us who used to supply them and we are investigating.”Karnataka home minister Basvaraja Bommai earlier speaking to reporters at his residence had said that the probe into the drug racket in the state would continue till full details emerged. “Our investigations indicate deeper links which are being probed and we cannot reveal all information at this stage.”Tourism minister C T Ravi said that the government would come down hard on those dealing in illegal drugs. “The drug mafia is trying to influence the investigation but our government will not buckle and all those involved will be brought to book.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-actress-ragini-dwivedi-arrested-in-bengaluru-in-drug-probe/story-uL9aRflpxHOpw1AbshR8mN.html
05-09-2020||India||Jharkhand farmers allege fertilizer price hike, govt suspends 500 dealers||Jharkhand farmers who have sown 16.66% more crops this kharif season compared to previous year, have alleged facing shortage of fertilizer, or being forced to buy it at a high price by dealers at the crucial time of raising plants. However, the state agriculture department said the situation was created by dealers to raise profit. Taking action, the department has suspended more than 500 such dealers on charges of anomalies in fertilizer distribution, officials claimed. Ram Prasad, 50, a farmer from Hazaribag, said, “The fertilizer is being sold at high price here. A pack, which includes 45 kg, of urea is being sold at Rs 340 to Rs 360, while the actual price of the pack is around Rs 270. The retailers do not give any cash memo.” Another farmer from Ramgarh district, Raju Mahto, 45, said, “Dealers force us to buy non-subsidized chemicals such as calcium or gypsum along with the subsidized fertilizer, which increases the overall prices.”On Tuesday, farmers from dozens of villages under Hussainbad block of Palamu district created ruckus for not getting fertilizer. The farmers alleged that they were called by a retailer at a place in Gamahria at 9am for fertilizer. However, even after waiting for more than three hours, the distribution of fertilizer did not start. Later, agriculture officer Avinash Kumar convinced the farmers and started the distribution. Farmers said if they did not get fertilizer in time, they might suffer harvest loss, despite achieving a record sowing this year. Farmers of the state have sown kharif crops in 25 lakh hectares of area against the target of 28.27 lakh hectare this year. The sown coverage increased by 4.72 lakh hectare this year compared to the previous year. Similarly, paddy sowing coverage this year remained at 21.86% more than the previous year. Total paddy sowing coverage in 2019 was 74.29%, which reached 96.15% this year. It is to be noted that Jharkhand underwent a drought situation in the previous kharif season. However, the drought-hit farmers did not receive any help neither from the state nor Centre for their crop loss. The state government had requested for drought relief for 55 blocks in seven districts from the Centre in May this year, which was rejected as the deadline for seeking drought relief expired on October 31 last year. State agriculture department director Manoj Kumar said, “There is no shortage of fertilizer in any part of the state. We have more than sufficient fertilizer, including urea. The available stock of fertilizer we have right now is over 90,000 metric tonne, including 36,000 metric tonne stock of urea, which is more than the requirement of September month.” Kumar said they, however, have received complaints of artificial crisis, fertilizer being sold at higher prices at many places and at some places dealers forcing farmers to buy non-subsidized chemicals along with urea or other subsidized fertilizer. “We have taken all these issues seriously. More than 500 retailers have been suspended so far on charges of irregularities in fertilizer distribution,” he said. Kumar said district agriculture officers (DAO) are the licensing authority for the retailers and they have been directed to take immediate action when such cases appear. “The suspended retailers charged that they get the fertilizer at a high price from wholesalers. So, they give it at a high price to farmers. I have directed all the joint directors to be in the field for the next 10 days from Friday and inspect the wholesalers. If any wholesaler is found selling subsidized fertilizer at a high price, his licence would be cancelled,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-farmers-allege-fertilizer-price-hike-govt-suspends-500-dealers/story-uqFYCJHKjwY4aUDp1NUhWJ.html
05-09-2020||India||SC says JEE, NEET to be held as scheduled; dismisses plea by 6 states||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain the petition filed by ministers of six states seeking the review of the top court’s August 17 order to conduct NEET and JEE (Mains) examinations as scheduled.A bench of justice Ashok Bhushan, justice BR Gavai and justice Krishna Murari considered the review plea in chambers. West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan had approached the top court on August 28 seeking a postponement of the examinations in view of the coronavirus crisis.The top court had earlier refused to interfere with the conduct of the medical and engineering entrance exams, saying that life must go on and students can’t lose a precious year due to the pandemic.The fresh plea said that only two reasons given by the court - life must go on and students should not lose an academic year - do not constitute an authoritative and comprehensive judicial scrutiny of the issue.JEE, which was scheduled to be held from September 1 to 6, is underway and NEET will be conducted on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-6-opposition-ruled-states-plea-jee-neet-exams-to-be-conducted-as-scheduled/story-CchKhJgxxF4F1agsAc4jAP.html
