06-09-2020||India||Kolkata woman risks life, saves another from attack inside running car||Nilanjana Chatterjee, a resident of the Anandapur area in south Kolkata, was seriously injured when she risked her life on Saturday night to save another woman who was allegedly attacked inside a running car by its driver. The incident happened around 11.50 pm on the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass.Chatterjee, who was returning home with her husband in their car, heard a woman sitting beside the driver of a Honda City behind them crying for help. Chatterjee’s husband, Deep Satpathy, stopped his car to block the path of the Honda City.“My wife got down and rushed towards the car. Its driver pushed the woman out of the car and tried to speed away. The car hit my wife and the driver drove over her leg. Her shin bone broke,” Satpathy told the media.“I frantically dialled the police emergency number. The police acted very promptly. A police team arrived at the spot and an ambulance too was rushed to take my wife to the hospital. She will undergo a surgery,” Satpathy added.Till Sunday evening, officers of the Anandapur police station were trying to trace the driver of the Honda City who, according to the assaulted woman, had identified himself to her as Amitabha Basu. This was being verified as the police suspect that the accused might have concealed his real name. A man was initially detained on the basis of suspicion but he turned out to be innocent.Also read: Ratan Tata would have been this if he was not heading Tata GroupThe woman registered a complaint of molestation, said officers at the police station. Since the woman could not provide the registration number of the Honda City, the police were trying to identify the car from a security camera footage. “We are verifying the footage and the complainant’s statements. I cannot say anything more right now,” an officer of Anandapur police station said on condition of anonymity on Sunday night.The woman said in her complaint that she got acquainted with the accused less than a week ago and the two decided to go out on Saturday evening. The woman alleged that he attacked her and tore her clothes during an altercation. She alleged that she asked him to drop her home but he refused. The incident triggered a furore in Kolkata and many citizens spoke out on the issue, “While on one hand the incident exposes the risk women face, it also shows how bravery can teach us a lesson. I salute this act of bravery,” said noted thespian Debshankar Haldar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-woman-risks-life-saves-another-from-attack-inside-running-car/story-VItu1Au9ERUqOfklgL77YN.html
06-09-2020||India||LJP may take call on alliance for Bihar polls in key meet today||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), is expected to decide whether to remain a part of the alliance for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections at its state parliamentary board meeting on Monday. The Bihar elections are set to be held in October and November.Despite being a part of the NDA at the Centre and in the state, the LJP has trained its guns at the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar; alleging that the government has failed to meet promises. On Sunday, LJP president Chirag Paswan, who has not shied away from criticizing the Janata Dal (United) leadership, shot off another letter to the chief minister reminding him that the promises made to people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes have not been met. The criticism has sparked speculation that the LJP is negotiating for more seats and other post-election agreements, failing which it could exit the alliance. However, this would not be the first time that the LJP leaves coalition; in 2005 it was part of the UPA-I, but parted ways with the coalition ahead of the state assembly election, following which it faced an electoral setback. “There are some issues that will come up for discussion. Leaders will be given a chance to put forth their concerns,” said an LJP functionary. Paswan, who had earlier told HT in an interview that he was against the idea the elections in the midst of a pandemic, could not be reached for comment. He had also said that in a meeting with the national president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), JP Nadda, he had raised the issue of deferring polls till the pandemic is controlled. BJP’s national media co-incharge and member of legislative council (MLC) from Bihar, Sanjay Mayukh, said the NDA will “jointly” contest the 243-seat assembly poll and “win with a clear majority”. “The opposition has no vision and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development agenda is moving ahead with full steam,” he said. While the BJP has maintained a diplomatic stance on the issue, the JD(U) sees it as a ploy to wrangle more seats for the upcoming contest. “There is little doubt that the statements are posturing for more seats. However, the party should remember that seats will be decided on the merit of the candidate and also their performance in the last assembly election,” said a senior JDU leader. In the last assembly election, the LJP had won only two of the 42 seats it had contested. The party made up for the electoral loss in 2019 by winning six Lok Sabha seats and is hoping to contest for 36 seats in the upcoming election. The LJP is also trying to woo the voters by pitting a “younger face” against Nitish Kumar, who is battling anti-incumbency. There is also speculation that the LJP could emerge as a third front in the state with Paswan as the CM candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-may-take-call-on-alliance-for-bihar-polls-in-key-meet-today/story-yf9GZtK4OuTRKs1OaLbChN.html
06-09-2020||India||Threatened but will return: Kangana||Mumbai: Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut on Sunday said that she will definitely come to Mumbai on September 9, though she has been allegedly threatened.Separately, after Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut’s remark on Ranaut drew criticism on social media, he said that he will apologise only after the actress apologises to Mumbai and Maharashtra. On Sunday, Ranaut posted a video on Twitter stating, “In a country where women are being tortured and raped everyday, a parliamentarian using such language shows this society’s mentality... If I criticise Mumbai Police or if I criticise you, then you can’t say I am insulting Maharashtra. You are not Maharashtra. Your people are threatening me, still I will come to Mumbai on September 9.” Meanwhile, responding to criticism over his ‘haramkhor’ remark, the Shiv Sena leader “As someone who has used unparliamentary language, let her (Ranaut) apologise to Mumbai and Maharashtra first,” Raut told mediapersons on Sunday. Sena has been miffed with Ranaut after the latter said that Mumbai feels like Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). In a tweet, Ranaut on Friday asked, “Why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir?”. She had tagged a September 1 news report where Raut purportedly said she should not come back to Mumbai if she was afraid of the city police.State home minister Anil Deshmukh had also said that Ranaut does not have right to stay in Mumbai or Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threatened-but-will-return-kangana/story-UKJnUK2Y0vL7da98F6duGI.html
06-09-2020||India||Bihar campaign faces virtual test||Patna/Delhi: In the first statewide election to be held after the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, with strict social distancing guidelines in place, Bihar’s political parties suddenly have a new, unusual worry — the state’s low teledensity, low internet penetration, and low mass media exposure. All three pose a challenge in reaching out to prospective voters in a campaign that will rely on indirect communication and digital tools. This is a far cry from the pre-Covid-19 era when, in the run-up to elections, political parties mostly had to worry about the size of their rallies, the scale of their advertising campaigns, the logistics of door-to-door campaigning, and the selection of candidates. The pandemic is changing the rules of the electoral game, with Bihar as a test case. Teledensity — the number of telephone connections per hundred people in a given area — is the lowest in Bihar , at 59 by the end of 2019, according to data compiled by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI). The national average is 89. Internet penetration in Bihar is 32 subscribers per 100 people by the end of 2019, according to TRAI data, compared to the national average of 54.  This is the lowest among the 22 telecom service areas in India. In Bihar’s rural areas, home to 89% of the state’s population, there were only 22 internet subscribers per 100 people.Mass media exposure, too, is poor.  According to the fourth National Family Health Survey, conducted in 2015-16, 61% women and 36% men in Bihar had no access to mass media. Among all states and union territories, Bihar has the highest share of women with no access to mass media while it is behind only Jharkhand in terms of the share of men with no access to mass media.This is already causing challenges for political parties across the spectrum. BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said the elections were taking place under a new normal, where social distancing was a must. “However, party has its chain of digitally enabled workers, who in turn arrange the digital output system through local cooperation to reach out to maximum people through virtual rallies,” said Anand.Anand said party workers attached with over 20,000 Mandal office and Shakti Kendra across the state act in tandem to take messages to the peopleRajiv Ranjan Prasad, a spokesperson for the BJP’s ally, the Janata Dal (United), said that the state was grappling with low teledensity for long. “There is limitations of each type of technology. But the pandemic will lead to higher number of mobile users in the state.” The lead opposition party in Bihar, RJD, which already opposed holding the elections during the pandemic, said it was reliant on its tried and tested mode of campaigning --direct contact with its electors-- to overcome technological limitations. “We had pointed out the issue to the Election commission of India and urged it to allow a level playing ground to all parties. Our party is not that resourceful and neither are its voters. RJD leaders have already started holding meetings in small groups at panchayat levels to interact with the people,” said RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari. State Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha said that the party’s digital drive to enrol fresh members could have been faster had the state been blessed with better telecom accessibility. “There is perceptible dearth of phone users in rural areas. Network problem is another factor that is affecting the membership drive,” said Jha. Former Patna University professor, Nawal Kishore Chaudhary, said low teledensity, which is more pronounced among the poor, might not lead to an authentic mandate. “The resource-rich parties may have an upper hand to motivate their electorate for voting. For a proper mandate, the election should be put off till the pandemic is contained,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-campaign-faces-virtual-test/story-mbm4gVSXMbkTkCzWKkhGEO.html
06-09-2020||India||Inside Pak army’s deradicalisation plan||New Delhi A deradicalisation programme launched by the Pakistan Army for surrendered militants in the restive Balochistan province has an Islamist overhang, with leaders of hardline groups such as Jamaat-e-Islami being part of the training courses, according to documents accessed by Hindustan Times. The deradicalisation and rehabilitation programme, started in 2018 by Lt Gen (retired) Asim Saleem Bajwa, also appeared to be aimed more at replacing the ethnic Baloch identity of the militants with one that emphasises “religio-patriotism”, the confidential documents show. Bajwa, who was recently at the centre of a controversy after a Pakistani news website reported that his family had created a business empire of 99 companies in four countries, including a pizza franchise worth nearly $40 million, appears to have been the guiding force behind the programme that was launched while he was head of the Pakistan Army’s southern command. An existing deradicalisation centre in Quetta named Umeed-e-Nau was expanded and renamed Darepsh, a Balochi word meaning “ujala” (light), to implement the programme. The documents show that the programme has so far handled at least two batches of surrendered militants – 50 fighters who were part of a course from December 2018 to March 2019, and 128 fighters who attended a course during April-July 2019. While the programme does make an effort to rope in both army and civilian psychologists to deal with the psychological and social training of the surrendered Baloch fighters, almost 20% or a fifth of training modules are devoted to a “religio-patriotism programme”, and guest speakers for this included Abdul Haq Hashmi, the provincial president of Jamaat-e-Islami. The Jamaat-e-Islami established deep links with jihadi groups during the war against Soviet occupation forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s and was also active in the early years of the militant movement in Jammu and Kashmir, having close ties with the Hizbul Mujahideen. The Jamaat also has close ties with the Pakistani military. The documents show that while the surrendered fighters are taught “rejection of extremism” during the religio-patriotism programme, they are also trained in “jihad, morality,patriotism”. The documents also highlight the mismatch between the overall number of surrendered fighters and the number of those who have completed the deradicalisation programme. According to a brief history of the programme included in the documents, more than 2,500 fighters surrendered in 2018 as a result of “effect-based selected operations in Balochistan along with efforts in non-kinetic domain” that isolated “terrorists/Baloch sub-nationalists”. However, only 178 surrendered fighters were part of the two deradicalisation and rehabilitation courses conducted so far. Most of these fighters were drawn from the Dera Bugti, Sibi and Kohlu regions of Balochistan. People familiar with developments also pointed to the similarity between the deradicalisation camps being run in Balochistan and the so-called re-education camps run by Chinese authorities for Uyghurs in Xinjiang. “The objectives, layout and vocational training module closely align with those of the camps in Xinjiang. One of the key aims seems to be to remove of all traces of ethnic identity and nationalism,” said one of the people cited above. Significantly, a slide that is part of the documents contains a reference to one of the key issues raised by civil society and human rights groups regarding the activities of Pakistani security and intelligence agencies in Balochistan – the issue of “missing persons” or the victims of enforced disappearances. The slide on some nine points raised by the surrendered Baloch fighters during the deradicalisation programme includes in the first place “Missing Pers whereabouts be pursued”. The surrendered fighters also called for financial assistance to be paid to some fighters who hadn’t received the aid when they laid down arms. In recent years, the bodies of scores of victims of enforced disappearances have been found dumped on roadsides, many of them with marks of torture. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said it was strange that the Jamaat-e-Islami, described by some as the “mother organisation for most jihadis”, was part of such a deradicalisation programme. “This programme also shows the misplaced priorities of the Pakistan Army – such a programme should focus on Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa or Punjab, where deadly groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba are based. But then the groups that don’t indulge in activities against the Pakistani state have always received preferential treatment,” he said. “The Pakistan Army appears to be using its own version of Islam to crush groups with an identity and form of Islam that doesn’t suit them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inside-pak-army-s-deradicalisation-plan/story-8mOOlX3pwUUXuMkOxDe9NM.html
06-09-2020||India||Bihar likely to follow Centre’s Unlock-4 guidelines, formal call on Monday||With the statewide Covid-19 lockdown ending on Sunday, Bihar government is likely to implement ‘Unlock-4’ guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) from Monday. The MHA guidelines, which were issued last week, provide more relaxations in activities except in Covid-19 containment zones. A formal decision on this will be taken on Monday by the state government, sources said.Officials said there will be likely no further extension of the statewide lockdown as the MHA in its Unlock-4 guidelines has mentioned that states/Union Territory governments shall not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.“A decision on implementing more activities and relaxations as per Unlock-4 guidelines will be taken on Monday,” said an official in the home department.Also read: Delhi records over 3K new Covid-19 cases; tally over 1.91 lakhUnder Unlock-4 guidelines, there is no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. Political, social, academic, sports, cultural, entertainment activities are to be permitted with a cap of 100 people effective from September 21 with proper safety and social distancing measures.Officials said there are chances of no night curfew in the state continuing from Monday as it was applicable by state government’s order till September 6.“We do not know if any fresh guidelines will be issued in the coming days or not,” said another home department official.The Unlock-4 guidelines have permitted normal activity outside the containment zones except that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed till September 30.Certain relaxations have been given like 50 percent of teaching and non-teaching staff in schools could be called for online teaching or tele-counselling and other related works outside the containment zones from September 21. Students of classes 9 to 12 could be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only but on a voluntary basis for the purpose of taking guidance from teachers from September 21. The written consent from parents is required and SOP will be issued by the health ministry in this regard.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres will remain shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-likely-to-follow-centre-s-unlock-4-guidelines-formal-call-on-monday/story-V0h7mzdedAmnL8lJpdslCP.html
06-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Haryana CM’s vital parameters normal, says CMO||Haryana chief minister’s office on Sunday said that as per a medical bulletin issued by Medanta hospital, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who is being treated for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, is well rested and his vital parameters are normal. Khattar had tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease on August 24 and was hospitalised. “I was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive. I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over the last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine immediately,” the chief minister had tweeted.Also read: Congress MP Deepender Hooda tests positive for Covid-19Meanwhile, Congress MP from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and requested all those who came in contact with him to get tested as soon as possible. Haryana on Sunday logged 2,277 new Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths, taking the overall tally and death toll to 76,549 and 806 respectively, the state’s health department said. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-haryana-cm-s-vital-parameters-normal-says-cmo/story-YiWyr573bsnUDOtHxf3wlL.html
06-09-2020||India||Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac tests positive for Covid-19, state records highest single-day spike||Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac has tested positive for Covid-19. His staff members and others who came in contact with him have been urged to quarantine. This is the first time when a minister in Kerala has contracted the virus. Isaac has been moved to Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital.On Sunday, Kerala recorded highest single day tally with 3,082 new Covid-19 cases taking the total number to 87,784, the state health ministry said. Kerala was the first state to report a case of Covid-19 infection when a medical student returned from China in January. The infection rate in the state is on a steady rise.Also read: Delhi records over 3K new Covid-19 cases; tally over 1.91 lakhAmong the total of 87,784 cases, recovered patients account to 64,755 while active cases stand at 22,676. With ten more casualties, the Covid-19 death toll in the state has climbed to 348. Despite rising numbers, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state had fared better as compared to other states. According to the state health ministry, Kerala had a case per million of 2,168 as on September 1 whereas in Tamil Nadu it was 5,710 and 5,310 in Karnataka. CM Vijayan had warned last week that cases may go up as the government had relaxed norms in view of Onam festivities. But the government has made it clear that total closure was not a viable option to check the spread and it wants to increase tests and create better awareness among people to live with the virus. The only metro in the state, Kochi Metro, is resuming services on Monday after being suspended in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-finance-minister-thomas-isaac-tests-positive-for-covid-19-state-records-highest-single-day-spike/story-1G6JTFRZTFUhJZXNlt7WIN.html
06-09-2020||India||Bharat Biotech gets nod to move to phase 2 trials of prospective Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin||The Centre has given approval to Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s coronavirus vaccine Covaxin to conduct phase 2 of clinical trials from September 7.The trials will be conducted on 380 volunteers, according to a letter issued to Bharat Biotech International by Dr S Eswara Reddy, the Joint Drugs Controller of India. In the first phase of the Covaxin trial, around 375 participants were studied across 12 sites.“This is to inform you that the subject proposal was examined in consultation with SEC (Covid-19) experts held through virtual meeting on September 3, wherein the committee recommended for the conduct of Phase II part of clinical trials with 380 participants subject to the condition that time for screening the participants should be revised in 4 days,” the Directorate General of Health Service said in a statement.In the first phase trial of the vaccine, the blood samples collected from the volunteers who received the vaccine were monitored for side effects. According to Dr E Venkata Rao, Principal Investigator of the trial at Institute of Medical Sciences (IMS) and SUM Hospital, faculty of medical sciences, there were no side effects.IMS and SUM Hospital is one of the 12 medical centres in the country chosen by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting the human trial of the vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech.Covaxin is one of the frontrunners in the race for a Covid-19 vaccine in India. It is an “inactivated” vaccine — it works by injecting doses of the virus that have been killed aiming to prompt the body to build antibodies against it without the virus posing a threat.Each stage of a vaccine’s clinical trial tests its safety and ability to develop an effective immune response. Phase 1 focuses on determining safety and dosage in a small group of healthy participants, while the second phase looks at the vaccine’s effectiveness. The third phase looks into these aspects in a much larger population that would represent a wider demographic.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-gets-nod-to-move-to-phase-2-trials-of-prospective-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin/story-c0HnPtqnozAtBf1sYmIjWO.html
06-09-2020||India||BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty accused of torturing his wife, files divorce petition alleging cruelty||Actor-turned-MP and Biju Janata Dal deputy chief whip in Lok Sabha Anubhav Mohanty has landed in soup after his wife Varsha Priyadarshini, a former actor in Odia films, accused him of physical and mental torture.In her petition filed before the court of Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate of Cuttack, under section 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, Priyadarshini alleged that her MP husband used to hit her after getting drunk. Accusing the MP of being a drunkard and her family members of humiliating her, she levelled allegations of being treated like “an insect”.Mohanty and Priyadarshini, both leading actors of Odia film industry got married in 2014. The duo had acted in several Odia movies together. Mohanty is considered close to chief minister Naveen Patnaik as he defeated the CM’s bete noire Baijayant Panda from Kendrapara in 2019 Lok Sabha election.Also read: Bihar Assembly Election: LJP to take call on alliance in key meeting on Monday“He is a drunkard and womaniser. Even he was forgetting his normal life at the time of his drinks and used vulgar language. After the last general election of 2019, the torture by Mohanty and his family members increased day by day which was beyond tolerance,” she alleged.Priyadarshini further alleged that for two months during the lockdown period, she was left alone at her in-law’s house in Cuttack and the MP did not take her to Delhi despite her pleading. “After coming back from Delhi, my husband became violent and shouted at me. On June 7, my husband and his father rebuked me in filthy language for nearly two hours. On June 11, my husband asked me to agree for mutual divorce and threatened me with dire consequences if I did not agree,” Priyadarshini alleged in her petition.In the petition, she has demanded Rs 15 crore compensation from Mohanty for the loss of her income as an actor as well as medical expenses and monthly alimony of Rs 70,000 towards house rent and maintenance.Reacting to the allegations, Mohanty said he never intended to make his personal life public. “My marriage has been in bad shape since long. I have tried my level best to reason, to explain, to understand, and to make amends. Unfortunately, things did not shape up as expected. the marriage is irretrievably broken,” he said adding that he filed a divorce petition at Patiala House Court in Delhi in July this year on grounds of cruelty, harassment, tyranny refusal of his wife to consummate the marriage.In his petition, Mohanty accused his wife of humiliating and disregarding him and his family on multiple occasions. “She hardly stayed at her matrimonial house and used to create fake situations to instigate a fight. Though we were married from 2014, we have stayed together only for a period of 18 months. Our marriage was never consummated as my wife refused to have a physical relationship,” he alleged, adding that his wife had been falsely accusing him of infidelity and even threatened to file false criminal cases against him and his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-mp-anubhav-mohanty-accused-of-torturing-his-wife-files-divorce-petition-alleging-cruelty/story-h8QCWxIjar2v4BUUksgDIN.html
06-09-2020||India||Mumbai witnesses worst air quality since March, ‘very poor’ AQI at Bandra Kurla Complex||Hazy conditions continued for the second consecutive day as pollution levels saw a sharp spike in some areas across Mumbai on Sunday. Pollutant-measuring indicator - air quality index (AQI) - was recorded at 100 (satisfactory) for PM2.5 pollutant, as a thin layer of smog was witnessed across the city skyline. This is the worst air quality witnessed by the city since March 21 when the first phase of the Covid-19 lockdown was declared, System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) stated.Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) recorded the worst air quality in the city with ‘very poor’ AQI of 304 on Sunday. Air quality worsened across all other nine locations as well. Navi Mumbai recorded an AQI of 156 (moderate) followed by Borivli (139) and Malad (135).Other areas recorded ‘satisfactory’ AQI levels. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as ‘good’; 51-100 as ‘satisfactory’; 101-200 as ‘moderate’; 201-300 as ‘poor’; 301-400 as ‘very poor’ and above 400 as ‘severe’. An AQI of 97 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Monday.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB to question Rhea Chakraborty again on Monday“Though there is a sharp decline in rain activity and very calm winds, moisture availability in Mumbai’s air is high. This has increased the pollutant carrying capacity and the pollutant layer is suspended close to the surface,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.“Moderate pollution levels are expected to continue until wind speed picks up or rain activity resumes. We will have to check location-specific sources for why BKC was so polluted on Sunday,” Beig said.Meanwhile, the weather bureau issued a yellow alert on Sunday afternoon for the possibility of thundershowers during late evening or overnight till early Monday morning. However, between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm, no rain was recorded in south Mumbai and 0.2 mm was recorded in the suburbs.Thane recorded 15 mm of rainfall. Mumbai suburbs and south Mumbai have recorded 26 and 27 mm rain in the first six days of September.“On Sunday, the city witnessed dull weather with haze obscuring sunlight leading to poor visibility, however, it was not fog. The possibility of thunderstorms over isolated areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region on Sunday night for brief periods cannot be ruled out. Radar images show similar echoes for parts of north and south-central Maharashtra,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, India Meteorological Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-witnesses-worst-air-quality-since-march-very-poor-aqi-at-bandra-kurla-complex/story-zjltQ6CJHHq40hBskyIMsL.html
06-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB questions Rhea Chakraborty for about 6 hours||Actress Rhea Chakraborty was on Sunday questioned for about six hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the drugs case linked to the death of her live-in partner and actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The 28-year-old arrived at the agency’s office in the Ballard Estate area at 12 noon and left shortly after 6 PM. She was escorted by police personnel. NCB Deputy Director General (south-west region) Mutha Ashok Jain told reporters outside the agency’s office later that Rhea will be called again on Monday for questioning and recording of her statement like today.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB to question Rhea Chakraborty again on Monday He said the agency also conducted fresh raids in this case against a man identified as Anuj Keshvani after his name came to the fore during the interrogation of Kaizan Ebrahim who was arrested by the agency in this case earlier. “We have seized 590 gms of hashish, 0.64 gm of LSD sheets, 304 gms of marijuana including imported marijuana joints and capsules, Rs 1,85,200 in cash and 5,000 Indonesian Rupiah after the raids on Keshvani,”‘ Jain said. “The quantity of LSD that has been recovered is commercial quantity under the NDPS Act,” he said indicating it is an offence to keep such quantity of banned drugs. LSD or Lysergic acid diethylamide is a hallucinogenic drug. The DDG refused to share details of the ongoing investigation. “I cannot tell you specifics... because of your (media) cooperation we are getting a lot of information,” Jain said when asked by reporters about Rhea’s statement made to the agency. The day started with an NCB team visiting Rhea’s home in Santa Cruz (west) to serve summons to her for joining the probe.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput case latest developments: Rhea Chakraborty joins NCB probe, Showik arrested The agency has said that once Rhea deposes, it wants to confront her with her younger brother Showik Chakraborty (24), Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda (33) and his house staffer Dipesh Sawant to ascertain their roles in this alleged drug racket after it obtained mobile phone chat records and other electronic data that suggested some banned drugs were allegedly procured by these people. The NCB, over the last two days, has arrested these three men in this case. Officials said the actor was questioned on these lines on Sunday. She was earlier questioned by the ED and the CBI too. Rhea, in interviews given to multiple TV news channels, has said that she has never consumed drugs herself. She had, however, claimed that the late actor used to consume marijuana. It is claimed that Miranda told NCB investigators that he used to procure bud or curated marijuana for the late actor’s household. A total of eight people have been arrested till now by the NCB with six being directly linked to this probe while two were arrested by it when the investigation was launched under criminal sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. When the probe in the case began, the agency had arrested two men, Abbas Lakhani and Karan Arora, for alleged drug peddling and officials have claimed that through them they reached Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar who are allegedly linked to this drugs case as they were in touch with Miranda. Miranda, they had said, used to allegedly procure drugs from them on the purported instructions of Showik, agency officials said. Both Lakhani and Arora have been granted bail. The NCB had said it recovered 59 grams of cannabis from them. The NCB, while seeking remand of one of the accused in this case a few days back, had told a local court that it was looking into “the drug citadel in Mumbai, and especially Bollywood” in this probe. This case has given the NCB an “inkling” into the narcotics network and its penetration in Bollywood or Hindi movie industry, NCB Deputy Director General Mutha Ashok Jain told reporters on Saturday. Various angles surrounding the death of the 34-year-old actor are being probed by three federal agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The NCB initiated a drug angle probe in this case after the ED shared with it a report following the cloning of two mobile phones of Rhea. Rajput was found dead at his flat in the suburban Bandra area on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-questions-rhea-chakraborty-for-about-6-hours/story-tGeq7Poo0sA63dP97nIYrI.html
06-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh fixes rate of Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals||Chhattisgarh government has fixed the cost of Covid-19 treatment across private hospitals of the state, a health official said on Sunday. Patients will have to bear the cost of treatment at private hospitals which have been classified under A, B and C categories across various districts based on the medical facilities available with them.An order in this regard was issued by health department on Saturday under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, the Chhattisgarh Public Health Act, 1949, and the Chhattisgarh Epidemic Diseases Covid-19 Regulations, 2020, a public relations department official said.Hospitals in major districts like Raipur, Durg, Rajnandgaon, Bilaspur, Korba and Raigarh have been listed in ‘A’ category, while those in Surguja, Mahasamund, Dhamtari, Kanker, Janjgir-Champa, Balodabazar-Bhatapara, Kabirdham and Bastar districts are under ‘B’ category.Also read: With a surge in Covid-19 cases, India may soon overtake BrazilThe ‘A’ category hospitals accredited by the National Accreditation Board of Hospitals (NABH) can charge Rs 6,200 per day from moderately sick patients, Rs 12,000 per day for severely ill patients and Rs 17,000 per day for very severely ill patients.The non-NABH accredited hospitals can charge Rs 6,200, Rs 10,000 and Rs 14,000 from moderate, severe and very severely ill patients respectively.Meanwhile, hospitals in the ‘B’ category can charge 80 percent of the rate fixed for the three categories of patients in the ‘A’ category hospitals while hospitals in the ‘C’ category can charge 60 percent of it, the official said.The state government has also decided to provide online medical consultancy to Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and are undergoing treatment at home at Rs 250 per day for 10 days, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-fixes-rate-of-covid-19-treatment-at-private-hospitals/story-n7qsE72TAyhbz6SAYP7dfK.html
06-09-2020||India||Opposition planning ‘joint offensive’ against govt in Parliament||Opposition parties are planning a joint offensive against the government to corner it in Parliament on issues of national security like the border situation with China, handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, economy and GST compensation to states, sources said. Leaders of various opposition parties are expected to meet later this week to formulate a joint floor strategy in both the houses of Parliament, they said.Also read: Parliament disruptions mar Question Hour: Data The Monsoon session of Parliament will commence on September 14 amid Covid-induced changes in its proceedings. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has convened a meeting of the party’s strategy group on September 8, the sources said. Opposition leaders are keen that various like-minded parties should work closely with each other to take on the government in Parliament. This was expressed by Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray and JMM’s Hemant Soren at a recent meeting of non-NDA chief ministers with Congress president Sonia Gandhi on JEE/NEET and GST issues. The Congress strategy group has already met once and discussed the issues to be raised during the session. Senior Congress leaders have also been asked to contact UPA allies and other like-minded parties to put up a united fight against the government, both inside and outside Parliament. TMC leader Derek O’Brien had earlier said that like-minded opposition parties will work together in Parliament and find common ground on public issues. There will be a lot of teamwork among such parties in Parliament, he had said.Also read: Monsoon session of Parliament: Packed food may be served at House canteen CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on Sunday that consultations are underway for a joint opposition strategy. CPI leader D Raja also said that meetings of opposition leaders will be soon held in this regard. With tensions escalating in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control with China, the opposition will demand answers from the government on the issue. The rapid rise in the number of Covid 19 cases will also come up for discussion. The opposition will also raise the heat in Parliament on the row over social media giant Facebook and allegations that it is soft on ruling party members when it came to applying hate speech rules. The holding of various examinations including the NEET will also come up for discussion in Parliament. The opposition has accused the government of risking the lives of students and youths by holding the exams at a time when coronavirus cases are rising every day. The Congress is also set to oppose the ordinances issued by the government in the recent past. The government has issued as many as 11 ordinances. Congress Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh, who is also the convenor of the strategy group, is learnt to have told the party leaders at the last strategy meeting about the merits and demerits of these ordinances, the sources said. The leaders of opposition parties are likely to raise the issue of doing away with the Question Hour in this session. Officials have said that there will be no question hour and private members’ bills, and the Zero Hour will be restricted. The Congress leaders in both houses will be writing to the Rajya Sabha chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker seeking restoration of the Question Hour. The Congress, the sources say, will demand short duration discussions and Calling Attention Motions on issues of Chinese aggression on India at the border, the economic slowdown and the collapse of GDP to record lows, unemployment and migrants’ problems, besides on grant of GST compensation to states and the Facebook controversy.Also read: 1962 to the Emergency: When Question Hour was dropped amid extraordinary circumstances Meanwhile, hectic preparations are on for the upcoming session which will be the first of its kind in Parliament’s history due to unprecedented measures necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. While last-minute preparations are on including seating arrangements, security agencies are finalising plans for allowing entry to MPs, their support staff and the media. The chambers of both houses and the various galleries will be used to seat the MPs. The MPs, their support staff, Parliament and security staff, and the media will have to undergo Covid-19 tests prior to the session which will end on October 1 without a break.Except for the first day, the Rajya Sabha will sit in the morning from 9 AM to 1 PM, the Lok Sabha will sit in the evening from 3 PM to 7 PM, officials said. The Monsoon session is likely to be adjourned on the first day due to the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee, who has been the leader of both the Houses. Besides, sitting Rajya Sabha members Amar Singh and M P Veerendra Kumar, and Lok Sabha member H Vasanthakumar have died during the inter-session period. The secretariats of both the houses have already issued nine-page guidelines emphasising on safety measures during the upcoming session and urging members to wear masks, maintain a physical distance of six feet and keep hands clean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-planning-joint-offensive-against-govt-in-parliament/story-kgrDlhTL0RMUmZNjFZsT4L.html
06-09-2020||India||Refused admission by hospital, migrant woman delivers baby on Jammu-Pathankot highway||After hospital authorities allegedly refused to hospitalise a pregnant woman without Covid-19 negative report, the latter delivered her baby on the roadside in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba district on Sunday. The woman was a migrant labourer from Bihar. Her husband, Darvinder Kumar, said, “my wife Neelam Devi developed labour pain this morning and I rushed her to Samba district hospital. However, doctors at the hospital asked me to get her Covid-19 negative report.”“None helped me at the hospital and when I was taking her to Jammu, she delivered on the roadside on Jammu-Pathankot highway,” he said. Also read: Low-intensity blast at cop’s brother’s house in J-K’s Rajouri, 5 vehicles damagedLocals came to the rescue and made phone calls to the hospital after which an ambulance with a nurse arrived. The mother and her newborn were provided with first-aid and were later taken to the hospital. Repeated calls to chief medical officer (SMO) Dr Rajinder Samyal remained unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refused-admission-by-hospital-migrant-woman-delivers-baby-on-jammu-pathankot-highway/story-d8rdjSVmAOsXPF7RfHPiNK.html
06-09-2020||India||Centre proposes full refund in 15 days on air tickets booked before lockdown||An attractive scheme awaits air passengers seeking a refund of their tickets booked before Covid-19 lockdown that came into force on March 25. In an affidavit filed before the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has proposed that all passengers will be entitled to a full refund of their tickets booked before March 25 within 15 days. The scheme formulated by the Centre states further that if any airline is not in a financial position to pay immediately, the fare amount shall be kept in a Credit Shell to be availed by the passenger for travel by the same airline on any route before March 31, 2021. This option is not available to foreign carriers, who must refund within 15 days. Also read: Concerns over aviation ministry move to permit international fliers take Covid-19 tests after arrival to IndiaIf a passenger does not wish to travel, the credit shell can be transferred to any person. If the amount is unused, interest will accrue every month on this amount and the same is to be refunded in full after March 31, 2021.The DGCA notification of April 16, 2020, catered to full refund of tickets booked during the lockdown (March 25 to April 14). Those who booked tickets before this date had approached the Supreme Court seeking a refund of their ticket amounts.On June 12, the Court directed the Centre to find a solution after consulting airline operators and travel agents. A three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan will consider the Centre’s affidavit when it takes up the petitions on September 9.Pravasi Legal Cell, one of the petitioners before the top court, welcomed the decision of the Centre. Advocate Jose Abraham, representing Pravasi Legal Cell, told HT, “Almost 95 percent of petitioners before the Court had booked tickets before the lockdown. The April 16 notification of the DGCA was of no consequence to us. Even the Credit Shell proposed under it contained rigid terms. The present solution of the DGCA has balanced the interests of passengers by protecting their money and allowed flexible terms on Credit Shell.”Also read: ‘Soaring higher’: Aviation minister says domestic flight operations picking upMoCA and DGCA officials held two rounds of discussions with airline operators on July 2 and 8 before arriving at this solution. In its affidavit, it stated that non-refund of fares and creating of involuntary credit shell by airlines was a clear violation of the Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) and passenger charter that could result in enforcement action under the Aircraft Rules, 1937. But the airlines claimed inability to pay refund immediately and sought a window period for making payments.The Centre in its affidavit said, “Any such enforcement action would further restrict/reduce their (airline) operations and thus any such enforcement action may further jeopardize the possibilities of generation of cash by the airline which can further adversely affect/delay the refund cycle.” This could affect the Indian aviation industry as a whole, the Centre added.To balance the two interests, the Centre introduced an incentive scheme by which 0.5 percent interest will accrue on the original fare lying in the credit shell from the date of cancellation of flight till June 30, 2020. Beyond this period, the passenger can avail 0.75 percent interest every month till March 31, 2021. This scheme will apply to Indian carriers who are liable for a refund on all domestic and international routes. Even for tickets booked through travel agents, the credit shell will be in the name of the passenger and refunds, if any, would be transferred by the travel agent to the passengers. The Centre, however, added a rider to its proposal by stating, “The above proposal is formulated by the respondent (Centre) as an exception keeping in view the precipitating problems during Covid-19 pandemic and is without prejudice to the regulatory framework as provided in the CARs referred to above.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-proposes-full-refund-in-15-days-on-air-tickets-booked-before-covid-19-lockdown/story-Zi3HicKhDpoQuDCwv5CDBJ.html
06-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB to question Rhea Chakraborty again on Monday||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is looking into the allegations of drug use by late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his actor-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, questioned Chakraborty for nearly six hours on Sunday. Rhea was allowed to leave the NCB office at around 6.15 pm. Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of NCB said, “due to her late arrival, the investigation has not been completed. We will summon her again tomorrow and the investigation will continue.”On Sunday morning, Rhea’s advocate and senior counsel Satish Maneshinde said, “Rhea is ready for an arrest as this is a ‘witch hunt’ and if loving someone is a crime, she will face the consequences of her love. Being innocent, she has not approached any court for anticipatory bail in all the cases foisted by Bihar police now with CBI, ED and NCB.” Also read: Sushant’s house help Dipesh Sawant an ‘active member of drug syndicate’ - NCBEarlier in the day, the NCB produced Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant before a magistrate court. Sawant was remanded to the NCB custody till September 9. NCB officials informed the court that they wanted Sawant’s custody to investigate and confront him with other suspects including Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, Zaid Vilatra. All are in custody to unearth the drug trail. According to NCB officials, on March 17, 2020, Sawant had gone with Samuel to get 5 grams of marijuana from Zaid Vilatra, who has been arrested and is in NCB’s custody, on Showik’s instructions. Later, on April 17, 2020, Rhea and Showik instructed Sawant to receive a delivery of 10 grams of hashish from Kaizan Ebrahim, who is also arrested in the case, near Mont Blanc building. On May 1, 2020, Showik had asked him to receive marijuana from a person named Dwayne and had received 50 grams of marijuana from Dwayne on May 2, 2020. NCB officials also claimed that in the first week of June, Sawant had received 100 grams of marijuana from a delivery boy of Rishikesh Pawar and claimed that this showed him to be a part of the drug syndicate. However, Sawant’s lawyer Rajendra Rathod argued in the court that the agency had not specified his exact role and that he was just an employee of Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-to-question-rhea-chakraborty-again-on-monday/story-XBXZ3u8CR6tjcRnUY5uWpL.html
06-09-2020||India||Music is the best medium to stay positive: Kanchhan||Lucknow lass, singer Kanchhan Srivas has come up with her first original single. Currently, based in Mumbai the singer has been part of reality shows and has given playback in films along with web-series. She waited for couple of months to release her very first club song. “The production of the ‘Kambakht Jawani’ was done before lockdown but we waited for the unlock phase to commence. Now, as things are opening we came up with the release. Life needs to go on and music is the best medium to keep us rejuvenated and positive. I’m thrilled with the overwhelming response my party song is garnering,” she said. The song has been composed and penned by Sundeep Gosswami, also a Lucknowite and has a rap segment by Hustle-fame RCP featuring TV actor Paras Babbar. Kanchhan has sung the title song ‘Meherbaan’ for OTT series Raktanchal and ‘Naina Matwale’ for series ‘You Me Aur Them.’ She has been singing for films as well. “I have been part of female chorus for the song ‘Rajwadi Odhani’ in the film ‘Kalank’ and ‘Laal Ghagra’ for ‘Good Newwz’. Last year, I sung for two Gujarati films including ‘Polam Pol’ and ‘Chashni’. The young singer has been into music since school days in Lucknow. “I was performing, giving audition in competitions besides learning. I have trained under Ustad Gulshan Bharti for around four years. Then, I learn from guruji Parth Praton Das. I have trained in classical vocals. During that period, I was also teaching music at GD Goenka School.” Thereafter, she left for Mumbai. “I knew no one in Mumbai but I had to relocate for my music. I lived on room-sharing basis and social media help me to make some contacts. I connected with performers and gave auditions. I started doing live shows with ‘Delhi-6’ fame singer Shriram Ayer. Thereafter, I got a lot of shows and did international gigs as well.” Kanchhan got selected for the reality show ‘The Voice’. “I qualified two rounds but could not make it to the final twelve. Thereafter, I lost confidence in reality shows. Before that I was also in the top six of UP region in ‘Sur Kshetra’ reality show. I was also part of Trishna Band and participated in ‘India’s Got Talent’. Thereafter, I decided to do original songs which I think will be a turning point in my career.” Terming this phase as a tough time for her, Kanchan said, “I’m able to survive but it’s really a tough time for all the artistes. Gigs and corporate shows are not happening which were the real bread and butter for singers.” But, it’s a good period for self-growth, she added. “I will be releasing more singles — both club songs and romantic numbers. I have also written and composed a song for which I will give a chance to another singer. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/music-is-the-best-medium-to-stay-positive-kanchhan/story-IQeRlExAJbKfENKhbNSZkK.html
06-09-2020||India||I see life on a bigger canvas, says Ratan Rajput||After being part of the industry for twelve years, actor Ratan Rajput finds the ongoing nepotism and outsider debate pointless.According to her, “Groupism is a general term and we all have seen it existing in joint families of our society for long. Favouritism again is part of our homes. So we all are well trained to handle them ourselves.” “Being a Bihari girl I always knew that whether I’m going out for higher studies or work, I’ll have to prove myself more than anyone else. Since, we have a point to prove so we are more focused and work really hard to set a benchmark. ‘Chana-chabena ka kar’ we go to new city, live on rent and slog hard which makes all outsiders stronger than insiders,” said the ‘Agle Janam Mohe Bitiya Na Kijo,’ actor. The actor likes going slow in terms of work. “I see life on a bigger canvas and not only in terms of work. I enjoy my work but at the same time I also want to take up things which I want to do in life. I want to explore personal life too. The gap I had after ‘Santoshi Maa’ (2017) show was because my father passed away and I was under a lot of stress. So, I took time to explore life in my own way.” At present, the ‘Mahabharat’ actor is back to work. “I have been part of previous version of this show but now it’s in a new avatar. I am back doing ‘Santoshi Maa: Sunaiye Vrat Kathyein’ which has a new family and story line. So, everything is new for me as an artiste. Earlier, I was there as a ‘bhakt’ and now I am as the ‘ansh’ of the deity.” Ratan is busy in another project too. “There is something else I am working upon where I am very focused and everyone will come to know about it soon. All I can say that it’s related to me and the industry. It’s the same project for which I went to Bihar and got stuck in lockdown for almost three months,” she said. The period brought a lot of changes in her. Telling about it she said, “Due to my stay in a village, I changed as a person and that reflects in the artiste’s work as well. I have not worked much in my life in comparison to what I did in this period as I had no choice”. On being selective about her work, she said, “I have been very choosy and will remain so. I prefer doing one project at a time. I won’t be seen all over the place but, having said that I believe to change myself as per the situation. I will keep working and wait for projects I want to do.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-see-life-on-a-bigger-canvas-says-ratan-rajput/story-G7hX39aDi4zMNHCK1528EI.html
06-09-2020||India||PM Modi condoles Kesavananda Bharati’s demise, says Kerala seer will continue to inspire generations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday condoled the demise of Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru and said that the Kerala seer, deeply attached to India and Constitution, will continue to inspire generations. “We will always remember Pujya Kesavananda Bharati Ji for his contributions towards community service and empowering the downtrodden. He was deeply attached to India’s rich culture and our great Constitution. He will continue to inspire generations,” PM Modi said in a tweet.The 79-year-old seer Bharati died due to age-related ailments on Sunday at the Edaneer Mutt, which was headed by him for more than five decades. Bharati is recognised as the petitioner in a landmark judgment given by Supreme Court on the celebrated doctrine of basic structure of the Constitution.The case in which Bharati had challenged Kerala Land Reform laws nearly four decades ago set the principle that the Supreme Court is the guardian of the basic structure of the Constitution and the verdict involved 13 judges, the largest bench ever to sit in the apex court.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-kesavananda-bharati-s-demise-says-kerala-seer-will-continue-to-inspire-generations/story-ilnnx33NTwkGgKSZ88UdKO.html
06-09-2020||India||Low-intensity blast at cop’s brother’s house in J-K’s Rajouri, 5 vehicles damaged||A low-intensity blast occurred inside the compound of a senior police officer’s brother’s house in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district. The explosion damaged five vehicles, including three cars and two scooters, besides the window panes, officials said on Sunday. The blast took place at Maitra Chowkian village, 8 kilometres from Rajouri, late on Saturday.The sound of the explosion was heard in the village. However, no one was injured, a police official said.Rajouri senior superintendent of police (SSP) Chandan Kohli said, “Five vehicles were damaged in the blast. We are verifying things.” The house belonged to the brother of SSP IR 18 Battalion Koushal Sharma.Also read: 1 killed, several hurt in Birmingham brawl; foreign secy rules out terrorism linkSSP Sharma said, “As of now, nothing could be said with surety about the blast. It could also be a mischief. However, there were splinter marks on the walls and vehicles.”The late-night blast has caused panic among the locals. On Sunday morning, officials from the police and other security agencies reached the house and started investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-intensity-blast-at-cop-s-brother-s-house-in-j-k-s-rajouri-5-vehicles-damaged/story-F2aDtD9996HOBxw3G57kNJ.html
06-09-2020||India||Sushant’s house help Dipesh Sawant an ‘active member of drug syndicate’: NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday said that Dipesh Sawant, the house helper of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, was an active member of drug syndicate connected with high society personalities.The NCB reached at the conclusion based on Sawant’s statements and digital evidence collected by the agency. “On the basis of statements of Dipesh Sawant, house help of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and digital evidence collected by the NCB, it’s clear that Sawant is an active member of drug syndicate connected with high society personalities and drug suppliers,” the NCB said.Sawant was arrested by the NCB on Saturday evening in connection with the drugs probe being linked to the late actor’s death. Earlier in the day, actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda were remanded in NCB custody till September 9.Rhea is the main accused in the death case of the 34-year-old actor. The case is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges and the NCB.The NCB launched an investigation into the case after it received communication from the ED, in which there were chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-s-house-help-dipesh-sawant-an-active-member-of-drug-syndicate-ncb/story-EOgsMLC7f7dsxYBg5i6aFO.html
06-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nirav Modi’s 5-day extradition trial in London to begin from Monday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nirav Modi’s 5-day extradition trial in London to begin from MondayThe five-day extradition trial of fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi to face charges of major financial offences in India is set to begin in the Westminster Magistrates Court on Monday until September 11, with objections, arguments and counter-arguments made so far resonating with those in the case of businessman Vijay Mallya. Read more.Sushant Singh Rajput case latest developments: Rhea Chakraborty joins NCB probe, Showik arrestedThree central agencies, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), are currently probing Bollywood actor Sushant Rajput’s death from several angles. Read more.Covid-19 patient raped by ambulance driver in Kerala: PoliceA coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient was allegedly sexually assaulted by an ambulance driver in Pathanamthitta district in central Kerala late on Saturday night, officials said. Police said the ambulance driver was arrested within hours of the crime. Read more.Samsung Galaxy M31s review: A heavy powerhouseSamsung’s latest smartphone in the Galaxy M series is the Galaxy M31s. It’s also the most expensive Galaxy M phone so far. Galaxy M31s starts at ₹19,499 and goes up to ₹21,499. The smartphone is an upgrade over the Galaxy M31 as it offers an updated design, processor and slightly better cameras as well. Read more.Anand Mahindra shares old picture with former president Pranab MukherjeeIndian businessman, Anand Mahindra took to Twitter on September 5 to share a post commemorating former president Pranab Mukherjee who died on August 31. The share, which encompasses a nostalgic snapshot from 1993, is receiving a whole lot of appreciation from tweeple. Read more.Kangana Ranaut shares video message for Sanjay Raut: ‘Your men tell me they will break my jaw, kill me. I’ll see you on 9th’Kangana Ranaut has shared a new video message aimed at Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, who called her ‘haramkhor’ for disrespecting Maharashtra, and demanded that she apologise to the state. In her video, Kangana said that Sanjay has empowered wife beaters, sexual harassers and misogynists with his words. Read more.Covid-19 | Cricket in Chennai, cycling in Delhi: Crowds emerge as India unlocksWith India in its fourth phase of Unlock following the Covid-induced lockdowns, crowds were seen in metros like Chennai and Delhi. In Tamil Nadu’s capital city, many people were seen at a playground in Thyagaraya Nagar. Some were playing cricket while others milled about. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nirav-modi-s-5-day-extradition-trial-in-london-to-begin-from-monday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kSwB7cyugyEUrLkVSt8ebO.html
06-09-2020||India||With a surge in Covid-19 cases, India may soon overtake Brazil: All you need to know||India set a global record on Sunday after it logged the highest number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases at 90,632 in a single day.With the number of Covid-19 cases breaching the 4.1 million mark and more than 70,000 deaths on Sunday, India is expected to overtake Brazil as the second-most affected country in the world.Brazil has 4,123,000 Covid-19 cases and 1,26,203 deaths to date, according to John Hopkins University. The United States is the worst-hit country in the world with 6.2 million infections and 1.8 million deaths. Here is all you need to know about Covid-19 disease outbreak in India today:• India has a total of 41,13,811 coronavirus positive cases as of Sunday, Union health ministry data showed.• The death toll in India due to Covid-19 rose to 70,626 on Sunday after 1,065 fresh deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours.• India reached the 2-million mark on August 7. It took the country 16 more days to record another 1 million cases and clock 3 million cumulative cases. It took just 12 days for the tally to breach the 4-million mark.• India has 8.6 lakh active cases of coronavirus disease in the country, accounting for 20.96 per cent of the total caseload.• A total of 73,642 patients have recovered and been discharged from either home or facility isolation or hospitals in a day.• India’s recovery rate rises to 77.32 per cent, according to the data released by the health ministry.• The case fatality rate (CFR) due to Covid-19 declined to 1.72 per cent, health ministry data showed.• According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 4,88,31,145 samples have been tested up to September 5 with 10,92,654 samples being tested on Saturday.• Maharashtra has reported the maximum deaths at 26,276 in the last 24 hours. On the second worst-hit spot in terms of fatalities, Tamil Nadu saw 7,748 deaths, followed by Karnataka at 6,298 in Karnataka, 4,538 in Delhi, 4,347 in Andhra Pradesh, 3,843 in Uttar Pradesh, 3,510 in West Bengal, 3,091 in Gujarat and 1,808 in Punjab.• More than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities, the health ministry has stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-a-surge-in-covid-19-cases-india-may-soon-overtake-brazil-all-you-need-to-know/story-MuXUgIOzCuAUW98iyChREN.html
06-09-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election: Half a dozen members of women commission in race for tickets||Nearly half a dozen members of the Bihar State Women Commission, whose term is getting over by October-end this year, are learnt to be in the race for tickets to contest the forthcoming Assembly elections in the state.Usha Vidyarthi wants to contest elections from Paliganj while Nikki Hembram, another commission member, has been trying for a ticket for Katoria in Banka. Dilmani Mishra, the commission’s chairperson, is aspiring for ticket for Brahmapur in Buxar while Pratima Sinha, a member, is hoping for a ticket for Islapur seat in Nalanda district.All these members have been MLAs from various constituencies in the state. In fact, of the seven members in the existing team of the commission, six, including the chairperson, are former MLAs.Mishra was BJP MLA from Brahmapur during 2010-15 while Usha Vidyarthi was BJP MLA from Paliganj during 2005-2010. Nikki Hembram had contested election from Katoria in Banka on a BJP ticket in 2015 but lost. Pratima Sinha as JD(U) MLA from Islampur in Nalanda during 2007-2010.Also read: Nitish Kumar’s virtual rally to launch JD(U)’s poll campaignManju Kumari, also a member of the commission, was JD(U) MLA from Samastipur during 2013-2015 while Renu Devi was JD(U) MLA from Dev in Aurangabad during 2005- 2010.“Working at the commission offered me enough opportunity to work for women. But being an MLA offers a much bigger platform to work for the entire population of an area,” said Mishra, who is eyeing a JD(U) ticket this time.Vidyarthi said she had worked hard in Paliganj. “In 2005, people voted for me because they wanted an educated representative. I am a postgraduate and have a degree in law as well,” she said. “I want a ticket from BJP for Paliganj seat, but am not sure about it. If I am not considered, I would contest election as an Independent candidate,” she said. Pratima Sinha is eying a JD(U) ticket from Islampur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-half-a-dozen-members-of-women-commission-in-race-for-tickets/story-ViQdVtHDKiR7ll5cjZFfUP.html
06-09-2020||India||‘You aren’t Maharashtra’: Kangana Ranaut hits back at Sanjay Raut, dares him to stop her from coming to Mumbai||The ongoing war of words between Kangana Ranaut and politician Sanjay Raut heated up on Sunday after the actor hit back at the Shiv Sena leader saying he doesn’t represent the entire Maharashtra.“Sanjay Raut ji, if I criticise Mumbai Police or if I criticise you, then you can’t say I am insulting Maharashtra. You aren’t Maharashtra,” Ranaut said in a video message.ALSO WATCH | ‘If that girl...’: Kangana Ranaut under fresh fire from Sanjay Raut on ‘PoK’ row “Mr Sanjay Raut, you called me ‘haramkhor ladki’. You know how many girls are raped every day in the country, how many of them are tortured and killed - sometimes by their own husbands. And you know who is responsible for all this? It is this mindset which you very shamelessly displayed in front of the entire country. The daughters of this country will never forgive you,” Ranaut said in the video.The actor also replied to Raut’s warning that she will be face consequences for her remarks is she returns to Mumbai. “Your people are threatening me, still I’ll come to Mumbai on September 9,” she added.The genesis of this verbal duel lies in a tweet from Ranaut on Thursday in which the actor said “Why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir?”Reacting to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, she said in another tweet, “After a major star has been killed I spoke about drug and movie mafia racket, I don’t trust Mumbai Police because they ignored SSR’s complaints. He told everyone they will kill him yet he was killed. If I feel unsafe, does that mean I hate the industry and Mumbai?”In an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut hit back and asked Ranaut not to return to Mumbai for criticising Mumbai Police. On Friday, he had urged the Maharashtra government to take against people defaming the city police.Also Read: Ranvir Shorey supports Kangana Ranaut against Sanjay Raut’s commentsOn Sunday, Raut said that he will apologise to Ranaut only if she apologises for her remarks. “If that girl (Kangana) apologises to Maharashtra then I will think about apologising. She has called Mumbai mini Pakistan. Does she have the courage to say the same about Ahmedabad?” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Ranaut, who is currently in her home state Himachal Pradesh, had tweeted that she will be returning to Mumbai on September 9 and dared anyone to stop her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-aren-t-maharashtra-kangana-ranaut-hits-back-at-sajnay-raut-dares-him-to-stop-her-from-coming-to-mumbai/story-aN0vJW6SRd7i62LKOPDT1H.html
06-09-2020||India||1100-km-long journey on two-wheeler earns man, pregnant wife return air tickets||Dhanjay Kumar drove his two-wheeler vehicle for over 1100 kilometre from Jharkhand to Gwalior so that his pregnant wife could write her examination. Their strenuous, back-breaking journey earned the couple air tickets for their return journey. A corporate group came forward and helped them get back home. It will be their first air journey when the couple board a flight on September 16. The residents of Godda city, Dhananjay Kumar, 26, works as a cook, while his wife, Soni Hembram, 24, is a second-year student enrolled in a diploma course in elementary education (D.El.Ed) with Madhya Pradesh board of secondary education. Soni took admission in the course in the year 2019 as the fee for the course in Madhya Pradesh is much lower than Jharkhand, the couple said. The couple had to drive down to the examination centre in Gwalior on their two-wheeler since most of the trains were cancelled and cabs were charging Rs 30,000 which they couldn’t afford. After borrowing Rs 10,000 by mortgaging his wife’s jewellery, Dhananjay left from Godda on August 28 and reached Gwalior via Muzaffarabad, Lucknow and Agra on August 30 evening. Also read: Will apologise only if she does - Sanjay Raut replies to Kangana RanautAs stories of the couple appeared in the media, Adani Foundation, a corporate social responsibility (CSR) wing of the Adani Group, sent air tickets to the couple. This was announced by the foundation chairperson Dr Priti G Adani on her Twitter account on Saturday. “Dhananjay and Soni’s marathon travel was a journey of survival, resilience and great optimism. Adani Foundation is humbled to arrange for their comfortable return journey to Godda,” said Dr Priti Adani in her tweet.“Since, there is no direct flight from Gwalior to Jharkhand the couple would fly to Hyderabad and then from Hyderabad to Ranchi on September 16. From Ranchi, they will travel by road in a cab to reach Godda. The Foundation has taken upon itself the responsibility of bearing health expenses of Soni,” said Subodh Singh, CSR head Jharkhand, Adani Foundation. Gwalior district administration has been taking care of the couple since the media coverage on the couple.Gwalior district collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh said, “Apart from giving money, the district administration has made arrangement for the transportation of the couple’s two-wheeler to their home. We arranged health check-ups of the woman and moved them to comfortable accommodation.” Expressing his joy on the unexpected support, Dhananjay said, “I never thought that people in such a large number will come forward to help us and we will ever board a flight. The only thought in my mind was how to take my wife back to Godda safely. A couple of days back, a madam from Mumbai Shreela Roy gave us money to repay the loan of Rs 10,000 that I had taken from a person in Jharkhand. And now this is another major help to us to get back home by a flight. The district administration has also helped us a lot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1100-km-long-journey-on-two-wheeler-earns-man-pregnant-wife-return-air-tickets/story-fXkvzJL0ehOsLQgPpYHQaK.html
06-09-2020||India||In Chushul’s forbidding heights, locals supply water, other essentials to Indian troops||Amid the continuing standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, pictures of locals from Chushul and Merak villages supplying water and other necessities to the Indian Army have emerged on social media and have been widely shared.In a Facebook post, Konchok Stanzin executive councillor for education at Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council at Leh, called these volunteers soldiers without uniform.“Soldiers without Uniform: Volunteers from #Chushul & #Merak are in service to the nation, supplying local products, essential commodities and water to #IndianArmy deployed at #Border,” he wrote.Also read: India calls China’s bluff in Chushul | AnalysisHe went on to say that the locals have always stood with the Indian Army whenever required and monks, women, youth, and ex-servicemen are doing voluntary service. “I would say these people/ border people are the soldiers without uniform. Hats off to all the volunteers, we are proud to all of you,” Stanzin said.Tsering Stobdan, another local from Leh posted, “Volunteers of Chushul village carrying water and essential commodities to Indian Army at Black top. Salute to them. Jai Hind”. Spalchan, a local from Leh said that volunteers have been supplying water and other essential commodities to the Indian Army soldiers at Black Top. “Around 60 locals, including women from Chushul and Merak villages took the initiative to deliver water and other essential commodities on the heights of Black Top. They started around five days ago,” he said. “Earlier, the Army used to hire locals as porters, for which they were paid but in the wake of Indo-China stand-off locals volunteered themselves. They are ferried in army trucks to the nearest points from where they undertake an arduous trek to deliver the supplies at the heights of the Black Top,” he added. South of Pangong Tso lies India’s Chushul sector which has Chushul village, Spanggur Lake and Black Top and Helmet Top. Around 170 families live in Chushul village. Even before the Galwan Valley clash took place on June 15 when India lost 20 soldiers, Nyoma block development council (BDC) chairperson Urgain Chodon had flagged rising Chinese activity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the strategic region. On April 27, Chodon had first raised the issue of heightened Chinese activity in Demchok area on her Facebook page, but had withdrawn the post moments later. However, in a series of posts and pictures on June 11, the BDC chief once again exposed Chinese intrusions. In another post with pictures, she said her maternal uncle Rigzin lost his ancestral shed at Laegoknonboo because PLA pushed him 50 steps back. “So imagine how many square km we lost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chushul-s-forbidding-heights-locals-supply-water-other-essentials-to-indian-troops/story-C3TpLDdEgAFmCVKZLx3AlI.html
06-09-2020||India||Nirav Modi’s 5-day extradition trial in London to begin from Monday||The five-day extradition trial of fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi to face charges of major financial offences in India is set to begin in the Westminster Magistrates Court on Monday until September 11, with objections, arguments and counter-arguments made so far resonating with those in the case of businessman Vijay Mallya.Modi, 49, is the subject of two extradition requests - one processed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the other by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Lodged in the Wandsworth jail since his arrest in March 2019, he has been refused bail five times.Under UK extradition rules, the court will need to determine whether there is a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering mentioned in the material supplied by the Indian government; reaching a judgement of guilt is not the purpose of the trial.More hearings are due later in the year and a ruling on the extradition is expected in December. The ruling will take the form of a recommendation to the home secretary whether any bars exist to Modi’s extradition or not.Charges against Modi involve a Mumbai branch of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) that extended his companies loans worth over Rs 11,300 crore. The CBI case relates to large-scale fraud upon PNB, through the fraudulent obtaining of Letters of Understanding (LOUs/loan agreements); the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.Also read: Rhea joins NCB probe, Showik arrested - Latest developments in Sushant caseThe second extradition request was made on the basis of two additional offences as part of the CBI case. It was certified by home secretary Priti Patel on February 20 as required under the 1993 India-UK extradition treaty.The additional offences relate to allegations that Modi interfered with the CBI investigation by “causing disappearance of evidence” and intimidating witnesses (”criminal intimidation to cause death”).India’s case is that Modi and his companies obtained loans without credit facilities in place; without providing the requisite cash margin; without proper documentation; without paying a proper commission and LOUs not being properly recorded in PNB’s systems; and the proceeds of which were wrongly diverted either to the repayment of earlier LOUs and/or to the benefit of a series of linked Modi-controlled companies.India’s case, represented in the court by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) is that the fraudulent LOUs would not have been issued without the active involvement of the co-accused PNB officers.Documents submitted in the Modi case refer to several points of law, objections and rulings made in the Vijay Mallya case, as Modi’s defence raised similar objections to extradition - lack of a prima facie case, the alleged impossibility of a fair trial in India, and risk to human rights in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai.The CPS refers to the Mallya case in its skeleton argument in the Modi case to refute or respond to arguments by Modi’s defence, pointing out that many of the objections put forth had been dismissed in judgments in the Mallya case.The CPS submitted that there is no evidence that “justifies a departure from the approach taken in Mallya” on the issue of lack of prima facie case, admissibility of evidence submitted by India, or on the sovereign assurance by the ministry of home affairs on there being no risk to human rights in the Mumbai jail.Despite offering to raise the bail security amount to 4 million pounds, UK courts have refused Modi bail on the ground that he posed a risk and had the means to influence witnesses and tamper with evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-5-day-extradition-trial-in-london-to-begin-from-monday/story-1iwhZZ2Vy5y53hc3g5voZM.html
06-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt fixes cost for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals||The Chhattisgarh government has fixed the cost of Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals in the wake of a rise in the number of coronavirus cases in the state, an official said on Sunday.Patients will have to bear the cost of treatment in the private hospitals, which have been classified in A, B and C categories in various districts, based on the medical facilities available there, he said.The order was issued on Saturday under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, the Chhattisgarh Public Health Act, 1949, and the Chhattisgarh Epidemic Diseases Covid-19 Regulations, 2020, the public relations department official said.Hospitals in major districts like Raipur, Durg, Rajnandgaon, Bilaspur, Korba and Raigarh have been listed in ‘A’ category, while those in Surguja, Mahasamund, Dhamtari, Kanker, Janjgir-Champa, Balodabazar-Bhatapara, Kabirdham and Bastar districts are in ‘B’ category.Hospitals in remaining 14 districts of the state have been placed in ‘C’ category, he said.The ‘A’ category hospitals accredited by the National Accreditation Board of Hospitals (NABH) can charge Rs 6,200 per day from moderately sick patients, Rs 12,000 per day for severely ill patients and Rs 17,000 per day for very severely ill patients, the official said.The non-NABH accredited hospitals can charge Rs 6,200, Rs 10,000 and Rs 14,000 from moderate, severe and very severely ill patients, respectively, he said.Hospitals in the ‘B’ category can charge 80 per cent of the rate fixed for three categories of patients in the ‘A’ category hospitals, while hospitals in the ‘C’ category can charge 60 per cent of it, he said.Violation of the order will attract punishment, the official said.The state government has also decided to provide online medical consultancy to Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and are undergoing treatment at home, at Rs 250 per day for 10 days, he said.“The decision has been taken as asymptomatic patients wanted to undergo treatment in home isolation,” he said.The Covid-19 cases have been steadily rising in the state and the number is likely to go up further in near future, the official said.Till Saturday, the state reported 43,163 Covid-19 cases and 356 deaths due to the disease.As of now, there are 22,320 active Covid-19 cases in the state while 20,487 people have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-fixes-cost-for-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals/story-HXmdRO4AFwKnSjrmCJtWFO.html
06-09-2020||India||India records over 70,000 Covid-19 recoveries for 2 consecutive days||India recorded over 70,000 Covid-19 recoveries for the second successive day on Sunday. The country also recorded its highest-ever Covid-19 tally in 24 hours. With 90,632 fresh cases, India’s tally reached over 4.11 million on Sunday. As many as 73,642 patients have recovered and been discharged from either home isolation or hospitals in the last 24 hours. The total numbers of recoveries have reached nearly 32 lakh. Also read: Covid-19 toll in India crosses 70k-mark“This surge in numbers of patients getting recovered has taken India’s recovery rate to 77.32%,” health ministry said in a press release.“The Centre, in collaboration with AIIMS, New Delhi has led the process of continuous upgradation of clinical management skills of the ICU doctors in the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals across the country. These measures have resulted in saving more lives. India’s Case Fatality Rate, one of the lowest globally, continues to further compress. It is pegged at 1.72% today,” the ministry said.Also read: Over 90,000 Covid-19 cases recorded in India in single day“Sustained efforts by the Centre and State/UT governments have substantially resulted in higher number of people getting identified at an early stage for the infection through very high levels of testing and this has enabled their timely treatment,” the ministry said.As many as 70,626 people have lost their lives due to the infection in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-70-000-recoveries-for-2-days-in-a-row/story-iBaiFXxfur0cBeM6mWz7LP.html
06-09-2020||India||Congress MP Deepender Hooda tests positive for Covid-19||Congress MP from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. “I have been tested positive for Covid-19. The doctors are conducting more tests. With your blessings, I will recover soon,” he tweeted.He also requested all those who came in contact with him to get tested at the earliest.Two days ago, the MP had addressed a gathering in Baroda constituency. He is the fourth leader to test positive after addressing the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-deepender-hooda-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-qdIhcxYW8DwgkWJJ6YEv3H.html
06-09-2020||India||Railway Board starts recruitment process, to conduct exams in December. Details here||The Indian Railways, among the several sectors hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, has decided to proceed with recruitments this year and conduct related examinations in December. The recruitment process was stalled due to the nationwide lockdown.More than 140,000 vacancies were notified before the lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19 outbreak was clamped by the government. For these vacancies, 24.2 million applications were received by the board, officials said.WATCH: Will Railways recruit for vacancies this year? Board chairman answers“While the applications were scrutinised by the board, the exams could not be conducted due to the disease outbreak. Now it has been decided that the computer-based exam for the notified vacancies will begin from December 15 and a detailed schedule for this will be notified soon,” Railway Board chairperson Vinod Kumar said.Kumar added the board is discussing ways to conduct training for those joining the assistant loco pilot (ALP) programme. “Those selected for ALP are supposed to undergo training and we are discussing the methods in which the candidates can be trained. The training is done in the field so it is significant that necessary precautions are taken. So, once the planning for this training part is done, we will ask the candidates to get on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-board-starts-recruitment-process-to-conduct-exams-in-december-details-here/story-IqM1VzFOK1jYCVU8Kn3IWP.html
06-09-2020||India||No news yet of five Arunachal men allegedly abducted by China’s PLA||Authorities in Arunachal Pradesh (AP) were yet to get any news on the whereabouts of the five men allegedly abducted by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops from Upper Subansiri district on Thursday. A police team has been sent to verify the incident after reports emerged on social media about the missing men. But the team is yet to return from the remote border location. Authorities said there was no confirmation that the abductions had taken place.“The incident might have occurred, but we have not received any complaint about the disappearance of the men from any of their family members. We know about the incident only through local sources,” Taru Gussar, superintendent of police (SP), Upper Subansiri, told HT over the phone on Sunday. Also Read: India calls China’s bluff in Chushul | AnalysisThe reports of disappearance of the men, who used to work as porters for the Indian Army, surfaced on Friday after Prakash Ringling, a brother of one of the five missing persons, posted about it on social media. He mentioned that the alleged abduction took place at Sera-7, which is located on the border between India and China. The missing men have been identified as Tanu Bakar, Prasad Ringling, Ngaru Diri, Dongtu Ebiya and Toch Singkam. Two other men, who were also with the five missing, reportedly managed to escape. Reports of the incident was shared on social media by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Tapir Gao, who represents Arunachal East constituency in the Lok Sabha. He stated that the men belonged to the Tagin tribe and were abducted from the Indian side of the McMohan Line that bifurcates the north-east’s largest and the least populous state and the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) of China. Also Read: Donald Trump offers to help resolve LAC standoffCongress lawmaker Ninong Ering, who represents Pasighat West in the Arunachal legislative assembly, also tweeted about the incident. “A team from Nacho police station has gone to the border area on Saturday to carry out an investigation. But until Sunday afternoon, we have not got any report from them. The area is remote and the road condition has worsened because of heavy rains during monsoon,” said Gussar. “It is premature to say what had happened until the team files its report. If there are no blockades on the road due to landslides, the team is expected to return either late on Sunday or Monday,” said the SP. The border area, where the alleged incident took place, is around 14 days walking distance from Nacho, which is located around 60 kilometres (km) from Daporijo, the headquarters of Upper Subansiri district. The district authorities have also not been able to get in touch with Indian Army officials at the border due to a snag in the telecommunication link. “The men belong to my constituency. But there is no confirmation yet on whether any abduction took place. Since the area is inaccessible, there is not much detail available yet. Their family members have also not approached the police,” said Nakap Nalo, state tourism minister and a legislator from the Nacho constituency. Earlier on March 21, Togley Singkam (21) from Upper Subansiri district, who had crossed over to TAR while searching for herbs, was nabbed by Chinese security agencies. He had returned on April 7 following talks between the representatives of the Indian Army and the PLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-news-yet-of-five-arunachal-men-allegedly-abducted-by-chinese-pla/story-j7jmPdUx8V7xq7LZX4e7mI.html
06-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case latest developments: Rhea Chakraborty joins NCB probe, Showik arrested||Three central agencies, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), are currently probing Bollywood actor Sushant Rajput’s death from several angles.Chakraborty on Sunday joined the probe being handled by NCB into the drug abuse angle of the case. The agency has so far arrested her brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and three others in connection with the case. Chakrabortys’ lawyer has said that neither of the siblings has ever consumed drugs.Here are the latest developments in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case:Rhea Chakraborty to come face-to-face with brother ShowikThe NCB issued summons to Rhea early on Sunday, following which she reached the agency’s office around 12pm. She will be confronted with her brother Showik, who along with Miranda has been remanded to the central agency’s custody till September 9.Rhea ready for arrest, says lawyerAs Chakraborty joined the NCB probe today, her lawyer said she was ready for being arrested and hasn’t even applied for anticipatory bail.“RheaChakraborty is ready for arrest as it’s a witch-hunt. If loving someone is a crime she’ll face consequences of her love. Being innocent she hasn’t approached any court for an anticipatory bail in all cases foisted by Bihar Police with CBI, ED & NCB,” lawyer Satish Maneshinde said.‘Next in line is my daughter’: Rhea Chakraborty’s father issues statementChakraborty’s father Indrajit on Saturday issued a statement, after his son’s arrest on Friday, saying next on line was his daughter Rhea.“Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter. You have effectively demolished a middle class family. But of course, for the sake of justice, everything is justified. Jai Hind,” Lt Col Indrajit Chakraborty (Retd) said.Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant arrestedNCB late on Saturday arrested Sawant as well in connection with the drugs probe. Sawant has been remanded to NCB custody September 9.CBI visits Rajput’s Bandra home with his sister, staffCBI officials probing Rajput’s death case were spotted at the actor’s house in Mumbai’s Bandra on Saturday morning along with his sister Meetu Singh and a few staff members.According to reports, Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj, house caretaker Keshav were also present with them.Mumbai Police hiding ‘something very big’: KK Singh’s lawyerAfter the arrest of Showik and Miranda by NCB, Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer alleged that Mumbai Police were hiding “something very big.”“Arrests by NCB prove the fear of the family that there was something very big that Mumbai Police wanted to hide. Clearly, there are several angles in this case. The family hopes that more angles will come out,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Arrests so farWhile CBI and ED, probing the actor’s death and the alleged money laundering angle respectively, have made no arrests so far, NCB has till now has arrested seven people.NCB has held Zaid Vilatra, Kaizan Ebrahim and Abdel Basit Parihar for drug peddling apart from Showik and Miranda, who were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/sushant-singh-rajput-case-latest-developments-rhea-chakraborty-joins-ncb-probe-showik-arrested/story-8mdxHJBaqRlHnaLg5UHbVN.html
06-09-2020||India||‘If that girl apologises...’: Sanjay Raut on Kangana Ranaut’s ‘Mumbai-PoK’ comment||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Sunday he will apologise to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut only if she says sorry to Maharashtra for “calling Mumbai a mini Pakistan” amid calls for the politician to back down.The war of words between the Rajya Sabha member and Bollywood actor erupted over Kangana Ranaut’s comment about “Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir” on Thursday. She had also said that she feared Mumbai Police more than what she has dubbed as ‘movie mafia’.Raut in his weekly editorial in Saamana – the Sena’s mouthpiece – on Thursday had hit back and asked Ranaut not to return to Mumbai for criticising Mumbai Police.Also read: Dia Mirza comes out in support of Kangana Ranaut who was called ‘haramkhor’ by Sanjay Raut, asks him to apologise“If that girl (Actor Kangana Ranaut) will apologise to Maharashtra, then I will think about it (of apologising). She calls Mumbai a mini Pakistan. Does she have the courage to say the same about Ahmedabad?” Raut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Sunday.“This issue concerns the pride of Maharashtra and there will be no compromise on this front. Ranaut needs to apologise for her PoK remarks or she will face the music from our women’s wing,” he had said in his editorial.The verbal duel had escalated on Saturday after Ranaut reacted to a Twitter user who claimed that the actor had not insulted Maratha king Shivaji and had called out “freedom of speech warriors” for not speaking up for her.“In 2008 Movie Mafia declared me a Psycho, in 2016 they called me a Witch and Stalker in 2020 Maharashtra Minister publicity gave me the title of Haramkhor Ladki, because I said after a murder I feel unsafe in Mumbai, where are INTOLERANCE debate warriors?” Ranaut had tweeted from her team’s account.Also read | Ranvir Shorey supports Kangana Ranaut against Sanjay Raut’s comments: ‘She is heartthrob of millions around the country’Following this, Raut had advised Ranaut to use her own social media handle and not run it through the IT cell of a political party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-that-girl-apologises-to-maharashtra-sanjay-raut-on-kangana-ranaut-s-mumbai-pok-comment/story-gWCCkSOiVafAIXnhAwjnSO.html
06-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand unveils hotel discount plan to boost pandemic-hit tourism sector||The Uttarakhand tourism department has launched a pilot project to boost tourism under which tourists will be given discount coupons for their stay in hotels and homestays of ₹1,000, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said.The decision to launch the Tourist Incentive Coupon (TIC) scheme was taken at a Cabinet meeting on Friday. The government hopes that the TIC will boost the tourism industry which has been severely hit due to travel restrictions during the lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Tourism is a major revenue earning and employment generation industry for the Himalayan state. The discount scheme comes into effect in the next few days.Maharaj said the offer will be applicable to tourists who will do e-booking for their stay in hotels or homestays in the state.“The tourists will be given the discount coupon while registering themselves on the government portal under tourist category. They will then be able to use the coupon during their stay in a hotel or homestay in the tourist spots of the state,” said Maharaj.He said, “The tourist will have to provide his Aadhaar card details while registering to avail the coupon and have to stay for minimum three days in the hotel or homestay. The scheme will also apply for the Char-Dham pilgrims.”Maharaj said that under the scheme the tourists will be provided a discount of ₹1000 or 25% of the hotel charge per day, whichever is less. “The discounted amount will be reimbursed by the government to hotel and homestay owners within 15 days on producing necessary documents regarding the bill charged from the tourist,” he said.For now, it will be a pilot project.“The scheme will be launched as a pilot project for one month which will probably cost the government ₹2.70 cr. If it’s successful, then it will be extended for two more months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-unveils-hotel-discount-plan-to-boost-pandemic-hit-tourism-sector/story-AIYhKm5hiv0syFvV9ZzY7H.html
06-09-2020||India||Heavy casagrande machine reaches Ayodhya for Ram Mandir construction||A casagrande machine which will be used for piling has reached Ayodhya on Saturday. The heavy machine will be used to fill concrete in pillars which could be higher than 100 metres. Larsen and Toubro, the company overseeing the construction of the holy Ram Mandir, ordered the casagrande for laying the foundation of the temple. A report on Hindustan said that this 88-wheeler machine was brought from Jaipur to Kanpur. After the Ramjanmabhumi Teerth Kshetra general secretary Champat Rai gave his approval the 88-wheeler machine was brought to Ayodhya from Kanpur.Following the layout, the machine will be used to break and level the main gate of the Ram Janmabhoomi Complex. Central Building Research Institute and IIT Chennai have given their reports based on which the construction and design of the Ram Temple will begin. Meanwhile the process of breaking down the dilapidated structures around the temple grounds is ongoing. Larsen and Toubro has been asked to hire people from different agencies for the construction as well as clearing of the dilapidated structures. Aide from the birthplace of Lord Ram, Sita Rasoi, Bahraich Temple and Sakshi Gopal temple have been demolished. Anand Bhawan, Manas Bhawan, Kohbar Bhawan and Ramkhajana will also be demolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-casagrande-machine-reaches-ayodhya-for-ram-mandir-construction/story-CZGSFMUlnCyDBnct0ZAh3M.html
06-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: GST means economic apocalypse, says Rahul Gandhi in his latest jibe at govt over economy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘GST means economic apocalypse’: Rahul Gandhi’s latest jibe at govt over economy in new videoCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday cornered the government over the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and blamed it for hurting the country’s economic growth.Read more. IMD predicts heavy rain in south India for next three daysThere is likely to be widespread and heavy rainfall in peninsular India for the next three days, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Sunday morning bulletin. The monsoon trough is lying north of its normal position --- from Rajasthan’s Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal. A low-pressure area is lying over south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea.Read more. India calls China’s bluff in Chushul | AnalysisAfter the Indian Army called the bluff of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the Rezang La ridgeline on August 29-30, India is prepared for a long haul in Ladakh with clear cut directions to the front-line troops not to yield to any Chinese intimidation.Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty joins NCB probe, to come face-to-face with brother ShowikActor Rhea Chakraborty reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday hours after the agency served summons to her to join the investigation into the drug-related angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Read more. Record one-day jump of over 90,000 Covid-19 cases takes India’s tally past 4.11 millionIndia reported a record rise of more than 90,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), also the highest single day-spike in the world, pushing the country’s tally past 4.11 million, the Union health ministry data showed on Sunday.Read more.Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer: ‘She is ready for arrest as it is a witch-hunt’Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde has called the Sushant Singh Rajput case a witch hunt. He added that the actor is innocent and has not applied for anticipatory bail either. “RheaChakraborty is ready for arrest as it’s witch-hunt. If loving someone is a crime she’ll face consequences of her love. Being innocent she hasn’t approached any court for anticipatory bail in all cases foisted by Bihar Police with CBI, ED & NCB,” he said.Read more. CSK’s next captain is already at the back of Dhoni’s mind: Dwayne BravoJust like MS Dhoni groomed Virat Kohli as the next India captain, he wants to prepare his successor in IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings. West Indies all-rounder Dwayne Bravo, who has been a part of the CSK set-up for quite some time now, said grooming the next captain is already in the back of Dhoni’s mind.Read more. Stunning spectacle: Pictures tweeted by Indian Railways capture the country’s beauty perfectlyOur country is full of incredibly beautiful places. And these images shared by Indian Railways showcase that perfectly. These pictures show trains crossing through amazingly beautiful places around India.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-gst-means-economic-apocalypse-says-rahul-gandhi-in-his-latest-jibe-at-govt-over-economy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MYKbqjgrgmrtlOq0PyrVkK.html
06-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand lead in Broadband Readiness Index||The Broadband Readiness Index (BRI) being prepared by the Department of Telecommunications has thrown up a surprise with Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand faring better on the criteria set by the Central government, Hindustan Times has learnt. The BRI was launched in association with economic policy think-tank Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) last year to further expand the broadband network across the country and analyse the state’s readiness to adopt the fixed line network. The Index also becomes significant in the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on August 15 that 6 lakh villages across the country will be connected by optical fibre within a thousand days. According to documents accessed by Hindustan Times, 24 states/UTs have already provided complete data for the Index, while partial data has been received from Maharashtra, Odisha, Bihar, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. No data has been received from Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal. For the states that have not submitted the data, DoT is sourcing material from secondary sources such as COAI, Telecom Service Providers and TAIPA. Several criteria were laid down by DoT to check where states ranked on Index. These include Right of Way (RoW) rules that were introduced last year to set up mobile towers and underground optical fibre, national building code of 2016, provisions for making government infrastructure available to setup telecom towers, smart city implementation and common duct policy. The earlier deadline to submit the information was March 2020 but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Department has extended the deadline to September. In March, DoT secretary Anshu Prakash had written to chief secretaries of all states to expedite the submission of the documents. The report was supposed to be finalised by April 2020, but has been delayed due to the pandemic. The Department has also asked for granular details such as length of fibre in kms, number of mobile towers and number of mobile towers connected by fibre in the state. According to DoT officials, the department is working to establish 6 lakh connections, of which 1.5 lakh have already been completed. “The aim is that at least four institutions, say a school, the panchayat, the health care centre, the police station and/or ration shop are connected with the fibre to provide a fixed line connection,” said a senior DoT official. The official added that of 21 states analysed, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Puducherry, Uttarakhand and Andhra Pradesh have emerged as the five best states on the BRI. “The ranking is also contingent on the size and population density of the state,” said the official. As of April 2020, according to data by TRAI, India 117 crore telecom connections, of which 115 crore are mobile connections. Of these, over 62 crore are urban mobile connections and over 52 crore are rural mobile connections. However, there are only two crore fixed line broadband connections. “India has 1.34 fixed broadband subscribers per hundred population, whereas the global average is 14,” said the above-mentioned official. But at the same time, data consumption is 10.4 gb per month per subscriber on mobile connections. “Fibre and fixed line connections will help provide easier access, especially considering the pandemic and need for quicker Internet as even teaching and learning move to an online platform,” said a second official. The official added that the Department was working round the clock to meet the thousand day deadline and had already established over a lakh Bharatnet fixed line connections in the last six months.According to former DoT secretary Shyamal Ghosh, connections will only make a difference if proper utilization is done. “A large number of villages have been connected, but what is needed is to set up services and have a development model otherwise the investment remains unutilised.”Ghosh added that BRI is a good investment, but it will have to engage with states to ensure further application, especially in local languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-uttarakhand-lead-in-broadband-readiness-index/story-6V6WkPcMVHg0wDBVHCphGI.html
06-09-2020||India||Two years after Section 377: Judgement that said it with poetry and words from literature||Two years ago, the Supreme Court decriminalised homosexuality, using the words of Goethe and Leonard Cohen, Shakespeare and Oscar Wilde to deliver a historic judgment that signalled freedom for millions of people in the LGBTQ+ community.The 495-page path-breaking verdict, delivered by a five-judge constitutional bench headed by then chief justice Dipak Misra on September 6, 2018, took the help of philosophers and poets to read down parts of an 158-year-old colonial law under Section 377 of the IPC which criminalised consensual gay sex.So be it German writer-philosopher Johann Wolfgang von Goethe’s famous words “I am what I am”, British poet Lord Alfred Douglas’ “The Love that dare not speak its name” or Canadian singer-poet Leonard Cohen’s “Democracy is Coming”, the document was full of evocative words from the greatest in the world of literature and thought.The bench – that also comprised Justices R F Nariman, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra – delivered its verdict in four separate but concurring judgements.Former CJI Misra set the ball rolling and started his and Justice Khaniwlkar’s judgement by quoting Goethe’s “I am what I am, so take me as I am” and German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer’s “No one can escape from their individuality”.In a recently launched book, “Sex and the Supreme Court”, a collection of essays on how the law is upholding the dignity of Indian citizen, editor of the book Saurabh Kirpal interprets the usage of famous quotes and phrases -- along with other passages -- given by the judges.“The thrust of the judgement of the Chief Justice was to recognize that a person of alternative sexuality had the right to choose their own partner,” Kirpal, who was one of the lawyers for the petitioners in the case, in his essay, ‘Pride versus Prejudice: The Struggle against Section 377”.The former CJI’s judgement was also peppered with other phrases and quotes of literary greats, including English philosopher-economist John Stuart Mill. William Shakespeare’s famous phrase “What’s in a name?” was quoted to convey that “what really matters is the essential qualities of the substance and the fundamental characteristics of an entity”.Taking a cue from Justice Misra, Justice Nariman started his judgement with “The love that dare not speak its name”, the famous words by Alfred Douglas, the lover of well-known 19th century Irish poet Oscar Wilde.The phrase, from the 1890s poem “Two Loves”, is believed to be mentioned in Wilde’s trial for ‘gross indecency’, a charge which criminalised homosexual people. “The Love that dare not speak its name” is usually interpreted as a euphemism for homosexuality -- something that Wilde denied. Wilde was put on trial in 1895 after the details of his affair with men were made public. He was sentenced to two years imprisonment.Homosexuality was a criminal offence in England in the 19th century. It was legalised in England and Wales in 1967, and in Scotland and Ireland in 1980 and 1981, respectively. According to Kirpal, the poem, even though disavowed by Wilde, “speaks of the ignominy of homosexuality that people dare not even mention its existence”.“The poem captures the essence of the judgement of Justice Nariman -- a judgement with rich historical context but at the same time the one that looks towards the future. It is a judgement that neatly wraps its value judgements in constitutional theory and practice,” he adds.Justice Chandrachud began his judgement with the moving words of the late Leila Seth, the first woman chief justice of a state high court and mother of poet and gay rights activist Vikram Seth, “What makes life meaningful is love. The right that makes us human is the right to love. To criminalize the expression of that right is profoundly cruel and inhumane. To acquiesce in such criminalization or, worse, to recriminalize it, is to display the very opposite of compassion...” He borrowed lines from Cohen’s 1990s hit-song “Democracy” to make his point -- “It’s coming through a hole in the air ... It’s coming from the feel that this ain’t exactly real, or it’s real, but it ain’t exactly there.. From the fires of the homeless From the ashes of the gay: Democracy is coming...” According to Kirpal, democracy is something that often comes through ‘a hole in the air’, that is, through the small acts of individuals whose life needs to be changed.The song, he says in the book, seems to capture the ideas of democracy as a participative concept rather than the majoritarian juggernaut that it is sometimes understood to be. Recalling his feelings on judgment day, hotelier Keshav Suri, one of the petitioners in the case, says in the book that he was so happy he could have kissed everyone in the court that day.“The verdict was delivered with such beauty and purity that it made all the struggle worth it. Even British philosopher John Stuart Mill was quoted: ‘But society has now fairly got the better of individuality..’ It made my heart swell with joy. No one could make us ashamed any more. We didn’t have to fear the law. The country’s highest court was standing with us,” Suri writes.Besides Suri, hotelier Aman Nath, dancer Navtej Jauhar, journalist Sunil Mehra, chef Ritu Dalmia and business executive Ayesha Kapur were among the main petitioners in the case. In 2016, they successfully petitioned the Supreme Court to reconsider its own ruling. In 2013, the apex court had cancelled a Delhi High Court order that decriminalised homosexuality by overturning the outdated law, enacted in 1860 at the behest of Lord Thomas Babington Macaulay. The court said it was up to parliament to take a call on scrapping laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-years-after-section-377-judgement-that-said-it-with-poetry-and-words-from-literature/story-8sk3dlUOf4AY3whktIAUeN.html
06-09-2020||India||India calls China’s bluff in Chushul | Analysis||After the Indian Army called the bluff of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the Rezang La ridgeline on August 29-30, India is prepared for a long haul in Ladakh with clear cut directions to the front-line troops not to yield to any Chinese intimidation.While both the military and diplomatic channels are open between the two countries, the Indian Army riposte in the last week of August must have had a sobering effect on the adversary with the situation attaining criticality at the Rezang La ridgeline in Chushul sector.ALSO WATCH | Amid China face-off, ITBP soldiers honoured for bravery in LadakhAlthough psychological warfare through media is the key element of Chinese military strategy, the situation report to the PLA headquarters in Beijing on August 30 military moves must have made the Western Theatre Command realise the mood of Indian Army’s specialized troops and the armour. The new Indian military posture is aimed at repelling any PLA move to unilaterally change the alignment of Line of Actual Control (LAC) in pursuit of its 1960 claim green line.The Indian position on the Ladakh border was strongly conveyed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to his Chinese counterpart on the side lines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization meeting in Moscow, the same shall be reiterated by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar when he meets his counterpart on the same platform on September 10. There is a strong possibility of the meeting between India-China Special Representatives on the boundary issue later if Beijing still is committed to the bilateral peace and tranquility agreements. The situation on ground is that China has increased the PLA strength by 60 per cent since Galwan flare-up on June 15 while its leaders talk about peace.According to China watchers, the PLA aggression will continue till the November US Presidential elections and the Ladakh push from Galwan to Pangong Tso was part of Chinese strategic positioning to punish India for its perceived close relationship with US. “ The climatic conditions in Ladakh in October will ensure that troops only fight for their survival rather than fight against the adversary with polar temperatures and killer winds. The Chinese posture will also depend on whether there is a change of regime in US and what will be its policy towards Beijing,” said a senior official.What is left unsaid is that the PLA aggression in Ladakh was part of the preparation for 100 years of Chinese Communist party next year, where the middle kingdom will be show-cased as a new global power with Xiaokang (moderately prosperous) society and a modern socialist country. It is clearly evident that the Chinese did not anticipate the Indian Army reaction in Ladakh as well as the political, military, diplomatic and economic cost of land between Finger 4 and Finger 8 relief features that PLA occupied by perfidy in May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-china-s-bluff-in-chushul-analysis/story-sOzKq2cyeVbw1DBbpgSGBO.html
06-09-2020||India||Bird count in Bhitarkanika park in Odisha goes up by over 9,000||The number of birds in Odisha’s Bhitarkanika National Park has gone up by 9,252 this year in comparison to last year, officials said.Bikash Ranjan Das, divisional forest officer of Rajnagar said this year a total of 97,866 birds from 10 species were counted in the park, an increase of 9,252 from last year. The number of nests too went to 21,185, an increase of 1,959 from last year.“The nests were found in Mathadiha inside the national park and Laxmiprasad Diha and Durga Prasad Diha which are located outside the park. This year the most identified species is Gendalia (open billed stork). Availability of ample food and good weather conditions are the reasons for the increase in the number of birds this year,” said Das.Birds like Kaparkhai, Anjana, Rani Baga, Panikua, Gendalia and Khaira are some of the species that throng Bhitarkanika during monsoon. These birds build nests in Guan, Bani and Kerua trees.Every monsoon, two teams with five forest staff each carry out the bird census as local birds as well as migratory birds from other states arrive here in thousands and return home by the end of October with their babies. Migratory birds from other countries would start arriving by November, said the DFO.Bhitarkanika national park is the second largest viable mangrove ecosystem in India. There are a total eight species of kingfishers in the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-count-in-bhitarkanika-park-in-odisha-goes-up-by-over-9-000/story-YYoiRzzSaRDxqlyIbGeTTJ.html
06-09-2020||India||‘GST means economic apocalypse’: Rahul Gandhi’s latest jibe at govt over economy in new video||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday cornered the government over the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and blamed it for hurting the country’s economic growth.Gandhi was referring to the contraction in India’s gross domestic product (GDP) by a massive 23.9 per cent in the first April-June quarter this year compared to the same period last year.“Another major reason for the historic decline in GDP is the Gabbar Singh Tax (GST) of the Modi government. This wasted a lot like - Millions of small businesses. The future of millions of jobs and youth. The economic situation of states. GST means economic apocalypse,” Gandhi tweeted on Sunday morning.GDP में ऐतिहासिक गिरावट का एक और बड़ा कारण है- मोदी सरकार का गब्बर सिंह टैक्स (GST)।इससे बहुत कुछ बर्बाद हुआ जैसे-▪️लाखों छोटे व्यापार▪️करोड़ों नौकरियाँ और युवाओं का भविष्य▪️राज्यों की आर्थिक स्थिति।GST मतलब आर्थिक सर्वनाश।अधिक जानने के लिए मेरा वीडियो देखें। pic.twitter.com/QdD3HMEqByAlso read: Demonetisation an attack on India’s poor, farmers: Rahul Gandhi The former Congress president, in his third video of the four-part series, accused the government of allowing 15-20 businessmen of having the reach to manipulate the tax payment and farmers, labourers and small businesses of not having similar leverage.“Small and medium businesses cannot pay this tax. The big companies can easily pay it by putting 5-10-15 accountants to do the job. Why are there four different rates? This is because the government wants those who have the means to be able to easily change GST, and those who don’t have means, cannot do anything about GST,” he said.“Who has the means? India’s biggest 15-20 industrialists. So, whatever tax law they want to change can easily be done in this GST regime,” he added.Also read: Rahul Gandhi hits out over RBI report, says he had warned beforeIntroduced on July 1, 2017, the reform seeks tax collection in the country under five different rates on supply of goods and services - 0 per cent, 5 per cent, 12 per cent, 18 per cent and 28 per cent. The tax reform has been widely criticised by opposition parties for its complexities under several brackets and shoddy implementation.Gandhi said GST was a complete failure and an attack on the Indian economy. “Today, the government of India is unable to provide GST compensation money to the states. The states are unable to give money to state employees, teachers,” he added.“Not only is it unsuccessful, but it is also an attack on the poor and on the small and medium businesses,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-means-economic-apocalypse-rahul-gandhi-s-latest-jibe-at-govt-over-economy-in-new-video/story-IiEJM5Xh1p53ZZ7o7N48LP.html
06-09-2020||India||President Kovind, PM Modi to address governors’ conference on NEP on Monday||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the inaugural session of the Governors’ Conference on the National Education Policy on Monday through video conference, the Prime Minister’s Office said. The conference titled ‘Role of NEP-2020 in Transforming Higher Education’ is being organised by the Ministry of Education. The Governors’ Conference is also being attended by education ministers of all states, vice-chancellors of state universities and other senior officials.The statement noted that the NEP-2020 is the first education policy of the twenty-first century which was announced after 34 years of the previous National Policy on Education in 1986. The NEP-2020 is directed towards major reforms in both school and higher education level.“The new National Education Policy strives for making India into an equitable and vibrant knowledge society. It envisions an India-centred education system that contributes directly to transforming India into a global superpower,” it said.It added that the comprehensive transformation the NEP aims will bring about a paradigm shift in the country’s education system and create an enabling and reinvigorated educational ecosystem for a new ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ as envisaged by the prime minister.  Various webinars, virtual conferences, and conclaves on a number of aspects of the National Education Policy 2020 are being organised across the country.The Ministry of Education and University Grants Commission had earlier organised a ‘Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under National Education Policy-2020’, which was addressed by Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-pm-modi-to-address-governors-conference-on-nep-on-monday/story-GzBlTmvJ4OiKghx6jLdTQJ.html
06-09-2020||India||Union minister Harsh Vardhan’s mother dies at 89||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan shared an emotional message on Twitter after the death his mother on Friday . She was 89. Heartbroken to inform that my dearest person on earth, my Mother, has left for heavenly abode.She was 89 & suffered a cardiac arrest today morning.A towering personality, my guide & philosopher, she has left a void in my life that none can fill.May her pious soul find peace. pic.twitter.com/wCAm0P74OC“Heartbroken to inform that my dearest person on earth, my Mother, has left for heavenly abode. She was 89 & suffered a cardiac arrest today morning. A towering personality, my guide & philosopher, she has left a void in my life that none can fill. May her pious soul find peace,” Harsh Vardhan tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-harsh-vardhan-s-mother-passes-away/story-6H30S5VtJzhViGYIYNr35O.html
06-09-2020||India||Record one-day jump of over 90,000 Covid-19 cases takes India’s tally past 4.11 million||India reported a record rise of more than 90,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), also the highest single day-spike in the world, pushing the country’s tally past 4.11 million, the Union health ministry data showed on Sunday.India’s infection tally is now marginally behind Brazil’s at 4,123,000, according to Johns Hopkins University’s dashboard.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here As many as 70,626 people have died of the coronavirus disease so far with 1,065 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, according to the latest figures released by the health ministry.As most cases continue to come from Maharashtra (636,574), Andhra Pradesh (382,104) and Karnataka (283,298), the Centre has asked these states to focus on breaking the chain of transmission and keeping the mortality below 1%.Maharashtra contributes the maximum to the active caseload amounting to almost 25%, followed by Andhra Pradesh (12.06%), Karnataka (11.71%), Uttar Pradesh (6.92%) and Tamil Nadu which stands at 6.10%, according to the health ministry’s statement on Saturday.Of these, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka account for nearly 49% of the active cases and more than 57% of Covid-19 deaths, the ministry said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Even as confirmed cases climbed to 4,113,811, the recovery rate at 77.32% comes as a sign of relief as 3,180,865 people have recovered from the infection. According to the health ministry data, 73,642 people were discharged in the last 24 hours.“There has been a steep exponential rise in #COVID19 recoveries- from 50,000 in May to 30 lakh in Sept. The daily number of Recovered Patients has crossed 70,000. More than 3/4 of the total cases have recovered,” the health ministry said in a tweet.Recoveries from the coronavirus disease have exceeded active cases by 2,318,545, data showed. The ministry credited the “TEST, TRACK and TREAT” strategy for the rising recovery rate. “Responsive, collaborative and effective measures right from early identification through aggressive TESTING to efficient TRACKING and comprehensive TREATMENT have collectively led to these encouraging outcomes,” it said.The surging recoveries also signal towards the declining case fatality rate (CSR), which now stands at a new low of 1.73%.The global infection tally has climbed to 26,873,146 and the toll has gone up to 879,307 with the maximum number of cases reported from the United States with 6,244,970 followed by Brazil at 4,123,000, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-one-day-jump-of-over-90-000-covid-19-cases-takes-india-s-tally-past-4-11-million/story-goj4FgQIxfFlpXDJodkT9K.html
06-09-2020||India||Cong veterans in UP target Ghulam Nabi Azad for silence on their expulsion||A group of expelled Congress veterans in Uttar Pradesh, including former ministers, ex-MPs and former youth wing chiefs, have now targeted senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and others for remaining mute spectators when action was taken against them in the state.Azad is one of the 23 senior Congress leaders who recently asked for a full-time, effective, “active” and “visible” party president.In their letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, a group of about 10 expelled party leaders from UP said, “It is strange that leaders, who have been occupying positions of responsibility and have been raising the issue of the freedom of expression and internal democracy in recent days, remained mute spectators (when action was taken against us).” They urged her to “re-establish” communication with the party workers.Former MP Santosh Singh, who signed the letter on behalf of the 10 expelled leaders, said, “Senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad called me to know about the circumstances that led to action against us. Azad agreed the state party (unit) is not authorised to take any action against us as we are all elected members of the AICC (All India Congress Committee). Only AICC’s central disciplinary committee can act against AICC members on the recommendation of the state disciplinary committee.” Singh is also a former chief of the party’s youth wing.The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee’s (UPCC) disciplinary committee had expelled a group of aout 10 senior leaders when they held a separate get-together to celebrate birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in Lucknow on November 14, 2019.“The expulsion of former minister Ram Krishna Dwivedi was withdrawn a few days before his death,” said Vinod Chaudhary, a former youth wing chief and member of the state party’s disciplinary committee.In the letter, the group also said, “Under guidance of the Father of Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru and thereafter Mrs Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi have built the Congress and the nation, upholding democratic values and ideals. No one can deny the strength the Congress has gained under your leadership following the same values, ideology and principles….But this is ironical that a sense of confusion and non-communication prevails among the Congress workers in view of the manner the party is running or being run…” “History is witness to many defeats. But the Congress workers have never been so hopeless and disappointed as they are now. This is an issue of concern for the Congress for sure…..Those who are not even the primary members of the Congress have been working at the party’s headquarters (in states) on a financial package.…. These people now are reviewing the loyalties of such committed and dedicated (leaders) who fought for the Congress from 1977-1980 and have occupied important positions in the party representing it in the Lok Sabha and the state assembly,” they said.“It was under pressure of such leaders that 10 leaders were expelled overnight from the Congress, like daily wage workmen, in an undemocratic, unconstitutional and unjust manner,” they said.Urging Sonia Gandhi to re-establish’ communication with the party workers, the leaders said if she deviated from this responsibility, the “Congress will become history.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-veterans-in-up-target-ghulam-nabi-azad-for-silence-on-their-expulsion/story-ihIP4n2W02iB68fckSmlPP.html
06-09-2020||India||Covid-19 toll in India crosses 70k-mark||India has recorded over 1,000 deaths a day due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for four days in a row, with the country’s toll crossing the 70,000 mark (70,626 to be exact) as of Saturday.With the increase in testing to over a million tests conducted every day across the country, the number of cases is also on the rise. Over 80,000 new cases have been reported each day for the last five days.At the same time, the number of recoveries a day has crossed the 70,000-mark.Also Read: Covid-19 updates: India’s daily tally crosses record 90,000, toll at 70,626“Responsive, collaborative and effective measures right from early identification through aggressive testing to efficient tracking and comprehensive Treatment have collectively led to these encouraging outcomes,” the Union health ministry said.The health ministry has been engaging with the states and Union Territories reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases, have a higher case load or are reporting a higher mortality.The Centre has asked Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka to focus on aggressive measures to break the chain of transmission and bring down the mortality.The three states account for 46% of the total active cases in the country in the last 24 hours, with Maharashtra alone accounting for 22% of the active cases.Also Read: No Qawwali nights or sitting in the courtyard as Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah reopens amid Covid-19These states together account for 52% of all the deaths reported in the country over the last 24 hours, with Maharashtra accounting for 35% of the deaths.The states have been advised to proactively ensure higher testing, effective clinical management to lower fatality and save lives along with efficient monitoring at various levels.The districts of concern in Maharashtra are Pune, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Sangli, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Raigad, Jalgaon, Solapur, Satara and Palghar.In Andhra Pradesh, Prakasam and Chittoor have been highlighted as districts of concern with the Union government asking the state to monitor facility-wise deaths every day, strengthen hospital facilities, increase the number of ICUs and oxygen beds, and efficient clinical management.In Karnataka, the districts of Koppal, Mysuru, Davangere and Bellari are advised to optimally utilise RT-PCR testing facilities, to strengthen their door to door active case search and to protect their healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-toll-in-india-crosses-70k-mark/story-B2pQsdZYtf8dgD5H38XhnN.html
06-09-2020||India||IMD predicts heavy rain in south India for next three days||There is likely to be widespread and heavy rainfall in peninsular India for the next three days, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Sunday morning bulletin.The monsoon trough is lying north of its normal position --- from Rajasthan’s Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal. A low-pressure area is lying over south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea. It is likely to move slightly northwards during the next 48 hours and weaken thereafter.A cyclonic circulation is also lying over south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea at the level of lower and middle troposphere and an east-west shear zone that determines a change in wind direction and velocity and runs across peninsular India.Also Read: Warmer Arabian Sea led to intense rain in AugustUnder its influence, widespread and isolated heavy rainfall and thunderstorms is likely over peninsular India during the next two–three days. While widespread and isolated heavy rainfall accompanied with thunderstorms and lightning is also expected over Odisha and Chhattisgarh during the next three-four days.The monsoon rain since June 1 over the country is 8% excess. The rainfall has been 17% and 21% excess over central and peninsular India, respectively.There has been 0% excess and 9% deficient rainfall over east and north-east India; and northwest parts of the country, respectively . IMD in its two-week forecast that was issued on Friday had said below normal rains are likely in most parts of the country, except for over the north-eastern states, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala, between September 10 and 16.Monsoon is likely to start retreating from western Rajasthan during the same week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-heavy-rain-in-south-india-for-next-three-days/story-TdKRkRbWRixZz2agHreu1N.html
06-09-2020||India||HC junks PIL to revoke Kanhaiya Kumar’s citizenship, fines petitioner Rs 25K||The Allahabad high court has dismissed with cost a public interest litigation (PIL) petition seeking revocation of citizenship of Kanhaiya Kumar, former president of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students’ union, in connection with the alleged anti-national slogans that he and others raised at a gathering on the central university campus in 2016. A bench comprising justice SK Gupta and justice Shamim Ahmed passed the order on a PIL petition filed by one Nageshwar Mishra of Varanasi.The court also imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on the petitioner for casually filing the plea to gain “cheap publicity” and for wasting precious time of the court which was working with “limited strength due to pandemic”.The court also said the petition was ‘devoid of merit’ and ‘wholly misconceived’ as the petitioner relied on Section 10 of the Indian Citizenship Act, 1955, which is applicable in cases where citizenship is given by central government to a non-citizen and not to someone who was an Indian citizen by birth.While declining to pass any direction, the court observed, “Question of deprivation of citizenship cannot arise, merely because he (Kanhaiya Kumar) is facing trial before the court in Delhi on charges of allegedly raising the inflammatory slogans.”“It must be noted that deprivation of citizenship is a serious aspect as it would affect a person’s right to live in India and it may also result in making the person stateless,” the bench said.The petitioner had claimed that Kumar allegedly raised anti-national slogans on JNU campus on February 9, 2016 but the Centre had not taken any action against him till date.“Kumar and his associates are supporting the freedom struggle of terrorist groups who are working on the instigation of Pakistan to destabilise unity and disturb the peace and tranquility of our country,” the petitioner had alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-junks-pil-to-revoke-kanhaiya-kumar-s-citizenship-fines-petitioner-rs-25k/story-AQ682p7sWopgdO3yYOhgTL.html
06-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand take the lead on Broadband Readiness Index||According to the Broadband Readiness Index (BRI), Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand are faring better than other Indian states in all the criteria set by the Central government to analyse a state’s readiness to adopt the fixed line network, Hindustan Times has learnt. The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) is preparing the index. Economic policy think-tank Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) helped launch the BRI last year to further expand the broadband network across the country. The index also becomes significant in the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on August 15 that optical fibre will connect 600,000 villages across the country in 1,000 days. Also Read: Rs40 lakh incentive for mobile towers in select Uttarakhand border villagesAccording to documents accessed by Hindustan Times, 24 states/UTs have already provided requisite data for the index, while Maharashtra, Odisha, Bihar, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have given partial data to date. Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal have not contributed any data yet. DoT is sourcing material from secondary sources such as COAI, Telecom Service Providers and TAIPA for states that have not submitted data. DoT checked where states ranked on the index based on several criteria, including Right of Way (RoW) rules that were introduced last year to set up mobile towers and underground optical fibre, the national building code of 2016, provisions to make government infrastructure available to set up telecom towers, smart city implementation and the common duct policy. The original deadline to submit the information was March 2020, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the department has extended the deadline to September. DoT secretary Anshu Prakash also wrote to the chief secretaries of all states in March to expedite the submission of documents. The report was supposed to be finalised by April 2020. According to DoT officials, the department is working to establish the 600,000 connections, of which 150,000 have already been completed. “The aim is that at least four institutions, say a school, the panchayat, the health care centre, the police station and/or ration shop are connected with the fibre to provide a fixed line connection,” said a senior DoT official. The official added that of 21 states analysed, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Puducherry, Uttarakhand and Andhra Pradesh have emerged as the five best states on the BRI. “The ranking is also contingent on the size and population density of the state,” said the official. Also Read: Govt website for welfare funds logs out daily wagersAs of April 2020, according to data by TRAI, there are 1.17 billion telecom connections in India, of which 1.15 billion are mobile connections. Of these, over 620 million are urban mobile connections and over 520 million are rural. However, there are only 20 million fixed line broadband connections. “India has 1.34 fixed broadband subscribers per hundred population, whereas the global average is 14,” said the above-mentioned official. But at the same time, data consumption is 10.4 GB per month per subscriber on mobile connections. “Fibre and fixed line connections will help provide people with easier access, especially considering the pandemic and the need for quicker Internet, as even teaching and learning are taking place online,” said a second official. The official added that the Department was working round the clock to meet the thousand day deadline and had already established over a lakh Bharatnet fixed line connections in the last six months.According to former DoT secretary Shyamal Ghosh, connections will only make a difference if there is proper utilisation of resources. “A large number of villages have been connected, but there is a need to set up services and have a development model, otherwise the investment remains unutilised.”Ghosh added that BRI is a good investment, but it will have to engage with states to ensure further application, especially in local languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-uttarakhand-in-the-lead-on-broadband-readiness-index/story-FsxJrq2hzJeon0MbsvoyJI.html
06-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi Police map burglary-prone areas in capital and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi Police map burglary-prone areas in capitalA team of investigators analysed 1,269 cases of burglary reported in Delhi till August 15 to divide the city into red, green, blue, and white zones, with red representing the most vulnerable areas and white the least. Read more Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty served summons by NCB, asked to join probeThe NCB has said that Rhea Chakraborty will be confronted with her brother Showik, who along with Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda has been remanded to the central agency’s custody till September 9. Read more Rajnath Singh to meet Iranian defence minister after 3-day Russia visitDefence minister Rajnath Singh reached Iran on Saturday to discuss bilateral ties between the two countries after concluding his three-day Russia visit during which he urged the Persian Gulf countries to resolve their differences. Read more Congress demands CBI probe in MP rice scam, says con took place under BJP ruleThe Congress in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday demanded a CBI inquiry into the rice scam in the state while alleging that the entire con took place during the earlier and current BJP regime as suggested by the central government’s letter on the swindle. Read more IPL 2020: On the comeback trail, Bhuvneshwar Kumar looking for the edgeBhuvneshwar Kumar, who made his India debut ahead of Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami, is no longer an automatic selection in the high-performing group of Indian fast bowlers. Read more Rhea Chakraborty’s father issues statement after son Showik’s arrest: ‘Congratulations India, next on line is my daughter’Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s father Indrajit Chakraborty has issued a statement in which he has expresses his dejection at the arrest of his son, Showik. Rhea’s brother was arrested on Friday in Mumbai. Read more Ananya Panday’s ‘Bambaiya’ girl mix with glamorous avatar at Khaali Peeli promotions put fashion police on alertBollywood diva Ananya Panday stepped out this weekend for the promotions of her upcoming Maqbool Khan-directorial, Khaali Peeli. Vibing in a smoking hot mood, Ananya’s ‘Bambaiya’ girl mix with glamorous avatar put fashion police on immediate alert. Read more Kid’s reaction to see-through glass floor makes people laugh. Some relate to the video tooThis video of a kid’s reaction to a see-through glass floor makes for an entertaining watch. Though it’s unknown who captured the video or when, it has now grabbed people’s attention after being shared by Twitter user @eli__097. It was also retweeted by Rex Chapman. Read more Will Railway recruit for vacancies this year? Board chairman answersRailway board chairman Vinod Kumar spoke on vacancies and tests amid Covid-19 pandemic. Kumar said that 1.40 lakh vacancies were notified in railway before covid-19 and 2.42 crore applications were received for the notified vacancies. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-police-map-burglary-prone-areas-in-capital-and-all-the-latest-news/story-aBZCS5PR43OR1TnTcsSYGK.html
06-09-2020||India||Kesavananda Bharati, whose Supreme Court case was genesis of ‘basic structure’, dies||Kesavananda Bharati, the seer who had initiated the constitutional case before the Supreme Court (SC) that had led to the birth of the legal doctrine of ‘basic structure’, passed away on Sunday morning in his ashram at Edneer in north Kerala’s Kasaragod district. He was 79 years old.Bharati had filed the case on March 21, 1970 challenging the Kerala Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1969 and the three Constitutional amendments --- 24, 25 and 29 -- on the ground that they violated his fundamental right to practice and propagate religion (Article 25); freedom of religious denomination, including managing and administering its property, (Article 26); and right to property (Article 31).He had challenged the law after the legislation regarding land reforms had threatened to strip his mutt of its property which was the only source of income for the ashram. Acclaimed lawyer Nani Palkhivala had appeared for Bharati before a 13- judge SC bench.It was the only time a bench of 13 judges, which was the full strength of the apex court at that point of time, had sat to decide a case. It was the longest heard case before the apex court, as the hearing went on for 69 days from October 31, 1972 to March 23, 1973.The SC ruling on the 24th amendment was crucial as far as Constitution and Parliament’s powers were concerned.The 24th amendment empowered that Parliament can amend any part of the Constitution. The amendment, which was brought about in 1971, was done to overcome an earlier judgement of the SC in the Golaknath v. State of Punjab case. In the Golaknath case, the SC had held that Parliament cannot amend Constitution in a manner that it takes away or abridges the fundamental rights of the Constitution.That ruling was based on the interpretation of Articles 13 and 368 of the Constitution.Article 13 states that Parliament cannot make any law that violates fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. Article 368 empowers Parliament to make amendments to the constitution.The issue before the court was whether the word “law” under Article 13 would include a constitutional amendment under Article 368. In the Golaknath judgement, it was held that an amendment under Article 368 was “law” within the ambit of the definition of Article 13. It had ruled that Parliament does not have the power to amend Part III of the Constitution.The 24th amendment had provided that the bar under Article 13 would not apply to any constitutional amendment made under Article 368.As a result, Parliament can amend any part of the Constitution, including fundamental rights.The Bharati judgement by a majority of 7:6 had upheld this power. But it came with a powerful rider – that such amendments should not alter the ‘basic structure’ of the Constitution. However, the apex court did not give an exhaustive list of what would constitute ‘basic structure’ of the Constitution.The interpretation was left open ended and has been time and again used to strike down laws that the SC felt distorted the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kesavananda-bharati-seer-whose-supreme-court-case-was-genesis-of-basic-structure-passes-away/story-NcPfAUcgCpgqa4pXKiy5FM.html
06-09-2020||India||Wife accuses BJD MP of mental and physical torture, takes him to court||Actor-turned-MP and Biju Janata Dal deputy chief whip in Lok Sabha Anubhav Mohanty has landed in trouble after his wife Varsha Priyadarshini, a former actor in Odia films, accused him of physical and mental torture.In her petition filed in the court of Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate of Cuttack under section 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, Priyadarshini alleged that her MP husband used to hit her after getting drunk. Accusing the MP of being a drunkard and his family members humiliating her, she levelled allegations of being treated like “an insect”.Mohanty and Priyadarshini, both leading actors of Odia film industry got married in 2014. The duo had acted in several movies together.“He is a drunkard and womaniser. He uses vulgar language after getting drunk. After the last general election of 2019, the torture by Mohanty and his family members increased day by day which was beyond tolerance level,” she alleged.She further alleged that for two months during the lockdown, she was left alone at her in-law’s house in Cuttack and the MP did not take her to Delhi despite her pleading. “After coming back from Delhi, my husband became violent and shouted at me. On June 7, my husband and his father rebuked me in filthy language for 2 hours. On June 11, my husband asked me to agree for mutual divorce and threatened me with dire consequences if I did not agree,” Priyadarshini alleged in her petition.In her petition, she has demanded Rs 15 crore compensation from Mohanty for the loss of her income as actor as well as medical expenses and monthly alimony of Rs 70,000 towards house rent and maintenance.The case will come up for hearing in the court of SDJM on Monday. Priyadarshini has also filed a separate petition for restitution of conjugal rights under section 6 of Hindu Marriage Act in a family court of Cuttack.Mohanty, who was on a tour of his constituency Kendrapada today however, denied receiving any legal notice in the matter. “I am yet to get any legal notice in the matter. I will let you know when I get it,” said Mohanty who is also one of the national spokespersons of the BJD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-accuses-bjd-mp-of-mental-and-physical-torture-takes-him-to-court/story-2P2HFxlyO7qXZCNWIqT6AO.html
06-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty joins NCB probe, to come face-to-face with brother Showik||Actor Rhea Chakraborty reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday hours after the agency served summons to her to join the investigation into the drug-related angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.NCB has said that Rhea Chakraborty will be confronted with her brother Showik, who along with Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda has been remanded to the central agency’s custody till September 9.NCB officials had reached Chakraborty’s apartment early in the day to issue the summons. “She has to join investigation today. It depends on her if she wants to come on her own or she can come with the team,” KPS Malhotra, NCB deputy director, had said.Showik and Miranda were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Friday after their homes were searched by NCB. The agency also arrested Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant on Saturday night.Chakrabortys’ lawyer Satish Maneshinde has denied that the siblings ever consumed drugs and also described the multiple investigations as “a complete witch hunt.”NCB launched its investigation after WhatsApp chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with Rajput’s death case surfaced.Rajput was found dead in his home on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-team-reaches-rhea-chakraborty-s-residence/story-kad3OV2uzShHOKZcfOe5iM.html
06-09-2020||India||Vaishno Devi pilgrimage picks up pace 3 weeks after it resumed||The Yatra to the holy cave shrine of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi is proceeding smoothly and picking up pace with each passing day, the shrine board said.The board has increased the quota of pilgrims from outside Jammu and Kashmir to 500 pilgrims per day, out of a ceiling of 2,000 pilgrims daily till further orders. The pilgrimage had resumed on August 16.Ramesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board said that the online booking by the devotees for Shradha Suman Vishesh Pooja (SSVP) has also started.He said that accommodation facilities of the shrine board at Bhawan, Adhkuwari, Katra and Jammu have also been thrown open for the pilgrims, following all the prescribed SOPs in the light of the Covid-9 pandemic.For the ease and comfort of pilgrims, all other supplementary facilities set up by the Board like the battery operated vehicles, passenger ropeway and helicopter services are also operating smoothly by strictly following the social distancing norms and other precautionary measures. The board has also made arrangements for free food for the pilgrims at Tarakote Marg and Prasad Kendra at Sanjichhat. Pilgrims are allowed to undertake the pilgrimage only after registration through online mode to avoid any assembly of people at the yatra registration counters.It is also mandatory for the pilgrims to wear masks/face covers and every pilgrim has to undergo thermal scanning at entry points. Children below the age of 10 years, pregnant women, persons with co-morbidities and persons above the age of 60 years have been advised to avoid the yatra in the interest of their own safety from infection of COVID-19.The Covid-19 negative test report of the pilgrims from outside J&K and also from Red Zone districts of J&K is being checked at the helipad and the yatra entry points at Darshani Deodi, Banganga, Katra. Only those with negative reports are allowed to move towards Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaisho-devi-pilgrimage-picks-up-pace-3-weeks-after-it-resumed/story-mlRT2OoLTiNQQfyiLuCBPK.html
06-09-2020||India||Cong demands CBI probe in MP rice scam, says con took place under BJP rule||The Congress in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday demanded a CBI inquiry into the rice scam in the state while alleging that the entire con took place during the earlier and current BJP regime as suggested by the central government’s letter on the swindle.Analysis of 32 samples of rice in a laboratory, collected from Balaghat and Mandla districts by Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution suggested ‘The stocks are found to be unfit for human consumption and in the categories of Feed-I which is meant to be suitable for livestock feed (such as goat, horse, sheep), Feed-II which is suitable for cattle feed and Feed-III which is suitable for poultry feed, as per the guidelines for the issuance/disposal of the stocks’, according to the ministry’s letter to the state government dated August 21, 2020.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced a probe by Economic Offences Wing (EOW) on Thursday which was preceded by sealing of 32 rice mills and a warehouse and departmental action against nine employees of MP Warehouse Corporation and MP Civil Supply Corporation.On Saturday, state Congress president Kamal Nath said, “The scam in Madhya Pradesh is not limited to Balaghat and Mandla districts only. It is spread in many districts and it has a link to higher level. There should be a CBI inquiry into it and scope of probe should be widened to cover other districts also. By talking of just two districts the state government is trying to suppress the scam.” Earlier, state Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta released another part of Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution’s August 21 letter that reads, “...As per the records of the godown, the receipt of the stocks from where samples were drawn were procured in the month of July, 2020 while condition of the stock represent a different picture altogether. The stocks are 100% recycled old stocks and the gunnies used for storage are also at least 2-3 years old.” Bhupendra Gupta said the BJP leaders tried to mislead people by alleging that the rice was supplied during the Congress regime but the ministry of consumer affairs’ letter categorically suggested that the scam took place two to three years back. The BJP was then in power in Madhya Pradesh.He said, “Since the scam took place during the BJP government an impartial investigation is possible only by CBI.” Minister for Food and Civil Supplies Bisahulal Singh couldn’t be reached for his comments. However, state BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “Everyone knows well in the state how corruption prevailed during 15 months of Congress regime. Congress is conveniently trying to divert attention of people from the fact that scam was exposed during BJP regime, not the Congress regime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-demands-cbi-inquiry-in-mp-rice-scam-says-entire-con-took-place-during-bjp-regime/story-eDkYgmMkdnM3J5zz6sismK.html
06-09-2020||India||Kannada film producer among dozen named in in FIR in Sandalwood drug racket||The Bengaluru police have registered an FIR against 12 people following investigations into the Sandalwood drug racket.On Friday the police had raided the residence and subsequently arrested Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi. Shivaprakash who reportedly produced a few movies, in which Ragini had acted as the heroine has been named as the prime accused. Viren Khanna who was arrested in Delhi and flown to Bengaluru on Friday night has also been named as one of the 12 accused.The other people named in the FIR registered in Cottonpet police station include, Prashant Ranka, Vaibhav Jain, Aditya Alva, Simon, Prashant Babu, Ashwin, Rahul Tonse, Vinay apart from a Sengalese national Loum Pepper. The Sengalese national is said to have been the main supplier of drugs.They have been charged under various sections of IPC including 120b (criminal conspiracy) and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances act of 1985 under sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B and section 29.However interestingly neither Ravishankar a government RTO (regional transport office) employee said to be close to Ragini nor Rahul Shetty a real estate businessmen who have been detained have been named in the FIR. Police sources told HT that interrogation of both of them are ‘ongoing and there are many layers to this.’The bail plea of Ragini is scheduled for Monday. Her mother had tried in vain to meet her at a women’s remand home and claimed that her daughter was innocent of all charges. Meanwhile in several unrelated incidents Karnataka police continued their sweep across the state against drug peddlers.In the first case, the anti-narcotics branch of Central Crime Branch of Bangalore, police arrested three people Shejin, Vidhus and Subramani an inter-state gang for peddling drugs on Saturday. Police also seized 2.1 kg of hashish and 2 kg of ganja. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said that this was one of the ‘larger seizures particularly of hashish, in the recent past.’ All the three arrested are from Kerala and are said to have been selling drugs across all the southern states.Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Crime said that the trio would fill coconut oil boxes with hashish and ship them. Vidhus one of the arrested holds a master’s degree in computer science from a college in the UK, Patil disclosed.In a separate incident, Athani police on Saturday arrested Sagar Kattikar and Gurulinga Dhole both said to be residents of Sangli, Maharashtra and seized 2 kg of marijuana. Police have registered a case and investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-film-producer-among-dozen-named-in-in-fir-in-sandalwood-drug-racket/story-iDhLWaRjQ0YiFZ2R6llZCM.html
06-09-2020||India||Seer Kesavananda Bharati, hailed as Constitution’s saviour, dies||Kesavananda Bharati, the seer from Edneer Mutt whose property rights case in the Supreme Court in 1973 helped define basic rights under the Constitution, died early on Sunday at his ashram in north Kerala’s Kasaragod. He was 79.Bharati had filed a case challenging the Constitution (29th Amendment) Act, 1972, questioning the Kerala government move to take over the mutt property.It came at a time when the Indira Gandhi-led government had made changes to the the 24th, 25th, 26th and 29th amendments of the Constitution to get the court to rule in favour of the government in bank nationalisation and privy purses cases.Senior lawyer Nani Palkhivala fought the case for Bharati, an ardent follower of Advaita philosophy, in which the then chief justice of India Sarv Mitra Sikri formed a 12-judge panel to preside over the case. The Constitution bench ruled a wafer-thin 7-6 verdict that Parliament cannot alter the basic structure of the Constitution.Kesavananda Bharati’s case is known as a landmark case and many legal luminaries hailed him as the saviour of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seer-kesavananda-bharati-hailed-as-constitution-s-saviour-dies/story-aDbF37hbQpL9seINyAbDdN.html
06-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to meet Iranian defence minister after 3-day Russia visit||Defence minister Rajnath Singh reached Iran on Saturday to discuss bilateral ties between the two countries after concluding his three-day Russia visit during which he urged the Persian Gulf countries to resolve their differences.Singh arrived in Tehran on Saturday evening from Moscow where he attended a meeting of the defence ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) countries. He is scheduled to meet his Iranian counterpart Brigadier General Amir Hatami during his Tehran visit.“Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh reached Tehran this evening. He will be meeting the Iranian Defence Minister during his visit,” the defence ministry said in a tweet.The defence minister’s visit to Tehran comes a day after he expressed concern over the situation in the Persian Gulf and called upon countries in the region to resolve differences through dialogue based on mutual respect and sovereignty.Singh’s remarks came in the backdrop of a series of incidents in the Persian Gulf involving Iran, the US and the UAE in recent weeks which have flared up tension in the region.Iranian navy had last month briefly seized control of a Liberian-flagged oil tanker in what the US said were international waters near the Strait of Hormuz, which links the Persian Gulf with the Gulf of Oman to the south and the Arabian Sea beyond.Iran has threatened to disrupt oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz if the United States tries to strangle its economy. Iran has observer status in the SCO, which was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the presidents of Russia, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.India and Pakistan were admitted as observers of the grouping in 2005 and in 2017, both the countries were admitted as full members of the bloc.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-meet-iranian-defence-minister-after-3-day-russia-visit/story-USRRIo5SAtHZGtj0yzN3TL.html
06-09-2020||India||Prakash Javadekar terms National Education Policy 2020 as revolutionary reform||Union minister Prakash Javadekar has termed the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 as a revolutionary reform of the 21st century. According to an official release, delivering the key-note address at the Centenary Year Teachers’ Day Celebration of the Parle Tilak Vidyalay Association of Mumbai through video link, he said early childhood education, inquiry-based education, teacher training, foundational and numeric literacy, have all been laid emphasis on. The Minister said NEP 2020 will empower our youth, which will take the nation forward in the 21st century.  “The policy is such that it will make the teaching-learning experience enjoyable for both students and teachers” he added.Javadekar expressed confidence that India would double the Gross Enrolment Ratio within the next 10 years from the current level of about 25 per cent.“Students across the country have become aspirational and economic growth has pushed parental earnestness to provide a good education for their children. The wider geographical spread of higher education institutions, especially covering rural areas and increased demand would be the critical factors that will improve GER in India,” said Javadekar.The minister began his address by invoking Lokmanya Tilak’s views on education as means of creating awareness, He said the new policy lays emphasis on foundational and numerical literacy and institutes like National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) would give access to education to all. The minister underlined the importance of Early Childhood Education as the main characteristic of NEP. He said, three to eight years of Age Group is to build Cognitive skills, curiosity and mental capacity. He also said that education with subject understanding is important rather than rote learning.While activity-based learning is emphasized at the early stages, 9th to 12th education would focus on detailed, relevant and new knowledge, which will induce scientific temper among children. Javadekar said research and innovation are key to enabling our education mould globally competitive citizens. He said 3,000 “Atal Tinkering Labs” are running successfully to encourage research-based innovation, which is essential for building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat.Speaking about the role of teachers in the society, the Minister said “A teacher does not simply teach through books or blackboards. The ideal teacher is the one who instils values in students through his/her conduct”. Four years integrated B.Ed degree is being introduced to provide a holistic training programme for teachers, which will include practical teaching skills. It will encourage teachers to become teachers by choice and not as a last resort, he added.“The National Education Policy has been formulated after extensive consultations. Recalling his days as the HRD Minister, he said 13-14 subject experts had worked with great sincerity and zeal under the leadership of Dr K Kasturirangan,” said Javadekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-terms-national-education-policy-2020-as-revolutionary-reform/story-SBf25GGXoJe1bccaKEictM.html
06-09-2020||India||‘Congress has to confront the question of secularism’, says Manish Tewari||The Congress party needs to confront the “central question of secularism” and “combat the immoral allure of majoritarianism”, Congress MP Manish Tewari told HT in his first interview since he and 22 other leaders signed a controversial letter seeking sweeping reforms in the party. In a letter addressed to the interim party president Sonia Gandhi a month ago, 23 signatories called for a “visible”, “effective” and “full-time” leader, and elections at all levels in the party; besides the establishing of an institutional leadership model to collectively guide the party. “… There is the central question of secularism. Is the Congress comfortable to interpret secularism as Sarv Dharm Sambhav or should it pursue the classical construct of the separation of church and state? How does the party combat the immoral allure of majoritarianism? With nationalism, the challenge is further accentuated. We are failing to articulate convincingly that our nationalism is infinitely superior to the chauvinistic and exclusionist muscularity espoused by the BJP,” Tewari said. According to Tewari, 54, the Congress faces “profound electoral, ideological and organisational challenges”. “The irony is the Congress led the freedom struggle, its leaders shaped the modern Indian nation while the rightwing collaborated with the coloniser. It is astonishing we are failing to appropriate our own legacy while they cynically vandalise our achievements and leaders, and pretend they belong to them. The truth is Gandhi, Patel, Ambedkar -- not one of them approved of the bigoted, hate politics of the right,” Tewari told HT. Asked if they had provided ammunition to the BJP by writing the letter, he underlined the need for the party to refine its position on various issues like Chinese aggression through debate and discussion.“...the Chinese have not grabbed BJP territory, they have grabbed Indian territory. Are we not all Indians first and Congressmen, Communists and BJP later?” He emphasised that “an overall electoral rejuvenation is vital for the Congress to be on a glide path to a majority in 2024. We are currently not on that trajectory”. Tewari, who was elected to the Lok Sabha in 2019 from the Anandpur Sahib seat in Punjab, said, “The Congress has lost cadre vitality on the ground, where the real electoral battles are fought. These issues require deep thought and sustained action over the long term.” Asked specifically if the letter-writers had targeted Rahul Gandhi, Tewari said, “Nobody has a difficulty with him, least of all me. But whosoever assumes the mantle will need to embark on a path of serious introspection and action simultaneously or we shall collectively perish.” He also said that he respected Sonia Gandhi as “much as I do my late mother”. After a marathon meeting of the Congress Working Committee on August 24, in which the letter-writers came in for sharp criticism, Sonia Gandhi agreed to stay on as interim president and hold elections to the AICC in six months. The letter, he said, was about “processes, issues and not personalities”. Soon after the CWC session, the party announced its deputy leader of the Lok Sabha, ahead of the upcoming Parliament session. Both Tewari, a two-time parliamentarian, and Shashi Tharoor were overlooked for the posts. Gaurav Gogoi, 38, who too is a two-time MP, was picked for the post. Tewari said he had never asked the party for any post. He iterated that he would continue to raise the issues contained in the letter. “Some of my colleagues do have a problem being called traitors and dissenters. For me, the tag of being a conscientious dissenter works. Labels are irrelevant, issues are vital,” Tewari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-has-to-confront-the-question-of-secularism-says-manish-tewari/story-Y8VDBuhjBmiErsgldwFvQN.html
06-09-2020||India||‘The tag of a conscientious dissenter works for me’, says Manish Tewari||Former Union minister and Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari in an interview to Hindustan Times talks about the letter that created ripples within the Congress and the party’s future course of action. Edited excerpts:Why did you sign the letter?The Congress today faces profound electoral, ideological and organisational challenges. The electoral challenge is underscored by our two consecutive defeats in 2014 and 2019 and our diminished footprint across the country. An overall electoral rejuvenation is vital for the Congress to be on a glide path to a majority in 2024. We are currently not on that trajectory.What are the ideological challenges?Strangely, in this hyper-communicative age, there’s been a critical failure of messaging. There is the central question of secularism. Is the Congress comfortable to interpret secularism as Sarv Dharm Sambhav or should it pursue the classical construct of the separation of church and state? How does the party combat the immoral allure of majoritarianism. With nationalism, the challenge is further accentuated. We are failing to articulate convincingly that our nationalism is infinitely superior to the chauvinistic and exclusionist muscularity espoused by the BJP. The irony is the Congress led the freedom struggle, while the rightwing collaborated with the coloniser. It is astonishing we are failing to appropriate our own legacy while they cynically vandalise our achievements and leaders and pretend they belong to them. The truth is Gandhi, Patel, Ambedkar -- not one of them approved of the bigoted, hate politics of the right. Then we have serious organisational challenges. The Congress has lost cadre vitality on the ground, where real electoral battles are fought. These issues require deep thought.Have you lost faith in the Gandhis?Absolutely not. I respect Sonia Gandhi as much as my late mother. She led us with dignity, sensitivity and equanimity for 19 years and was responsible for creating and giving direction to two successive UPA governments. If we’d lost faith in her do you think we would have collectively written to her. I for one am deeply grateful to Mrs Gandhi for all the opportunities she has given me in the past 21 years.Who among the 23 is best suited to be an effective “full time leader”?None of the 23, to the best of my understanding, wrote that letter out of any personal aspiration to be Congress President or to seek any other position. Most of them already occupy senior positions in the party or have served in senior positions in government. In fact I told my colleagues, who signed the letter, send it only if you believe in the need for reform for there would be consequences and reprisals. The letter is not a negotiating tool. Some of my colleagues do have a problem being called traitors and dissenters. For me, the tag of being a conscientious dissenter works. Labels are irrelevant, issues are vital. Is Rahul Gandhi the target?That is an imbecilic thought. In December 2017 all of us unanimously elected him as the president of the party for five years. In May 2019, he stepped down taking moral responsibility for the defeat, despite everyone urging him to stay on. It was a rare step indicative of a fine moral compass. Rahul Gandhi is in the best position to outline his own way forward. Nobody has a difficulty with him, least of all me. But whosoever assumes the mantle will need to embark on a path of serious introspection and action simultaneously or we shall collectively perish.What do you expect Mrs Gandhi to do now?The letter is not a conspiracy to destabilise the existing order. It is in fact a cry for reform and rejuvenation. It was written with a clear conscience in the best interests of the party. As for the canard that the letter was written in cahoots with the BJP, one can only laugh. None of the letter-writers need a certificate -- their political lives testify to their credentials.What if your concerns are not addressed?We will continue to raise them internally, for they are germane to the party’s revival. The party must recognise that every time an issue is flagged it is not dissidence, much less a negotiating position. If you are not going to debate and discuss, how are you going to refine party positions on various issues? We are soon going to have a parliament session. China is in occupation of Indian territory. . The government has indeed botched up. However, the Chinese have not grabbed BJP territory, they have grabbed Indian territory. Are we not all Indians first? Should we not send a message to our armed forces that the nation is one behind them in this hour of national peril?Do you anticipate that a new Congress president outside the Gandhi family could be appointed and hence the letter?The letter is about processes, issues and not about personalities. All those who reduce it to that binary do so with mala fide intent.The party chose Gaurav Gogoi over you or Shashi Tharoor as its deputy leader in the Lok Sabha. Is it a fallout of the letter?I never asked for any position. The only thing I beseeched the leadership with folded hands was a chance to fight the Parliament elections of 2019. That too, because a perception had been created that I was scared of contesting elections and withdrew from the battlefield in 2014 for fear of losing. It is a decision I regretted every waking moment of my life from 2014 to 2019. I should have fought, even if from my hospital bed. I am grateful the leadership gave me a chance to vindicate my honour.You want elections for the president’s post but you have criticized the elections in the Youth Congress. Isn’t there a contradiction?A number of us who came from NSUI and Youth Congress felt elections were not a good idea when Rahul Gandhi kicked off the process in 2007. In fact, most of the signatories have been beneficiaries of the nomination paradigm and felt that there was no need to shake the tree. However, as the process unfolded, an impression gained ground that barrier to entry for less affluent people was getting higher and higher.Some of the letter writers seem to have bought peace? Is there a divide?The only peace you need to buy is with your inner self and your god. I signed the letter in good faith with the best interests of the party at heart. Not for any post, much less for publicity.You started the process a few months ago and were able to get only 23 signatories as many refused to sign the letter. Why so?I did not care to ask how many were approached. Even if I would have been in a minority of one, I still would have signed for the issues are critical. Could the letter have been more happily worded to obviate any presumptions and conclusions? Perhaps. Should it be seen as a selfless act in the larger party and country interest? Absolutely yes.Is there a danger of the party splitting?Why should there be a split? The issues that the letter raises have to be addressed if you want to be on the glide path to 272. Nobody even in their wildest imagination is contemplating such a move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-tag-of-a-conscientious-dissenter-works-for-me-says-manish-tewari/story-OnbWVjBjb3pMLG5pE1Uk4M.html
06-09-2020||India||Opium seeds worth over Rs 1 crore seized in Nagaland, 4 arrested||Security forces in Nagaland arrested four persons for smuggling opium seeds worth Rs 1.44 crore, a senior official said on Saturday.Based on specific inputs, Assam Rifles impounded two trucks carrying 120 bags of Vietnamese Poppy near Piphema on National Highway-29, he said.The arrested persons and the seized contraband were handed over to custom preventive division officials, PRO and Inspector General of Assam Rifles (North) Sanjiv Sethi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opium-seeds-worth-over-rs-1-crore-seized-in-nagaland-4-arrested/story-CzmJEOpnakWne4IP329xyO.html
06-09-2020||India||Former health secy Preeti Sudan appointed WHO panellist||On Thursday, the World Health Organisation’s independent panel for pandemic preparedness and response appointed former health secretary Preeti Sudan as one of its 11 panellists from across the world. The decision by the panel’s two heads, former New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clarke and former Liberia President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, received a rather muted response in India. HT learns that India recommended former foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale for this post.In a meeting of the Chairs earlier this week, Helen Clarke is believed to have conveyed that Sudan’s experience as the head of the government ministry that led India’s response to the pandemic makes her much more suited for the job. Member states such as India were invited to nominate their candidates but the chairs had the freedom to pick their own candidate as they did with Sudan. In its press release dated September 3, the panel said that while it reviewed more than 120 people, it “made the final appointments based on skills (including expertise in outbreak response, managing national health systems, leadership in youth and community engagement, socio-economic analytical capabilities), knowledge about the international system including WHO and experience from similar international processes.’’Significantly, the release added , “All panel members will serve in their individual capacity and will not represent either their government nor specific organisational interests.’’ The prestigious panel also has former UK foreign secretary David Milliband as a member. Their first meeting is on September 17 and in the report expected by May 2021, the panel is expected to address how the pandemic emerged and why countries were caught off guard.A senior government official says that Gokhale’s name was even cleared by the Prime Minister’s Office for several reasons. One of them is that Gokhale has served as ambassador to China, and, as foreign secretary, was an “expert on multi-lateral issues’’. India is among 62 nations that have asked for a probe into the origins of the Corona virus. US President Donald Trump has led the charge accusing China, where the outbreak started, of concealing information about the virus. “I don’t know anything about this,’’ said Preeti Sudan on Saturday, about the background of her appointment. “I didn’t apply for this position.’’ Sudan’s appointment was pushed by Clarke who worked with the Indian officer on the board of The Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and Child Health. “I will be working from New Delhi in an endeavour that is for international good,” Sudan added. HT reached out to Gokhale, but there was no response till the time of going to press.The official cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity claimed that Clark spoke with health minister Harsh Vardhan before making the appointment and explained the reason for vetoing India’s choice. Vardhan was appointed chairman of WHO Executive Board in May this year. HT reached out to the Prime Minister’s office and Harsh Vardhan but didn’t receive any response. A spokesperson for WHO said: “The selection of the members of the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response (IPPR) was done by the co-chairs, former President of Liberia, Her Excellency Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and the former Prime Minister of New Zealand, the Right Honourable Helen Clark. This decision was not taken by the World Health Organization. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-health-secy-preeti-sudan-appointed-who-panellist/story-aVLWeFwY2FLv0vaiDZKCHN.html
06-09-2020||India||Warmer Arabian Sea led to intense rain in August||An unusually warm Arabian Sea is likely to have contributed to intense bursts of monsoon rain in parts of India in August, which in particular led to flooding and landslides in many parts of the west coast, scientists said, citing sea surface temperature readings that strengthen concerns of global warming possibly leading to extreme rain events in the future. Coupled with the consecutive low pressure areas of Bay of Bengal that put the monsoon in its “active” to “vigorous” phase, the warmer waters in the Arabian Sea further compounded the climatology that triggered heavy rain in several parts of the country.In the vigorous phase, rain increase by 1.5-4 times the normal volumes.“Arabian Sea has been warming rapidly in recent decades. This makes the air above warmer, humid and unstable. As a result, the monsoon winds are exhibiting more fluctuations than earlier. So occasionally there are episodes where huge amount of moisture is dumped along the west coast of India in a few days’ time. This year again, the northern Arabian Sea was up to 2-3°C warmer than usual in August, and we saw several spurts of monsoon rains across the west coast,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.According to monitoring by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the average monthly SST (sea surface temperature) for August in parts of north Arabian Sea was 29 to 31 degree C and in southern parts was 29 to 30 degree C. The SST anomaly map showed temperatures to be 2 to 3 degree C and 0.5 to 1.5 degree C higher than expected in pockets of north Arabian Sea.With the formation of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal on August 4, there were instances of extreme rain along the west coast. For example on August 3, Mumbai’s Dharavi got 38 cm rain; Santacruz and Colaba recorded 26 and 25 cm respectively; Hosanagar and Bhagamandala in Karnataka recorded 21 and 19 cm respectively. On August 4, Palghar recorded 46 cm; Talasari 39 cm; Dahanu 38 cm Mahabaleshwar 32 cm; Khanvel 39 cm; On August 6, Vaibhavwadi in Sindhudurg recorded 71 cm rain; Avalanchi in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris recorded 58 cm; Bhagamandala 49 cm, Mumbai’s Colaba 33 cm according to India Meteorological Department data.There are several scientific papers that have concluded that the Arabian Sea is becoming warmer as a result of climate change. The Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) report titled “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region” which has analyses and data from 1901-2018 and is modeled on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s assessment reports, said increased variability of low-level monsoon westerlies and warming of north Arabian sea lead to increased moisture supply and thus enhance extremely heavy rain events.“Rapid warming in the Arabian Sea has resulted in a rise in widespread extreme rains over Western Ghats and central India, since warming induces increased fluctuations in the monsoon winds, with ensuing episodes of enhanced moisture transport from the Arabian Sea towards the Indian subcontinent. Indian Ocean warming is also found to reduce rainfall over India during the onset phase and increase it during the withdrawal phase,” the report states. Models also indicate that there will be higher SST warming over Arabian Sea compared to Bay of Bengal.“Monsoon was very active in August and the westerlies were very strong. Warm Arabian Sea could lead to more moisture incursion along the west coast. More moisture availability could lead to extreme rain episodes,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.“The SSTs are supposed to drop by 2-3 degrees in August compared to May. Higher SSTs means more evaporation and the moisture gets transported to the west coast with strong westerly winds when monsoon is active. There is more warming being recorded in the equatorial Indian Ocean,” explained R Krishnan, executive director, Centre for Climate Change Studies at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM). Some scientists cautioned that SSTs may have been one of the factors. Low pressure areas formed over Bay of Bengal which strengthened the monsoon winds are an equally dominant factor, said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD.IMD in its two week forecast issued on Friday said below normal rains are likely in most parts of the country except over northeastern states, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala between September 10 and 16. Development of features for monsoon withdrawal from western parts Rajasthan is likely during the same week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/warmer-arabian-sea-led-to-intense-rain-in-august/story-6F3mJu23c49NZ6Ay4KOZnI.html
06-09-2020||India||Govt: No restrictions on filling vacancies||The Union government clarified on Saturday that there is no restriction on recruitment of people for filling vacancies in government jobs, a day after the department of expenditure (DoE) issued an order asking all government departments and autonomous bodies to cut administrative expenses, including halting appointment of consultants and creating new posts.“Normal recruitments through government agencies like Staff Selection Commission, UPSC, Railway Recruitment Board, etc will continue as usual without any curbs,” the ministry of finance said in an official statement on Saturday.While referring to a circular released on Friday, the ministry said it only deals with “internal procedure for creation of posts”.“The Dept. of Expenditure circular dated 04 Sept 2020 deals with internal procedure for creation of posts and does NOT in anyway affect or curtail recruitment,” the ministry further said.Friday’s circular was seen as a move towards an austerity drive, with departments being urged to also curtail functions and ban use of imported paper for printing as part of measures to rationalise non-priority expenditure at a time when revenues have plummeted due to the pandemic and shutdowns.“In the context of the present fiscal situation and the consequent pressure on Government resources, there is a need for further economy and rationalisation of non-priority expenditure, while protecting and preserving priority expenditure,” the department said in an office memorandum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-no-restrictions-on-filling-vacancies/story-kijcQZ4MKwBENbc5ocnShP.html
06-09-2020||India||ICMR paves the way for walk-in Covid-19 tests||A doctor’s prescription will no longer be required for people to get a Covid-19 test, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said in its revised testing advisory to states on Saturday, paving the way for walk-in tests.The move comes after a prod by the Delhi high court that asked why people who show no symptoms of the disease – which can be a large proportion of Covid-19 patients – cannot get a test. The rule until now required people to either have flu-like symptoms or come in close contact with an infected person, following which a doctor could issue a prescription for a test.“The new guidelines will allow people to get tested for Covid-19 without any prescription. The guidelines also say that states can have their own “simplified modalities” for testing. What this means is that states cannot put in any restrictive requirements on testing. There were some states where people needed a chief medical officer or someone to certify that they needed the test; those restrictions will have to be removed,” said a senior official from the Union health ministry, asking not to be named. “ICMR’s advisory is generic in nature and may be modified as per the discretion of state health authorities,” said the advisory. In a Delhi HC hearing over improving testing in the Capital, the ICMR stated on September 3 it was just an advisory body and states were free to make changes as per their needs. “With the new strategy, the doctors will be a little freer in ordering testing. Influenza-like illnesses was too restrictive a category for testing, especially as many patients with Covid-19 are asymptomatic. Clinical testing or depending on a doctor’s judgement should have been allowed a long time ago. This is what is good for medical care,” said Dr Jacob John, former professor of virology at Christian Medical College in Vellore. He added that the government should now move to an approach where patients with Covid-19-like symptoms living in an area where the disease is in transmission should be considered a positive case and treated as such. The guidelines also suggest testing those with atypical presentation for Covid-19 such as stroke, encephalitis, blood mixed sputum, pulmonary embolism, acute heart conditions, and Guillain-Barre syndrome (a condition where the body’s immune system attacks the nerves causing weakness in legs, multiple organ dysfunction, progressive gastrointestinal symptoms, and inflammatory disease ) in paediatric patients. “The new guidelines make testing more freely available and this decision has been taken after ramping up India’s testing capacity to over a million a day,” the ministry official quoted above said. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at Indian Council of Medical Research, said that the non-ambiguous guidelines will help resolve many systemic issues. “This will make testing more accessible. Although, this was even true earlier, but the clear-cut guidelines on who to test in a hospital or when to do an RT-PCR is helpful in addressing any ambiguities. Like in Delhi, we should increase RT-PCR testing (elsewhere),” he said. The guidelines also mentions places where molecular testing – such as RT-PCR, CBNAAT, and TrueNat – should be preferred over the cheaper and faster but less accurate rapid antigen tests (RAT). Within containment zones, a rapid antigen test is the preferred modality for screening. Those to be screened include all persons with influenza-like illnesses, all direct and high-risk contacts (family members, colleagues, above the age of 65, immunocompromised, or have conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, or heart, kidney, and lung diseases). “Ideally, it is suggested that 100% people living in the containment zones should be tested by RAT particularly in cities where there has been widespread transmission of the infection,” the guidelines mention. In non-containment areas, however, the ICMR strategy suggests that preference should be given to molecular methods to test those with influenza-like symptoms, all symptomatic contacts, and all asymptomatic high-risk contacts. RT-PCR, CBNAAT, or TrueNat should also be used for routine surveillance of all symptomatic travellers within seven days of illness, and health care or frontline workers involved in Covid-19 management. Within hospitals, the ICMR strategy says molecular tests should be preferred for testing those with severe acute respiratory infections, influenza-like symptoms, high-risk contacts in need of hospitalisation, asymptomatic patients undergoing surgery or other invasive procedures, and all pregnant women in or near labour. The guidelines state that no emergency procedure should be delayed for the want of a test; a sample can be sent simultaneously. Hospitals have been instructed not to refuse admission to pregnant women citing lack of testing facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-paves-the-way-for-walk-in-tests/story-6tTIQSqhoO7Hn8ZrWUAe0I.html
06-09-2020||India||Don’t try to change status quo: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh has asked China to strictly respect the Line of Actual Control (LAC), not make attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, and work with India for complete disengagement from all friction areas in eastern Ladakh in the midst of military tensions between the two sides, a government statement said on Saturday.At a meeting in Moscow on Friday night, Singh also made it clear that India was fully determined to defend its frontiers. He told his Chinese counterpart, General Wei Fenghe, that the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) aggressive actions in the Ladakh sector to unilaterally change the status quo on the ground violated bilateral agreements and the understanding between the special representatives of the two sides, the defence ministry statement said. “Raksha Mantri conveyed that the two sides should continue their discussions, including through diplomatic and military channels, to ensure complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity along the LAC at the earliest,” it added.Singh said that while Indian troops showed a responsible approach towards border management, there should be no doubt about India’s determination to protect the nation’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, according to the statement.It added that the Chinese defence minister said both sides should scrupulously implement the consensus reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping, continue to solve issues through dialogue and consultation, strictly follow the various bilateral agreements, strengthen the regulation of frontline troops and not undertake any provocative actions that might escalate the situation. Wei also suggested that both sides should maintain communication at all levels, including between the two ministers. In Beijing, a statement released by the Chinese defence ministry said Wei told Singh that the relations between the two countries and the two militaries were seriously affected by the border issue, and that it was very important for the two defence ministers to have a face-to-face and candid exchange of views.Wei said the latest stand-off “rests entirely with the Indian side”, and China will defend “every inch of territory”, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.“The Chinese military has the resolve, capability and confidence to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Wei added.The talks, requested by the Chinese side, took place on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting of defence ministers and marked the highest level of government contact between New Delhi and Beijing since the Chinese PLA unilaterally changed the status quo along the LAC in May. The two nuclear powers have been locked in the border row in eastern Ladakh for around four months. The latest round of tensions flared up in the Ladakh sector after the army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to stop the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. China made another provocative move on August 31, targeting these positions but the Indian Army’s swift defensive action thwarted the Chinese attempt. Both sides have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces, and are within each other’s rifle range in the area. According to the defence ministry statement, Singh said the Chinese side should work with India for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas, including the Pangong Lake, and also for de-escalation in border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements. Singh was expected to reach Delhi on Saturday night via Tehran after meeting his Iranian counterpart, Brigadier General Amir Hatami.“I think it will be a positive step if continuing dialogue can help ease the new tensions that have erupted on the southern bank of Pangong Tso. However, the talks must result in some visible actions on the ground and that is where the Chinese will have to rethink the obdurate stand that they have adopted till now,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). According to diplomats in New Delhi and Moscow, Singh and General Wei both stuck to their positions at the meeting even as they indicated that the two countries were willing to give peace a chance.While Wei wrote down all points raised by Singh at the two-and-a-half-hour meeting, the Chinese leader was critical of the Indian media. But Singh emphasised that in the Indian democracy, the media was free. Wei also pointed out that just like the Indian forces, the PLA, too, had advanced a lot since the 1962 war between the two neighbours.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Friday the situation along the LAC was “delicate and serious”, and soldiers were prepared for any contingency. Naravane said India would use existing mechanisms to reduce tensions and ensure that the status quo along the LAC was not unilaterally changed. The army chief said the Indian side was firmly committed to resolve the current situation through dialogue. The Indian Army has readjusted its deployments at multiple points along the LAC, including the northern bank of Pangong Lake, to prevent the PLA from making aggressive moves to unilaterally alter the status quo in contested areas.According to senior officials familiar with the developments, around 150 PLA troops were deployed at the Bump Feature (a hill feature) with an anti-aircraft gun being moved up the Black Top (also a hill feature) by the Chinese army on its side of the LAC. Moreover, the Indian and Chinese troops were within each other’s firing range at Rechin La. Also, the Chinese Air Force was continuing with its combat patrols in the area. Alongside the troop build-up in Ladakh, there were signs of force accretion on the Chinese border with Bhutan.Border tensions between India and China reached new heights in the aftermath of a clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15 — the first deadly conflict between soldiers of the two sides along the LAC in 45 years. The clash resulted in the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers, including a commanding officer, and an undisclosed number of Chinese soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-try-to-change-status-quo-rajnath/story-aHqBAihdwyrOYhqok9C4DK.html
06-09-2020||India||Will reassess bullet train timeline: Rlys||New DelhiThe timeline of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor will need to be reassessed due to Covid-19 but the real timeframe for its completion can be provided only within the next three to six months, railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said on Saturday.Hindustan Times on Friday had reported that the work on land acquisition and tendering for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor may face delays due to Covid-19 and the Bullet Train may fail to meet its 2023 deadline.Yadav said that the bullet train project was “progressing well” but the project can only be assessed over the next few months when the status of land acquisition will be clearer.“In any linear project like the bullet train project, work can only begin when a certain amount of land is available. Within three months we are expecting to acquire 95-100% land in in Gujarat. In Maharashtra also we are expecting that in next three to six months the land acquisition will improve a lot and that is why I am mentioning that once the land acquisition is clear the tenders for the civil work and we will start the physical work. So that will be the appropriate time to reassess project implementation time,” Yadav said at a press conference on Saturday.“As of now I can just mention to you that we are fully geared up, as far as design are concerned, tender documents are concerned everything is fully ready and we will definitely start the work. But yes, as far as timeline is concerned, we have to make reassessment of all these components and work, and that can be done only when there is some sort of the clear picture about the land acquisition. We will come back within a period of three months and then we will share the timeline,” he added.So far 63 % land has been acquired for the project, according to the project implementing agency National High-Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL).The project connecting Mumbai and Ahmedabad has a deadline of December 2023. The Railways had said last month that the high-speed rail corridor is expected to be completed on time despite the Covid-19 outbreak.Yadav said that 82 % of the land has been acquired in Gujarat while in Maharashtra land acquisition stood at only 23%.The project has had to contend with issues ranging from protests by landowners to rising costs because of a widening gap between the Indian rupee and the Japanese yen; 80 percent of the Rs 1 trillion needed to fund the project will come from a 20-year Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) loan. The estimated total cost of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad project is Rs 1.08 trillion, of which 81 percent cost is planned for funding through the loan from the JICA, may escalate, officials said.Centre has signed a loan agreement with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for providing Rs 15,000 crore, of the total loan amount of Rs 88,000 crore.“At this stage its impact is not known in certainty as the pandemic is still continuing,” NHRCL spokesperson said. One section of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor is likely to be tendered out within three months after nearly 90 percent of the land acquisition for the project is completed, according to railway board chairman VK Yadav, Hindustan Times had reported on August 4. Yadav had said there has been a “slowdown” in land acquisition due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-reassess-bullet-train-timeline-rlys/story-ly6SE6E0QO3lVKAGPE9QqI.html
06-09-2020||India||Maoists kill four in Bastar||Suspected Maoists have killed four villagers in Bastar region’s Bijapur district on the suspicion that they were police informers, the Chhattisgarh Police said on Saturday.The killing took place in a span of two days in the forest of Dumri-Palnar village in the Gangaloor area, according to Sunderaj P, inspector general of police, Bastar range.Sunderaj said Maoists were not happy with development work, including road construction work, underway in the area. “They called the villagers who were supporting the construction work and killed four of them. The other villagers were badly beaten by the Maoists in public. We are still finding the exact details of killings and on which date the killings took place,” he said. In past one week, Maoists killed a total of nine persons including two policemen in three districts of Bastar region.On Wednesday, a former sarpanch was killed in the Pakhanjur area. A pamphlet said the sarpanch was killed in a “janadalat (people’s court)”. Two policemen, who had been missing for a few days, were found dead on Monday and Tuesday in Bastar, a stronghold of the Maoists. “Such incidents (of killing villagers) have increased because the Maoists are frustrated and are under pressure. They are afraid of the entry of security forces in their core areas in Sukma, Dantewada and Bijapur. They have been killing and beating innocent tribals out of frustration,” Sunderaj said. Another Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, posted in the Bastar region, detailed the reasons behind the killings.“Firstly, the lodging of FIRs against Maoists has increased and villagers are coming out to report them. Secondly, they want the villagers not to join police recruitment drive. Thirdly, there is no clarity among Maoists whether to proceed militarily or increase mass support in Bastar. And lastly, there is gradual deterioration in command and control of Maoists, thus resulting in indiscipline among the lower cadre,” said the officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-four-in-bastar/story-sWLidef3LwXq2hr7W3N9EJ.html
06-09-2020||India||Dengue, malaria a new threat for Covid patients||Doctors in at least two Delhi hospitals have reported patients with twin infections of Covid-19 and dengue or malaria, a trend that could become worrying since the double disease may be deadlier, and the region is entering its most critical season for mosquito-transmitted diseases.The anecdotal reports tie in with latest findings that suggest a high prevalence of co-infections of diseases such as malaria, dengue and leptospirosis, which together have several symptoms that overlap with a symptomatic Covid-19 illness.One such case was that of a 30-year-old patient with malaria who also tested positive for dengue and Covid-19 at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in Delhi recently, before he eventually succumbed. “We know of dengue and malaria occurring simultaneously in places where there is mosquito breeding. However, because of current protocols, when we tested him for Covid-19, he tested positive. This resulted in complications and he died despite his young age and no comorbidities,” said Dr Rajesh Chawala, senior consulting pulmonologist at the hospital.At Lok Nayak hospital, a similar case was detected when doctors noticed a drop in the platelet count for a 14-year-old Covid-19 patient. “When we tested him for dengue, he tested positive. This allowed us to manage him for dengue as well. He did not get very severe disease and was discharged about ten days ago,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital. “This is the only case of dengue co-infection that we have recorded, so we do not know whether it will result in complications. Doctors should be on the lookout for other infections as well, even though most of the patients are currently coming in with Covid-19,” said Kumar.Dengue cases usually begin in July, spike in October before tapering off in November and December. According to civic records, in 2015, as many as 15,867 dengue cases were reported and 60 people died. The number of dengue cases in 2019 was brought down to 2,036 and only two deaths were reported. The challenge this year is compounded as large portions of the civic staff who normally fan out across the city to detect mosquito breeding spots are now on Covid-19 duty, which includes widespread testing, sanitisation and containment efforts. A study by researchers at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi demonstrated a high prevalence or co-infection of malaria with dengue and leptospirosis, a bacterial infection that causes fever, headache, muscle pain and bleeding.Around 44% of the patients with malaria had dengue, found the study, which was recently published in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases.“We started doing this study after we found a few cases where the patient had both malaria and dengue. We had not known there was such high prevalence of co-infections,” said study co-author Dr Pragyan Acharya, associate professor in the department of biochemistry, AIIMS Delhi. “The other interesting finding of the study was malaria infection from plasmodium knowlesi, which was thought of to be prevalent in countries like Indonesia and Malaysia,” she said. P knowlesi was detected in 12 of the 66 patients included in the study. “Doctors should not forget that Covid-19 has not replaced the other infections and these diseases should also be considered,” said Acharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dengue-malaria-a-new-threat-for-covid-patients/story-kSVHPPXR4OyRIaim7GrVaO.html
06-09-2020||India||JP Nadda praises Modi govt for taking care of economy amid Covid-19 fight||India not only took the bold and timely step of imposing a lockdown to save the lives of 1.3 billion people from Covid-19 but also took care of the economic issues faced by the people in this difficult time, said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda.Nadda also said that the government had tried to turn tragedy into opportunity through the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiative.Addressing a meeting of the party’s Odisha executive committee, Nadda said that while powerful western nations were helpless in combating the pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the decisive action of imposing a lockdown to save the lives of the people.“PM Modi made it clear that the lives of 1.3 billion people must be saved. He said ‘Jaan hai to Jahan Hai’ as public health was at the top of his mind,” the BJP chief said.Besides taking care of the health-related matters, the Modi government also addressed the economic issues through several programmes such as the ‘Garib Kalyan Yojana’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, Nadda said.“Don’t count how many cases have emerged; also see how many cases are happening per million. You will see India has under Modi fought Covid from the front,” he said. He said that up to 800 million people were provided wheat, rice, cooking oil, etc, indicating that the PM was worried about the people. He said all sections of the society, including women, elderly, farmers and differently abled, were provided support during this period. The tragedy and challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic were effectively turned into an opportunity by the BJP-led government at the Centre, which announced a ₹20 lakh crore package to revive economic activities amid the crisis, he said.Nadda’s comments came amid the criticism of the government’s handling of the economy by the opposition over the sharp decline in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The country’s economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with a 23.9% decline in the GDP.Nadda also claimed that the Odisha government was trying to take credit for the Centre’s efforts. He alleged that there was corruption in certain areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-praises-modi-govt-for-taking-care-of-economy-amid-covid-19-fight/story-Am05rCbfQwKc677FN5FShP.html
06-09-2020||India||UGC notifies norms for online degrees||In a major step towards allowing universities and colleges to run digital degree programmes, the higher education regulator University Grants Commission (UGC) has issued regulations, laying the framework for online as well as distance learning programmes.The UGC (Open and Distance Learning Programmes and Online Programmes) Regulations, 2020, were notified on Friday.Varsities that are accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with at least a score of 3.01 out of 4 or ranking in the ‘Top 100’ universities, as per the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), can apply for running the online programmes.Online education has gained much traction due to restrictions imposed to check the spread of Covid-19.A higher educational institution (HGI) will be eligible to offer only those degree or diploma programmes — at undergraduate and postgraduate levels — in courses that are already being offered in the classroom or open and distance learning modes, with at least one batch of graduates.Any programme requiring practical or laboratory training as a curricular requirement shall be prohibited online, except in cases where the practical component is limited to programming and coding, including software tools.An HGI, other than open universities, shall have a designated Centre for Distance and Online Education (CDOE) headed by a director for operationalising the programmes, as per the framework.The norms also have provisions that stipulate teachers specifically for online/distance learning modes.As per the norms, courses that shall not be offered in the online or distance learning mode include programmes in the disciplines (including their allied domains) of engineering, medicine, physiotherapy, occupational therapy and other paramedical disciplines, pharmacy, nursing, dental, architecture, law, agriculture, horticulture, hotel management, catering technology, culinary sciences, aircraft maintenance, visual arts and sports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-notifies-norms-for-online-degrees/story-Xtv80k4oZMEQlZIHEIeZDL.html
06-09-2020||India||Courts can’t perform role of govts: SC judge||The role assigned to the judiciary by the Constitution is to provide checks and balances within the system and it cannot perform the role of elected governments, Supreme Court judge justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said on Saturday, underscoring the importance of courts and the executive remaining within their spheres of functioning.The judge said that courts are increasingly being asked to decide on political matters that are brought before it under the guise of public interest litigations and they often face criticism due to the handling of such cases.“But I do believe that we have adopted a Constitution where we have an elected government in power. Segregation of powers requires judiciary to perform its role and executive to perform its role. Courts cannot be unelected governments. They provide check and balance,” justice Kaul, who was delivering the keynote address at a webinar organised by non-governmental organisation CAN Foundation on the topic “Dissents that made a difference: India & Abroad” said.The courts, he maintained, have their limitations and have not been tasked with the responsibility of running the system.“They (courts’ views) are inherently minoritarianism because the majority view is reflected by government in power. There are limitations to the judiciary. Judiciary has not been assigned the role of running the system but (a role) to put check and balance on the system,” justice Kaul added.The judge pointed out that there is a “shrill discourse” today surrounding political cases and the courts bear the brunt of the attack.“It (courts) honestly face criticism today on how far it should go. Some say courts go too far while others say it is not going far enough. But I think the separation of powers must be kept in the mind on this issue,” he said.Justice Kaul said that the system offers space for dissent – for the political system it is in Parliament and on the streets, while for the judiciary it is through dissenting judgments.However, he highlighted the importance of examining courts’ judgments in the backdrop of the period in which they are delivered and called for a constructive approach while examining or criticising the judgments. “Dissent will continue to have importance in every field including the judiciary. While judging the role of the judiciary, and dissent among judges, there must be a constructive approach,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-can-t-perform-role-of-govts-sc-judge/story-6LUjp0nOrAcNElNCjZDIaP.html
06-09-2020||India||Govt plans 80 new trains from Sept 12||The Indian Railways will deploy 80 special trains from September 12, in addition to the 230 special trains currently operating, the railway ministry announced on Saturday. The reservation for the special trains will begin from September 10, the ministry said. “We will notify 80 new special trains or 40 pair pairs of trains that will start operations from September 12. The reservations will begin from September 10. This will run in addition to the 230 trains already in operation,” Railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said.The government will also deploy ‘clone trains’ on routes where the occupancy is more depending on the waitlist for the trains. “Wherever there is demand for a particular train, wherever the waiting list is long, we will run a clone train ahead of the actual train, so that passengers can travel,” he added.Yadav said the stoppages of the clone trains will be less than the special trains. “The idea is to have stoppages at major stations for clone trains to meet demands of people,” he said.In July, the overall occupancy of the special trains stood at 75%. According to railway ministry data, only a fourth of these trains had an occupancy rate of 100%. Yadav said the occupancy of the trains has gone up to 80-85% now and about a dozen trains are low occupancy.There are many stations from where the migrant workers are returning to their places of work, Yadav said, adding that this was a key factor in starting the 80 new trains. Railways is also coordinating with the state governments, he said.“Many of these trains are running in reverse direction of the Shramik Special trains. So, they are leaving their homes and going towards their workplaces. The occupancy of 12 trains is very less among the 230 trains, so we are running them, but will reduce the number of coaches. We are monitoring the occupancy of trains and will run more trains as per demand,” Yadav said.He said that the Railways will also run trains if there is a demand from states for students appearing for exams. The railway ministry had earlier said that it will run special trains for students appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), being conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). NEET is scheduled for September 13 and JEE from September 1 to September 6.The decision comes in the backdrop of the ministry of home affairs announcing the guidelines for “Unlock 4” on August 29. The latest plan, the Centre had said, was aimed at reopening more economic activities outside Covid-19 containment zones.Under the plan, metro services across India , except in Maharashtra, will resume operations in phases beginning September 7, with all becoming operational by September 12, according to the ministry for housing and urban affairs.The Railways had suspended all regular passenger trains indefinitely on March 22. Earlier in June, the ministry had said passenger trains, including express and suburban services that were earlier suspended till June 30, will not operate till August 12. The 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country, which began on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains, which began on June 1, will continue to function.On August 11, the ministry had clarified that all regular trains will continue to remain suspended but additional special trains will be operated based on the requirement.“This is to bring to the notice of all concerned that, as decided and informed earlier on as well, regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended till further notice. It may be noted that 230 Special Trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate…The occupancy of special trains is being monitored on regular basis. Additional special trains may be run based on the requirement. However all other regular trains and suburban trains run before lockdown , will remain suspended for the time being,” the ministry had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-80-new-trains-from-sept-12/story-ujHtxW5OqsSnEuQgCzZvnM.html
06-09-2020||India||Donald Trump offers to help resolve LAC standoff||US President Donald Trump has again expressed his readiness to “help” India and China resolve their border standoff, which he described as “very nasty”, repeating an offer that has previously been rejected by New Delhi.In May, the external affairs ministry tacitly turned down Trump’s offer to mediate on the issue, made through a tweet, by saying India was directly engaged with China to peacefully resolve the standoff.“While we’re at it, we’re talking about China and India are going at it pretty good on the border, as you know. It’s been very nasty,” Trump told reporters on Friday at a White House briefing.“We stand ready to help with respect to China and India if we can do anything we would love to get involved and help. And we are talking to both countries about that,” the US President said.Trump had in May extended an offer to mediate the standoff. “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute,” he tweeted then, prompting both sides to turn down the offer.On another previous occasion, New Delhi rejected Trump’s remarks regarding mediation between India and another country. In July 2019, India dismissed his remarks, at a joint news briefing along with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, that Modi had asked him to help resolve the Kashmir issue.At that time, Trump contended he had spoken directly with Modi about Kashmir. “And he actually said, ‘Would you like to be a mediator, or arbitrator? I said ‘Where?’, and he said ‘Kashmir, because this has been going on for many, many years’,” Trump had said at the time.On Friday, Trump also expressed confidence that Indian-Americans will vote for him in the November 3 presidential elections as he cited the “incredible” turnout at the “Howdy Modi” event in Houston last September.Responding to a question about his expectations from Indian-American voters, the President said: “We have great support from India. We have great support from Prime Minister Modi and I would think that Indian people would be voting for Trump.”“We had an event in Houston, as you know, and it was a fantastic event. I was invited by Prime Minister Modi… it was incredible. It was actually incredible and the Prime Minister could not have been more generous.”The Trump campaign recently released a collection of clips from the Houston event and the “Namaskar Trump” rally that the US President attended in Ahmedabad this February, seeking to project his support among India-Americans. The video, based on a slogan chanted at his re-election rallies, is called “4 More Years”.The US President has claimed he has the support of more Indian-Americans than Kamala Harris, the Indian-descent Democratic nominee for vice-president. Though there are no numbers or polls to back that up, others in his campaign have also made the claim.There are an estimated 1.8 million Indian-American voters in the US – they have historically favoured Democrats. But only 50% of the registered voters among them identified as Democrat in a survey of Asian-American voters in the run-up to the 2018 mid-term elections; 18% identified themselves as Republicans; and the rest 32% were “non-identifiers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-offers-to-help-resolve-lac-standoff/story-SPcRNQiQBL7f5E6smZAcEJ.html
06-09-2020||India||Doctor alleges parents missing after newborn girl tests Covid-19 positive||The parents of a 14-day-old girl, who is to undergo a surgery, are reportedly missing after they were told that the infant has tested positive for coronavirus, said doctors at a government hospital in Ranchi. Their contact number, said the doctors, is unreachable and the police have been asked to find them.This has left the doctors in a quandary as the newborn is suffering from a devastating disease - Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) - and they need consent of the parents before they can perform the operation. The disease has caused ruptures in the infant’s intestine.Her parents, residents of Palamu’s Bishrampur block, brought her to the state’s biggest government owned hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on August 29 for treatment.According to the doctor, before the surgery could be performed they were required to take the baby’s swab samples for Covid test.“On September 3 at around 7 pm, her test report came positive and the same was communicated to the baby’s father. Since then, the parents are not traceable,” said Dr Abhishek Ranjan of RIMS paediatric surgery department.He added, “The contact number of the baby’s father is not reachable. We have informed the police and provided them all details which we have with us.”According to Dr Ranjan, the baby’s parents looked concerned about their daughter during the initial five days. But after the Covid test report came, they suddenly vanished leaving the baby behind.“They might have presumed that they would now be tested for Covid and might be sent to quarantine. The poor chance of child’s survival might have also forced them to take such an extreme step,” said Dr Ranjan, who is taking all care of the child with the help of some NGOs.The baby underwent blood platelets transfusion on Saturday. “She is in the ICU but stable. We are now facing a medico-legal issue in the absence of the parents. Their consent is required to perform the surgery. We can’t wait much and we would take other available resources to do it,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-alleges-parents-missing-after-newborn-girl-tests-covid-19-positive/story-pUmEsDBTwyvoKa6UAoaPbK.html
06-09-2020||India||Four villagers killed by Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur||Maoist insurgents have killed four villagers in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on the suspicion of being police informers, inspector general (Bastar range) Sunderaj P said on Saturday. The fresh killings have taken the number of people killed in Maoist violence in the region this week to nine, which include two policemen.“The villagers were identified as Punem Sannu, Gore Sannu and Aaytu, natives of Pusnar village and Bhusku from Metapal village,” Sunderaj P said. He added the Maoists were unhappy with the development works, including road construction work, in the area.“They called the villagers, who were supporting the construction work and killed four of them. The other villagers were badly beaten by the Maoists in public. We are still finding the exact details of killings and on which date the killings took place,” he said. Sunderaj P said a police force was due to reach the scene on Saturday evening and then they will get the know the exact situation.On Friday, Maoists killed two men after branding them as police informers when they had gone to a village in Bijapur from Dantewada. A former sarpanch was killed in Pakhanjur area on Wednesday. In a pamphlet found later, Maoists claimed responsibility for the killing.Two policemen, who had gone missing, were found dead on Monday and Tuesday in the Bastar region.Sunderaj P said the incidents of violence have increased because the Maoists are frustrated and under pressure. “They are afraid of the entry of security forces in their core areas in Sukma, Dantewada, and Bijapur. They have been killing and thrashing innocent tribals out of frustration.”Another police officer posted in the region, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there has been more lodging of cases and villagers are coming out to report against Maoists. “Hence Maoists are trying to instil fear among villagers. Secondly, they want the villagers to not cooperate with or join the police. Thirdly, there is no clarity among Maoists whether to proceed militarily or increase mass support in Bastar. And lastly, there is a gradual deterioration in command and control of Maoists, thus resulting in indiscipline among cadres... cadres take decisions themselves without permission from seniors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-villagers-allegedly-killed-by-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-s-bijapur/story-5AYOVfQ0n2QAjkU4lBIFNM.html
06-09-2020||India||How people, technology help Facebook fact-check posts for accuracy||Facebook, which has also been facing flak over allegations of political bias, works with independent third-party fact-checkers certified through a non-partisan international fact-checking network. In India, the social media company works with eight partners including India Today Group, Vishvas News (Jagran), FACTLY, NewsMobile, FactCrescendo, BOOM Live, AFP, and the Quint, which fact-check in 11 Indian languages and English.Also read: Parliament panel grills Facebook officials“The minister has made a blanket statement and has not targeted anyone in particular,” Rahul Namboodri, the co-founder of FactCrescendo, said. “IFCN has very stringent methodology and a completely non-partisan outlook which we follow,” Namboodri added. “The fact-check is done solely on evidence and not on opinion. We tackle misinformation, irrespective of ideology.” HT reached out to BOOM Live and India Today Group; they declined to comment. Facebook told HT over email that the fact-checking system is a hybrid between people and technology, adding Facebook’s machine-learning models identify posts that may be false by using signals to check what’s going viral, user reports, and comments expressing disbelief. Facebook also allows several rating options that third-party fact-checkers can apply to content.FACTLY founder Rakesh Dubbudu said the role of a fact-checker is limited to assessing misinformation and Facebook has to take further action. “Our process is simple. We ensure that when we do a fact-check, everything is completely transparent and the public can repeat the same actions to confirm the information.” He said they focus on virality and potential for real-world harm when it comes to flagging the posts.According to a fact-checker, who did not wish to be named, if the right-wing ecosystem is throwing up more misinformation, then how is their fault. “Ahead of the Karnataka elections in 2018, we had also pointed to various pages that were spreading Congress propaganda.”People familiar with the matter said the fact-checking system is a hybrid between people and technology. They added Facebook’s machine learning models identify posts that may be false by using signals like how something may be going viral, user reports, and comments expressing disbelief. Facebook also allows several rating options that third-party fact-checkers can apply to content.Content that has no basis is marked as false. Image, audio, or video content edited or synthesised beyond adjustments for clarity or quality in ways that could mislead people is marked as altered. Content that has some factual inaccuracies falls under the partly false category, etc.When fact-checkers rate a story as false or altered, Facebook significantly reduces its distribution. Pages and domains that repeatedly share false news also have their distribution reduced and their ability to monetise and advertise removed. Facebook users are also allowed to mark content as false or misleading.Facebook’s strategy to tackle misinformation is three-fold, the people said. It also involves the removal of accounts and content that violate community standards.The Parliamentary standing committee on information and technology on Wednesday summoned Facebook officials following media reports that an executive from the company’s India operations team intervened to protect a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party politician from action over hate speech.The Congress has sought a joint parliamentary committee investigation into the allegations against Facebook, a criminal inquiry into the company’s conduct, and termination of its contracts with the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-people-technology-help-facebook-fact-check-posts-for-accuracy/story-52DaLjrOf5azdHCXCB8sOP.html
