07-09-2020||India||Jaishankar set to make stopover in Iran en route to Russia for meeting of SCO foreign ministers||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will make a stopover in Tehran to meet his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif on Tuesday afternoon on his way to Russia for a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), people familiar with developments said on Monday. Jaishankar will be the second senior Indian minister to visit Iran in less than a week, with defence minister Rajnath Singh having made a stopover in Tehran on Sunday for talks with his Iranian counterpart Brig Gen Amir Hatami that focused on bilateral cooperation and regional security issues. The two foreign ministers are expected to meet on Tuesday afternoon to review bilateral ties and the regional situation, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. There was no official word on the stopover in Tehran from the external affairs ministry. The back-to-back visits to Tehran by the Indian cabinet ministers come close on the heels of reports that China and Iran are close to an agreement for a 25-year strategic partnership in trade, politics and security. They also come at a time when Indian is attempting to work more closely with Iran to increase the economic viability of the strategic Chabahar port. The evolving situation in Afghanistan, where an intra-Afghan dialogue is set to get underway, is also expected to figure in the talks between Jaishankar and Zarif. Jaishankar last visited Iran in December 2019 and had spoken to Zarif in April. This will be his first visit abroad since foreign travel by ministers was curtailed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides participating in the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10, Jaishankar is expected to hold bilateral meetings with some counterparts. However, most of the focus will be on his expected meeting with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi. Jaishankar told an online event on Monday that his position for this meeting will be built around certain principles, including how peace and tranquillity on the border with China over the past 30 years has allowed the rest of the bilateral relationship to progress. He also said the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) cannot be delinked from the overall bilateral relationship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-set-to-make-stopover-in-iran-en-route-to-russia-for-meeting-of-sco-foreign-ministers/story-VQ3IsQ4BEPNb4iPZYgp1iL.html
07-09-2020||India||India, B’desh to hold joint body meeting, review bilateral ties||India and Bangladesh are expected to hold a virtual meeting of their Joint Consultative Commission (JCC) later this month to review the bilateral relationship, people familiar with developments said on Monday. The matter figured in a phone conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Bangladeshi counterpart AK Abdul Momen. Jaishankar tweeted the two sides had agreed to hold the JCC meeting “very soon” but there were no details from the external affairs ministry. “Warm conversation with FM Dr AK Abdul Momen of Bangladesh. Agreed to hold our Joint Consultative Commission very soon. Will continue to work closely to reach the ambitious goals set by our leaders,” Jaishankar tweeted. The people cited above said on condition of anonymity that the two sides are expected to hold the JCC meeting via video conference in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The two leaders also discussed recent initiatives to improve connectivity between the two countries, including the operationalisation of the Daukandi-Sonamura inland waterway route on September 5 with the trial run of a vessel carrying cement from the Bangladeshi side to the northeastern state of Tripura, the people said. The last JCC meeting was held in New Delhi in February last year, when Momen and his then Indian counterpart Sushma Swaraj led their respective sides. Momen told the BSS news agency in Dhaka that he and Jaishankar ageed in principle during their conversation to hold the JCC meeting virtually. BSS reported Bangladesh foreign secretary Masud bin Momen is unlikely to visit New Delhi ahead of the JCC meeting. At the last JCC meeting, the two sides had signed four MoUs to strengthen multifaceted cooperation. These MoUs covered the mid-career training of 1,800 Bangladeshi government employees, cooperation between AYUSH and the Bangladesh health ministry in the field of medicinal plants, cooperation between the Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and cooperation with the Bangladesh Economic Zones Authority to facilitate investments in an Indian economic zone in Mongla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-b-desh-to-hold-joint-body-meeting-review-bilateral-ties/story-MIe3m5fIgy7L6sNjzLOZ3O.html
07-09-2020||India||Amid standoff, Army looks to upgrade fleet of infantry vehicles||NEW DELHI: The Indian Army has sought to upgrade its infantry combat vehicles (ICVs) with night-fighting capability to fill a critical operational void in its mechanised infantry fleet at a time of heightened military tensions between Indian and China in the Ladakh sector, officials familiar with the development said on Monday. The army on September 4 invited expression of interest (EoI) from Indian vendors for developing prototype and subsequent procurement of upgraded armament for its BMP-2/2K ICVs inducted almost 35 years ago. “The terrain along our borders lends itself to conduct large-scale mechanised operations and the belligerence of our adversaries on the borders, necessitate that our capabilities are adequately built up to match the threat,” the EOI said. The army has deployed its ICVs along with tanks and artillery pieces in the Ladakh sector, where the two nuclear powers have been locked in a border row for more than four months. The army said the armament system on BMP-2/2K --- the mainstay of the mechanised infantry --- is “night blind as on date” and needs to be upgraded with modern sights to fill capability gaps. Former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd) said, “The BMP-2/2k is an excellent combat platform armed with advanced weapons. But it’s critical to equip the fleet with night-fighting capability to optimize its impact in the battlefield.” According to the army, the current armament sighting system on the ICVs is based on image intensifier technology which is not fit for modern day warfare due to its vast limitations. “The present system is also deficient of modernised fire control system and automatic target tracker which adversely affects the capability of BMP-2/2K to fight both during day and night. All these aspects are critical requirements for mechanised infantry to operate in armour intensive battlefield,” the EOI said. The army is planning to upgrade 811 ICVs with third-generation thermal imager-based gunner sight, modern thermal imager-based commander sight, modernised fire control system and automatic target tracker. Vendors have been asked to submit their responses to the EOI in six weeks. If the multi-stage process progresses smoothly, user trials could take place in two years. In June, the defence ministry placed an order with the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) for 156 BMP 2/2k ICVs for the army’s mechanised forces. The ICVs will be manufactured by Ordnance Factory Medak in Telangana at an estimated cost of Rs 1,094 crore. The induction of the ICVs will be completed by 2023 and “the existing deficiency in the mechanised infantry battalions will be mitigated,” the ministry had then said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-standoff-army-looks-to-upgrade-fleet-of-infantry-vehicles/story-Dr5mRBB9MyzMU3rMGdhOtO.html
07-09-2020||India||PM: NEP nation’s policy, not govt’s||The new National Education Policy (NEP) focuses on passion, practicality and performance, and is a major step towards moving away from a “one size fits all” approach, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday as he emphasised that “maximum flexibility” should be shown in implementing it.Speaking at the Governors’ Conference on Education, Modi said NEP was accepted nationwide as it was brought after elaborate discussions and consultations with people. He said the policy belonged to the nation and should be implemented collectively.“The interference of the government in education policy should be kept at a minimum. The more teachers, parents and students are involved in it, the more relevant it becomes,” the PM said.This is not a government’s NEP but the people’s—the country’s education policy—he added.While referring to the importance of vocational education in the new policy, Modi said for an Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), skill development was key.“The NEP focuses more on learning than study. It focuses more on practically, passion and performance. In one way, this is a major step towards getting rid of the one size fits all approach to our education system,” he said.“For a very long time, our children have been bogged down by social pressure and the weight of school bags. These issues have been dealt with in the NEP,” the PM said.The NEP was approved by the Union Cabinet in July to replace the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems. But some of the sweeping reforms proposed -- such as teaching up to Class 5 in a child’s mother tongue or a single regulator for higher education institutions -- have been criticised by opposition parties. In his speech, the PM said because such a major reform was being ushered in, it was natural for people to have doubts. “We have to collectively address all doubts. The vision of flexibility with which this policy was brought... We will have to show in a similar way maximum flexibility in implementing it,” he told the conference.He suggested appropriate “flexibility” in the implementation of the policy. “Before September 25, there should be several virtual conferences so that our understanding of NEP keeps improving,” he said.The conference was also attended by President Ram Nath Kovind, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, and governors and education ministers of XXXX states. In his speech, Kovind said both Centre and states will have to increase funding in research and innovation to give impetus to a large economy like India. “To give impetus to a large and vibrant economy like India, it is necessary to encourage knowledge-creation and research. The central and state governments will have to increase the percentage of investment in research and innovation,” he said.Bengal opposes NEPBengal said it will not implement the NEP as the policy undermined the country’s federal structure while Tamil Nadu opposed a proposal to make National Testing Agency as only body for conducting entrance examination to all higher education institutions. Jharkhand opposed the policy saying it would be lead to further privatisation of education. Bihar sought Central financial assistance to meet objectives of NEP.States ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party welcomed the policy, saying it would transform the education sector and make students ready for the job market. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee said he objected to the Centre’s decision of not including Bengali in the list of classical languages. “There is no question of implementing NEP in the state for the time being. More discussions need to be held on the matter with all stakeholders. We have expressed our reservations about certain aspects of the NEP, as they undermine the country’s federal structure and the role of the states,” he told reporters after the meeting.Tamil Nadu higher education minister K P Anbalagan opposed the National Testing Agency holding all entrance examinations saying it would discourage rural students. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said NEP encouraged more privatisation and commercialisation of education.Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, who also holds additional charge of Madhya Pradesh, said both states have constituted task force to study the NEP and will submit its recommendations shortly on how to implement the policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-nep-nation-s-policy-not-govt-s/story-KVBeeyYXrWSm4ortE4jH2O.html
07-09-2020||India||In talks with India to join ‘COVAX’ vaccine scheme, says WHO||The World Health Organization is in talks with India about joining the “COVAX” global vaccine allocation plan, a senior WHO adviser said on Monday.“India is certainly eligible, like all countries in the world, to be part of the COVAX facility and discussions are ongoing in that regard,” Bruce Aylward told a briefing in Geneva. “We would welcome Indian participation ...India has extensive experience (with vaccines).”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe WHO and the GAVI vaccine alliance are leading the COVAX facility, aimed at helping buy and distribute vaccination shots against the novel coronavirus fairly around the world. But some countries that have secured their own supplies through bilateral deals, including the United States, have said they will not join COVAX.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-talks-with-india-to-join-covax-vaccine-scheme-says-who/story-cWloLleWSgDHHCI7R57bSM.html
07-09-2020||India||‘State of border can’t be delinked from state of relationship with China’: Jaishankar||Days ahead of an expected meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday that the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) cannot be delinked from the overall bilateral relationship. Jaishankar, who is set to meet Wang on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10, said the failure to observe several understandings on border management dating back to 1993 raises “very important questions” about the status of ties with China. “If peace and tranquillity on the border is not a given, then it cannot be that the rest of the relationship continues on the same basis, because clearly peace and tranquillity is the basis for the relationship,” he said while participating in an online interaction organised by The Indian Express newspaper to mark the release of his book ‘The India Way’. Jaishankar declined to go into details of exactly what he would discuss with his Chinese counterpart but said his position would be built around certain broad principles, including how peace and tranquillity on the border over the past 30 years had allowed the rest of the relationship to progress. During this period, China had emerged as India’s second largest trade partner despite the existence of some differences and problems, he noted. He emphasised that “the state of the border cannot be delinked from the state of the relationship”, and the standoff had brought into focus a number of understandings with China on border management which go back to 1993, he said. These understandings stipulate that both countries will keep forces at a minimum level at the border and also shape the behaviour of the troops and restraints on them, he added. “If these [understandings] are not observed, then it raises very, very important questions,” Jaishankar said. The “very serious situation” at the LAC since the beginning of May calls for “very deep conversations between the two sides at a political level”, he added. Jaishankar will meet Wang less than a week after a meeting between the defence ministers of the two countries on the sidelines of the SCO defence ministers’ meet in Moscow. That meeting was unable to take the troubled disengagement process forward, and several rounds of political and diplomatic talks too haven’t produced results. Acknowledging the existing problems, competition and “difficult recent history” between India and China, Jaishankar dismissed the contention that New Delhi had misread Beijing’s intentions. He pointed to the two informal summits that were held after an understanding was reached in June 2017 and said these meetings had focused on issues of sovereignty, security, connectivity and economy after the leaders felt the need to engage directly. These conversations had also focused on “how to find accommodation”, he said. Jaishankar also acknowledged that both sides will now maintain their positions and the key issue is to reach an understanding on disengagement. “I have a very practical issue right now, which is an issue of disengagement and de-escalation,” he said. He said he had left the issue of the future relationship with China open-ended in his book. “India and China must try to find mutual accommodation because their ability to do that will determine [whether this is an] Asian century or not,” he said. Jaishankar also spoke on other issues such as Brexit, the Covid-19 crisis and the stalled relationship with Pakistan, saying this wasn’t a question of “zero diplomacy”. Given Pakistan’s “attachment to cross-border terrorism”, it would be wrong for New Delhi to allow Islamabad to set the agenda and pace for talks, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-of-border-can-t-be-delinked-from-state-of-relationship-with-china-jaishankar/story-BibLAYMLrFdp4lp2aq6krJ.html
07-09-2020||India||Amid border row, Army seeks to upgrade ‘night-blind’ infantry combat vehicles||The Indian Army has sought to upgrade its infantry combat vehicles (ICVs) with night-fighting capability to fill a critical operational void in its mechanised infantry fleet at a time of heightened military tensions between India and China in the Ladakh sector, officials familiar with the development said on Monday. The army on September 4 invited expression of interest (EoI) from Indian vendors for developing prototype and subsequent procurement of upgraded armament for its BMP-2/2K ICVs inducted almost 35 years ago. “The terrain along our borders lends itself to conduct of large-scale mechanised operations and the belligerence of our adversaries on the borders, necessitate that our capabilities are adequately built up to match the threat,” the EOI said. The army has deployed its ICVs along with tanks and artillery pieces in the Ladakh sector, where the two nuclear powers have been locked in a border row for more than four months. The army said the armament system on BMP-2/2K --- the mainstay of the mechanised infantry --- is “night-blind as on date” and needs to be upgraded with modern sights to fill capability gaps. Former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd) said, “The BMP-2/2k is an excellent combat platform armed with advanced weapons. But it’s critical to equip the fleet with night-fighting capability to optimize its impact in the battlefield.” According to the army, the current armament sighting system on the ICVs is based on image intensifier technology which is not fit for modern day warfare due to its vast limitations. “The present system is also deficient of modernised fire control system and automatic target tracker which adversely affects the capability of BMP-2/2K to fight both during day and night. All these aspects are critical requirements for mechanised infantry to operate in armour intensive battlefield,” the EOI said. The army is planning to upgrade 811 ICVs with third-generation thermal imager-based gunner sight, modern thermal imager-based commander sight, modernised fire control system and automatic target tracker. Vendors have been asked to submit their responses to the EOI in six weeks. If the multi-stage process progresses smoothly, user trials could take place in two years. In June, the defence ministry placed an order with the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) for 156 BMP 2/2k ICVs for the army’s mechanised forces. The ICVs will be manufactured by Ordnance Factory Medak in Telangana at an estimated cost of Rs 1,094 crore. The induction of the ICVs will be completed by 2023 and “the existing deficiency in the mechanised infantry battalions will be mitigated,” the ministry had then said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-border-row-army-seeks-to-upgrade-night-blind-infantry-combat-vehicles/story-fljQPIb4nNO3Qbe3HJfPMI.html
07-09-2020||India||Kerala health inspector rapes nurse who wanted a Covid-negative certificate: Police||A Kerala health inspector has been arrested on charges of raping a 44-year-old nurse who had approached him for a coronavirus-negative certificate, police said.The woman had been ordered to go into quarantine last month after she returned home to the state capital from north Kerala where she was working as a home nurse. She had tested negative after the two-week quarantine but she needed the negative certificate to return to work as a nurse.This is the second incident of rape involving a state employee working in the health sector. On Saturday last, a 22-year-old woman complained that the driver of a state-run ambulance service tasked to take her to hospital raped her on the way.The nurse told the police that when she approached the junior health inspector after her quarantine period was over, he insisted that she meet him at his house in Thiruvananthapuram district’s Pangode. According to her complaint, when she went, he forced her to spend the day with him and raped her. She alleged that he threatened to tell the police that she had jumped quarantine if she didn’t comply. He also assaulted her.Inspector P Suneesh who is investigating the case said the health official also physically assaulted her.“A medical examination confirmed sexual assault. He was booked under different sections of the Indian Penal Code including rape, illegal detention and assault,” the police officer said.Kerala health minister KK Shailaja said the state government would take stringent action against the offender.“Health workers are toiling day in and out these days. But such unfortunate incidents will give a negative impression and portray their work in a bad light. We will take stringent action against the offenders and ensure such sad incidents do not recur,” said Shailaja. On Saturday night a young patient was allegedly sexually assaulted by an ambulance driver in central Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district on the way to a hospital. The suspect was arrested within hours of the crime that set off a war of words between the ruling party and the opposition. The opposition Congress and BJP have sought the resignation of the health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-health-inspector-rapes-nurse-who-wanted-a-covid-negative-certificate-police/story-2V6ZJemeBQhjoWCOwGKOxK.html
07-09-2020||India||ED arrests Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested former ICICI Bank MD-CEO Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar in connection with its money laundering probe against the couple and companies run by them, people familiar with the development said. Officials said that Deepak Kochhar was arrested in Mumbai after he was called for questioning on Monday and will be produced in a court on Tuesday morning. He was confronted with several documents linked to alleged money laundering in his companies after which he was put under arrest, an officer said requesting anonymity. Deepak Kochhar’s arrest is the first in the multi-agency investigation launched against his wife in January last year for decisions taken by her as the head of a private bank in giving loans to the Videocon Group in lieu of bribes allegedly paid in their companies. Chanda Kochhar had stepped down from ICICI Bank on October 4, 2018, after allegations of irregularities surfaced against her. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also investigating Chanda Kochhar and Deepak Kochhar for alleged corruption. In its FIR registered in January last year, CBI had alleged that six high value loans worth Rs 1,875 crore were given by ICICI Bank to Videocon group of companies between 2009 and 2011. It has been alleged that a payment of Rs 64 crore was made into a Deepak Kochhar company - NuPower Renewables by Videocon in 2009, which was a quid pro quo from Dhoot for a loan of Rs 300 crore to Videocon. While attaching properties worth Rs 78.15 crore belonging to Kochhars in January this year, ED had said that an amount of Rs 64 crore, out of the loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited, was transferred to M/s Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL, earlier known as M/s NuPower Renewables Limited, a company of Deepak Kochhar, husband of Chanda Kochhar) by VIL on September 8, 2009, just one day after disbursement of loan by ICICI Bank”. “Further, net revenue of Rs. 10.65 crores was generated by NRL from these tainted funds,” it added. The agency termed the flat at CCI Chambers, Churchgate, where Chanda Kochhar lives, was an “illegal gain”; she has lived there since 1997, as it was owned by a Videocon entity – QTAPL (Quality Appliances Pvt Ltd; now named Quality Techno Advisors Pvt Ltd) from 2009 till 2016. “It is noticed that Chanda Kochhar and Venugopal N Dhoot are known to each other whereas family members of Chanda Kochhar are having joint holding in certain companies with the persons of Videocon group viz in NRPL (NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd) and SEPL (Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd). The nexus is evident from the changes in the shareholding patterns in the specified companies into and amongst such persons under a design and plan,” said an ED report in possession of HT. The agency added that these suspected transfer of funds and changes in the companies have taken place both at the “corporate level” and at the “individual level”. However, in an investigation report filed in a Delhi court, as first reported by HT in April 2019, ED had claimed that it was investigating a total of 24 loans aggregating Rs 7,862 crore that were given by the bank to Videocon Group between 2009 and 2018. Both the agencies decided to look at quid-pro-quos between Videocon Group chief Venugopal Dhoot and Kochhars after it emerged that former was an investor in Kochhar’s husband, Deepak Kochhar’s company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-chanda-kochhar-s-husband-deepak-kochhar-for-money-laundering/story-XBdJ3vfWx6R9nk2I0uOWKO.html
07-09-2020||India||India’s monsoon rains turn patchy, to pick up later this month||Monsoon rains, which turned patchy in the first week of September, will pick up in the second half of the month, the state-run India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday.India, where nearly half of the country’s farmland lacks irrigation, has so far received 7% above average rainfall since June 1, when the monsoon arrived on the southernmost Kerala coast, said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general of the IMD.The IMD defines average, or normal, rainfall as between 96% and 104% of a 50-year average of 88 cm for the entire four-month season beginning in June.Higher rains in the latter part of September will make up for the shortfall in the first half of the month, and cumulative rainfall during the entire season will be in line with IMD’s earlier forecast, Mohapatra said.In its revised forecast issued on June 1, IMD said India was likely to receive above average monsoon rains for the second straight year in 2020.After arriving on June 1, the monsoon covered the entire country by June 26, nearly two weeks earlier than usual, spurring crop sowing in the world’s top producer of farm goods.India received 17% above average rains in June, but July rains were 10% below average. The monsoon again picked up in August, delivering 27% above average rains.Monsoon rains were 31% below average in the week to Sept. 2.Rains have been evenly distributed across India.Of the 36 meteorological subdivisions of India, the monsoon has been either average or above average in 33 this year, Mohapatra said.“Rains are likely to gather momentum later this month, but as of now we haven’t made an assessment when the monsoon will start withdrawing,” he said.The IMD treats dry weather conditions for five straight days in western India to be the primary criterion signifying the retreat of the monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-monsoon-rains-turn-patchy-to-pick-up-later-this-month/story-PDs1GtHzu9MLUdD8dd4WuJ.html
07-09-2020||India||‘Criticised for being too selective in allowing projects that hurt environment’: Former PM Manmohan Singh||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Monday said his government was criticised by industrialists and others for being too selective in allowing projects that impacted the wildlife habitat, and asserted that during his tenure India was an active voice in international forums on environment issues and made positive contribution to the protection of the planet. “In India, during the time that I was Prime Minister, we were conscious of our duty to accelerate economic development and raise the standard of living of our people, especially those in poverty. This is, after all, the first priority of any government,” Singh said while presenting the Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development for 2019 to British broadcaster Sir David Attenborough. “At the same time, we were very selective in allowing projects that impacted the wilderness or the habitat of wildlife. Indeed, we were criticised by industrialists and those who thought we were being too restrictive. But I believe that if a proper balance is not firmly held, the results are deleterious and self-defeating,” he added. “We were also an active voice in international forums and discussions on issues concerning the environment and I like to think we made positive contributions to the protection of the planet,” the former Prime Minister said. Singh conferred the award on Sir David at a virtual event. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were also present during the online function. The former Prime Minister expressed concern over the destruction of environment across the world. “How acute the situation is cannot be clearer than from the pandemic that has gripped the earth, coincidently almost exactly one century after the great influenza epidemic. To some, this is nature’s way of telling humankind to loosen its tightening grip on the resources of the earth, to be less exploitative, to respect the needs of the natural world, especially the animal kingdom, more and slow down the pace of environmental destruction,” he said. “But it doesn’t need an epidemic to tell us that we are not in good shape. Climate change, the assault on the oceans, the pollution of the atmosphere, the junk floating about in space, the reduction of forest cover, the extinction of life in rivers, the reduction of natural habitat for any life other than humans – all this is evident to anyone who has eyes to see,” added Singh. Sir David Attenborough was named the recipient of the award in November last year. His name was selected by an international jury chaired by former President Pranab Mukherjee, who died last week. “To be sure there is an acute dilemma here. Millions of us live in abject poverty. Millions around the world do not have access to enough food, clean water and surroundings, a minimum acceptable standard of living. In the name of development, nature bears the brunt, with its long-term crippling effects on that very quality of life we are trying to improve,” the former Prime Minister said. “But like Sir David, I believe that it is possible for us to respect boundaries, to be aware always of the costs of economic development, and to refrain from excesses, from ignorant or willful actions that ultimately rebound on us,” he added. In her speech, Sonia Gandhi described Sir David as one of Nature’s “most staunch conscience keepers” for over half a century “Sir David is already well known to us all through his prodigious creativity in educating the humankind with brilliant films and books about the natural world. And he has, of late, been the most sensible voice warning us that we, more than anything else, are responsible for the accelerating threat to the environment on our planet,” she said. “When environmental protection has become all the more imperative, when climate change and continued loss of bio-diversity is threatening livelihoods and public health, indeed life on earth, there could not have been a more appropriate choice for an award in her name than Sir David,” added Sonia Gandhi. She said Indira Gandhi despite being born in a political family saw herself as a child of nature, developing a special affinity for mountains, forests, birds and animals from an early age. “As Prime Minister, she became an unwavering champion of environmental protection long before that cause had become popular both in India and abroad. While helping India accelerate the pace of investment and expand its economic infrastructure, she was very sensitive to the imperative of maintaining what she would often call ‘ecological balance’. Her political innings were a search for that balance and a journey of educating her colleagues and the people to preserve that balance,” Sonia Gandhi added. “It is not a surprise, therefore, to find that the legal and institutional framework India now has for protecting its wonderful bio-diversity had been put in place during her tenure as Prime Minister. It bears her personal imprimatur,” the Congress chief said. Describing Sir David as the world’s leading authority on the natural world, she said his passion has been inspiring and is also to reiterate what we all acknowledge. Accepting the award, Sir David said, “We have to change from being nationalists to being international”. He said the world is heading towards an unprecedented crisis. “We have taken over the natural world and are destroying it,” he added. The Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development was instituted in the memory of the former Prime Minister by a trust in her name in 1986. It consists of a monetary award of Rs 25 lakh along with a citation. The award is given to individuals or organisations who work towards ensuring international peace and development, ensuring that scientific discoveries are used to further the scope of freedom and better humanity, and creating new international economic order. Sir David’s work has received widespread recognition across the world. Apart from his knighthood, he has received awards from the Royal Geographical Society, UNESCO’s Kalinga Prize, the Micheal Faraday Prize, the Descartes Prize and Fellowship of the Royal Society, and several Emmy and BAFTA awards. Sir David’s current series with the BBC Natural History Unit - Seven Worlds, One Planet - is broadcast on BBC One on Sunday nights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criticised-for-being-too-selective-in-allowing-projects-that-hurt-environment-former-pm-manmohan-singh/story-Hthwiqw0yEzOavCt8cL82J.html
07-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: To review bilateral ties, India and Bangladesh to hold virtual meeting and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.To review bilateral ties, India and Bangladesh to hold virtual meetingThe matter figured in a phone conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Bangladeshi counterpart AK Abdul Momen. Jaishankar tweeted the two sides had agreed to hold the JCC meeting “very soon” but there were no details from the external affairs ministry. Read morePM Modi hails successful test of indigenous hypersonic technology, congratulates DRDOPM Narendra Modi applauded DRDO for successfully test firing hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from the Dr Abdul Kalam Island off the coast of Odisha. Read moreChina dismisses New Delhi’s concerns over 5 missing Indians in Arunachal PradeshChina on Monday shrugged off the Indian army’s concern over five missing civilians in Arunachal Pradesh, saying Beijing has never recognised the state which it claims is part of south Tibet. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He brings a lot of experience,’ Virat Kohli explains why RCB have most balanced squad since 2016They were the most dominant team in 2016 with de Villiers and Kohli wreaking havoc for them. They reached the finals but were defeated by Sunrisers Hyderabad. Read more‘Why is Akshay Kumar’s wife not a big star?’: Twinkle Khanna has hilarious meme as her answerTwinkle Khanna is consistently hilarious on her Twitter account and proved it yet again with her funny take on a meme about her. The meme said that she was ‘not a big star’ courtesy her name, and in response, she protested against ‘size discrimination’ that she was subjected to. Read moreApple may launch these two iPhones 12 models beforeA similar report has previously come from Bloomberg as well. However, it has been mentioned that the 5.4-inch and 6.1-inch iPhone 12 might come before the 6.1-inch and 6.7-inch iPhone 12 Pro models. Read moreWatch: Message to China as Tibetan soldier martyred at LAC gets public funeralA funeral with mass public participation was held in Ladakh for a martyred Tibetan soldier. Company Leader Nyima Tenzin, of the Special Frontier Force, was killed in a landmine explosion during an operation at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, on August 29-30. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-to-review-bilateral-ties-india-and-bangladesh-to-hold-virtual-meeting-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VyAuLX9qxkd9xQAAEu50DO.html
07-09-2020||India||ED arrests Deepak Kochhar, husband of ICICI Bank’s former CEO Chanda Kochhar, over money laundering charges||The Enforcement Directorate on Monday arrested Deepak Kochhar, the husband of ICICI Bank’s former chief executive officer Chanda Kochhar.Kochhar is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED for alleged corruption and money laundering and has been named an accused along with her husband in the FIR filed by the former. Both of them have been questioned by the ED multiple times.She is being probed for alleged irregularities in the granting of loans to the Videocon Group.The probes started after a whistle-blower complaint alleged that Venugopal Dhoot of Videocon had invested in a company along with Deepak Kochhar and then transferred his holdings to the latter. The complaint linked this to loans issued by the bank to Videocon.The bank’s board initially backed Chanda Kochhar. However, she stepped down on October 4, 2018. The bank’s board sacked her in January last year, treating her exit as termination.Kochhar defended herself before ED in March 2019 saying the loans were given on merit and have no link with her husband’s business.The ED is probing 24 loans aggregating Rs 7,862 crore during Chanda Kochhar’s tenure as the CEO and Managing Director of ICICI Bank. The agency believes these loans were given “illegally and criminally” by the bank to the conglomerate when Kochhar was in charge between 2009 and 2018.According to an internal investigation report of ED, reviewed by HT, these loans were sanctioned by the private bank to Videocon Group companies between May 2009 and June 2017.Some of these loans were as high as Rs 2,870 crore (April, 26, 2012, to Videocon Industries Limited [VIL] and its group companies); the most recent was on June 28, 2017 (Rs 166.4 crore to VIL).Other big loans now being investigated by ED include a Rs 536 crore loan to VIL on September 15, 2016; a Rs 881.4 crore loan, also to VIL, on October 31, 2011; Rs 236 crore to VIL on December 23, 2015; and Rs 180 crore to Videocon Hydrocarbons Holdings Ltd on September 30, 2014.CBI and ED both allege that the payment of Rs 64 crore into a Deepak Kochhar company, NuPower Renewables, in 2009 was a quid pro quo from Dhoot for a loan to VIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-deepak-kochhar-husband-of-icici-bank-s-former-ceo-chanda-kochhar-over-money-laundering-charges/story-VMpYr8dtGNJ4BPrr3dAftM.html
07-09-2020||India||Bengaluru drug probe: Court extends actor Ragini Dwivedi’s police custody till Friday||Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi’s bail application was rejected by the first ACMM court judge who extended her police custody by five days. Ragini has been arrested in a drug case by the Bengaluru Central Crime Branch and is one of the 12 people named in an FIR filed at the Cottonpet police station in this regard.She along with other accused have been charged under various sections of IPC including 120b (criminal conspiracy) and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act of 1985 under sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B, and section 29.Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police Crime told the media, “She was produced before the court via video conference. We had sought 10 days of her custody but they have provided her custody to us till Friday.” The public prosecutor told the judge that Ragini had been uncooperative during interrogation citing health reasons and therefore sought 10 days additional custody.In a surprise move though, Ragini through her family has changed her advocate. Senior lawyer Sudarshan who was representing Ragini confirmed that her family through her father had given a written note asking him to retire from the case.The political battle between Congress and BJP continued on the issue of Ragini having campaigned for some of the candidates of the ruling party during elections. Even as Congress spokesperson M Lakshman said that Ragini was a brand ambassador of the BJP, horticulture minister K C Narayana Gowda for whom she had campaigned distanced himself from her. “Neither I nor the party invited her. Some well-wishers of mine invited her and she came and campaigned. The party has nothing to do with her.”Chief minister BS Yediyurappa speaking to the media too reiterated that there was “ no question of protecting anybody”. “Our goal is to put an end to the (drugs) business which is having a bad impact on students and youth. We are doing whatever is necessary (to fight the drug menace).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-drug-probe-court-extends-actor-ragini-dwivedi-s-police-custody-till-friday/story-vDSOHvMD3DpJjEbE5M9VXL.html
07-09-2020||India||2 men who implicated Rhea Chakraborty’s brother in drugs case retract statements||Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar, the two accused who had implicated Rhea Chakraborty’s brother and Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and domestic help Dipesh Swant, have retracted their statements given to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).The NCB had arrested Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar on August 3. They were remanded in NCB custody. On Saturday, their lawyer Taraq Sayyed requested a Mumbai magistrate to release them on bail, insisting that the statements made by them while in NCB custody should be disregarded as the two had been arm-twisted by the probe agency.Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty files complaint against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka Singh“We filed applications when they were produced before the court where they retracted the statements given before NCB officers, and we sought bail for them. This is a bailable offence. Also, the amount of narcotic substance involved is in small quantity which entitles the accused to bail,” said Taraq Sayyed.The magistrate, however, had rejected their bail request. Vilatra and Parihar on Saturday filed a fresh bail request before a special court constituted to try cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. The two accused also told the NDPS judge that they had made their statements to the NCB under duress.The NDPS special court hasn’t ruled on their bail request yet. After the NCB insisted that it needed to interrogate the two to build their case, the judge put off the hearing and decided to take up the bail request hearing on Thursday.Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty back at Narcotics Bureau for Day 2 of questioningVilatra and Parihar were arrested by the NCB in the ongoing probe into the allegations of drug use by the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The agency had first arrested Abbas Ali Lakhani (21) with 46 grams of ganja on August 28. On the basis of information given by Lakhani, his supplier Karn Arora was arrested with 13 grams of ganja. Later on the information provided by the two, NCB had arrested Vilatra and Parihar on August 3. NCB had claimed that Parihar had admitted to having purchased marijuana on the instruction of Rhea Chhakraborty’s brother Showik and supplied it to Samuel Miranda.Lawyers say that once an accused retracts his statement, its evidentiary value becomes questionable, and that the courts will have to look into various aspects. But this may not always be an automatic process and would depend on the peculiar circumstances of the case.Rizwan Merchant, a noted lawyer practising criminal law, said, “Once the statement given by the accused is retracted, the evidential value of what is stated becomes questionable. The court will have to see independent evidence other than the statement which can support the prosecution’s case. In Rajput’s case, the conversation on an App can be looked into if it has independent corroboration.” Avdhut Chimalkar, noted lawyer who appeared as special public prosecutor in the case registered against former Narcotics Control Bureau zonal director and senior IPS officer Saji Mohan, explained: “When the accused retracts the statement, the court has to look into various aspects which include the contents. There are contents which are in the exclusive knowledge of the accused, which could not have been even imagined by the investigating officer – in such circumstances the retraction may not be accepted. Further, the accused gives a statement after their arrest and later they retract their statement after the consultation of their lawyer, such retraction may also not be accepted by the court. Of course this has to be proved by leading evidence.” Saji Mohan, who was found in possession of 12 kilograms of heroin, was sentenced to 15 years imprisonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-men-who-implicated-rhea-chakraborty-s-brother-in-drugs-case-retract-statements/story-Wh26SUqb88dToMJPdbMeMO.html
07-09-2020||India||China using Pakistan for military logistics facilities: US Defence report||The US Department of Defence in its annual report to Congress on ‘Military and Security Developments involving the People’s Republic of China 2020’ has stated that Pakistan is among the countries, which have been chosen by the Beijing for “military logistics facilities”.According to the Defence Department’s report published last week, the PRC is seeking to establish a robust overseas logistics and basing infrastructure to allow the PLA to project and sustain military power at greater distances.“Beyond its current base in Djibouti, the PRC is very likely already considering and planning for additional overseas military logistics facilities to support naval, air and ground forces. The PRC has likely considered locations for PLA military logistics facilities in Myanmar, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, United Arab Emirates, Kenya, Seychelles, Tanzania, Angola and Tajikistan,” read the report.The Department further stated that China’s One Belt, One Road (OBOR) projects in Pakistan dealing with pipelines and port construction intend to decrease Beijing’s reliance on transporting energy resources through strategic chokepoints, such as the Strait of Malacca.“In support of its national strategy, the PRC pursues a range of goals through OBOR to include strengthening its territorial integrity, increasing its energy security and expanding its international influence. Given the Party views the PRC’s security and development interests as complementary, the PRC leverages OBOR to invest in projects along China’s western and southern periphery to improve stability and diminish threats along its borders. Similarly, OBOR projects associated with pipelines and port construction in Pakistan intend to decrease China’s reliance on transporting energy resources through strategic chokepoints, such as the Strait of Malacca,” the department said.China’s Strategic Support Force (SSF) runs tracking, telemetry and command stations in Namibia, Pakistan and Argentina, The Pentagon noted.Further, China has increased its bilateral and multilateral engagement with foreign militaries, including Russia, Pakistan, and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) as it will improve the PLA’s ability to organise and manage combined operations that integrate foreign forces.“The PRC uses multilateral forums and international organizations to generate new opportunities to expand its influence, strengthen its political influence, promotes strategic messaging that portrays it as a responsible global actor, advance its development interests and limit outside interference in and criticism of its initiatives,” the report said.“Towards these ends, the PRC has embraced multilateral organizations suchas Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the African Union, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, as well as forums and initiatives such as the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum, the “17+1” initiative between China and 17 Central and Eastern European countries, and the Belt and Road Forum,” the report read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-using-pakistan-for-military-logistics-facilities-us-defence-report/story-DnvYw71pHmC8DiT3Z3Ie8N.html
07-09-2020||India||‘Incident happened’: Arunachal Pradesh police on abduction of 5 men in region||Arunachal Pradesh police on Monday confirmed that the alleged abduction of five men from the state by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) last week did take place. “I spoke to the family members of the 5 missing youths, but till date they have not lodged any formal complaint. In fact, the incident has happened. I can only tell you that much,” Taru Gussar, Superintendent of Police, Upper Subansiri district told HT. The 5 young men from Tagin tribe, who used to work as porters for the Indian Army, had gone missing on Thursday reportedly from Sera-7 on the Indian side of the McMohan line bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet Autonomous Region of China. Two other men who were with the missing five reportedly managed to ‘escape’. “According to a statement by relatives of the young men and the people accompanying them who have come back, they have not seen the abduction themselves. But they assume that these 5 young men have been abducted by the Chinese,” Gussar said. “It is difficult to say whether the incident happened on the Indian side or the Chinese side. We are in constant touch with the Indian Army. They are doing their own investigation and the local police are also trying to gather whatever information possible,” he added. On Monday, China’s state affiliated Global Times tweeted quoting Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian-“China has never recognized so called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’, which is China’s south Tibet region, and we have no details to release yet about questions on the Indian Army sending messages to PLA about five missing Indians in the region”. The matter about the missing men came to light after a brother of one of the 5 men wrote about it on social media. Though the family members were yet to lodge complaints with the police, two politicians from the state Tapir Gao, BJP Lok Sabha MP from Arunachal East and Ninong Ering, Congress MLA from Pasighat tweeted about it. A police team sent to the border on Saturday to verify the incident is yet to report on it. The Indian Army, who had engaged the youths as porters, is also yet to give any update. On Sunday evening, Union sports minister and BJP MP from Arunchal West Kiren Rijiju tweeted that the Indian Army has sent a hotline message to PLA about the missing men, but was yet to get any response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incident-happened-arunachal-pradesh-police-on-abduction-of-5-men-in-region/story-RIWZOFypR3QSnq55UbPAQO.html
07-09-2020||India||PM Modi hails successful test of indigenous hypersonic technology, congratulates DRDO||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday applauded DRDO for successfully test firing hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time.“Congratulations to @DRDO_India for successful flight of the Hypersonic Test Demonstration Vehicle today. The scramjet engine developed by our scientists helped the flight achieve a speed 6 times the speed of sound! Very few countries have such capability today,” the PM wrote on Twitter.Congratulations to @DRDO_India for successful flight of the Hypersonic Test Demonstration Vehicle today. The scramjet engine developed by our scientists helped the flight achieve a speed 6 times the speed of sound! Very few countries have such capability today.WATCH | India successfully tests hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle The HSTDV, which operates on scramjet engines that can attain the speed of around Mach 6, has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).“The hypersonic cruise vehicle was launched using a proven solid rocket motor, which took it to an altitude of 30 kilometres (km), where the aerodynamic heat shields were separated at hypersonic Mach number. The cruise vehicle separated from the launch vehicle and the air intake opened as planned,” the defence ministry said in a press release.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, too, congratulated the DRDO.“The @DRDO_India has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” he tweeted.“I congratulate to DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising the Prime Minister’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them,” Singh wrote in series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hails-successful-test-of-indigenous-hypersonic-technology-congratulates-drdo/story-vDWgtK40Siw1Bw0tm4pVxO.html
07-09-2020||India||India takes first step towards developing hypersonic missiles||India on Monday took the first steps towards developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence, with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) carrying out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from a launch facility off the Odisha coast, the government said in a statement. Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-maneuvering hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept. India could develop hypersonic cruise missiles powered by air-breathing scramjet engines in about four years, a top government officer said on the condition of anonymity. Mach 6 translates into a speed of 7,408 kmph. IN PICS:| DRDO successfully test fires hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle“The DRDO has successfully demonstrated the hypersonic air-breathing scramjet technology with the flight test of HSTDV at 1103 hours from Dr APJ Abdul Kalam launch complex at Wheeler Island off the coast of Odisha on Monday,” the defence ministry statement said. An improvement over the ramjet technology, the scramjet engine operates efficiently at hypersonic speeds and allows supersonic combustion. Hypersonic missiles travel at speeds in excess of Mach 5. The hypersonic cruise vehicle was launched using a proven solid rocket motor that took it to an altitude of 30 km where the aerodynamic heat shields were separated at a hypersonic Mach number, the statement said. “The cruise vehicle separated from the launch vehicle and the air intake opened as planned. The hypersonic combustion sustained and the cruise vehicle continued on its desired flight path at a velocity of six times the speed of sound or nearly 2 km/second for more than 20 seconds,” the statement said. The first test of the HSTDV in June 2019 failed to meet mission parameters. Developing hypersonic missiles will require the cruise vehicle to travel at speeds above Mach 6 for a few 100 seconds for the weapon to strike its target, said a second official, requesting anonymity. “Critical events like fuel injection and auto ignition of scramjet demonstrated technological maturity. The scramjet engine performed in a text book manner,” the statement said. The parameters of launch and cruise vehicle, including the scramjet engine, were monitored by multiple tracking radars, electro-optical systems and telemetry stations, with the engine working efficiently at high dynamic pressure and very high temperature, it added. A warship was deployed in the Bay of Bengal to monitor the performance during the cruise phase of hypersonic vehicle. All the performance parameters indicated a “resounding success” of the mission, the statement said. “This marks a technological breakthrough for the country. The successful mission will enable us to develop many more critical technologies and pave the way for hypersonic vehicle development,” DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy told Hindustan Times. The flight test has proven a raft of critical technologies including aerodynamic configuration for hypersonic maneuvers, use of scramjet propulsion for ignition and sustained combustion at hypersonic flow, thermo-structural characterisation of high temperature materials and separation mechanism at hypersonic velocities, the defence ministry said. With hypersonic vehicles being the key to defeating missile defences, the successful flight of the technology demonstrator vehicle is an important milestone, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “This has been some time in the making and the challenge now is to make a time-bound transition to the prototype testing phase. China is quite ahead in hypersonics and India cannot afford to lag behind,” Bahadur said. The dual-use hypersonic technology has non-military applications too --- it can be used for launching satellites and developing commercial planes, experts said. Defence minister Rajnath, who spoke with scientists associated with the critical project, congratulated the DRDO on the “landmark achievement” towards realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. “The DRDO has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote on Twitter. Reddy congratulated the scientists, researchers and other personnel associated with the mission for their “resolute and unwavering efforts” towards strengthening the country’s defence capabilities. Why is the successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) significant? It paves the way for India to develop hypersonic weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6). The weapon will be integrated into the hypersonic vehicle. Which other countries have developed hypersonic technology? Only the US, Russia and China have developed technologies to field hypersonic weapons that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept. India could develop hypersonic missiles in four years. What will the development of hypersonic missiles entail? In Monday’s test, the cruise vehicle continued on its flight path at Mach 6 speeds or nearly 2 km/second for more than 20 seconds. The next challenge for India will be ensure the cruise vehicle can travel at those speeds for a few 100 seconds for the weapon to strike its target. What are the main challenges for hypersonic flights? Extremely high temperatures and aerodynamic forces make hypersonic flights tricky. The successful flight test proved several critical technologies including aerodynamic configuration for hypersonic maneuvers, use of scramjet propulsion for ignition and separation mechanism at speeds in excess of Mach 6. Why are hypersonic vehicles powered by scramjet engines? An improvement over the ramjet technology, the scramjet engine operates efficiently at hypersonic speeds and allows supersonic combustion. Ramjet engines are efficient at supersonic speeds of around Mach 3 but their performance drops when the vehicle hits hypersonic speeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-takes-first-step-towards-developing-hypersonic-missiles/story-lwpdbN7LhNkgyd4it2KjeN.html
07-09-2020||India||2 accused in Sushant Singh Rajput drugs case retract statement, say NCB forced them||The two accused arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the drugs angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, have retracted their statements given to the agency, officials said.The NCB had claimed that Zaid Vilatra and Abdul Basit Parihar, residents of Bandra in Mumbai, supplied marijuana to Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and domestic help Dipesh Sawant.ALSO WATCH | Rhea files complaint against Sushant’s sister; AIIMS team conducts testThe agency had arrested Showik, the brother of prime accused Rhea Chakraborty, based on the statements of these two accused. Both Vilatra and Parihar have claimed that their statements were forcefully recorded by NCB officials.The NCB had claimed that Parihar, the alleged drug peddler, had told them that he procured drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim, on Showik’s instructions. He also claimed Showik told him to give drugs to Miranda. The NCB officials had also said that Showik’s phone messages include one in which he asked Miranda to pay Vilatra Rs 10,000 for 5 gm of ‘bud’, a curated form of marijuana.Meanwhile, Rhea Chakraborty was questioned again by the NCB on Monday. She reached the agency’s office in South Mumbai at 9.30 am on Monday.Chakraborty was questioned for nearly six hours on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-2-accused-arrested-in-drugs-case-retract-statement-say-ncb-recorded-it-forcefully/story-0eB9CRrels5JkNZT0xQidP.html
07-09-2020||India||Presence of antibodies may not guarantee protection from Covid-19, say scientists||The presence of antibodies indicates previous exposure to the SARS-CoV-2 virus but may not always translate into protection against the disease, say scientists, citing imponderables such as what kind of antibodies, how many and how long they last.   As worries over India’s Covid-19 spike mount – the country added 90,062 cases on Monday to take its tally past the 42-lakh mark – scientists are grappling with the pivotal issue of antibodies and trying to understand how they impact on the progression of the disease. But the jury is still out there with several studies and hypotheses but no consensus yet. The only thing that can be said with any degree of uncertainty is that antibodies is a sign that the person has already been infected with the novel coronavirus, the scientists said. Immunologist Satyajit Rath said he would prefer to “wait and see” where the evidence goes.Antibody presence in itself tells us nothing about disease progression in individuals, said the scientist from New Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology (NII).There are neutralising antibodies (nAbs) and also ‘simple’ antibodies. While nAbs produced against the novel coronavirus can block its entry into the host cell, other antibodies are also generated against many parts of the virus, added Vineeta Bal from Pune’s Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research (IISER).  The ‘simple’ antibodies are an indication of host response to viral presence but are not that useful to stop further spread of the virus, Bal told PTI.“Simple presence of antibodies is a clear indication of previous exposure to SARS-CoV2 but does not necessarily guarantee protection from the disease in the absence of neutralising antibodies,” the immunologist added.“Presence of nAbs in sufficient concentrations and for longer period is the most likely indicator of protection of the individual from next exposure leading to illness i.e. Covid-19,” she explained.Bal also noted that there is no consensus on what levels of nAbs are ‘protective’ from the public health perspective or to ensure that plasma therapy is likely to be useful.Different sero-survey tests have been conducted in India in the last few months with the aim of indicating the actual number of infected cases in the country.  A sero-survey involves testing the blood serum of a group of individuals for the presence of antibodies against that infection to know who has been infected in the past and has now recovered.  Surveys carried across metros suggest that Covid-19 cases are far more than actually reported.According to Rath, one of the many problems in looking for easy patterns in the serological evidence is that not everyone is using the same antibody tests.“In fact, all antibody tests in the market are not against the same viral protein target, and some investigators use only one target, others use more. And it is possible that tests differ in their sensitivity,” Rath told PTI.The scientist also noted that most surveys are reporting people as just ‘positive’ or ‘negative’, and not analysing antibody levels present in the blood.  So far, the limited evidence available does indicate that these antibody tests seem to correlate with “protective” antibody levels too. However, there is not much that can be said to individual people about their risk of reinfection or their level of protection.  Different studies, including one published recently in the Journal of Clinical Microbiology, have also suggested that people infected with Covid-19 develop neutralising antibodies that can protect them from reinfection.  However, reinfection cases reported recently from across the world have dented that optimism.  Shining more light on the issue, Bal said reinfection of an individual does not mean he or she becomes ill with Covid-19.Even the presence of enough nAbs capable of neutralising a variant virus will not necessarily prevent infection, said Bal. However, in all probability, such a person with ‘protective immunity’ is likely to handle subsequent infections -- including what is currently reported as reinfection -- better and with less morbidity than otherwise.  “Reinfections should not be equated with disease due to repeat exposure to the same or related virus,” she said, adding that the recent case of reinfection in the person in Hong Kong was discovered due to screening test rather than symptoms.While it is not clearly known whether people who generate antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 are protected from reinfection, scientists also don’t know how long those antibodies persist.A study published in the NEJM journal on September 1 found that antibodies against the new coronavirus endure in the body for four months after infection, countering earlier evidence suggesting these important immune molecules disappear quickly.The study measured the levels of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the blood of roughly 30,000 people, including more than 1,200 who had tested positive for the virus and recovered from Covid-19 in Iceland.Around 90 per cent of the recovered people had antibodies against the virus.“Based on the Iceland study, we know that antibodies generated by natural infection can last for four months, maybe longer,” said Bal.At the moment, there is no idea what percentage of previously exposed people will be susceptible to antibody mediated enhancement of the disease (ADE) when re-exposed to a variant of SARS-CoV-2 or a related virus, she added.ADE is a phenomenon in which the binding of a virus to antibodies enhances its entry into host cells followed by its replication. It is a general concern for the development of vaccines and antibody therapies.Rath noted that the Iceland study seems to be quite thorough in many respects, and shows antibody persistence till about four months.  “Is this going to be the case everywhere? I have no guess to offer I am afraid… As far as disease progression in communities goes, the antibody evidence does tell us how much the virus has spread and in which locations-communities, although we need to do much more detailed and repeated sero-surveys to be able to learn anything more than ‘it has spread quite a bit, or maybe a lot’,” Rath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/presence-of-antibodies-may-not-guarantee-protection-from-covid-19-say-scientists/story-SPoKj5xUVVXL9vzaVMtDNN.html
07-09-2020||India||‘Surprising and sad’: Maharashtra home minister on Kangana Ranaut’s Y+ security||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday the Centre’s move to provide Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut with Y-plus category security was “surprising and sad”. Ranaut has been granted Y-plus category security by the home ministry and she will be guarded by 10-11 armed commandoes in three shifts. Also read: Home ministry grants Y-plus category security to Kangana Ranaut ahead of Mumbai visitThe security arrangement has been provided ahead of her visit to Mumbai on September 9 after her spat with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, who had asked the actor to not return to Mumbai for criticising Mumbai Police.“It is surprising and sad that those who insult Mumbai and Maharashtra are being given ‘Y’ level security by the Centre. Maharashtra is not only of the NCP, Shiv Sena or Congress but of the BJP and the public too. People of all party should condemn it if one insults Maharashtra,” Deshmukh said, according to news agency ANI.Ranaut has been involved in a war of words with the Maharashtra government and Raut after she likened ‘Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir’ last Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surprising-and-sad-maharashtra-home-minister-on-kangana-ranaut-s-y-security/story-SLO69l6HdHxNoF0DLNhmKK.html
07-09-2020||India||Ram Madhav attends Tibetan soldier’s funeral in Ladakh||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ram Madhav’s presence at the official funeral of a Tibetan soldier from the secretive Special Frontier Force (SFF) on Monday created a flutter in diplomatic and political circles amid the border standoff with China. BJP MP from Jamyang, Tsering Namgyal, attended the funeral with Ram Madhav at Choglamasar, Ladakh, around 7.30am, the former’s personal secretary said. Namgyal’s secretary said Ram Madhav had reached Leh on Sunday where he attended and addressed the first executive meeting of the newly formed unit of the BJP in the UT of Ladakh. “Hon’ble National General Secretary Bharatiya Janata Party arrives at BJP Head Quarters Leh, Ladakh for the inaugural State Executive Meeting,” Namgyal had posted on his Twitter handle on Sunday. The funeral of SFF company leader Nyima Tenzin, killed in a landmine blast in an operation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) during August 29-30, was held at Leh in the Union Territory of Ladakh. The funeral cortege was joined by scores of cars and motorcycles and people waving the Indian and Tibetan flags. Tenzin’s coffin, carried in an army truck, was draped in the Indian tricolour and Tibetan flag, which were handed over to his widow at the funeral. Experts noted this was probably the first time an SFF personnel who died in action was given a public funeral, complete with military honours and a volley of shots by a ceremonial guard. BJP national general secretary Madhav posted photos of the funeral and paid tribute to Tenzin on Twitter but subsequently deleted the tweet. Screenshots of his tweet, which were widely shared, showed he had posted: “Attended [the] funeral of SFF Coy Ldr Nyima Tenzin, a Tibetan who laid down his life protecting our borders in Ladakh, and laid a wreath as a tribute. Let [the] sacrifices of such valiant soldiers bring peace along the Indo-Tibetan border. That will be [the] real tribute to all martyrs.” People present at the funeral shouted slogans such as “Bharat Mata ki jai”, “Tibet desh ki jai”, “Vikas Regiment zindabad” and “We salute Tenzin”. SFF is also known as Establishment 22 and Vikas Regiment. Banners put up at the funeral site by SFF ex-servicemen described Tenzin as a soldier who “sacrificed his life to protect his second homeland India fighting common enemy China”. Madhav spoke to the media at the funeral, saying in Hindi that he hoped Tenzin’s sacrifice “will bring peace to the border” and that “efforts are on to end the tension”. He added, “We hope peace will be restored soon.” People familiar with developments said Madhav hadn’t attended the funeral as a representative of the government. On Sunday, Madhav began a two-day visit to the Union Territory that was carved out of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir after its special status was scrapped in August 2019. However, the move marks a shift from the government’s reported decision in early 2018 asking officials and leaders to skip events which were being organised at the time to mark the Dalai Lama’s 60 years in exile. As the government worked to improve ties with China, especially through the mechanism of informal summits, the Tibet issue was largely sidelined. SFF was raised with former Tibetan guerrillas in 1962 and went on to see action during the 1971 war with Pakistan that led to the creation of Bangladesh and the 1999 Kargil conflict. It is led by army officers and most of its personnel are men of Tibetan origin. Senior journalist and political analyst of J&K and Ladakh UTs, Zafar Choudhary said, “Ram Madhav’s presence at the funeral and choice of words in his tweet was clearly a signal to China that India would like to see Tibet a disputed territory. He mentioned desire for peace along “India-Tibet border” instead of “India-China border”. However, his decision to delete the tweet soon after suggests that the Government or the entire party may not be in complete agreement with him on giving China such a strong message”. Amitabh Mathur, a former special secretary in the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) who advised the government on issues related to Tibet, said it made sense for India to use a force such as SFF in the current scenario because of the special skills of its personnel. “They are used to operating at high altitudes and it would be an enormous waste if they are kept away from the terrain where they are most useful,” he said. However, he said the Indian side will have to ensure that their use is followed up with other messages that reach the overall Tibetan community, and a consistent policy. “There has to be some sort of gesture, an overt sign and this message should reach the Tibetans in Tibet,” he added. (With inputs from Ravi Krishan Khajuria )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-madhav-attends-tibetan-soldier-s-funeral-in-ladakh/story-BM45ZIByd0LQ9sQju5uKWM.html
07-09-2020||India||UK judge refuses plea for secret hearing of Nirav Modi’s witness||The Westminster Magistrates Court on Monday turned down an application from diamantaire Nirav Modi’s defence team to hold in secret the next deposition of its witness, former high court judge Abhay Thipsay, who was allegedly attacked ‘ad hominem’ by  law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad after his first deposition in May.Thipsay had told the court via videolink from India on May 13 that the government of India’s charges against Modi would not hold up in an Indian court. The next day, Prasad reportedly held a press conference in New Delhi, attacking Thipsay and the Congress.Also Read: Nirav Modi’s 5-day extradition trial in London to begin from MondayClaire Montgomery, Modi’s lawyer, asked judge Samuel Goozee to hold Thipsay’s next deposition in secret or impose reporting restrictions so he does not become the subject of attacks in India again.According to her, Thipsay’s deposition in May had led to a “disgraceful attack” by Prasad in the press conference and “very hostile” reporting in the mainstream media. She said Thipsay was concerned that another appearance in the case would lead to more attacks.Judge Goozee referred to precedents and details presented to say that the circumstances did not justify holding Thipsay’s next deposition in secret or to impose reporting restrictions. He noted that the former judge had not refused to give further evidence.Also Read: Explained: What is Interpol red notice and how it will affect Nirav Modi’s wifeAccusing Thipsay of acting on behalf of the Congress, which he had joined in 2018, Prasad reportedly said at the May press meet: “There is overpowering suspicious circumstances from which we can infer that the Congress is trying its best to save and bail out Nirav Modi.”The magistrates’ court is hearing the Modi extradition case over five days this week, with more hearings scheduled later in the year and a judgement expected in December. Modi, who is lodged in the Wandsworth jail, appeared in court via videolink.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-judge-refuses-plea-for-secret-hearing-of-nirav-modi-s-witness/story-t2AgjfVkat90EJnxkFd7UK.html
07-09-2020||India||Amid surge in Covid-19 deaths across India, Mizoram is yet to record any fatality||Since the first recorded Covid-19 death from Karnataka in early March, in the past six months, India has recorded 71,642 fatalities associated with the disease. But while the pandemic has claimed lives in all states and union territories—Mizoram in the country’s northeast has been an exception. The small state with a population of 10.91 lakh (2011 census), which recorded 1,114 Covid-19 positive cases till Sunday, is yet to witness any death due to the disease. “Fortunately, we have had not Covid-19 deaths in our state yet. One reason for that could be the fact that most of the cases we have had till now have been of young people and very few above the age of 50,” said Dr. Eric Zomawia, mission director of National Health Mission (NHM) Mizoram. “We have noticed that most patients in Mizoram have had no co-morbidity and been largely asymptomatic. Due to proper care at the hospitals and Covid-19 centres, they have been recovering well,” he added. Mizoram recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 24, when a 50-year-old pastor who had returned from a trip to Netherlands, tested positive. After spending over a month in hospital he was found negative on April 27. The state didn’t record any positive case after the first case for over two months when 12 new cases were recorded on June 2 nearly a month after the ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4. “We have been lucky that most patients have been asymptomatic. As on Monday, we have 382 active cases, but none of them are admitted in intensive care unit (ICU),” said Mizoram health secretary H Lalengmawia. When the Covid-19 pandemic started in the country, Mizoram didn’t have a testing laboratory and had to rely on labs in neighbouring states for tests. Now the state has one RT-PCR lab and another where True-Nat tests are conducted. Till Sunday, 45,073 tests had been conducted across the state. The positivity rate in the state is just 2.47%. The state has conducted nearly 41,000 tests per million population, till Sunday. “We were one of the first states to start screening at airports and also sealed the state’s international border points with Bangladesh and Myanmar very early preventing movement of people from those countries,” said Lalengmawia. “The Mizo society is a very disciplined one and all guidelines issued by the state government regarding restrictions and safety have been scrupulously followed by the general public. That has helped us in containing the pandemic to manageable proportions,” he added. Unlike most other states, civil society groups and the church (Mizoram has a Christian population of around 87%) have actively joined hands with the government in ensuring compliance of Covid-19-related guidelines and helping in tackling the disease. “We have been working with close coordination with Young Mizo Association (YMA), the largest organization in the state, which is helping us in manning the borders as well as implementation of lockdown guidelines across the state through its units,” said Lalengmawia. “As Mizoram is a largely Christian community, the church is also playing a crucial role allowing us to set up quarantine centres in churches and schools run by them,” he added. President of YMA Vanlalruata told HT that their organization, which has around 4.6 lakh members within and outside the state, has been actively involved since March in implementing government’s guidelines on Covid-19 both at the state’s borders and across the state. “We have more 1,000 churches across Mizoram and several of them are being used as quarantine centres,” said Rev. K Lalrinmawia, executive secretary of Mizoram Presbyterian Church (MPC), the largest church body in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-deaths-across-india-mizoram-is-yet-to-record-any-fatality/story-TZEI60rks1pkFFBYtQIsmK.html
07-09-2020||India||Congress’ RTI in poor shape in Jharkhand where it is a coalition partner||The Right to Information, the flagship scheme of the UPA government, seems to be in poor shape in Jharkhand as the state information commission remains non-functional for want of commissioners. Interestingly, the Congress is the alliance partner of the JMM-led government in Jharkhand. However, the party that claims Right to Information (RTI) as the brainchild of Manmohan Singh government, appears helpless in the eastern state where it is in power.The posts of information commissioners (ICs) became vacant one by one in Jharkhand state information commission (JSIC) over the years.The JSIC continued with acting chief information commissioner (CIC) Himanshu Chaudhary and two ICs for nearly three years in the past, as the previous BJP government was reluctant to fill in the vacancies.Cases piled up and the purpose of the flagship scheme - to bring in transparency in government functioning - got defeated. About 6,000 appeals were pending, it was learnt.It became all the more critical in May this year when the state commission became headless after the term of acting chief information commissioner (CIC) Himanshu Chaudhary ended. Interestingly, there was no permanent CIC in Jharkhand after the completion of Aditya Swaroop’s term.Upon completing his term in May, Chaudhary had told chief minister Hemant Soren to fill the vacancies at the earliest. He told the media that he could dispose of 4,414 cases after hearing out a total of 29,832 appeals and fixed penalties in 198 cases.After Chaudhary’sdeparture, about 30 employees of JSIC are practically without work.Significantly, it (absence of CIC) impacted the employees who are not regular. The salary payment of two on contract, four daily wage earners and 10 home guard jawans deputed in JSIC were on hold since June in want of the disbursing officer - the CIC.Personnel department joint secretary Sudhir Kumar Ranjan said the government in January had advertised for the posts. “We have received applications as well but the matter remains pending in want of clear cut directives from the government and the state assembly,” he said.Elaborating, he said the delay was caused as there was no leader of the opposition (LoP) in Jharkhand.According to the RTI Act 2005, there should be at least five ICs besides the CIC in state information commission. The posts are filled up through a process that includes scrutiny of applications by a committee comprising the chief minister as chairperson, a cabinet rank minister and the LoP. After scrutiny and selection, the list is sent to Raj Bhawan for governor’s approval following which appointments are made, he said.The Hemant Soren government has nominated transport minister Champai Soren as a member but the committee is incomplete without the LoP, said Ranjan. He said the department also approached the state assembly underlining the provision, which has the mention that the leader of the largest group can also be nominated in absence of the LoP. He said the assembly has not replied till date.BJP state president Deepak Prakash said the JMM-led coalition government was delaying it intentionally. “It’s a conspiracy to keep information under the carpet,” he said, adding that the government does not want people to know its “misdeeds”.Prakash said the BJP has already elected Babulal Marandi the LoP and the delay was therefore uncalled for. The assembly was deliberately keeping the matter in abeyance, he said.JMM spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya said the issue of the LoP was in the domain of the assembly speaker and therefore the party should not comment on it.Congress state president and minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet said his party supports the RTI. “It is useful for common people, the pandemic due to the spread of coronavirus might have delayed the process of filling the vacancies,” he said.Whatever might be the reason, the defunct JSIC has brought to fore the debate of transparency, besides the issue of salary due to 16 staff there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-rti-in-poor-shape-in-jharkhand-where-it-is-a-coalition-partner/story-kmbr1g4cLLoinhtJjOftLP.html
07-09-2020||India||In pics: DRDO successfully test fires hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle||India on Monday successfully flight tested the indigenously-developed hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from the Dr Abdul Kalam Island off the coast of Odisha.The HSTDV, based on hypersonic propulsion technologies, has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), officials said.The HSTDV operates on scramjet engines which can attain the speed of around Mach 6 which is far better than ramjet engines.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO over the successful test flight of the HSTDV, calling it a “landmark achievement”.“I congratulate to DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising PM’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-drdo-successfully-test-fires-hypersonic-technology-demonstrator-vehicle/story-te8yKDngrIh2Fej9DwO4LK.html
07-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: AIIMS forensic team conducts test to check for poisoning||A forensic team from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, has conducted a viscera test from the reports of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to check for poisoning, news agency ANI reported on Monday.Dr Sudhir Gupta, the head of AIIMS’ forensic department, said the results will come within 10 days, according to ANI. Gupta is also the chairperson of the medical board formed in Rajput’s death case.A five-member medical board of forensic experts was formed by AIIMS in August to look into the autopsy files related to Rajput’s death, after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) approached the hospital for assistance.“We will look into the possibility of murder. However, all probable angles will be thoroughly examined,” Dr Gupta had told PTI.He had said the team will evaluate the injury pattern on Rajput’s body and correlate it with circumstantial evidence. “The preserved viscera will be examined and the anti-depressants that were given to Rajput will also be analysed at the AIIMS laboratory,” Gupta said.CBI had approached AIIMS for its medico-legal opinion in the case. In a letter to the premier medical institute, the central probe agency said it will provide the team of forensic experts with the necessary medical papers, post-mortem reports, videographs and viscera reports at the earliest.Meanwhile, actor Rhea Chakraborty is being questioned by officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in Mumbai or the second day as part of its ongoing investigation related to the Rajput death case. Chakraborty was also interrogated by the NCB on Sunday.NCB has arrested Rhea’s brother Showik and Rajput’s house keeping staff Samuel Miranda for their role in the procurement and handling of drugs. They have also arrested Dipesh Sawant, Rajput’s house help, among other people.Sawant, NCB officials have said, is an active member of a drug syndicate connected with high society personalities and drug suppliers.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-aiims-forensic-team-conducts-test-to-check-for-poisoning/story-y38eTZhrQVRCjPbzcHv9KK.html
07-09-2020||India||Monsoon likely to continue, more rain from third week of September: IMD||The country is likely to see normal to above normal rainfall in September, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Monday. In the second week of September, monsoon rain is likely to be deficient in most parts of the country, including northwest and central India. But it is likely to resume after September 17.“We have indicated in our weekly weather update that withdrawal of monsoon may begin from western parts of Rajasthan in the week ending September 18. But we are also expecting a low-pressure area to develop over west central Bay of Bengal around that time. So, while withdrawal of monsoon may begin, but we are still studying as to when it’s likely to completely withdraw. We are expecting normal to above normal rain in Kerala, Karnataka and coastal areas of Maharashtra around and after September 17,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD, in a press conference on Monday.The usual date for monsoon to begin withdrawing is September 17.Also Read: Warmer Arabian Sea led to intense rain in AugustHe added that the intra-seasonal variability of monsoon rain was high this year, with June receiving excess rain; July seeing a deficit and August recording excess rain by a very high margin. “Active MJO (Madden-Julian Oscillation—the MJO is characterised as an eastward movement of clouds and rainfall near the equator that recurs every 30 to 60 days) and cold El Nino neutral conditions also favoured good rain in August. Rain in September is likely to be normal or above normal,” Mohapatra added.A cool El Nino neutral phase indicates that the sea’s surface temperature is cooler than normal in the tropical Pacific Ocean. It is usually linked to above-normal monsoon rain in India.Also Read: After rain reduces, Mumbai faces heat; pollution levels rise“This year, the good monsoon should have helped farmers and the output must be very good. We don’t have an assessment as to how it will impact the economy,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences. Monsoon rain over the country is 8% in excess since June 1 with 1% in excess over east and northeast India; 10% deficient over northwest India; 16% in excess over central India and 21% in excess over the south peninsula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-continue-more-rain-from-third-week-of-september-imd/story-jjtarxDWw3vG5HjkMeVsdI.html
07-09-2020||India||Protesting at Kedarnath shrine since June, priest airlifted to AIIMS as his health deteriorates||A priest from Kedarnath shrine, who had been protesting since June against the formation of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, was airlifted from the temple on Monday morning and rushed to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh after his health condition worsened. Santosh Trivedi (32), the priest, had started the protest on June 12. He used to sit outside the temple and meditate as a mark of protest. He has been demanding the dissolution of the Board which was formed following the passage of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, 2019. Vinod Shukla, the president of Kedarnath Tirtha Purohit Mahasabha, said, “We have been protesting for months, but the state government has not paid any heed to our demands. Even in such extreme temperatures in Kedarnath, Trivedi would protest bare-chested outside the shrine and eat only one meal a day. His health condition has worsened. He has been admitted to AIIMS in Rishikesh for treatment.” Shukla said the public in the Kedarnath valley is angry with the state government’s lack of response. He threatened to intensify protests across all the Char Dham shrines, if anything untoward happens to Trivedi. Vineet Kumar, an official from State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), said they received a call from police in the early morning on Monday about the worsening health condition of a member of the Kedarnath temple committee. “A team rushed to the shrine and brought the priest to Lincholi on a stretcher, from where he was airlifted to Dehradun for treatment,” said the SDRF official. Harish Thapliyal, the public relations officer (PRO) at AIIMS, Rishikesh, said that Trivedi was admitted to the hospital on Monday at around 11.30 am with abdominal pain. “A priest from Kedarnath, Santosh Trivedi, was admitted to the hospital at around 11.30 am on Monday. He complained of pain in his lower abdomen and was administered medicines accordingly. Doctors have taken his swab samples for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test as per the protocol. He is being examined further,” said Thapliyal. BD Singh, additional chief executive officer (CEO) of the Board, said that they have learnt about the priest’s worsening health condition and are taking updates from police and SDRF. “We have learnt that the priest’s health condition has worsened. We are in touch with the authorities concerned. Uttarakhand high court has given a judgement in the favour of the state government. Despite the verdict, the priests have been demanding the dissolution of the Board and all their rights are preserved. They must give up their protests and point out which parts of Act that they disagree with. A solution can be found based on their objections,” said Singh.On June 21, the high court had dismissed the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha (RS) member Subramanian Swamy against the state government’s takeover of the Char Dhams and 51 other shrines through the formation of the Board. The court had ruled that the ownership of the temple properties would vest in Char Dham shrines and power of the Board would be confined to the administration and management of the properties. Last December, the Uttarakhand assembly had passed the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Bill. In January, Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya gave her assent for the Act. Aggrieved priests had threatened that they would move the court against the Act, as they claimed to have been kept in the dark about the new law. They had alleged that the state government took the step to ensure its control over shrine-related issues and bypassed the powerful priest community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-at-kedarnath-shrine-since-june-priest-airlifted-to-aiims-as-his-health-deteriorates/story-37mhWvn9AksMmEtcCztJ9O.html
07-09-2020||India||Colour-coded e-pass system to ensure maximum 400 passengers board a metro train||A colour-coded e-pass system using a mobile phone has been developed by a technology solutions company here for ensuring that a maximum of 400 passengers board a Metro Railway train in the city to maintain Covid-19 health safety protocol after it resumes service.Sanjay Chatterjee, network and security solutions head of Ideation Technology, which was asked by the Metro authorities to develop the system, said that a bot-based (web robot) technology will be used to generate e-passes that will be colour-coded to ensure that only authorised passengers enter the stations at a given time in order to maintain the maximum passenger count.“The main challenge was to come up with a solution which can be easily used by people - those who have smartphones and also those who have analogue phones; without installing any app,” he told PTI.“So we came up with a simple technology, we have developed a system similar to that of Whatsapp or Facebook Messenger, wherein one can start it by just clicking open a link,” Chatterjee said.He said that a bot is being used for the purpose wherein it will ask the intending passenger his or her name, the boarding station, destination and the preferred time slot.A passenger will be given a total of five questions, including one on language option, which he has to answer using the link in the mobile phone.Chatterjee said that the passengers will have three language options - Bengali, Hindi and English.“The Metro authorities have told us that a maximum of 400 passengers can be carried in a train at any point of time, based on that either the chosen time slot will be given and if the number of passengers has already reached the threshold, a different time slot will be asked for from the intending passenger,” he said, adding that the process will not take more than 10 to 12 seconds.Chatterjee said that on the basis of availability, QR code will be generated immediately and e-pass will be given online to the user.He said that the e-passes will be colour coded based on the hourly time slots.“The colour code will help easy validation by security personnel of the e-passes as per the time slots and thus avoid queues at the entry points at stations,” Chatterjee said.He said that for example, if yellow colour code is being used for a particular hour slot, a passenger with a different colour-coded e-pass will not be allowed to enter a station at the time.The West Bengal government last week proposed developing a system to issue e-passes to commuters for entering Metro Railway stations during a meeting between senior Metro and state officials to ensure maintenance of social distancing norms.Senior officials of the Metro Railway and the state government met for the second time on Friday last to discuss the modalities regarding maintaining social distancing norms and crowd management, according to a Metro spokesperson.The developer of the system for issuing e-passes explained it to the committee during the meeting, the spokesperson said.Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi has said that the final date for resumption of the city’s rapid transit system will be fixed shortly.The Union Home Ministry has issued Unlock 4 guidelines under which Metro railway services in cities will be allowed to resume from September 7 in a graded manner.The West Bengal government had written to the Railway Board seeking resumption of Metro and suburban train services in a limited manner maintaining the norms of physical distancing and health and hygiene protocols.The state government has also issued an order allowing the Metro authorities to resume services in the city in a graded manner from September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/colour-coded-e-pass-system-to-ensure-maximum-400-passengers-board-a-metro-train/story-zhynHtX30nxgfN1NomZjwI.html
07-09-2020||India||Watch: How India successfully tested indigenous hypersonic tech||India on Monday successfully flight tested the indigenously-developed hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) that is expected to power futuristic long-range missile systems and aerial platforms.The HSTDV, based on hypersonic propulsion technologies, has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO over the successful test flight of the HSTDV, calling it a “landmark achievement”.Watch how the HSTDV was flight-tested: With this, India became the fourth country after the United States, Russia and China to develop and successfully test the HSTDV technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-how-india-successfully-test-fired-indigenous-hypersonic-tech/story-8YC0mGZUUZbOFoWRJWNENK.html
07-09-2020||India||In UP, man shoots dead mentally challenged youth mistaking him for thief||A mentally challenged man was allegedly shot dead by a house owner who mistook him for a thief after spotting him inside his residence in Pratapgarh district in Uttar Pradesh late on Sunday night, the police said. House owner Krishna Kumar and his two sons were arrested by Pratapgarh SP Anurag Arya.The licensed gun used in the crime was also seized, said ASP, west, Dinesh Kumar Dwivedi.He further said the family of the deceased identified the man and claimed he was suffering from some mental illness. The man killed in the incident was 25 years old.Reports said the man left his home on Sunday night and reached nearby village where he sneaked into the house of Krishna Kumar at around 11.30 pm after scaling the boundary wall.Assuming that the youth was a thief, Kumar opened fire on him. The man suffered a bullet injury on his chest and died on the spot. Villagers informed police when they heard gunshots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mistaking-for-a-thief-house-owner-shot-dead-mentally-challenged-man-in-up/story-uNu2iMhHLIhMPYOYS5KHsL.html
07-09-2020||India||RRB to conduct recruitment exams in December: All you need to know||The Railway Recruitment Board has announced it will conduct RRB NTPC (Non-Technical Popular Categories) and Group D and various other exams in December. The notification for the said vacancies was issued in last December but the recruitment process got delayed due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent nationwide lockdown announced to control its spread.However, now that the country is in the fourth stage of ‘Unlock’, and with exams like JEE, NEET and NDA also being conducted, the RRB, too, has announced the date of its exams.Here is all you need to know:(1.) The RRB will conduct its exams from December 15. The first stage will be conducted in online mode and the various SOPs with regards to coronavirus are currently being framed.(2.) A total of 2.42 applications were received for 1.40 lakh vacancies. The exams will be held for recruitment across three categories: NTPC, Level-1, and isolated & ministerial categories.(3.) There are a total of 35,208 vacancies for NTPC (guard, office clerk, commercial clerk etc); 1,03,769 for Level-1 posts (track maintainers, pointsman etc) and 1,663 for isolated and ministerial categories (stenographers etc).(4.) Stage 1 will only be for screening purpose, and will be used for shortlisting candidates for the next stage of the recruitment process.(5.) A detailed schedule will be released very soon.Candidates can check the official RRB website-rrbcdg.gov.in-for further information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rrb-to-conduct-recruitment-exams-in-december-all-you-need-to-know/story-TLhgNoZxTIwO7AMxWdg0gP.html
07-09-2020||India||Mach 6, over 30km in 20 seconds: India test fires hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle||India on Monday successfully flight tested the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from the Dr Abdul Kalam Island off the coast of Odisha, officials said.The HSTDV, based on hypersonic propulsion technologies, has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Officials called the successful test flight of HSTDV a significant leap in indigenous defence technologies. Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO over the successful test flight of the HSTDV. “I congratulate to DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising PM’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them,” Singh tweeted.Here’s all you need to know about the hypersonic weapon system:* HSTDV is an unmanned scramjet demonstration aircraft for hypersonic speed flight. It can cruise at a speed of Mach 6, or six times the speed of sound, and rise up to an altitude of 32.5km in 20 seconds.* It can be used to intercept incoming missiles in the outer or the inner atmosphere.* Among its multiple civilian applications, it can be as energy-efficient, low cost and reusable satellite-launch vehicle and long-range cruise missile.  #WATCH DRDO‘s successful demonstration of the Hypersonic air-breathing scramjet technology with the flight test of Hypersonic Technology Demonstration Vehicle, at 1103 hours today from Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Launch Complex at Wheeler Island, off the coast of Odisha pic.twitter.com/aC1phjusDH* DRDO will have the capacity to develop a hypersonic missile with scramjet engine in next five years.* The HSTDV cruise vehicle is mounted on a solid rocket motor, which takes it to a required altitude. Once it attains certain mach numbers for speed, the cruise vehicle will be ejected out of the launch vehicle. After that, the scramjet engine is ignited automatically.* Hypersonic weapons are specifically designed for increased survivability against modern ballistic missile defence systems. These missiles are capable of delivering conventional or nuclear payloads at speeds not imagined hitertoo over long ranges.* The only other countries that possess this technology are the US, Russia and China.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mach-6-over-30km-in-20-seconds-india-test-fires-hypersonic-technology-demonstrator-vehicle/story-oS2LhcVF37eEH7Y8HXOM5K.html
07-09-2020||India||China’s foreign minister Wang Yi reaching Moscow to discuss total disengagement in Ladakh with Jaishankar||With Chinese State Councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi confirming his arrival in Moscow on Wednesday evening, the bilateral meeting with Indian External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to discuss ways and means to resolve the present Ladakh standoff is confirmed on September 10. The two leaders are meeting on the sidelines of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) ministerial hosted by Russian Federation. The time of the meeting is being finalised.While EAM Jaishankar will arrive in Moscow on Tuesday evening with desk officers of China division, Foreign minister Wang will reach the next day to discuss the border escalation in Ladakh. The much awaited meeting of foreign ministers is expected to record a forward movement towards complete disengagement and de-escalation of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) with the Indian side insistent upon China to follow bilateral agreements and protocols since 1993.Although Indian Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met his Chinese counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe on the same platform on September 5, but the talks did not yield any result with both sides merely stating their formal positions. The meeting took place after Indian Army troops pre-empted a PLA aggression on south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30 and occupied the Rezang La ridgeline without either yielding to Chinese show of military strength or allowing them to cross the Indian perception of Line of Actual Control (LAC). Also Watch | Chinese army kidnapped 5 youths from Arunachal Pradesh: Congress leaderDuring the meeting, foreign minister Jaishankar will remind his Chinese counterpart to implement the past bilateral agreements in letter and spirit including keeping minimum forces along the 3488km LAC. He will also demand that PLA forces restore status quo ante at Gogra-Hot Springs, Finger 4 relief feature on the north bank of Pangong Tso.Since the Indian pre-emption on August 29-30, the Xi Jinping regime has been asking the Indian Army to withdraw from their new positions south of Pangong Tso. It is understood that the Chinese Communist Government’s move to deflect domestic discontent by invoking nationalism in Ladakh and South China Sea has not worked. According to China watchers, the PLA aggression in Ladakh will continue till such time CCP General Secretary XI is able to control the internal dissent whether it be on count of language as in Inner Mongolia, floods, economy or coronavirus which initiated from Wuhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-wang-yi-reaching-moscow-to-discuss-total-disengagement-in-ladakh-with-jaishankar/story-K9rfl23TUR8Yu7tO4CPuIM.html
07-09-2020||India||Over 350 demoiselle cranes spotted early in Jodhpur village||More than 350 demoiselle cranes, locally called kurjaa, have arrived in Jodhpur earlier than their usual time this year. These migratory birds come to the water streams and water bodies in Jodhpur every year by flying thousands of kilometers for a pleasant stay during the winter.So far, four swarms of kurjaa have reached Khichan village in Jodhpur district.“Last year the first swarm of kurjaa reached on September 4, but on September 1 this year, three swarms were sighted together. More than 350 kurjaa have come here in four swarms in the last six days,” said a local bird watcher Sewaram Mali.He said that in the next few days, there is a possibility that thousands of these winged guests will reach the Jodhpur village.They usually arrive in Jodhpur in the first week of September and begin retiring to home places by the last week of March.Wildlife expert Dr Hem Singh Gehlot said it was a pleasantly good sign that migratory birds have started knocking the water bodies of Jodhpur. He said every year, about 100 species of migratory birds fly into India, either in search of food or to escape the severe winter of their native habitat.In Indian subcontinent, majority of migratory birds are winter migrants, he said, adding the winter migrants from central Asia and Siberia, Asia Minor, Arabia, Central and NE Asia, East Asia, Mongolia, North Eastern China, Europe and Arctic region, arrive through different migratory routes in the country during September to March.Demoiselle crane is one of Avian migrant species which fly over distances of thousands of kilometers in order to find the best ecological conditions and habitats for feeding, breeding and raising their young, he further said.The Demoiselle crane’s conservation status is “Least Concern” under version 3.1 of IUCN Red List Categories (2012).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-350-demoiselle-cranes-spotted-early-in-jodhpur-village/story-MyHfFbQZVgvGuRz0gQ9qyO.html
07-09-2020||India||Covid-19 recoveries in India cross 32 lakh, fatality rate drops to 1.7 per cent||The Covid-19 recovery rate in India has risen to 77.31 per cent with 69,564 patients recuperating from the disease in 24 hours pushing the total number of recoveries to 32.5 lakh, the health ministry said on Monday.The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.7 per cent, it said.According to the ministry, five states are contributing 60 per cent of the total cases with Maharashtra at the top accounting for 21.6 per cent cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh with 11.8 per cent, Tamil Nadu 11 per cent, Karnataka 9.5 per cent and Uttar Pradesh 6.3 per cent.Maharashtra also contributed 26.76 per cent of the active cases in the country, followed by Andhra Pradesh 11.30 per cent, Karnataka 11.25 per cent, Uttar Pradesh 6.98 per cent and Tamil Nadu 5.83 per cent.These five states combined presently contribute 62 per cent of total active cases, the ministry said.“On a continuous upward trajectory, India’s total recovered cases have crossed 32.5 lakh today, with 69,564 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours. This has resulted in the recovery rate touching 77.31 per cent,” it said in a statement.In the last 24 hours, Andhra Pradesh recorded the highest recoveries at 11,915. Karnataka and Maharashtra saw 9,575 and 7,826 recoveries respectively. Tamil Nadu witnessed 5,820 people recuperating from the disease and Uttar Pradesh 4,779 recoveries during the same period, it said.“These five states together contributed 57 per cent of the recoveries in the last 24 hours,” the health ministry said.It said various calibrated and focussed actions undertaken within the umbrella strategy of ‘test, track and treat’ have enabled early identification of cases through aggressive and wide-scale testing.“Better ambulance services and seamless point-to-point management of patients to facilitate their timely hospitalisation before their health deteriorates has led to a high number of Covid-19 patients recovering and being discharged from the hospitals,” the ministry said.It further said supervised isolation in homes and facility settings, following effective standard of care protocol, have hugely aided in the recovery of mild and moderate cases.India’s Covid-19 tally of cases went past 42 lakh On Monday with a record 90,802 people being infected in a day, according to the Union health ministry data.The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 42,04,613, while the death toll climbed to 71,642 with 1,016 fatalities being reported in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recoveries-in-india-cross-32-lakh-fatality-rate-drops-to-1-7-per-cent/story-UQ4U2w3ALEbsUBuNvxNezJ.html
07-09-2020||India||Man dies in police custody on way to court in Bihar; family alleges torture||A 50-year-old man, arrested in a 12-year-old case related to the assault of a neighbour, died in police custody in Sitamarhi district of Bihar on Sunday evening.The victim has been identified as Nageshwar Rai, a resident of Ranjitpur village under Punaura police station. Alleging torture by the police, the victim’s family members and neighbours attacked the Sadar hospital and damaged half a dozen vehicles, including an ambulance.The police, however, said he was ill and suddenly fell unconscious on the way to Dumra civil court. He was immediately rushed to the Dumra primary health centre where the doctor referred him to Sadar hospital. Rai was declared dead on his arrival. Dinesh Ram, the SHO of the Punaura police station, said the court had issued an arrest warrant against Rai, which was pending for execution. The police arrested him at around 2pm as per the court order. Late on Sunday, the villagers came to know that Rai died in police custody and his body was taken away somewhere. Soon hundreds of villagers gheraoed the police station for an hour, demanding to know the whereabouts of Rai. Meanwhile, a police officer informed them that Rai was brought dead to the Sadar hospital which escalated the tension. The irate villagers and family members entered the hospital premises and started pelting stones. As the situation worsened, Sadar SDO Rakesh and SDPO Ramakant Upadhyay with additional police force rushed to the spot and dispersed the irate mob. Deceased’s brother Ajay Kumar has alleged that Rai died due to torture by policemen.Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar said that necessary action would be taken against the police official if they are found guilty. He said that Rai’s autopsy will be carried out by the medical board.Civil surgeon Rakesh Chandra Sahay Verma said postmortem examination was done by a board of at least three doctors preferably from three different institutions. “The post mortem has also been videographed,” he added.Earlier in March 2019, two persons from Chakia in East Champaran district died allegedly due to police torture in Dumra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-dies-in-police-custody-on-way-to-court-in-bihar-family-alleges-torture/story-iNdGdXFE2viUFDTll7qeNP.html
07-09-2020||India||UP CM Adityanath inaugurates new Covid-19 hospital in Gorakhpur||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday inaugurated a 300-bed Covid-19 hospital at BRD Medical College here. The state government-run medical college already has 200 beds at the super-speciality block dedicated to Covid-19 patients. Adityanath told reporters that there was “no dearth of beds for coronavirus patients” and said that the state government was determined to defeat the virus.The chief minister also inaugurated a bio-safety ‘level -3’ lab (BSL -3), 100 beds PG hostel and a guest house on the occasion. He inspected the help desk, the isolation ward and the ICU at the new COVID hospital and held meetings with MP Ravi Kishan, mayor Sitaram Jaiswal and the medical college principal Ganesh Kumar.“The new hospital has the facility of 50 high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) machines and 65 ventilators. HFNC machines have given good results all over the world and we’ll provide more HFNC machines as per requirement,“ he said.“We are all set to defeat novel coronavirus as we defeated encephalitis which was taking a huge number of lives for the last 40 years and we are successful in controlling 95 per deaths by encephalitis,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-adityanath-inaugurates-new-covid-19-hospital-in-gorakhpur/story-WdqaIhGTlXM1qjqBfXa4tJ.html
07-09-2020||India||Bad Boy Billionaires: Delhi HC seeks response from Centre, Netflix on Mehul Choksi plea||The Delhi High Court (HC) on Monday sought the response of the Centre and Netflix, an over the top (OTT) media services provider, on a plea by Mehul Choksi challenging the dismissal of his petition, where he had sought pre-release viewing of the docuseries Bad Boy Billionaires. Choksi, a fugitive Indian-born fugitive businessman, who has taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in the Caribbean islands, is a key accused in the Rs13,500-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case along with his nephew Nirav Modi.Bad Boy Billionaires focuses on the fraud committed by many high-profile business tycoons in the country. The poster released by Netflix shows Modi; Subrata Roy, the managing worker and chairman of Sahara India Pariwar; Vijay Mallya, the chairman of United Breweries (UB) Group; and Ramalinga Raju, the former chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of Satyam Computer Services.A two-member HC bench, comprising Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, issued notice to the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (I&B) and Netflix on the appeal filed through advocate Vijay Aggarwal after Choksi was denied relief by a single judge, who had asked him to file a civil suit and dismissed the plea.Also Read: There’s no relief for the bad boy, Mehul ChoksiOn August 28, Justice Navin Chawla had dismissed a plea by Choksi, the uncle of diamantaire Modi, seeking a pre-release screening of Bad Boy Billionaires to be aired on Netflix on September 2 while stating that Choksi may file a civil suit seeking relief.Justice Chawla had said that the alleged infringement by him is a private right and cannot be granted by the court. The judge had also said that there are no regulations to control the content on the OTT.On Monday, Choksi’s counsel contended that his petition was dismissed on the ground that it is a private right and the matter is not maintainable even though it is his constitutional right.He said that Choksi is facing trial and in some of the cases where he is a co-accused, a charge sheet has been filed. He contended that Choksi’s case and trial would be prejudiced if the docuseries is aired. He said that Choksi is under investigation and has a right to fair trial and investigation.Senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, who appeared for Netflix, opposed the plea stating that the single judge has dismissed the plea stating that a civil suit. He said that the plea is not maintainable as no party can come to the court in a bid to satisfy him.The court issued notice to the respondents seeking to know their stand and posted the matter for the next hearing on September 23.The petition said that Choksi got to know of the documentary’s release on August 24 when he saw the trailer following which he was flooded with phone calls from across the world. The callers, including from Delhi, asked Choksi whether he was part of the documentary and to solicit his comments.The petition stated that Choksi feared that his name could be used in connection with Modi in the documentary even though his relation to the fugitive diamantaire is only that of an uncle and a nephew.The petition also stated the series might have an episode on Choksi, which could lead to a media trial. It cited that the petitioner has the right to free and fair trial and such a documentary would cause serious prejudice to his case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bad-boy-billionaires-delhi-hc-seeks-response-from-centre-netflix-on-mehul-choksi-plea/story-7f5ARRjToEVfbfi9SnW6PP.html
07-09-2020||India||TN CM Palaniswami pledges to donate eyes||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday pledged to donate his eyes, the government said.He also launched a dedicated portal of the state Health and Family Welfare Department to help eye donors.“Chief minister Edapadi K Palaniswami pledged to donate his eyes and was presented with the certificate (for this purpose) by Principal Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan,” an official release here said.He also launched the website www.hmis.tn.gov.in/eye- donor, which would be helpful to people interested in eye donation.Since many prospective donors were not aware how to go about vis-a-vis eye donation, this website will help create a registry of such persons and also spread awareness on the subject, the release said.They can register in the portal by sharing their personal details including mobile phone number and e-mail and pledge to donate their eyes following which an e-certificate would be sent to them.This initiative will be helpful in using a donor’s eyes at the right time as they will be handed over to the eye bank, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-palaniswami-pledges-to-donate-eyes/story-KJt5P2CFpZ5OiGi93ShUhM.html
07-09-2020||India||India joins US, Russia, China hypersonic Missile club||India on Monday became the fourth country after the United States, Russia and China to develop and successfully test hypersonic technology from APJ Abdul Kalam testing range (Wheeler Island) in Balasore, Odisha. This indigenous technology will pave the way towards development of missiles travelling at six times the speed of sound (Mach 6).The test of Hypersonic Test Demonstrator Vehicle (HSTDV), developed by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was conducted at 11.03 am today using the Agni missile booster and lasted for five minutes.People aware of the development said this test means that the DRDO will have the capacity to develop a hypersonic missile with scramjet engine in next five years, which will have the capacity to travel at more than two kilometres per second. The test was led by DRDO chief Satheesh Reddy and his hypersonic missile team. The HSTDV performed on all parametres, including combustion chamber pressure, air intake and control guidance, the agency said.Watch: India successfully tests hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicleAt 11.03 am, the Agni missile booster took the hypersonic vehicle to height of 30 km after which the latter separated. Thereafter, the vehicle’s air intake opened and that led to successfully firing of the test scramjet engine. The combustion lasted for more than 20 seconds with the vehicle achieving a speed of Mach 6. “The vehicle performed successfully on all the pre-determined parametres including the ability to handle combustion temperatures of over 2500 degrees Celsius as well as air speed,” said a senior official.Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO immediately after the test and praised their efforts to indigenously build a scramjet engine.He said that it is a landmark achievement towards realising the vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India).“The @DRDO_India has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” Singh tweeted. The @DRDO_India has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demontrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase.“I congratulate to DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising the Prime Minister’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them,” the defence minister said in another tweet.The HSTDV is an unmanned scramjet demonstration aircraft for hypersonic speed flight. Besides its utility for long-range cruise missiles of the future, the technology has multiple civilian applications also. It can be used for launching satellites at low cost too, according to government officials.The HSTDV cruise vehicle is mounted on a solid rocket motor, which will take it to a required altitude, and once it attains certain mach numbers for speed, the cruise vehicle will be ejected out of the launch vehicle. Subsequently, the scramjet engine will be ignited automatically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmanirbhar-bharat-india-becomes-4th-country-to-test-hypersonic-technology-demonstrator-vehicle/story-UQ2bsvYDs95u0VGw62wfzJ.html
07-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Officials screened for Covid-19 ahead of Parliament’s monsoon session and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon session of Parliament: Over 1k officials being screenedOfficials are being screened for Covid-19 to ensure highest health safety standards during Parliament’s monsoon session that will commence from September 14, people aware of the matter said. Read Here‘India is proud’: Rajnath Singh congratulates DRDO for developing made in India hypersonic techDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for successfully flight testing the indigenously developed Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle (HSTDV). India records over 90,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row, tally past 4.2 millionIndia recorded the highest number of cases of the coronavius disease (Covid-19) globally at 90,802 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Monday. Read moreHome ministry grants Y-plus category security to Kangana Ranaut ahead of Mumbai visitKangana Ranaut has been granted Y-plus category security by the Union home ministry ahead of her Mumbai visit on September 9, said officials, amid an escalating war of words between the actor and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut. Read moreBill Gates unsure about electric future for big trucks, passenger jetsIn his latest blog post GateNotes, the Microsoft co-founder writes that while battery technology has and is improving by leaps and bounds, it may not be enough to form the core of such machines. Read moreCargo trailer: Vikrant Massey plays a rakshasa, takes emotional baggage to space in new Netflix filmNetflix India has unveiled the first trailer for Cargo, two days before its release. Directed by Arati Kadav, the science-fiction film stars Vikrant Massey and Shweta Tripathi in lead roles. Read moreDelhi Metro services resumes after nearly 6 months, people flood Twitter with imagesDelhi Metro, after remaining closed for nearly six months, due to the lockdown in the wake of the pandemic, resumed today morning at 7 am as a part of unlock 4. However, not all the lines are operational as it will take place in phased manner. Read moreCovid-19: India overtakes Brazil as 2nd worst hit in the worldHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far, country’s record spike as it overtakes Brazil as the 2nd worst hit in the world after the US. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-officials-tested-for-covid-19-ahead-of-parliament-s-monsoon-session-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zN4FqfmxhB2Vt29uAH7DiL.html
07-09-2020||India||India inches closer towards hypersonic weapons||India on Monday successfully flight tested the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from Dr Abdul Kalam Island off the coast of Odisha, officials said, calling it a significant leap in indigenous defence technologies. With this mission, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has demonstrated capabilities for developing highly complex technology that will serve as the building block for next generation hypersonic weapons that can travel at six times the speed of sound, the officials said. The first flight test of the HSTDV last June was unsuccessful. DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy congratulated all the scientists, researchers and other personnel associated with the mission for their resolute and unwavering efforts towards strengthening the country’s defence capabilities. “The DRDO has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote on Twitter. The @DRDO_India has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demontrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase.The development comes at a time when self-reliance in the defence sector is a top priority for the government. “I congratulate DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising PM’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them,” Singh said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-inches-closer-towards-hypersonic-weapons/story-to9qbbMeJQr4pDRL8oYwAK.html
07-09-2020||India||Ram temple construction committee chairman Nripendra Mishra’s visit to Ayodhya begins today||Nripendra Misra, the chairman of Ram Mandir construction committee, will visit Ayodhya on Monday to review preparations for the construction of the shrine. Misra along with the members of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust will inspect the Ram Janmabhoomi campus and will meet engineers of the Larsen & Toubro (L&T), the construction company that has been awarded the contract of the project.Also read: Heavy casagrande machine reaches Ayodhya for Ram Mandir constructionDuring his two-day visit, Misra will also discuss the temple’s layout plan with architects Nikhil Sompura and Ashish Sompura – the sons of Chandrakant Sompura, the main architect of the Ram Mandir. The Sompuras are expected to reach Ayodhya from Ahmedabad on Tuesday. If the Sompuras cannot reach Ayodhya on Tuesday, then a virtual meeting is likely to be held to discuss the modalities about the construction of the temple. The Trust is set to start the construction of the Ram Mandir after the ongoing 16-day pitra paksha ends on September 17. Hindus express gratitude to their ancestors during this period, especially through food offerings. L&T is preparing to lay the foundation of the Ram Mandir, which is spread across 12,879 square metres, in the Ram Janmabhoomi campus. Around 1,200 pillars will be laid at around 100 feet (ft) below the surface for the temple’s foundation as first layer. The pillars are made of stone and no iron will be used. There will be another layer of foundation after the stone pillars.“Construction work of the Ram Mandir will start after pitra paksha,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust. Around 100 labourers will be engaged to lay the foundation of the shrine. The labourers will undergo coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests and thermal scanning before they are allowed entry to the Ram Janmabhoomi campus. The Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) approved the layouts of the Ram Mandir and the Ram Janmabhoomi campus last week. The ADA handed over the layouts to the members of the Trust on September 4 after the latter deposited a fee of Rs 2.11 crore in its bank account. The Ram Mandir will be 360 ft long, 235 ft wide and 161 ft high. The shrine will have five domes. State-of-the-art technology will be used to lay the temple’s foundation in a bid to preserve it for over 1,500 years and the structure for another 1,000 years. Experts from the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI) in Roorkee and Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Madras have been roped in to make the temple’s foundation strong and ensure that it can withstand earthquakes and other natural calamities. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court (SC) had ruled in favour of construction of the Ram Mandir that ended decades-old Ayodhya title suit dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-construction-committee-chairman-nripendra-mishra-s-visit-to-ayodhya-begins-today/story-RUiM48pL8PWbmGQe8OIaLM.html
07-09-2020||India||Monsoon session of Parliament: Over 1k officials being screened||Officials are being screened for Covid-19 to ensure highest health safety standards during Parliament’s monsoon session that will commence from September 14, people aware of the matter said. The process began on Saturday last and would cover over 1,000 officials who would be involved in conducting the session, they added.The officials are key to the packed 18-day session with no weekend breaks, no Question Hour and possibly no provisions for tabling private members bills. Both Houses will function daily until October 1 from 9 am.Also read: House canteen likely to serve food packetsCovid-19 tests have been made mandatory for all officials as they would be in touch with the Parliament members and have access to VVIP areas. The officials have also been asked not to take photographs during the screening and maintain secrecy about the process.The session is Parliament’s first amid the global pandemic and will involve a logistical overhaul and unprecedented seating arrangements extending up to chambers and galleries as well.Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in the air-conditioning system to inactivate microorganisms, 10 display screens for live proceedings, special communication cables linking both Houses, designated seats only for top leaders will be part of this mega process to ensure a smooth session.Lok Sabha, Parliament’s lower House, is also planning doorstep Covid-19 tests for lawmakers and to allow them make speeches in the House while seated. The lawmakers also have an option to undergo real-time polymerase chain reaction tests in their constituencies before heading to Delhi.Visitors would also not be allowed during the session and the strength of Parliament staff and media would be reduced to ensure no large gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-of-parliament-over-1k-officials-being-screened/story-jzVYIecaqlgtEW77fnI3OL.html
07-09-2020||India||‘India is proud’: Rajnath Singh congratulates DRDO for developing made in India hypersonic tech||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for successfully flight testing the indigenously developed Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle (HSTDV).He said that this technology is a landmark achievement towards realising PM’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India).The @DRDO_India has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demontrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase.“The @DRDO_India has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demontrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” Singh said on Twitter.Watch l India successfully tests hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle “I congratulate to DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising PM’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them,” he said in subsequent tweet.The HSTDV is an unmanned scramjet demonstration aircraft for hypersonic speed flight, it can cruise at a speed of mach 6 and move up to an altitude of 32.5 km (20 miles) in 20 seconds, according to the government.Besides its utility for long-range cruise missiles of the future, the dual-use technology will have multiple civilian applications also. It can be used for launching satellites at low cost too, news agency PTI quoted a government official as saying.The HSTDV can move up to an altitude of 32.5 km in 20 seconds and once it is achieved successfully, India will enter a select club of countries that have such technology.The HSTDV cruise vehicle is mounted on a solid rocket motor, which will take it to a required altitude, and once it attains certain mach numbers for speed, the cruise vehicle will be ejected out of the launch vehicle. Subsequently, the scramjet engine will be ignited automatically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-congratulates-drdo-for-successfully-flight-testing-indigenously-developed-hypersonic-technology-demonstrator-vehicle/story-yb6mOy5AjcI1PEpZzYEDkK.html
07-09-2020||India||Shibu Soren tested negative for coronavirus, released from Gurugram hospital||JMM president and former Union minister Shibu Soren, 76, was released from Medanta hospital in Gurugram on Sunday after he tested negative for SARS-Cov-2.“Guruji’s test report came on Saturday evening, he was discharged from hospital on Sunday noon,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. He said Soren was doing well and stepped out from hospital without any assistance. His health parameters too were reportedly good, he said.Soren will stay in Delhi for a few days and would be back in Ranchi later.There were speculations that he might attend the monsoon session of Parliament beginning September 14. Soren, the former Jharkhand chief minister, was elected to the Rajya Sabha this year.The septuagenarian leader had breathing problems and was admitted to Medanta, Ranchi, on August 24 after he tested positive for coronavirus on August 21. His wife Roopi Soren tested positive as well for the virus. Several others posted at his official residence in Ranchi too tested positive.Roopi remained in home isolation in Ranchi, while Shibu was admitted to a hospital three days after the swab test result confirmed he too was infected.His son and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, however, decided to shift his father to Gurugram on doctors’ advice.Accordingly, Shibu was taken to Gurgaon by Bhubaneswar-New Delhi special Rajdhani express on August 25 and admitted to Medanta on arrival the next day.The JMM president had a urinary tract infection earlier for which he was treated in AIIMS, New Delhi, and Apollo hospital, Chennai. The infection is reported to be under control now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shibu-soren-tested-negative-for-coronavirus-released-from-gurugram-hospital/story-IqAlBjoY7VVmbMS9wpi4TP.html
07-09-2020||India||5 MLAs are Covid +ve, no question hour as Maharashtra assembly gets underway||Five legislators and 40 Vidhan Bhavan and Mantralaya employees have tested positive for coronavirus, said officials as the two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra assembly begins Monday. There will be no question hour, calling attention motion or debates in the session.As per the guidelines, only those who test negative will be allowed to participate or enter the Vidhan Bhavan complex.“As per the final report, five legislators have tested positive in tests conducted in Mumbai. Besides them, 40 staffers have also tested positive. They will not be allowed inside the Vidhan Bhavan as per the decision taken,” said a senior state legislature official requesting anonymity.He added that legislators could get themselves tested in their district headquarters as well.However, their reports have not been compiled by the Vidhan Bhavan. “Those [legislators] who test positive in a test done in their districts, will not come for the session. There is no separate maintenance for that here,” he said.Over the weekend, 2,200 Covid tests were carried out in the city for the MLAs, MLCs, the staff of the legislators and ministers and of Vidhan Bhavan and Mantralaya employees.Three days ahead of the session, Vidhan Sabha speaker Nana Patole tested positive for coronavirus. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal is expected to conduct the proceedings in the Lower House.State legislature has put elaborate safety measures, including UV light inside Vidhan Bhavan.Upon entering, legislators will be given a safety kit which would include a face shield, mask, hand gloves. They are expected to wear it inside the complex. “As a safety measure, each legislator will be given a safety kit. The kit will include items such as face shields, masks, hand gloves, sanitisers, etc,” the official added. The legislators’ personal assistants (PAs) will not be allowed into the House.The officials have made changes in the seating arrangements in the House keeping social distancing in mind. Out of the 288 MLAs, only 228 MLAs will be allowed inside the Assembly hall of the Vidhan Sabha, remaining 60 will be accommodated in the visitors’ and students’ gallery. Similar changes would be made for legislators of the Upper House.The brief session will take up supplementary demands and seven bills and an appropriation bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-mlas-are-covid-ve-no-question-hour-as-maharashtra-assembly-gets-underway/story-27nAw7u7D3WQ3ySMsbwU7O.html
07-09-2020||India||Man shuns USD 100,000 job in USA to to start farming in India||A man in Karnataka left his “monotonous job” in the United States and Dubai to start farming in his village in Kalaburagi district.Satish Kumar who was working as a Software engineer abroad was getting USD 1,00,000 per annum.“I was a software engineer working in Los Angeles, United States and Dubai. In the US, I was getting USD 1,00,000 per annum. However, I was doing a monotonous job,” Kumar told ANI.“There were not many challenges and I was not able to concentrate on my personal life. So I decided to move back to my village and started farming two years back. Last month, I sold corn cultivated on 2-acre land for Rs 2.5 lakhs,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-shuns-usd-100-000-job-in-usa-to-to-start-farming-in-india/story-u7RTz4EcBSaYYZbg6zh9fL.html
07-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty being questioned by NCB for the second day. Here’s what we know so far||Actor Rhea Chakraborty appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for questioning for the second straight day on Monday as part of the agency’s probe into a drugs case linked to the investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput in June.She arrived at the bureau’s office in the Ballard Estate area around 9:30am, escorted by the police.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are also probing various angles surrounding the death of the 34-year-old Rajput.What will happen today?Chakraborty would be questioned in the presence of her younger brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, his domestic help Dinesh Sawant and Zaid Vilatra.Sameer Wankhede, NCB’s zonal director, said the 28-year-old was called again as the questioning could not be completed on Sunday due to her late arrival.The agency has said it wants to question Rhea and confront her with Showik, Miranda and Sawant. It wants to ascertain their roles in this alleged drug racket after it obtained mobile phone chat records and other electronic data that suggested some banned drugs were allegedly procured by these people.Marathon questioningShe was questioned for about six hours by the agency for the first time in this case on Sunday. Before this, she has been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as part of their probe into Rajput’s death.WitchhuntHer lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, reiterated that she is innocent said hours before her questioning began on Sunday.“Rhea is ready for arrest as this is a witch hunt and if loving someone is a crime, she will face the consequences of her love. Being innocent, she has not approached any court for an anticipatory bail in all the cases foisted by Bihar police now with CBI, ED and NCB,” Maneshinde said on Sunday.What has happened so far?Eight people have been arrested till now by the NCB with six being directly linked to this probe while two were arrested by it when the investigation was launched under criminal sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Abbas Lakhani and Karan Arora were the first men to be arrested by NCB for alleged drug peddling when the probe in the case. According to officials, they reached Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar, who are allegedly linked to this drugs case as they were in touch with Miranda, through them.Both Lakhani and Arora have been granted bail.What has NCB said?NCB, while seeking remand of one of the accused in this case last week, had told a local court that it was looking into “the drug citadel in Mumbai, and especially Bollywood” in this probe. This case has given the NCB an “inkling” into the narcotics network and its penetration in Bollywood or Hindi movie industry, NCB deputy director General Mutha Ashok Jain had told reporters last week.Officials have said Miranda used to allegedly procure drugs from them on the purported instructions of Showik, agency officials said.NCB said, in its remand application, Showik had to be confronted “with other accused who are in its custody to uncover the linkages of network which indulged in selling and purchasing drugs”. The agency also said it needed Showik in custody to investigate the allegations against Rhea Chakraborty and Sawant. The NCB said Showik was also needed to verify the financial trail.According to the NCB, alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar had said during questioning that he procured drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim, on Showik’s instructions. He also claimed Showik told him to give drugs to Miranda. NCB officials said Showik’s phone messages include one in which he asked Miranda to pay Vilatra Rs 10,000 for five gram of ‘bud’, a curated form of marijuana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-being-questioned-by-ncb-for-the-second-day-here-s-what-we-know-so-far/story-o66wkXzUr5wOEWb8UKMY9J.html
07-09-2020||India||HC seeks Centre, Netflix response to Mehul Choksi’s plea on ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’ docuseries||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought responses from the Centre and online video streaming platform Netflix on PNB scam accused Mehul Choksi’s appeal against the dismissal of his plea to pre-screen the ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’ docuseries.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Centre and Netflix and sought their stand by September 23 on Choksi’s appeal.Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for the PNB scam accused, said he was only seeking that the matter be remanded back to the single judge who had dismissed as not maintainable the plea to pre-screen the docuseries.The single judge had on August 28 denied any relief to Choksi, saying a writ petition for enforcement of a private right was not maintainable.The high court had said his remedy lies in a civil suit and granted him the liberty to raise the issue in a civil suit.Choksi, the promoter of Gitanjali Gems, and his nephew, Nirav Modi, are accused in the Rs 13,500-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case.Choksi left the country last year and was granted citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda.The documentary, which was scheduled for release in India on September 2, was promoted by Netflix as: “This investigative docuseries explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up - and ultimately brought down - India’s most infamous tycoons”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-centre-netflix-response-to-mehul-choksi-s-plea-on-bad-boy-billionaires-docuseries/story-QkvaEJMHqZ8cKrl9rtixaN.html
07-09-2020||India||Bengal’s first lockdown this month begins today, says Centre informed||The Mamata Banerjee administration in West Bengal is enforcing the first lockdown day in September on Monday. The state administration has already declared that complete state-wide lockdown would be enforced on three days in September – 7, 11 and 12. In August, the government had imposed lockdown on six days. Nearly 5,000 people were arrested for violating lockdown rules and around 2,500 people were booked for not wearing masks on these six days. A few thousand people were arrested on other days. Since the morning, the police have put up barricades on roads and naka checking was being done, vehicle owners were being checked and people on roads were being questioned. They were either sent back home or arrested if they failed to provide valid reasons.The union government in its Unlock 4 guidelines had directed the state not to impose lockdown restrictions at the local level without consulting the Centre. A senior official of the state government said: “All protocols have been maintained and the Centre has been informed.”Till September 6, the state has recorded 1,80,788 cases of Covid-19 with around 3,000 cases on an average being added over the last few weeks. The discharge rate is more than 85%. “The number of people being discharged from hospitals every day is more than the number of new cases being registered everyday, as a result the state has been recording a decline in the number of active cases over the past few days,” a health official said on Sunday. Kolkata till Sunday had recorded 43,084 cases. The district of North 24 Parganas, the second most populous district in India, comes next with around 37,711 cases. Over the past few weeks, however, the district had been recording a higher number of cases than Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-first-lockdown-this-month-begins-today-says-centre-informed/story-uBIWGSv0BSrIJeLvX0kANI.html
07-09-2020||India||With ‘Do not sit here’ stickers, no cash transactions Delhi Metro services resume with strict protocols||After being shut for 169 days due to Covid-19, Delhi Metro on Monday resumed its services while ensuring that social distancing norms were adhered to at several stations including Rajiv Chowk, one of the capital’s busiest interchange station.The police force has been deployed outside the metro stations for crowd management. Barricades have been installed at the entrance gates of Rajiv Chowk metro stations to maintain social distancing.Also read: Delhi Metro resumes services with strict safety measures after 169-day Covid hiatus“We have deployed police force at every metro station for crowd management and to ensure that people wear face masks and follow norms of social distancing,” said Atul Katiyar, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Delhi. In phase 1, metro services will be resumed on Yellow Line connecting Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre and Rapid Metro in Gurugram and the operating hours are 7 am to 11 am and 4 pm hours to 8 pm. Only the use of a Smart Card allowed for entry.A large number of passengers are relieved as the services in the national capital resume, however, some are still scared to travel amid the Covid-19 crisis. “I’ll be traveling to Gurugram. As of now, it is quite interesting to witness all the arrangements made by the government as the metro services have been resumed. It is going to be tough for all of us to travel amid the Covid-19 crisis. I hope everyone will follow the protocols issued by the government,” said Nawan, a commuter at Rajiv Chowk metro station. Also read: Delhi Metro services resumes after nearly 6 months, people flood Twitter with images“I have been spending much money on my travel since the metro services were put to a halt but it is a good initiative taken by the government to start the services again. Now I can save my time and money as well,” another commuter told ANI at Samaypur Badli metro station.The “Do not sit here” stickers have also been fixed on alternate seats to maintain social distancing inside the metros. “I am going for my duty and I am really happy that the metro service has been resumed. I had to face major problems while going to work earlier when the services were shut,” said a commuter traveling via Yellow Line. Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has also resumed its services on the Aqua Line for the public from 7 am today.  “We are continuously making safe arrangements for the commuters here. We are checking their temperature, we also check if they have installed the Aarogya Setu app. Sanitisers and masks are also available here. Stickers have also been put fixed here to maintain social distancing,” said Ram Mohan Singh, Deputy Commissioner, 49th BN PAC, Gautambuddh Nagar. The Home Ministry, in its Unlock 4 guidelines, gave a nod to the resumption of metro services from September 7 in a graded manner. The guidelines gave more relaxations in the restrictions enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19. The metro services were suspended in March due to Covid-19.The DMRC had said that the carrying of Smart Card (with online recharge) was a must as tokens would not be available and all cash transactions would not be permitted, adding that it will not be providing services to stations that in containment zones for any given day in any of the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-do-not-sit-here-stickers-no-cash-transactions-delhi-metro-services-resume-with-strict-protocols/story-oktMYrMe07GqifJxpTTsGO.html
07-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Kochi Metro services resume with strict Covid-19 protocols||Kochi Metro resumed its services on Monday from 7 am as part of ‘unlock 4’, following necessary measures against Covid-19. The first train departed with only five passengers from Aluva station to Thykoodam. Metro stations here wore a deserted look on the first day of resumption of services. Stickers have been placed on the stations to ensure social distancing, thermal screening is also being conducted here while arrangements have been made for sanitisers and masks at the stations. In order for contactless travelling, cash boxes have been kept at the stations for buying tokens. Moreover, no security body checking is being carried out here amid the pandemic. “Metro services should have resumed as soon as the lockdown was lifted earlier. When I travel in the metro, there is no fear of getting stuck in traffic during the morning or evening hours. I used to travel via the KSRTC bus when the metro services were shut. I am happy that the metro services have been resumed here,’‘ said Rosebell, a commuter. Meanwhile, metro services have also been resumed in several other cities including Delhi, Bengaluru and Chennai. Lucknow Metro services resumed from 7 am today, following preventive measures against Covid-19 while Chennai Metro resumed service on Blue Line (between Airport and Washermenpet) as part of Unlock 4.Bengaluru Metro also resumed its service with Purple Line as part of Unlock 4 while Delhi Metro has resumed services from 7 am today after being shut for 169 days due to Covid-19. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-kochi-metro-services-resume-with-strict-covid-19-protocols/story-58UcohVMUTYrF0U7c1YRIJ.html
07-09-2020||India||Sanjay Raut must apologise for ‘defaming’ Gujarat, calling Ahmedabad ‘mini Pakistan’: BJP||The BJP on Sunday accused Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut of “defaming” Gujarat by calling Ahmedabad a “mini Pakistan” and demanded that he apologise to the people of Gujarat and Ahmedabad.Speaking to reporters in Mumbai earlier in the day, Raut asked whether actress Kangana Ranaut had the courage to compare Ahmedabad to ‘mini Pakistan’ the way she equated Mumbai with Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (POK).Raut and Ranaut have been locked in a bitter war of words since the actress termed Mumbai unsafe after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.“If that girl apologises to Mumbai and Maharashtra for calling Mumbai a ‘mini Pakistan’, then I will think about it.Does she have the courage to say the same about Ahmedabad?” the Sena MP had asked.Taking umbrage at Raut’s remarks, Gujarat BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya said the Sena leader insulted the state by calling Ahmedabad a mini Pakistan.“He should apologise to Gujarat, Ahmedabad and Amdavadis,” he stated.Pandya said the Sena should stop using any opportunity to defame Gujarat, Gujaratis and leaders from Gujarat “by targeting them out of jealousy, hatred and malice”.“This is the Gujarat of Gandhiji and Sardar Patel.Sardar Patel has strengthened the unity and integrity of India by uniting 562 kingdoms. Junagadh and Hyderabad were prevented from going to Pakistan and made to stay in India due to his guts and strength,” he said.Pandya added that Patel’s dream of making Kashmir an integral part of India by revoking Article 370 has been fulfilled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah who are from Gujarat.“Therefore, Gujarat’s contribution to India’s unity and integrity in the past and present should be remembered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-raut-must-apologise-for-defaming-gujarat-calling-ahmedabad-mini-pakistan-bjp/story-GXvIYMPLF4IyHzBdjtmGTO.html
07-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty back at Narcotics Bureau for Day 2 of questioning||Rhea Chakraborty, after a marathon six-hour questioning on Sunday, was back at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in South Mumbai at 9.30 am on Monday as part of the agency’s probe into a drugs case linked to the investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of the NCB, had said on Sunday that Chakraborty will be called again as questioning could not be completed due to her late arrival.The 28-year-old would be questioned in the presence of arrested accused, including her brother Showik, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, his domestic help Dinesh Sawant and Zaid Vilatra. “Rhea is ready for arrest as this is a witch hunt and if loving someone is a crime, she will face the consequences of her love. Being innocent, she has not approached any court for anticipatory bail in all the cases foisted by Bihar police now with CBI, ED and NCB,” said Rhea’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde hours before her questioning began yesterday. Earlier on Saturday, Showik and Samuel Miranda were remanded in the NCB custody till September 9.In its remand application, the NCB said Showik had to be confronted “with other accused who are in its custody to uncover the linkages of network which indulged in selling and purchasing drugs”. The agency also said it needed Showik in custody to investigate the allegations against Rhea Chakraborty and Rajput’s manager Dipesh Sawant. The NCB said Showik was also needed to verify the financial trail.According to the NCB, during questioning, alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar, who was also arrested, had said he procured drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim, on Showik’s instructions. He also claimed Showik told him to give drugs to Miranda. NCB officials said Showik’s phone messages include one in which he asked Miranda to pay Vilatra Rs 10,000 for 5 gm of ‘bud’, a curated form of marijuana.A senior officer from NCB said, “We conducted searches at Miranda’s and Showik’s homes and collected some evidence. The investigation is at a preliminary stage and details of the evidence can’t be revealed at the moment.”Meanwhile, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned Rajput’s sister Meetu Singh. Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14, with investigators launching a probe into the possibility of suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-back-at-narcotics-bureau-for-day-2-of-questioning/story-3pN3NlChT3OUnMu1cxJQPM.html
07-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 infection tally crosses 42 lakh with record single-day spike of 90,802 cases||India’s Covid-19 tally of cases went past 42 lakh with a record 90,802 people being infected in a day, while 32,50,429 people have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 77.30 per cent on Monday, according to the Union health ministry data.The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 42,04,613, while the death toll climbed to 71,642 with 1,016 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.70 per cent.There are 8,82,542 active cases of the infection in the country which comprises 20.99 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5.According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,95,51,507 samples have been tested up to September 6 with 7,20,362 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-single-day-spike-globally-at-90-802-covid-19-cases-tally-past-4-2-million/story-wwP6aTLZSfviPbBeGA8IOI.html
07-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s death rate has reduced by 0.43% in a month||India’s case fatality ratio (CFR) -- the proportion of people who die among those who test positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) -- has dipped from 2.15% in early August to 1.72% on September 6.Also read: India records over 90,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row, tally past 4.2 millionThe CFR has been declining even though the absolute number of deaths has gone up. India has been reporting over 1,000 deaths for almost a week now and the total toll crossed the 70,000 mark on Sunday.So far, 71,647 people have died of Covid-19, according to the data of HT dashboard.India’s CFR is much lower than the global average of 3.2%. The United Kingdom’s (UK) CFR has been the highest at 12%, followed by Mexico (10.6%).Experts believe that even with the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the CFR is unlikely to go up. “The number of tests being done in the country has gone up exponentially, which means we are detecting more cases. This is the reason we are reporting over 80,000 Covid-19 cases daily. However, a high proportion of this is those who are asymptomatic or develop mild symptoms and are unlikely to die,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor, department of pulmonology, Safdarjung Hospital.“Doctors have a better understanding of the disease and treatment protocols have been standardised. A capacity for oxygen and ICU beds has also been made. These measures are likely to keep the CFR in check,” he said.The Union ministry for health and family health (MoH&FW) has been guiding six states such as West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Puducherry, Jharkhand, and Delhi that have shown a recent surge in Covid-19 cases. The states and union territories (UTs) have been advised to implement stringent containment, ramp up testing, effective monitoring of those under home isolation, early hospitalisation for those in need of medical support, and efficient infection control in healthcare facilities. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-death-rate-has-reduced-by-0-43-in-a-month/story-xsqQtezeQOt6bqFKM54WIO.html
07-09-2020||India||India records over 90,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row, tally past 4.2 million||India, which now is the second-worst hit country in the world, recorded the highest number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) globally at 90,802 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Monday.The country’s infection tally is now at 4,204,613. India has overtaken Brazil to become the country with the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Brazil now has 4,137,606 Covid-19 cases and the United States has the maximum number of cases at 6,460,250.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayAccording to the health ministry data, 69,564 patients have recovered between Sunday and Monday morning. The numbers of recoveries have reached 3,250,429 till date taking the recovery rate to 77.30%.The country’s death toll is 71,642 after 1,016 people succumbed to the viral disease, according to the latest figures released by the health ministry on Monday. On Sunday, there were 90,632 Covid-19 cases and 70,626 deaths.India’s case fatality rate, which the government claims is one of the lowest globally, was pegged at 1.72% on Sunday. “This has also ensured that the active caseload (8,62,320) accounts for merely 20.96% of the total positive cases so far,” the health ministry said in a statement.The global infection tally has climbed to 27,290,137 and the toll has gone up to 887,551, according to worldometer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-90-000-covid-19-cases-for-the-second-day-in-a-row-tally-past-4-2-million/story-k8UROGZdVm9l2Q20JohvWL.html
07-09-2020||India||200 kg trash removed every week in Mumbai mangrove clean-up||An environmental group has since August 15 removed around 200 kg trash every Sunday from mangrove forests in Navi Mumbai, which was last month ranked India’s third cleanest city in the 2020 Swachh Survekshan rankings. It removed over 1,000 pieces of shoes, slippers, sandals, as well as, bulbs, plastic waste, construction debris, and thermocol from the forests last Sunday.Also read: Water from artificial immersion sites, Plaster of Paris idols dumped directly into Thane creek by civic bodyThe marine litter gets stuck in tall breathing roots of mangrove as it makes its way from the sea or creeks.“We are following a systematic clean-up process wherein the entire waste collected is segregated into different categories. While some of the footwear can be reused, others can be sent back to the rubber industry. Segregated plastic waste and thermocol can be recycled separately by the civic body,” said Environment Life founder Dharmesh Barai. He added maximum waste consists of thermocol or thermocol-based products.Barai said Environment Life will continue its drive every Sunday and would like to spread awareness among Navi Mumbai citizens to join them. “Some of these areas may not be accessible but those that are, if cleaned properly, can be turned into tourism spots where mangrove boardwalks or nurseries can be set up,” he said.Mumbai’s mangrove forests (6,600 hectares) are estimated to have around 50,000 tons of plastic waste strewn due to improper waste treatment. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) In July directed the Maharashtra government to come up with an action plan to reduce waste choking mangrove forests and coastal wetlands in Mumbai.“We are working with local municipal corporations and the mangrove cell to submit the draft action plan to the NGT by October 7, the next date of hearing,” said a Maharashtra Pollution Control Board official, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-kg-trash-removed-every-week-in-mumbai-mangrove-clean-up/story-zVSMwvi6ET1FYXGz1GhgMM.html
07-09-2020||India||Congress’ Rajiv Gandhi quiz for youth in UP; laptop, tablet among prizes||The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) is set to hold its annual Rajiv Gandhi quiz contest online on September 13 and 14.The Congress began the quiz last year with the aim of winning over young voters, holding it in the physical mode in the inaugural year.“But this time, the quiz is going to be online. Last year, the first edition was physical and five lakh youth participated. But this time because of it being online, the participation is likely to cross 15 lakh. We have attractive prizes for the winners — a laptop to the first position holder in each of the 75 districts. Tablet, smartphone (will be given) to the second and third prize winners, respectively. Apart from this, there will be a large number of consolation prizes, including a mobile recharge,” said Dheeraj Gujar, national secretary and UP in-charge of Congress.UPCC spokesperson Ashok Singh said: “The contest would be themed on late prime minister Rajiv Gandhi ji. It will be held online on September 13 and 14.”“The preparation for the quiz competition will enable participants to know more about the personality and achievements of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. Participation is open for people between the ages of 16 and 22 years. Already, five lakh aspirants have registered and the process is on,” said Singh.Post the quiz competition, the party will establish communication with the young participants, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-quiz-for-youth-in-uttar-pradesh-laptop-tablet-among-prizes/story-UUgst962UcptCCSJ3zRcaJ.html
07-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Salman Khurshid on key UP Congress poll team, ‘dissenters’ cold-shouldered and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Salman Khurshid on key UP Congress poll team, ‘dissenters’ cold-shoulderedThe All India Congress Committee (AICC) announced on Sunday evening a manifesto committee and six other committees for the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC), installing the party’s old guard and its loyalists as their heads. Read moreCan Delhi sustain its clean air, blue sky days?The world — based on a resolution adopted by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) last December — will observe the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies for the first time on Monday. Read morePrison overcrowding in 2019 highest in 10 yearsIndian prisons have been housing more inmates than their capacity for decades now and this problem of overcrowded prisons is only getting worse, according to a report on prison statistics for 2019 released by the National Crime Records Bureau earlier this week. Read moreJalandhar girl fighting mobile snatchers to woman escaping collision by seconds: 5 varied viral videosThe Internet is filled with videos which grab people’s attention for various reasons and eventually go viral. Read moreSandip Ssingh says in hindsight, ‘maybe standing with Sushant Singh Rajput’s family was wrong’Filmmaker Sandip Ssingh has said that in hindsight, perhaps he shouldn’t have stood by Sushant Singh Rajput’s family after the actor’s death on June 14. Read moreNational Nutrition Week: Manushi Chhillar runs on the beach, practices yoga, gives fitness goalsNational Nutrition Week is a week-long initiative, from September 1 to September 7 to raise awareness about the importance of consuming nutritious food, following a healthy diet and also an exercise regime for holistic health and wellness. Read more‘If I can consistently perform well in IPL 2020, opportunities will come’: Karun Nair keeping India dream aliveFor someone with a triple century in Tests, Karun Nair has been dealt a few rough hands in his cricketing career. In 2018, Nair was part of India’s original Test squad for the five-Test series in England but watched Hanuma Vihari, called up as replacement, take precedence over him and make his Test debut. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-salman-khurshid-on-key-up-congress-poll-team-dissenters-cold-shouldered-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qTU3WA6dJkVOlx3dgSxLOJ.html
07-09-2020||India||Air India Express crash: Wife of killed co-pilot delivers baby boy||The wife of co-pilot Akhilesh Sharma, who was killed in Air India plane crash on August 7, has delivered a boy. Sharma died along with pilot Vasant Sathe when their aircraft, on Vande Bharat Mission from Dubai to bring stranded Indians home, overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport, breaking into two.The family, living in Govind Nagar locality in Mathura had reason to smile after grieving for a month. According to a press release by Nayati Medicity, the hospital where the baby was delivered, “The baby boy, weighing 2.75 kilos, was born to Megha (28) at 3.16 pm at our hospital on Saturday. Both the baby and mother are fine and are likely to be discharged in the next two days. It was a full term delivery.” “The past month has been extremely difficult for Megha. Our obstetrics & gynaecology team, led by Dr Preeti Bhadauria, had been counselling her and strictly monitoring the health of the foetus. We are like an extended family to Megha. It is a happy moment for everyone here today,” added the release. In a statement, a family member said, “For us, the baby’s birth rekindles the happiness and joy that Akhilesh radiated in our lives. We are extremely happy and we know that Akhilesh is overjoyed wherever he is today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-express-crash-wife-of-killed-co-pilot-delivers-baby-boy/story-PZjjSf2DRuIaYITVlM3xbK.html
07-09-2020||India||Noted broadcaster Sir David Attenborough to be presented with Indira Gandhi peace prize||The Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust will present the Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development for 2019 to renowned broadcaster Sir David Attenborough on Monday. He was named the recipient of the award in November last year. His name was selected by an international jury chaired by former President Pranab Mukherjee, who died last week. The virtual award ceremony will be attended by Congress president and Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust chairperson Sonia Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi. “Few individuals have come to be as identified with the well being of our planet, of all living creatures, and their relationship with human beings, as Sir David,” the Trust had said while announcing his name last year. Also Read: As India fetes David Attenborough, a look at an incredible careerThe prize is awarded to him for a lifetime of doing more to reveal the wonders of the natural world than perhaps any other individual, it added. “In a lifetime of communicating effectively and evocatively about the natural world, he has become a powerful and persuasive voice on the need to heed warnings of looming ecological disaster, to maintain the Earth’s delicate balance, and to cherish and preserve the natural world,” the Trust said. Suman Dubey, the secretary of the Trust, had said Sir David had tirelessly worked to “awaken humankind to the need to preserve and protect the biodiversity on our planet, to live in a sustainable and harmonious way with all life, and to stop being what he has called: ‘a plague on earth’.” Sir David’s work has received widespread recognition across the world. Apart from his knighthood, he has received awards from the Royal Geographical Society, UNESCO’s Kalinga Prize, the Micheal Faraday Prize, the Descartes Prize and Fellowship of the Royal Society, and several Emmy and BAFTA awards. Also Read: Why India needs a climate warrior like Greta ThunbergSir David’s current series with the BBC Natural History Unit—Seven Worlds, One Planet—is broadcast on BBC One on Sunday nights. Last year, Sonia Gandhi had presented the Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development for 2018 to Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a New Delhi-based environment think-tank, for its work in environmental education and protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noted-broadcaster-sir-david-attenborough-to-be-presented-with-indira-gandhi-peace-prize/story-Nmiz2yGAmZD8at1pE3LAVL.html
07-09-2020||India||Differences surface in Bengal BJP over induction of new faces in youth front||A cold war is raging in the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over induction of new leaders in state Yuva Morcha, the youth front. Differences cropped up recently after Saumitra Khan, a member of the Lok Sabha and the state Yuva Morcha president, announced the list of members in the youth front’s new state committee. Senior party leaders, who did not want to be quoted, said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh declared the list null and void as he wanted some changes. Khan had to publish a new list in which Prakash Das, a youth leader known to be close to Ghosh, has been named the Morcha general secretary. “A section of central leaders want Shankudeb Panda, who defected from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and is known to be close to national executive member Mukul Roy, to be the Morcha general secretary,” a state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity. He said that BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, who looks after the organisation in Bengal and also wants Panda’s induction, had a discussion with Ghosh on Saturday. “But Ghosh is not willing to change his decision,” he added. “In a Rightist party, a lot of people can eye the same post but the decision of the leadership is final. The matter has been sorted. Panda will be inducted somewhere else,” a senior leader close to Ghosh told HT on Sunday. Anupam Hazra, the former TMC Lok Sabha MP from Bolpur who defected to the BJP in March 2019 and was defeated by TMC’s Mimi Chakraborty in the Jadavpur Lok Sabha constituency, has been made a vice-president in the Yuva Morcha. A section of BJP leaders said his name too was discussed for the post of general secretary but Ghosh was opposed to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differences-surface-in-bengal-bjp-over-induction-of-new-faces-in-youth-front/story-ONi4u3X0VhN5h86KSbloXJ.html
07-09-2020||India||Can Delhi sustain its clean air, blue sky days?||The world — based on a resolution adopted by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) last December — will observe the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies for the first time on Monday.The UNGA note, dated January 22, on the observance of September 7 as a day for clean air, states that air pollution is the single-greatest environmental risk to human health.Delhi for the first time in years has recorded several blue-sky “good” air days since March 25, when nation-wide lockdown restrictions were enforced in a bid to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Later, this been followed by a favourable monsoon with some intense spells of rain and strong wind.But Delhi’s acid test begins in September when meteorological conditions change, emissions rise with the re-opening up of various sectors after lockdown restrictions, while the crop stubble burning begins in neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh (UP), Haryana and Punjab in October.There were only two “good” air days in 2017 followed by two days last year.This year, there have been five good air days (March 28) (during the first week of the Covid-19 induced lockdown) with an air quality index (AQI) reading of 45; on August 13 after heavy rain, the AQI was recorded 50; August 20, again when Delhi received very heavy rainfall, the AQI was 50; August 24, the AQI was 45 and the lowest air quality index (AQI) in five years was recorded this August on August 31 with AQI of only 41.“By end-September the meteorological conditions change. Wind direction changes from south-westerly and north-easterly to predominantly north-westerly. Wind speed also reduces. There may have been reduction in emission load this year because normal vehicular traffic has not yet resumed,” said Vijay Soni, a scientist at air pollution division of India Meteorological Department (IMD).This year ensuring farmers don’t set crop stubble on fire in Punjab, Haryana, UP, an annual activity to dispose crop stubble from kharif season, may be very difficult. This is because small farmers are already affected by Covid-19-led economic slowdown and may not have the means to hire machines and tractors for straw management. The Centre had launched a Rs- 1,150 crore scheme in 2018 to subsidise farm straw-management machinery in the north-western states, where rampant paddy-straw burning contributes to air pollution in Delhi every year.“We have filled forms to claim a 50% subsidy on straw management machinery being offered by the government. The subsidy hasn’t come through yet. But small farmers will burn crop stubble. They cannot afford machinery and tractors in the midst of a pandemic. The machine has to be mounted on a tractor and there are diesel costs also,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Punjab.The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) had claimed last year that there was a 50% reduction in the agricultural area, where crop residue burning takes place. But an analysis by Hiren Jethva, a research scientist with Universities Space Research Association at (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) NASA Goddard Space Flight Centre, suggested that there was hardly any reduction.“We have disbursed the money this year also to states to ensure farmers get subsidised straw management machinery. By October 15, those machines should be in place. We are expecting a reduction in stubble burning cases. Over 50% reduction in area with crop stubble burning has been recorded,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director-general, ICAR. The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) is also considering a request by the Union power ministry to defer the deadline for thermal power plants to meet air pollution norms by 2022, another two years. Thermal power plants are one of the largest sources of sulphur dioxide (SO2) and particulate matter (PM) pollution in India. The MoEFCC had notified superior emission standards for thermal power plants in December 2015 for implementation by the end of 2017. The deadline was delayed to 2022 because of resistance from the thermal power industry.“Delhi has taken several steps such as closing of all thermal power plants; stopping truck entry; phasing out more than 10-year-old diesel vehicles among others. But this is the right time to take stock of the gaps. Delhi needs to scale up its public transportation and vehicle electrification programme massively. It needs to streamline its waste sector through better segregation and recycling in a bid to ensure that waste is not burnt. It has to move all industries to clean fuel,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a not-for-profit public interest research and advocacy organisation based in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-delhi-sustain-its-clean-air-blue-sky-days/story-ftHa6fB7mEg9SgJvpf3XHP.html
07-09-2020||India||‘Pakistan, China planning against us’: BSF chief to jawans on visit to LoC||On the last leg of his three-day visit to Jammu region, director general of Border Security Force Rakesh Asthana visited Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri and Poonch sector underscoring the force being the first line of defence on the border, urging it to be wary as both “China and Pakistan are planning against us”.Though the Army has the operational command of the 744-km long LoC, the BSF has also been deployed to assist the former. “On Sunday, the third day of his visit, Director General of Border Security Force, Rakesh Asthana visited various forward defence locations in Poonch and Rajouri sector and took stock of the situation. He was accompanied by SS Panwar, ADG (WC) and NS Jamwal, IG BSF, Jammu Frontier,” said an official spokesperson.The DG was briefed by ID Singh, DIG Rajouri and field commanders on the LoC regarding the operational preparedness and situation.Appreciating the measures adopted by the troops while maintaining domination, the DG emphasised on meeting the security challenges more effectively.Lauding the excellent synergy amongst all the security forces, the DG exhorted all ranks to maintain a high standard of discipline and professionalism. He also addressed Sainik Sammelan in the BSF Paloura Camp Jammu and said that since Pakistan and China were planning against India, the BSF’s role became more important in guarding the borders. “This is a very crucial time for all, as both our neighbouring countries are planning against us. So, our role has become more important now as we are the first line of Indian defence,” the spokesperson quoted the DG as saying.He was very appreciative of the vigilant BSF jawans who guard the nation’s border 24x7 defying all hostile conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-china-planning-against-us-bsf-chief-to-jawans-on-visit-to-loc/story-EYkDZLzPuEUwfBQKxq8fOO.html
07-09-2020||India||Covid-19: As metro services set to resume, air flow poses biggest health challenge||Delhi Metro officials have made widespread changes to how air conditioning and ventilation systems work inside trains and at underground stations in an attempt to reduce the risk of Covid-19 infections. But the way the air flows, particularly in coaches, and how the virus floats around, continues to pose a threat for users.The risks also depend on how well people are able to maintain distance from one another and whether they adhere to Covid-safe precautions such as wearing masks.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTo mitigate this risk in part, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has decided to increase the rate at which fresh air is pumped into train coaches and open ventilation vents at underground stations more often to ensure stale air escapes. Inside a metro coach, this will result in the air being refreshed every 2 minutes, 33 seconds. Two recent studies show contrasting results on how close environment public travel risks can be mitigated and, conversely, allowed to result into a major outbreak. The first, published in Jama Network Open on September 1, showed the transmission of the virus from one person to 23 others on a bus packed with 67 people in China. None of the passengers wore a mask.The second, published on September 5 in the Emerging Infectious Diseases journal, showed that in a flight full of 310 people, six asymptomatic Covid-19 infected people spread the virus only to 1 other person. All passengers wore masks except for when they had meals and used lavatories.Researchers have previously pointed to how air flows are a possible factor. In a bus, much like in a metro train, overhead ducts create a bigger area of air circulation than in flights in which air conditioning vents on the top and bottom create a restricted, vertical draft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-as-metro-services-set-to-resume-air-flow-poses-biggest-health-challenge/story-WXpo3CUHCCvdpDRHCGnP2N.html
07-09-2020||India||India calls China’s bluff in Chushul||After the Indian Army called the bluff of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the Rezang La ridgeline on August 29-30, India is prepared for the long haul in Ladakh with clear-cut directions to front-line troops not to yield to any Chinese intimidation.While both the military and diplomatic channels are open between the two countries, the Indian Army riposte in the last week of August must have had a sobering effect on the adversary with the situation attaining criticality at the Rezang La ridgeline in the Chushul sector.Although psychological warfare through media is the key element of Chinese military strategy, the situation report to the PLA headquarters in Beijing on the August 30 military moves must have made the Western Theatre Command realise the mood of Indian Army’s specialized troops and armour. The new Indian military posture is aimed at repelling any PLA move to unilaterally change the alignment of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in pursuit of its 1960 claim green line.Also read: In Chushul’s forbidding heights, locals supply water, other essentials to Indian troopsThe Indian position on the Ladakh border was strongly conveyed by defence minister Rajnath Singh to his Chinese counterpart on the side lines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) meeting in Moscow; the stand shall be reiterated by external affairs minister S Jaishankar when he meets his counterpart on the same platform on September 10. There is a strong possibility of a meeting between the Indian and Chinese Special Representatives on the boundary issue later if Beijing still is committed to the bilateral peace and tranquility agreements. The situation on the ground is that China has increased the PLA’s strength by 60% since the Galwan Valley flare-up on June 15 while its leaders talk about peace.According to China watchers, the PLA’s aggression will continue till the November US Presidential elections and the Ladakh push from Galwan to Pangong Tso was part of Chinea’s strategic positioning to punish India for its perceived close relationship with the US. “ The climatic conditions in Ladakh in October will ensure that troops only fight for their survival rather than fight against the adversary with polar temperatures and killer winds. The Chinese posture will also depend on whether there is a change of regime in US and what will be its policy towards Beijing,” said a senior official, who didn’t want to be named.What is left unsaid is that the PLA’s aggression in Ladakh was part of the preparations to celebrate 100 years of the Chinese Communist Party next year, where the middle kingdom will be showcased as a new global power with a Xiaokang (moderately prosperous) society and a modern socialist country.It is clearly evident that the Chinese did not anticipate the Indian Army’s reaction in Ladakh as well as the political, military, diplomatic and economic cost of land between Finger 4 and Finger 8 relief features on Pangong Tso that PLA occupied by perfidy last May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-china-s-bluff-in-chushul/story-0waGo9iTB3XIkjCA2EQSPM.html
07-09-2020||India||Prison overcrowding in 2019 highest in 10 years||Indian prisons have been housing more inmates than their capacity for decades now and this problem of overcrowded prisons is only getting worse, according to a report on prison statistics for 2019 released by the National Crime Records Bureau earlier this week. As on 31 December, 2019, there were 4,78,600 inmates lodged in different prisons in India while they had a collective capacity to house only about 4,03,700 inmates. This means the number of prisoners was 118.5% of the prison capacity, the highest since 2010. While this is only one percentage point more than the number in 2018, a state-wise analysis shows that the number of states and union territories reporting overcrowded prisons has increased from 18 in 2018 to 21 in 2019. Eleven states have reported overcrowded prisons for five consecutive years. Prisons in Delhi were the most overcrowded among all states and union territories – there were about 17,500 prisoners lodged in jails with a collective capacity of about 10,000, which is a prison overcrowding rate of 175%. Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand followed next in overcrowding at 168% and 159% respectively. Overcrowded prisons are more of a concern at present as the Covid-19 infection continues to spread in the country with about 3.5 million confirmed cases reported by August 30. The infection has been reported to have spread in multiple prison premises as well. This is a matter of concern also because nearly every eighth prisoner in India is a person above the age of 50, the age group which is at a higher risk of developing severe complications and dying due to the Covid-19 infection. “It’s stupid but it’s not surprising,” said Neha Singhal of the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy regarding the overcrowded prisons. “Prisons are grossly overcrowded and they urgently need to be de-congested. Prisons are often difficult to manage as it is, but the current circumstances will make management an absolute nightmare,” she said.Singhal said maintaining social distancing norms is impossible in an overcrowded prison. “There’s no way for them to be physically far from each other because there’s just not enough space. I have spoken to a lot of prisoners and they barely have any space when they are sleeping and are forced to share mattresses,” she said.Prisoners are also at a high risk of getting infected with an infection because of continued movement of prisoners in and out of prison premises and the fact that prisoners getting admitted and released is a continuous process. In 2019, an average of over 12,000 inmates visited courts everyday while around 1,300 were moved out of prisons everyday for medical attendance. In 2019, an average of 4,100 undertrials and 11 convicts were released from prisons every day while around 5,200 people were admitted to prisons every day.These numbers would be lower this year because of various steps taken by prison authorities to prevent outbreak of the disease inside prisons. It is possible to release a section of prisoners, especially those who are undergoing trial, on bail or parole. In 2019, 69% of all prisoners were undertrials. This figure has increased slightly in the last four years. “Prisons by design are not roomy spaces and when they are crowded the space for each prisoner becomes even less,” said Leah Verghese, research manager at civil society group Daksh. Verghese said she was surprised that many states did not make concerted effort to decongest prisons. “Releasing undertrials, those who are accused of less serious offences and those above the age of 60 seemed like an obvious solution to the overcrowding problem,” she said.“Every time an undertrial is admitted there is a risk that they will infect other inmates and staff,” said Verghese. “Undertrials and convicts share the same space thus putting everyone’s health at risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prison-overcrowding-in-2019-highest-in-10-years/story-Mm8VGVG0J12zFvqC9rRFZJ.html
07-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The beginning of the week is a good time to catch up — on numbers, science, trends, and the rare good news (if any) related to the coronavirus disease.90446: This is the number of Covid-19 cases recorded in India on Saturday, according to the HT dashboard. No country has crossed 80,000 cases a day. India will likely do fewer cases on Sunday — numbers fall off over the weekend in most parts of the world. India also overtook Brazil on Sunday to become the country with the second highest number of Covid-19 cases, after the US. And towards the end of last week, it overtook Mexico to become the one with the third highest number of Covid-19 fatalities. How high is that 90,446 number? According to worldometers.info, it is higher than the total number of cases seen by countries ranked 35 and lower in its listing. As testing increases, India could see a further rise in cases. Purely in terms of the trajectory of the pandemic’s run, India is unique — but it isn’t the kind of distinctiveness of which the country can be proud.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe mink: An earlier instalment of this column (Dispatch 49 on May 8) looked at the animals of the Covid-19 pandemic. One more can now be added to the list — the mink, a relative of the otter and the ferret that is widely farmed across Europe for its fur. There have been outbreaks in mink farms in the Netherlands, Spain, and in Utah in the US. According to a study published on pre-print server bioRxiv, and conducted by researchers from the Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, genomic studies showed that the workers at the farms passed on the coronavirus disease to minks, which then passed them back to other workers. Already, the Netherlands has moved forward a planned closure of the mink farms set for 2024 to March next year. And about time too — for years, activists have been trying to get governments around the world to do just this. The research from the Netherlands needs to be peer-reviewed, but it merits a much closer look — it suggests that the Sars-CoV-2 virus can jump from humans to animals (anthropozoonotic) and then from animals back to humans (zoonotic).Tennis, anyone?: Anyone but poor Kristina Mladenovic. Days after she lost a match she should have won at the US Open and spoke of the “nightmare” she was living in and the “abominable way” in which players were being treated — Mladenovic was isolated because she was exposed to an infected player within the bio-bubble — she and her partner, the top seeds in the women’s draw, were disqualified on Saturday. This was after the county where the players’ hotel is located said its rules do not allow her to play in the tournament. The experience with so-called bio-bubbles in sport has been mostly positive. They would appear to have worked in cricket in England and the Caribbean, the Premier League, and also the NBA; but the US Open is clearly having all sorts of trouble with its own. It will be interesting to see how the Indian Premier League’s bio-bubble works. As HT’s sports desk wrote in a recent article: “What makes the IPL different from some of the other bio-bubbles is how spread out it is.” The report pointed out how self-contained the bio-bubbles for the cricket series in England, the Caribbean Premier League, and the NBA have been. In contrast, it said, “the IPL has eight teams camping in different hotels in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, and travelling every day for practice”.The vaccine: The mathematical chances of a vaccine for Covid-19 being developed soon (another topic covered in an earlier instalment of this column, (Dispatch 111 on July 22) became stronger through August. At the beginning of September, according to a report in Nature, there were 321 vaccine candidates, with 32 of them in clinical trials. In April, there were only 115 vaccine candidates. But the best news regarding vaccines came in a Friday report by the Wall Street Journal that said some leading vaccine makers were preparing a public pledge that would reaffirm their commitment to following the due process of clinical trials and “not seeking government approval” till they were convinced the vaccines were safe and effective. The companies named in the article include Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna — and the pledge comes against the backdrop of vaccine development becoming increasingly political, leading to fears that governments could rush through with vaccines before they are ready, much like Russia has done with the Sputnik V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-bda2uZKb8lGdXYJ67M5FwM.html
07-09-2020||India||The rise and fall of two UP strongmen||They built their empires at the intersection of crime and politics, dominating their bastions in Uttar Pradesh with money and muscle power. Their fiefdom invoked fear among commoners and their names inspired awe among followers. But all that is in the past. Lodged in jails outside the state, Atiq Ahmad and Mukhtar Ansari, the once-feared gangsters clad in white kurta-pyjama, are now mere spectators to the gradual implosion of their empires. Their men are hounded by police; their gun licenses are being cancelled and their properties seized; and their clout is diminishing. For the bahubalis (as the musclemen were called), what remains is a past of prominence, one that is constructed by a complex web of crime and politics but, nonetheless, is an important chapter in UP’s social landscape. ERODING SUPPORT BASE Ahmad, now 60, is said to have committed his first murder in 1979. And there was no looking back for him in the world of crime. A five-time legislator and a one-time parliamentarian, Ahmad has 96 criminal cases against him. He has been named in cases of murder, abductions, illegal mining, extortion, intimidation and fraud, among others. He started calling the shots in the Allahabad (now Prayagraj) region after the death of his rival, Shaukat Ilahi, in a police encounter in 1989. Incidentally, he made his debut in representative politics in the same year, winning the Allahabad West assembly seat as an independent candidate. Not only Allahabad, Ahmad was able to make his presence felt from Kaushambi to Chitrakoot and from Lucknow to Kanpur. He retained the Allahabad West seat twice (1991 and 1993) as an independent candidate. In 1996, he contested on a Samajwadi Party (SP) ticket and won. He joined the Apna Dal in 1999 and won the seat again in 2002. In 2003, Ahmad returned to the SP. In 2004, he became a parliamentarian from the Phulpur Lok Sabha constituency, a seat once held by India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. “Atiq Ahmad was an important leader of the party and served as its UP president,” Pallavi Patel, the acting national president of the Apna Dal (Kamerawadi), said, commenting on his stint in the party. She added that the party formed by her late father, Sone Lal Patel, followed the path of issue-based politics and took decisions that it felt served the common man. “I am not aware of any efforts by him in the recent past to rejoin the party. Even now if he approaches the party, the party leadership will look into it and decide on its merit.” Ahmad’s downfall began in 2007 during the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)’s rule, when police mounted pressure on him and his brother, Ashraf. They eventually surrendered in 2008, but were released in 2013, a year after the SP came back to power. Ahmad contested the Lok Sabha elections in 2014 from Shravasti but lost. Gradually, differences surfaced between Ahmad and the SP. Chief minister Akhilesh Yadav avoided him on stage at a public meeting in Kaushambi in May 2016. Dan Bahadur ‘Madhur’, the long-serving Prayagraj district spokesperson of the SP, said his party distanced itself from Ahmad after Akhilesh Yadav took over as its national president in January 2017. “Even today, we are following the same path of clean politics,” he said. Ahmad was arrested in February 2017 from the Naini area in Prayagraj in connection with an attack on employees of a state university at the fag end of the SP’s rule. The action came after the Allahabad high court pulled up the police for their failure to arrest him.But Ahmad’s political ambitions were not over. From jail, he filed nomination from the Varanasi constituency against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 and got 855 votes. In June 2019, Ahmad was shifted to an Ahmedabad jail on the orders of the Supreme Court. Back home, his younger brother, Ashraf, is behind the bars after his arrest in July 2020. His eldest son, Umar, is absconding. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has announced a reward of Rs 2 lakh for information leading to Umar’s arrest. Many of Ahmad’s men have been put behind the bars and regular raids are being carried out to track down others. “Some new names will be added to the list of his gang members soon as many youngsters joined him in recent years,” said Civil Lines circle officer Brajnarayan Singh, who is part of the operation against Ahmad and his gang. The administration has cancelled 30-odd gun licenses linked to Ahmad and his men. At present, he is left with just one gun license — that of a pistol, according to Abhishek Dixit, the Prayagraj senior superintendent of police. The Prayagraj district administration recently ordered the attachment of seven of his immovable properties worth around Rs 60 crore. Another 17 properties have been identified for action even as 16 firms linked to Ahmad and his gang are under scrutiny. Of the many charges against him, Ahmad is accused of protecting the criminals involved in the gan-grape of some madrasa students in 2007. The incident kicked off a massive protest by locals. In December 2016, Ahmad and his men allegedly attacked employees of Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (SHUATS) when he could not meet the vice-chancellor to urge him to reconsider the expulsion of two students who were caught cheating in exams. A first information report (FIR) was lodged against him and he was arrested in February 2017. Earlier, in 2008, he was arrested for the 2005 murder of BSP legislator Raju Pal but granted bail. “Many of his gang members have been arrested and put behind the bars. They have been shifted to different prisons across the state,” Dinesh Kumar Singh, Prayagraj superintendent of police (city), said. FACING THE HEAT A BSP legislator, Ansari has been lodged in a jail in Punjab’s Ropar since January 2019; his reign in eastern UP is all but over. His named was linked to a murder in the late 1980s, but there was no evidence, said a retired police officer who did not want to be named. At the dawn of the 90s, Ansari, who was involved in property business and contract work, began expanding his network in the world of crime. In November 2005, he was linked to the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Krishnanad Rai; Ansari was in jail when the incident occurred. In July 2019, he was acquitted by a special CBI court. In 2009, Ansari, who faces 48 FIRs including 10 murder cases, was again named in the killing of Ajai Prakash Singh, a contractor, in Mau. This time too, Ansari was acquitted, by a local court in Ghazipur in 2017. An eyewitness to Singh’s murder, Ram Singh Maurya, was killed in 2010. Ansari was booked for his alleged role in the incident. The case is under trial in a special court for MPs/MLAs. He successfully contested his first assembly election on a BSP ticket from the Mau seat in 1996. Denied the party’s ticket in 2002, he contested as an independent and won the seat in 2002. He retained his seat as an independent in 2007.Later that year, he rejoined the BSP and unsuccessfully contested the parliamentary election against BJP stalwart Murli Manohar Joshi in 2009. In 2010, Ansari was expelled from the BSP for his alleged criminal links. He floated the Quami Ekta Dal later that year, contested the 2012 assembly election from Mau as its candidate and won. In January 2017, he returned to the BSP, which fielded him from Mau in the 2017 assembly elections. Ansari won again. The 57-year-old still appears to have the support of the local BSP unit. “The action against Ansari and his associates is full of political vendetta,” the party’s Mau president, Rajiv Kumar Raju, said. At his peak, Ansari was active across eastern UP, including Varanasi, Mau, Ghazipur, Ballia and Chandauli, and the adjoining areas of neighbouring Bihar. In January 2019, he was arrested for allegedly making an extortion call to a Mohali-based builder, who lodged a case. Ansari was arrested in that case and shifted to Punjab’s Ropar jail from Banda, where he was incarcerated in March 2017 in a separate case. He has been behind the bars since 2005 and lodged in several jails across the state on different charges.In May 2020, police stepped up operations against Ansari and his gang. Seventy-two arms licenses linked to him and his accomplices were suspended, properties worth Rs 66 crore seized, and an extortion racket that supplied crores of rupees annually to Ansari and his associates was busted, according to the police.“Ninety-seven criminals, including shooters, henchmen and Ansari’s allies were arrested during the drive. Action was taken against 75 of them under the Gangster Act, and all of them were sent to jail,” said Braj Bhushan, additional director general (ADG), Varanasi zone. Those arrested included illegal traders of fish (four gangs), members of the extortion gang, and people linked to an illegal slaughter house and two criminal gangs. “While the illegal fish traders and the extortion gang supported the Ansari gang financially, the criminal gangs used to commit crime at the instance of the Ansari gang,” Bhushan said. The recent drive picked up pace after the registration of a case on June 1 against Ansari and five others in connection with them obtaining four arms licenses by furnishing fake addresses 19 years ago, Mau superintendent of police Anurag Arya said. “The drive against hardcore criminals, gangsters, and their gangs will be accelerated further,” said ADG Bhushan. STATE-WIDE CAMPAIGN“The action against the mafia in the state is happening following chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s strict instruction against criminals,” additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said. Underscoring the tough stand the BJP government has adopted, a tweet by the chief minister’s office in Hindi said on Friday: “Be it mafia or any other criminal, the UP government under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, with its zero-tolerance policy, is fully committed to putting a full-stop in wrongdoings of such elements.” Soon after coming to the power in March 2017, the BJP government launched a drive against the hardcore criminals and gangsters, said the Kashi region BJP vice-president, Dharmendra Singh. “Under the drive, action has been taken against a number of criminals and gangsters. The state government has a clear policy to eliminate crime from the state,” he said. But the opposition SP is not convinced; it alleged that the administration was taking selective action. “The ill-gotten and illegally acquired properties must be taken back by the government; encroachment on land must be freed from illegal possession. If the government is doing it under a legally sanctioned process, then nobody should have any objections. The action of the government must not be based on pick-and-choose mechanism,” said SP spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi. “The recent drive against ill-gotten properties is carried out in a partisan manner. No action is being taken against those who are in the BJP or its sympathizers with it. Law must be equally applied to all irrespective of political affiliations. Criminals are criminals. They do not become innocent by joining the BJP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-rise-and-fall-of-two-up-strongmen/story-J1fqeP8KpmZUR1kuTLu0gO.html
07-09-2020||India||Kesavananda Bharati, seer behind ‘basic structure of Constitution’ case, dies aged 79 at his Kerala ashram||Kesavananda Bharati, who filed the famous constitutional case leading to birth of the legal doctrine of “Basic Structure”, passed away on Sunday morning at his ashram, Sri Edneer Mutt ,in the Kasaragod district of north Kerala. Bharati, who had been suffering breathing and heart ailments, was 79.Over the years, the name of Bharati had become synonymous with constitutional law after a 13-judge bench of the Supreme Court on April 24, 1973 delivered its historic verdict in the case known as Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Keralam in which it was held that the powers of Parliament to amend the Constitution of India is circumscribed by what is known as Basic Structure of the Constitution. In other words, the court ruled that Parliament can amend any part of the Constitution, but such amendment cannot in any manner deface or distort the basic features of the charter such as democracy, federalism, supremacy of the Constitution, secularism, and separation of powers between legislature, executive and judiciary.Bharati took over as the pontiff of Sri Edneer Mutt, a Hindu monastic institution, when he was 19. Bharati was in his late 20s or early 30s when the mutt’s properties were sought to be acquired by the Kerala government, triggering the landmark case.“He spent his entire life as a religious leader but he has left back for the country a legal doctrine which has endured to keep the country together in the face of a lot of autocratic governments with a huge majority,” senior counsel Sanjay Hegde told HT.“Very rarely does a litigant attain immortality for the cause he or she espoused and the redefining moment brought by the judgment. His Holiness Kesavananda will be to India, what (Oilver) Brown is to the US (judgment against racial segregation in public schools) and (May) Donoghue to the United Kingdom (judgment on negligence which empowered consumers). Swamiji may have departed, but the doctrine of Basic Structure will remain forever (hopefully),” senior advocate KV Viswanathan told HT.“Bharati was revered as a God-like figure. He treated everyone with much affection and care. My stay at the Mutt afforded me the opportunity to experience his hospitality and affection,” said advocate Raghul Sudheesh, a Kerala high court lawyer who had visited the mutt in 2011 to interview Bharati.What did Bharati challenge?He initiated the case on March 21, 1970 challenging the Kerala Land Reforms (Amendment) Act 1969. Later, three constitutional amendments – 24th, 25th and 29th – were passed by the Parliament and they became a subject matter of challenge on the grounds that they violated his fundamental right to practice and propagate religion (Article 25), freedom of religious denomination to manage its religious affairs including managing and administering its property (Article 26) and right to property (Article 31) and right to acquire and hold property [Article 19(1)(f)]. He had mounted the challenge after the land reforms law enacted by the Kerala government threatened to strip his mutt of its property, which was the source of income for the ashram. “His petition before the Supreme Court was part of his battle for survival of the mutt which he headed. The government was going to acquire the properties of the mutt which was its main source of income,” Sudheesh said.Noted lawyer Nani Palkhivala appeared for Bharati before a 13-judge bench of the Supreme Court. However, it was senior counsel MK Nambiar, father of current attorney general KK Venugopal ,who managed the case on behalf of Bharati and who engaged lawyers in Delhi to argue the case. It marked the only instance in the Supreme Court when a bench of 13 judges (which was the full strength of the apex court at that point of time) sat to decide a case.The case remains the longest heard before the Supreme Court; it lasted for 69 days between October 31, 1972 and March 23, 1973.Significance of the caseHow did a property case become a watershed moment in the constitutional jurisprudence of the country?The case assumed significance due to the debate which started around 10 years prior to it relating to the extent of the power possessed by Parliament to amend the Constitution of India.Two Articles in the Constitution were at the centre of this debate – Articles 13 and 368. Article 13 states that Parliament cannot make any law which violates fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. Article 368 empowers Parliament to make amendments to the Constitution.The issue, which came up before the court as early as 1964 in the case of Sajjan Singh v. State of Rajasthan, was whether the word “law” under Article 13 included within its scope a constitutional amendment under Article 368.If a constitutional amendment under Article 368 is “law” within the meaning of Article 13, then it would automatically follow that Parliament cannot amend the Constitution to take away any fundamental right. In Sajjan Singh, a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court ruled that the word “law” in Article 13 does not include a constitutional amendment under Article 368. This meant Parliament has unfettered power to amend the Constitution.This position was overturned in 1967 by an 11-jugde bench of the Supreme Court in the landmark case of Golaknath v. State of Punjab. In this judgment, it was held that an amendment under Article 368 is “law” within the definition of Article 13. This was seen as a major erosion of Parliament’s rights to implement the people’s mandate. The Indira Gandhi government saw this stance as a challenge to the will of the elected majority.In 1971, it enacted the Constitution (Twenty-Fourth Amendment) Act which expressly provided that the bar under Article 13 will not apply to any amendment made to the Constitution under Article 368. This meant that Parliament could amend any part of the Constitution, including fundamental rights.Later, by the 25th amendment to the Constitution, Parliament in 1972 curtailed the right to property under Article 31, which was a fundamental right back then (Article 31 was later removed from the list of fundamental rights).The 29th amendment put the Kerala land reforms law beyond the purview of judicial reviewCourt’s judgmentThe court upheld the validity of all the three constitutional amendments - 24th, 25th and 29th – which were under challenge.It also overruled the judgment in Golaknath case and held that a constitutional amendment is not “law” within the meaning of Article 13. Thus, it was ruled that Parliament has the power to amend any part of the Constitution.This seemed to be a victory for the government. However, it was not. The power to amend any part of the Constitution, which the court said that Parliament possessed, came with a rider -- it should not infringe upon the Basic Structure of the Constitution.Thus, the takeaway from the judgment was that Parliament could not do as it pleases with the Constitution. Any law made by it, including constitutional amendments, should not violate the ethos and basic features of the Constitution and the Supreme Court will be the final arbiter on whether there is any such transgression into the Basic Structure.The court also did not given any exhaustive list of what would constitute the Basic Structure of the Constitution. This was left open-ended and has been time and again used to strike down constitutional amendments that the Supreme Court felt distorted the Constitution.Consequences“Kesavananda doctrine swung against the government by the narrowest of majorities of 7:6 with justice HR Khanna signing against the government in favour of the doctrine. It foreshadowed the coming of the Emergency because soon after the judgment, justices KS Hegde, AN Grover and JM Shelat were superseded for the post of Chief Justice of India and justice AN Ray who was junior to them was appointed to the post,” Sanjay Hegde said.Justice Hegde, Shelat and Grover had ruled against the government while justice Ray had favoured the government. As for Bharati, the mutt lost its properties since the laws challenged by it were upheld.“He believed that the outcome of the case was destiny and God’s decision. What concerned him most was that he mutt lost its source of income and had to depend on donations. He was, however, happy that the case became landmark judgment and felt good about fighting to protect the Mutt and its properties,” Sudheesh said.A Carnatic and Hindustani vocalist, he wrote many devotional songs and plays and was also a patron of Kannada art and culture. The mutt manages many educational institutions. It also runs a Veda Pathasala which imparted lessons in Advaitha and Vedic lessons to many students. In 2018, Bharati was honoured with the justice V R Krishna Iyer award. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressed his condolences. “He was a revolutionary who made rich contributions in cultural and educational spheres,” Vijayan said in a message. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan tweeted that the nation will always remember “his valuable contributions and teachings and they will continue to enlighten people.”(K Ramesh Babu contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kesavananda-bharati-seer-behind-basic-structure-of-constitution-case-dies-aged-79-at-his-kerala-ashram/story-epboHW2HkeboWAg7Y9XmCP.html
07-09-2020||India||Air tickets booked before Covid-19 lockdown may be refunded||Airlines will provide refunds for cancelled travel during the nationwide lockdown on tickets booked in advance, the Centre has proposed in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, reiterating that similar returns will be processed for bookings made during the period of curbs.On June 12, the apex court, while hearing a plea filed by NGO Pravasi Legal Cell, asked the Centre, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and airlines to discuss full refunds of tickets for domestic and international flights that were cancelled due to the travel restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the affidavit filed before the Supreme Court after the deliberations, the civil aviation ministry and DGCA have proposed that all passengers will be entitled to refund of their tickets booked before March 25 within 15 days.“If the tickets have been booked during the first lockdown period, that is March 25, to April 14, 2020 for the journeys to be undertaken in both first and second lockdown period that is from March 25 to May 3, 2020, in all such cases, full refund shall be given by the airlines immediately (this is being mandated vide MoCA’s OM dated April 16, 2020 as the airlines were not supposed to book such tickets),” said the affidavit, seen by HT.“For all other cases, the airlines shall make all endeavors to refund the collected amount to the passenger within 15 days.”The scheme also said that if an airline is not in a financial position to pay immediately, the fare amount shall be kept in a “credit shell” to be availed by the passenger for travel by the same airline on any route before March 31, 2021. This option is not available to foreign carriers, who must refund the amount within 15 days, according to the proposal.If the passenger does not wish to travel, the credit shell can be transferred to another person, it added. If the amount is unused, interest will accrue every month on this amount and the same is to be refunded in full after March 31, 2021, according to the proposal.A notification by DGCA from April 16 previously referred to full refund of tickets booked during the lockdown period. However, people who booked tickets prior to this date had approached the Supreme Court seeking refunds. On June 12, the court directed the Centre to find a solution after consulting airline operators and travel agents. A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan will consider the Centre’s affidavit when it takes up the petitions on September 9.In an interview to HT on May 7, civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said that his ministry had issued a directive to airlines to reimburse passengers who had booked tickets during the lockdown period. He said the government will need to look at the interest of the passengers primarily, but also look at the situation of the airlines.Advocate Jose Abraham, who is representing Pravasi Legal Cell, told HT: “Almost 95% of petitioners before the court had booked tickets before the lockdown started. The April 16 notification of DGCA was of no consequence to us. Even the credit shell proposed under it contained rigid terms. The present solution of the DGCA has balanced the interests of passengers by protecting their money and allowed flexible terms on credit shell.”Officials of the civil aviation ministry and DGCA held two rounds of discussions with airline operators on July 2 and 8 before finalising the proposal. The affidavit stated that non-refund of fares and creating of involuntary credit shell by airlines was a clear violation of the Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) and passenger charter. “Any such enforcement action would further restrict/reduce their (airline) operations and thus any such enforcement action may further jeopardize the possibilities of generation of cash by the airline which can further adversely affect/delay the refund cycle,” the affidavit said. This scheme will be applicable to Indian carriers who are liable for refund on all domestic and international routes. Even for tickets booked through travel agents, the credit shell will be in the name of the passenger and the refunds, if any, will be transferred by the travel agent to the passengers. “The above proposal is formulated by the respondent (Centre) as an exception keeping in view the precipitating problems during Covid-19 pandemic and is without prejudice to the regulatory framework as provided in the CARs referred to above,” the affidavit said. Requests for comments from SpiceJet, Vistara and IndiGo remained unanswered till the time of going to print.A spokesperson for MakeMyTrip said: “As an intermediary, we have been passing on the refunds to our customers from the airlines in the manner as has been issued by them — be it cash refunds or credit shell and we will continue to do the same. As far as this affidavit is concerned, we will only be able to comment on it after going through the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-tickets-booked-before-lockdown-may-be-refunded/story-GhwJtlVmP1dl468KD7VVCL.html
07-09-2020||India||President, PM to address Governors’ meet on NEP||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday address the inaugural session of the Governors’ Conference on National Education Policy being organised by the Union Education ministry in the virtual mode.The Governors’ Conference, titled “Role of NEP-2020 in Transforming Higher Education” will also be attended by the education ministers of all states, vice-chancellors and other senior officials.West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee is likely to raise concern on certain issues when he participates in the virtual meeting, state officials aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.Education department officials said that Chatterjee is likely to protest against the proposal to do away with state secondary board examinations. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had raised her voice against the policy saying states were bypassed although education comes under the Concurrent List. The NEP 2020 was approved by the Union cabinet on July 29. The NEP strives for making India into an equitable and vibrant knowledge society. It envisions an India-centred education system that contributes directly to transforming India into a Global Superpower, an official statement said. The comprehensive transformation aimed the NEP will bring about a paradigm shift in the country’s education system and create an enabling and reinvigorated educational ecosystem for a new Atmanirbhar Bharat envisaged by the prime minister, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-pm-to-address-guv-s-meet-on-nep/story-ACQaWNXvxAI2AkQpYBXvpI.html
07-09-2020||India||Forces told to begin large-scale breeding of K9s to meet demand||In his Mann ki Baat radio address last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated the role dogs have played over the years in protecting national security. Around the same time, the ground was already being laid for strengthening dog squads of security forces across the country. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) recently issued guidelines asking the Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) to undertake large-scale breeding of Police Service K9s, or PSKs, not only to meet their own requirements but also for other central/state police forces. The three paramilitary forces, which have well-established dog breeding and training centres (DB&TCs) and specialized veterinary officers, have been asked to diversify PSKs by introducing breeds like the Springer Spaniel, Cocker Spaniel, Belgian Shepherd Malinois, Working Line German Shepherd, Beagle, Dutch Shepherd, Blood Hound and other breeds in Indian K9 units. They have been given permission to procure quality K9 breeding stock from the open market or import it, if necessary, to meet the requirement of security forces, according to the guidelines reviewed by HT. According to official government data, state police forces had 1,470 sniffer dogs and 790 tracker dogs and the central armed police forces (or paramilitary forces) 1,702 sniffer dogs and 407 tracker dogs in 2019. BSF, which guards India’s borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh, had the highest number of 108 tracker dogs and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) had the most number of 445 sniffer dogs to check for explosives at airports, metro stations and other sensitive installations. The army has over 1,200 trained dogs. The number of trained dogs in Indian armed forces and police departments for internal security duties, counter-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir, states where Maoist rebels are active, the northeast and border areas is very low, experts say.Former CRPF director general K Durga Prasad said :“It’s an undisputed fact that dogs do excellent jobs in anti-sabotage checks, camp security and sniffing explosives. Yet there is a huge shortage of dogs in all the forces as well as states’ police which needs to be fulfilled through scientific breeding.” MHA has ordered that the procurement of pops as young as three months should not be allowed. Currently, the pups are procured at the age of three months, which the ministry feels is too young an age for evaluating their aptitude for police duties. “Pups should be reared by DB&TCs till they become ‘young adult’ when their behaviours and personalities could be evaluated to ascertain the levels of prerequisite traits needed for preparing proficient PSKs,” the MHA guidelines say. For young adult dogs, known as Green Dogs, screening is mandatory to ascertain their suitability for training as proficient PSKs, it adds. Green Dogs sold to other forces must be given basic/tactical obedience training between the ages of six and months and must be environmentally stable and affable enough to perform police duties, according to the MHA. The guidelines add that the K9 Behaviour Assessment Test (BAT) will be one of the criteria in determining their Estimated Breeding Value (EBVs) to plan and undertake future breeding programmes based on scientific principles of animal breeding and genetics. DB&TCs have been asked to prepare strategies for PSK breeding to meet the requirement of security organizations. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), which has a full-fledged DB&TC as well, will continue breeding of pups, especially Belgian Malinois, to meet its own requirements. “The decision is aimed at increasing the role of canines in armed forces and police and to provide best genetic quality, trainable dogs for all forces deployed in different terrains or states,” said an officer at one of the DB&TCs, requesting anonymity||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-told-to-begin-large-scale-breeding-of-k9s-to-meet-demand/story-UI98HnRO925DIFSGDYtXLO.html
07-09-2020||India||NCB quizzes Rhea Chakraborty for 6 hours in Sushant Singh case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty in a drugs case linked to the investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, even as her lawyer said she was “ready for arrest” as the probe appeared to be a witch-hunt against the 28-year-old.Chakraborty arrived at the NCB’s office in the Ballard Estate area at noon and left shortly after 6pm. She was escorted by police personnel amid a heavy presence television camera crews.“The investigation has not been completed due to her late arrival. We will summon her again tomorrow (Monday) and the investigation will continue,” said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of the NCB.Also read: Taapsee Pannu, Swara Bhasker react to Rhea Chakraborty being mobbed at NCB office: ‘Witness our lowest, shameful witch hunt’Hours before Chakraborty’s questioning began, her lawyer Satish Maneshinde said: “Rhea is ready for arrest as this is a witch hunt and if loving someone is a crime, she will face the consequences of her love. Being innocent, she has not approached any court for anticipatory bail in all the cases foisted by Bihar police now with CBI, ED and NCB.”Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14, with investigators launching a probe into the possibility of suicide.On August 19, the Supreme Court asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to investigate the case related to the actor’s death, while holding that the FIR registered in Patna was legitimate. The agency has registered an FIR against Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death after the Centre accepted the Bihar government’s recommendation to transfer the probe in the matter from Patna.The Enforcement Directorate on July 31 registered an Enforcement Case Information Report in the actor’s death case after an FIR was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28.The NCB on Saturday arrested Dipesh Sawant, a member of actor Rajput’s personal staff, as part of its investigation into allegations of drug abuse. Earlier on Saturday, Chakraborty’s brother, Showik, and Rajput’s house manager, Samuel Miranda, were remanded in NCB custody till September 9.On Sunday, the NCB arrested Khar resident Anuj Keshwani, the ninth person to be held in the case. Keshwani was arrested for allegedly supplying drugs to Kaizan Ibrahim, who was arrested in the case on Friday. “During interrogation, Ibrahim confessed that he used to buy drugs from Keshwani. Now we will question him to trace the further link,” said KPS Malhotra, deputy director of the NCB.The NCB on Friday arrested Showik, Miranda, and two Bandra residents – Abdel Basit Parihar, 23, and Ibrahim. The other three arrested over charges of drug peddling are Zaid Vilatra, 20 (arrested on Thursday), Abbas Lakhani, and Karan Arora (arrested on August 27-28).(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-quizzes-rhea-for-6-hrs-in-sushant-case/story-mRFy8hsXnIbtGX7losMk6I.html
07-09-2020||India||Key Congress panel headed by Manmohan Singh hasn’t met in 2 months||A Congress consultative committee, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, mandated to meet every day to discuss and formulate the party’s stand on current issues, has not met for over two months, people familiar with the matter said. The last meeting of the 11-member panel was held in July, a Congress functionary said on condition of anonymity. “That day, the panel discussed the Chinese transgressions in eastern Ladakh and deliberated on the party’s stand on the border standoff,” said the functionary. “There were some differences among the members on how the party should articulate its stand on the issue,” he added. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had on April 18, in the midst of the lockdown ordered to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), constituted the group to deliberate on issues related to the pandemic and other current matters. Apart from the former Prime Minister, the group comprises former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, general secretary in-charge of the organisation, KC Venugopal, and former union ministers P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari and Jairam Ramesh. Other members of the group are Praveen Chakravarty, Gaurav Vallabh, Supriya Shrinate and Rohan Gupta. Surjewala is also the convenor of the group. In a press release, the party had then said the consultative committee will meet virtually every day to deliberate on matters of current concern and formulate the party’s stand on various issues. The panel was also supposed to give suggestions to the government on health and economic challenges in the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19. In the past, the group discussed the revival of micro, small and medium enterprises, crop procurement, issues related to migrant workers, the lockdown exit strategy and the state of the economy. A member of the committee said on condition of anonymity that the panel could not meet after July as the party kept discussing issues through other forums. “This panel was formed to strategise the party’s response to current issues during the Covid-19 times,” he added. Meanwhile, the Congress would formulate its strategy for the monsoon session of Parliament, beginning September 14, at a meeting on Tuesday. The meeting will be attended by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu. This will be the first time that some of the 23 signatories to a letter to the party president seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation will come face-to-face with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi after the stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on August 24. Four out of the 23 signatories who are CWC members – Azad, Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada – came under fire from other colleagues at the meeting for writing the letter. After chairing the meeting, Sonia Gandhi, who is also the chairperson of the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP), is likely to travel abroad for a routine health check-up, a party leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-cong-panel-headed-by-manmohan-hasn-t-met-in-2-months/story-KNa2ClklGKYYT9hjhuZp1L.html
07-09-2020||India||Delhi govt clinics work overtime to ramp up Covid-19 testing||Seven people wearing face masks stood in front of a small window to get their names listed to undergo a rapid antigen test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a government-run clinic in south-east Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan.At a walking distance from the Nizamuddin railway station and the inter-state bus terminus in Sarai Kale Khan, the centre has ramped up testing to perform up to 150 tests a day.Apart from people visiting the centre to get tested – this includes not only the people from the neighbourhood but also people travelling from other states -- staff at the clinic encourages all visitors, including companions of patients, to get tested.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs the number of Covid-19 cases rise in the city, the Delhi government is ramping up testing. As on Sunday, with 3,256 cases Delhi saw the highest single day increase in the number of new cases since June end. The number of daily tests has gone from an average of 15,719 tests a day in mid-August to 30,202 tests on average during the past week.Among the people who got tested on Friday was a 42-year-old woman, who did not want to be named, who had accompanied her neighbour to get her baby immunised.“I accompanied my friend who was coming here to get her baby immunised. The doctor asked us to get tested for corona and I turned out to be positive. I do not have any fever or cough. I haven’t stepped out of my house in days. I don’t know how I got the infection,” said the woman. After receiving her report, she was asked by the staff to call her husband and all three of her children to the clinic to get tested.If there is a doubt about the result thrown up by a rapid antigen test , all government-run clinics where samples are collected also have the viral transport media and sample collection kit needed for performing a reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test that’s considered the most accurate method of diagnosing Covid-19.“We are linked to GB Pant Polyclinic or the Nehru homeopathy hospital nearby where the samples can be tested. If we have a strong suspicion that a person has the infection and still tests negative, we collect an RT-PCR sample,” said a doctor on duty, requesting anonymity.“We also have several DTC bus drivers who come to get tested from time to time. Each day, we get about 10-15 people who get tested for the want of a certificate for joining back at work or travelling. The number of tests goes up on the days that we do immunisation because we ask the family members who accompany the children to get tested,” said the doctor at the clinic quoted above.The dispensary extends monetary incentives to accredited social health activists and Anganwadi workers for motivating people to get themselves tested.Not enough peopleNot all dispensaries have as many takers for testing as the clinic at Sarai Kale Khan. A dispensary in Garhi village, near Greater Kailash, conducts only about 70 to 80 tests a day. “We have the capacity, but almost everyone living around the dispensary has been tested, those who are willing to get tested anyway. It is very difficult to increase the testing further but we are trying,” said a lab technician working at the dispensary.At Shahid Hemu Kalani school in Lajpat Nagar, the sample collection team has to wait till 5pm on some days to complete their target of a 100 tests a day. “The timing is actually till 2 o clock, but we do not leave till we have completed collecting all 100 samples. Yesterday, we were here till 5pm. Usually, it is the people from Lajpat Nagar, Jangpura, and Ashram. Most people come here after hearing announcements made by the district authorities, referred by the nearby MCD {Municipal Corporation of Delhi} hospital, or through word of mouth,” the doctor issuing the reports said, requesting anonymity.The centre is only equipped to do rapid antigen tests. A guard sits at the gate with a sanitiser, directing people to a tent that has been set up with a few chairs outside the school building for those who come to get tested. They are called in one by one and taken to a classroom for sample collection.Motivating people and addressing their concerns are some of the ways in which the government is trying to increase testing.“We have a population of 50 to 60 lakh people in our district, we have done 1 or 2 lakh tests so far. So, it is not like we have covered the entire population. There are still people that we need to test and we have to motivate them,” said an official from north district., requesting anonymityAnother official, from east district, said, also on condition of anonymity: “The problem is that many people either do not know where the tests are happening or they are scared to come to the testing centre. The fear for most is that they have to wait for a long time and they might get exposed at the dispensary itself. To address these fears, we have started giving numbers to people and ask them to come to the centre only at the specified time. And, then their sample can be collected within 10 to 15 minutes. They do not have to wait.”Camps and special drivesApart from the 300 ‘fixed’ centres, the government has also been carrying our special drives and holding camps to reach out to more people, especially the “special surveillance groups” such as migrant workers, auto-rickshaw drivers and vegetable vendors.“For us, the passengers coming to the station are the special surveillance group and we keep going to the station and testing them from time to time, apart from those who come to the dispensary,” said the doctor from the Sarai Kale Khan dispensary. At a dispensary in Sriniwaspuri, where the testing facility is unavailable, people are referred to Okhla Mandi nearby for testing.“A camp is held there every morning from 6 to 10 am. We refer those who come to us to get tested there,” said a nurse at the clinic.A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to text messages and calls requesting comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-clinics-work-overtime-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing/story-wazEswWXTUuh7tSVTdagIM.html
07-09-2020||India||GST not a tax system, it is an attack on India’s poor: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the second major assault on India’s unorganised economy after demonetisation was the “faulty” Goods and Services Tax (GST). He further alleged that GST was not a tax system but an attack on India’s poor, and called upon countrymen to stand united against it. The video was the third part of Gandhi’s fresh series on economy. He had earlier released a five-part series on Chinese aggression in Ladakh. “GST was UPA’s (Congress-led United Progressive Alliance’s) idea. One tax, minimal tax, standard and simple tax. NDA’s (the ruling National Democratic Alliance’s) GST is completely different,” Gandhi said in his latest video message. The Congress argues that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led NDA has badly conceptualised GST.“Small and medium businesses cannot pay this tax. The big companies can easily pay it by putting 5-10-15 accountants to do the job. Why are there four different rates? This is because the government wants those who have the means to be able to easily change GST, and those who don’t have means, cannot do anything about GST,” he said in the 2.27-minute video. “Who has the means? India’s biggest 15-20 industrialists. So, whatever tax law they want to change can easily be done in this GST regime,” added Gandhi. Also Read: Modi dispensation’s thinking - minimum govt, maximum privatisation: Rahul GandhiThe former Congress chief also attacked the government for its “failure” to pay the GST compensation to states. “And what is the result of NDA’s GST? Today, the government of India is unable to provide the GST compensation money to the states. The states are unable to give money to state employees, teachers, etc,” he said. “Hence this GST is an absolute failure. Not only is it unsuccessful, it is an attack on the poor and on the small and medium businesses,” Gandhi added. Gandhi urged the people to recognise this attack and stand against it together. “GST is not a tax system, it is an attack on India’s poor. It is an attack on small shopkeepers, small and medium businesses, farmers and labourers. ​We have to recognise this attack and stand against it together,” he said. Gandhi’s latest video series comes in the wake of the Indian economy’s decline by a record 23.9% in the first quarter of April to June in the current financial year of 2020-21. The deceleration reflected the economic impact of the 68-day Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions in the first quarter.  Gandhi has often described the GST as “Gabbar Singh Tax”, a pun on the name of the villain in the famous Bollywood movie Sholay, insisting that it is flawed and needs to be reformed and changed. Also Read: Note ban meant to hurt informal sector: Rahul GandhiBJP spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said, “Across globe single indirect tax is considered as a mega reform. India’s GST has subsumed more than 13 indirect taxes into one online tax system for ease of compliances. With its online registration, filing of returns, payment, assessment and refund, it removes subjectivity and harassment to small assesses. It has successfully reduced the incidence of taxes on the consumers also with input tax credit.”He went on to say that more than 60% of small businesses are in the informal sector and were facing continuous harassment from local inspectors, which is now a history. “All MSMEs are coming into formalisation segments which is important for 97% of our labour force’s social well-being. Establishment of the GST council is a landmark for our federal structure, where all decisions are taken collectively,” he said. Agarwal termed it “initial hiccups”, adding: “A country like Australia took more than six years for implementation. It’s the need of the hour, globally implemented as a progressive reform.”In the first video, Gandhi alleged that the central government has destroyed the economy by repeatedly assaulting the informal sector and the latest attack on it was the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In the second video, Gandhi alleged that the government’s hidden agenda behind demonetization, which saw the scrapping of all Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes, was to deliberately harm India’s informal sector, which survives on liquid cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-not-a-tax-system-it-is-an-attack-on-india-s-poor-rahul-gandhi/story-7nXI9osy9utumhBxJ0z1jP.html
