08-09-2020||India||Court stays election of Atul Bora as AGP chief for violating order||A civil court in Guwahati has stayed last month’s election of Assam agriculture minister Atul Bora as the president of Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), a member of the ruling coalition, for violating an earlier order issued by the court. Despite an injunction order issued by the court on August 26, the AGP went ahead with its 11th general council meeting on August 27 where Bora was unanimously re-elected as president of the party and water resources minister Keshab Mahanta was elected as working president. Acting on a petition challenging the election, the court of civil judge Shakti Sarma ordered on September 5 that the AGP leadership should refrain from implementing resolutions passed in the party’s meeting on August 27 as they were in violation of the court’s injunction order. The court asked Bora, Mahanta and senior leader Phani Bhushan Choudhury to preserve the attendance register and proceeding book of the general council meeting, CCTV footage of the AGP office and photographs of the congregation for fair adjudication of the case. Summons have been issued to Bora, Mahanta and Choudhury to appear before the court on November 11, the next date of hearing. Earlier, acting on a petition by three AGP leaders, the court had on August 26 issued a restraining order on holding the general council meeting as “it was against the AGP constitution as well as against Covid protocol”, which restricted holding of political meetings because of the pandemic. But Bora and other senior leaders went ahead with the general council meeting, stating that they had not received copies of the court’s restraining order. In its order on September 5, the court held that Bora had seen the restraining order on WhatsApp and details of it were also aired on local TV channels as well as some newspapers on August 27, the day of the meeting. “We are yet to get copies of the court’s order and can’t comment on it without seeing its contents. We will present our case in court and are confident that our views will be taken into consideration,” Bora told journalists on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-stays-election-of-atul-bora-as-agp-chief-for-violating-order/story-CPAY1RFIZUBHmdMDi1rwrM.html
08-09-2020||India||Telangana govt to include 17 new castes in OBC list, move will benefit nearly 10,000 families||The Telangana government has decided to include 17 new castes in the list of Other Backward Classes (OBC) category, as per the recommendations of the Telangana state backward classes commission. The decision was approved by the state cabinet at its meeting held under the leadership of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday night. At present, there are 112 castes in the OBC category in Telangana and they were divided into four groups – A, B, C and D depending on their backwardness with a total of 25 per cent reservations in education and employment. Muslims are also being treated as a separate group (Group E) of OBC with a quota of four per cent for education and employment. In the latest cabinet decision, out of the total number of 17 castes, 13 will be included in Group A of the OBC list and four more in Group D category so that people belonging to these castes would receive benefits from the government under the reservation quota. The new castes to be included in the Group A are: Addapuvaru, Bhagavatula, Bail Kammara/Chigadi/Gadia Lohar, Eenuti/Yenati, Ganjikoti/Ganjikooti, Goud Jetti, Kaki Pagadala, Patamvaru,/Masailhlu, OAD/OD/ODD, Sonnail/Sonnayollu, Sri Kashitriya Ramajogi/Ramajogi, Dheracheerali/Telsuri/Telsoori and Tolubommalata Varu/Boppla. And those falling under Group D are: Aheer/Aheeryalu, Govili/Govill/Gouli, Kullakadigi/Kullikadigi/Chittem and Taroollu/Soma Vamasa Kshatriya. An official familiar with the development said all these 17 castes to be included in the OBC list are the “Most Backward Classes (MBC)” who are mostly nomadic and semi-nomadic groups and had never been provided with any kind of reservations in the past. The Telangana OBC commission headed by Burra Ramulu made an extensive study of the sociological condition of the most backward communities for nearly two and a half years. Apparently, the commission shortlisted 23 such castes and sub-castes during the study and finalised 17 castes that deserved reservations. The commission submitted its report in July 2019. “This is a historic decision. It will benefit as many as 9,839 families belonging to these 17 castes. We are deeply indebted to the Telangana government,” said Mohan Chowhan, president of MBC Welfare Association, after meeting Telangana IT minister K T Rama Rao on Tuesday along with the representatives of all the 17 castes. KTR assured that the government would extend all kinds of support to the OBC groups which had been hitherto neglected and deprived of all reservation benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-to-include-17-new-castes-in-obc-list-move-will-benefit-nearly-10-000-families/story-oAngRMuDCNES7LXc9R5bfP.html
08-09-2020||India||Crucial meet amid fresh LAC face-off||New Delhi: A fresh face-off between Indian and Chinese troops has added to the complexities of the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) ahead of a meeting of the foreign ministers of the two countries that is being seen as crucial for a breakthrough in the impasse on the disputed border. Hours before external affairs minister S Jaishankar departed for Moscow, where he is set to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting, Chinese troops attempted to close in on an Indian position along the LAC on Monday night and fired in the air when they were dissuaded. The face-off, experts said, underlined the fragile situation along the LAC, especially after several incidents on the south bank of Pangong Lake during August 29-30. This is the first time that shots have been fired along the non-demarcated border since 1975, when four Indian troopers were killed in a Chinese ambush in the Arunachal Pradesh sector. Jaishankar is set to meet Wang on the sidelines of the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10 – the first time the two leaders will come face-to-face since the border standoff began in May. They spoke on phone on June 17, two days after a deadly clash in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian and an unspecified Chinese soldiers dead.In an event on Monday night to mark the release of his book The India Way, Jaishankar pointed to the serious situation on the LAC and underscored the need for “very deep conversations between the two sides at a political level”. He also made it clear India wouldn’t delink the border standoff from the overall bilateral relationship.Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said Monday’s face-off illustrated the urgency of reducing friction between troops of the two sides. “I don’t think either India or China have an incentive to go to war over the border dispute, but the increasing intensity and persistence of friction, along with air activity and the presence of loaded firearms may cause them to ‘stumble’ into war,” he said. “An advertent or inadvertent incident at a local flashpoint could now really fuel a broader conflict that neither government wants, as the forces continue to come into contact with each other,” Narang added. At least half-a-dozen meetings held by local brigade commanders from the two sides since the incidents of August 29-30 have failed to quell tensions on the south bank of Pangong Lake, which has emerged as the latest friction point. Several meetings of the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs too have failed to take forward the stalled disengagement and de-escalation process. The negotiations have been stuck on several key issues, including the mode for determining how troops should pull back, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Chinese officials have been insisting that troops from both sides should withdraw for an equal distance, while the Indian side has said the withdrawal should be determined according to time it takes troops on each side to deploy to the LAC, the people said. “For instance, in some stretches, a kilometre can be covered by troops on one side in 10 minutes, whereas a kilometre on the other side can be covered by troops in five minutes. Both sides should withdraw to a distance where it takes equal time to deploy to the border,” said one of the persons cited above. Experts said the upcoming meeting between Jaishankar and Wang assumes significance following the lack of a breakthrough in recent talks between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe, who too met on the margins of a SCO meeting in Moscow on September 4. Wei contended the responsibility for the tensions lies entirely with India, while Singh said the actions of Chinese troops, including their aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo, violated several bilateral agreements. Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said the latest face-off should be seen as “part of Chinese mindgames before the meeting of the foreign ministers to build pressure on the Indian side to get it to make concessions”. “The Chinese are very conscious of how the Indian government is projecting the link between border tensions and the overall relationship. At the same time, the Indian side has emphasised negotiations and dialogue for an amicable settlement. No one may expect a miracle at the dialogue in Moscow but everyone is looking at it with some hope,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crucial-meet-amid-fresh-lac-face-off/story-6foTXnIYzeH64S38s9PdNO.html
08-09-2020||India||In north Kerala’s Kannur, SDPI worker stabbed to death||A worker of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political wing of the Popular Front of India, was stabbed to death in Kannavam in the politically-volatile north Kerala district of Kannur on Tuesday, the police said. According to the police, he was travelling with some of his family members and the assailants who came in two motorbikes waylaid him and crashed into his vehicle. When he stepped out of the car he was stabbed repeatedly and he died on the spot. The police said deceased Syed Mohammad Salahuddin was one of the accused in the murder of ABVP leader Shyma Prasad two years ago. The seventh accused in Prasad’s murder case, he was out on bail. Though police suspect the alleged role of the RSS in the murder, they said details will be known only after a proper investigation. Kannur is notorious for RSS-CPI (M) clashes and of late workers of the SDPI and Popular Front have also been involved in violent clashes. Last week, three workers of the ruling CPI (M) were injured while country-made bombs they were assembling went off accidentally. All three injured are involved in political murder cases but the embarrassed party later distanced itself from the incident and disowned them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-north-kerala-s-kannur-sdpi-worker-stabbed-to-death/story-KJl7IvpFFfyd5vNY4Kpu9H.html
08-09-2020||India||Bhubaneswar’s fight against Covid hampered by lack of ICU beds||As Bhubaneswar turns into a Covid hotspot with over 5,000 active cases, its fight against the pandemic seems to have become difficult due to lack of ICU beds.As per the government data, of the 268 ICU beds available in Bhubaneswar, almost all the beds have been occupied though about 40 per cent of its ventilator beds are still empty. But with close to 400 cases being added to Bhubaneswar every day, there is a growing concern that the situation may spiral out of control.Khurda, of which Bhubaneswar is a part, is among 14 districts in the country with 5,000 plus active cases. So far 50 persons have died in Bhubaneswar, around 10 per cent of the total deaths in Odisha.Prem Chandra Chaudhury, commissioner of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, however said the situation is under control as around 80 per cent of the cases are asymptomatic. Of the 5,053 active cases till September 8, around 40 per cent are in home isolation while the rest are in Covid care centres and hospitals. Of the 4,300 normal beds available in Bhubaneswar, 80 per cent were occupied though the number of patients from Bhubaneswar in these hospitals was just about 20 per cent.“ICU beds are a matter of concern for us and we are adding more beds. As per ICMR projection, we expect the cases to decline by September 15. But people from other districts too are getting admitted in Bhubaneswar hospitals,” said Chaudhury. “We are increasing 60 more ICU beds and those would start functioning by September 10.” But what is concerning the officials is the rising positivity rate. Though the cumulative positivity rate in Bhubaneswar is 7.56, on Tuesday it went past 10.In neighbouring Cuttack city too, the situation is no better as almost all the ICU beds have been filled up. With 1,907 active cases as on date, almost all the 34 ICU beds in two Covid hospitals have been filled up, though 6 per cent of patients currently require hospitalisation and 2 per cent require ICU care. Cuttack Municipal Corporation Commissioner Ananya Das said 25 ICU beds in a new Covid hospital have started functioning from Tuesday, while another 50 ICU beds will start operating in another hospital from Thursday evening.“Right now we are able to absorb new patients as some patients don’t require ICU after some days of hospitalisation. Our number of cases seem to be flattening as per epidemiologists. But we are still searching for more hospitals,” said Das.Though the government has been trying to create new Covid infrastructure by adding more beds, it is not able to find trained doctors as well as the paramedics needed to man the ICU beds. “For intubation of critical patients, some amount of experience is necessary. Though the state has managed to train doctors and paramedics, it is not possible in such a short time. So even if ICU beds are available in districts, they are of little use unless there are trained doctors,” said Narayan Rout, president of Odisha Medical Service Association, an organisation of government doctors in the state.In a state where the doctor patient ratio is a staggering 1: 2597 against a national average of 1: 1,457, the lack of adequate number of doctors as well as paramedics have hit hard its ability to fight the pandemic. A doctor working in Bargarh district - now becoming a new Covid hotspot - growing infection among the healthcare staff was also putting more pressure. Three days ago, the Bargarh CHC was shut down after a staff of the health facility tested positive for Covid-19.“During Covid fight, at least eight doctors have succumbed to the virus while dozens of other healthcare staff and nurses have died. No one knows how many have actually died. The Centre had announced Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia for the next of kin of doctors who died during Covid. But Odisha is yet to extend that to the doctors here,” said a senior doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhubaneswar-s-fight-against-covid-hampered-by-lack-of-icu-beds/story-oEftW0bBBU0CbWl0GszI8K.html
08-09-2020||India||Schools to partially reopen for 9-12 class students amid Covid-19 pandemic: All you need to know||With easing of restrictions in ‘Unlock 4’, the government has allowed partial reopening of schools for class 9 to class 12 students on voluntary basis, officials said. The partial reopening of schools will kick in from September 21.In order to control the disease outbreak among students, teachers and other staff members, government has issued guidelines — including generic preventive measures, protocols in planning of reopening schools, while transportation, risk communication — that need to be followed by the school authorities. Here’s all you need to know:Generic preventive measures to be followed by teachers, employees and students:- Physical distancing of at least 6 feet to be followed as far as feasible.- Use of face covers/masks to be made mandatory.- Frequent hand washing with soap (for at least 40-60 seconds) even when hands are not visibly dirty. Use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers (for at least 20 seconds) can be done wherever feasible.- Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed. This involves strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing off used tissues properly.- Self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest.- Spitting shall be strictly prohibited.- Installation and use of Aarogya Setu App may be advised wherever feasible.Guidelines to be followed before opening up of the school:- Schools that were used as quarantine centres will be properly sanitized and deep cleaned before partial functioning is resumed.- Only school which fall outside the containment zones will be allowed to open. Further, students, teachers and employees living in containment zones will not be allowed to attend the school. Students, teachers and employees will also be advised not to visit areas falling within containment zones.- Students from class 9 to 12 will have the option of attending the classes remotely/virtually or physically only on a voluntary basis for guidance from their teachers subject to written permission of parent / guardian.- At all times, the teachers and students shall maintain a physical distancing of 6 feet apart, wherever feasible. Scheduling of activities and seating plan should be made accordingly.- Assemblies, sports and events that can lead to overcrowding are strictly prohibited.- Lockers of students will remain in use, as long as physical distancing and regular disinfection is maintained. - Swimming pools to remain closed for operations.- At the entry point, school entrance will need to have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions. Multiple gates/separate gates, if feasible, should be used for entry and exit.Conduct of guidance activities in the rooms or open spaces within the school campus:- Seating arrangement to ensure a distance of 6 feet between chairs and desks used by students and teachers. - Staggering of guidance activities to be done, with separate timing slots, to allow for adequate physical distancing and disinfection of classroom premises- The teaching faculty will ensure that they themselves and students wear masks throughout the conduct of the teaching/guidance activities.- Sharing of items like notebook, pens, pencil, eraser, water bottle among students should not be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-to-partially-reopen-for-9-12-class-students-amid-covid-19-pandemic-all-you-need-to-know/story-69JTjOFVPVUa60ZcjI6lnN.html
08-09-2020||India||Surat reports 265 new Covid-19 cases; 6 die, 231 discharged||The number of coronavirus cases in Surat rose to 23,158 on Tuesday with 265 more persons testing positive for the infection, the highest for a district in Gujarat, the state health department said.With six more fatalities, also the highest in the state, the death toll in the south Gujarat district rose to 906, it said.Surat city reported 177 new cases Covid-19 and the rural parts of the district 88.Both the city and the rural parts reported three fatalities each, the department said in a release.At the same time, 231 patients were discharged from hospitals following recovery - 179 in the city and 52 in the rural areas - it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-reports-265-new-covid-19-cases-6-die-231-discharged/story-t0n8fhkhDunnqyIBjjLMXK.html
08-09-2020||India||Govt invites tender for 741 km long Mumbai-Nagpur high-speed rail corridor||The government on Tuesday invited tenders to conduct a survey for a 741 km long high-speed rail corridor from Mumbai to Nagpur for potentially running a Bullet Train on the route. The high speed rail corridor will also pass through Nasik in Maharashtra.The project implementing agency National High-Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL) has been entrusted by the railways to prepare Detailed Project Reports (DPR) for seven new high-speed rail corridors.The tender reviewed by Hindustan Times has been issued for carrying out ‘survey, identification of overhead, overground, underground utilities and identification of power sourcing options for substations’ along the proposed Mumbai-Nasik-Nagpur High-Speed Rail Corridor.The national transporter has also begun feasibility studies on seven other potential high-speed corridors to gauge their financial viability and estimated traffic they will attract. The Indian Railways is exploring whether the corridors would be viable to run high-speed Bullet Trains with speeds above 300 kmph.The seven proposed corridors are Delhi-Varanasi (865 km) Varanasi-Howrah (760 km), Delhi–Ahmedabad, Mumbai–Nagpur (741 km), Mumbai–Hyderabad (711 km), Chennai-Mysore (435 km) and Delhi–Amritsar (459 km).“The length of the corridors as mentioned is tentative and subject to change as per actual survey,” a NHSRCL spokesperson said.NHSRCL has also floated tenders related to data collection for the Delhi–Jaipur-Udaipur-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor and the Delhi–Lucknow–Varanasi HSR corridor.The 886 km long Delhi-Ahmedabad high speed rail project will pass through Jaipur and Udaipur in Rajasthan.This also comes at time when the Centre’s first bullet train project from Ahmedabad to Mumbai is facing delays and may fail to meet its 2023 deadline.The timeline of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor will need to be reassessed due to Covid 19, but the real timeframe for its completion can be provided only within the next three to six months, railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said on Saturday.Last Friday, Hindustan Times had reported that the work on land acquisition and tendering for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor may face delays due to Covid-19 and the Bullet Train may fail to meet its 2023 deadline.So far, 63 per cent land has been acquired for the project, according to the railways.The project has had to contend with issues ranging from protests by landowners to rising costs because of a widening gap between the Indian rupee and the Japanese yen; 80 percent of the Rs 1 trillion needed to fund the project will come from a 20-year Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) loan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-invites-bids-for-741-km-long-mumbai-nagpur-high-speed-rail-corridor/story-MIWynnevuVdjFMFyeBdtcJ.html
08-09-2020||India||India, Iran foreign ministers review bilateral ties, regional situation||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif reviewed bilateral cooperation and held talks on regional developments during a meeting in Tehran on Tuesday. Jaishankar made a stopover in Iran to meet Zarif on his way to Russia, where he will participate in a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) during September 9-10 and also hold talks with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. He was the second Indian minister to make a brief visit to Iran in two days. Defence minister Rajnath Singh held talks with his Iranian counterpart Amir Hatami during a stopover in Tehran on Sunday while on his way back from Russia, where he too attended a SCO meeting. In a tweet, Jaishankar described his meeting with Zarif as “productive”. He added, “Discussed strengthening our bilateral cooperation and reviewed regional developments.” Zarif tweeted that he and Jaishankar discussed the “expansion of bilateral relations and trade, and exchanged views on important regional issues”. He said, “Our active engagement with our neighbourhood is our top priority.” Iranian foreign ministry spokesperson Saeed Khatibzadeh noted in a tweet that Jaishankar was visiting Tehran “a couple of days” after the Indian defence minister. “During the talks, the two sides emphasised on their will to further expand the bilateral ties in all aspects,” he said. There was no readout from both countries on the meeting. The visits to Tehran by the Indian cabinet ministers assume significance in view of reports that China and Iran are close to an agreement for a 25-year strategic partnership in trade, politics and security. They also came against the backdrop of India working closely with Iran to increase the economic viability of the strategic Chabahar port. The evolving situation in Afghanistan, where an intra-Afghan dialogue is set to get underway, is believed to have figured in the talks between Jaishankar and Zarif. Jaishankar last visited Iran in December last and had spoken to Zarif in April. This is his first trip abroad since foreign travel by ministers was curtailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-iran-foreign-ministers-review-bilateral-ties-regional-situation/story-oEbtFNQbRe8WVovmG4yBaI.html
08-09-2020||India||1,295 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, 13 deaths, 1,445 recover||Gujarat’s coronavirus tally rose to 1,06,966 with 1,295 new cases being reported on Tuesday, the state health department said.The Covid-19 death toll in the state rose to 3,136 with 13 more fatalities, it added. At the same time, the number of recovered cases at 1,445 outnumbered the new cases on Tuesday, increasing the total number of recovered patients in the stateto 87,479.With this, the state’s recovery rate rose to 81.78 per cent.Surat district reported the highest 265 new cases, followed by Ahmedabad at 170 cases, Rajkot 134, Vadodara 124, Jamnagar 99, Bhavnagar 41, Junagadh 36, Panchmahal 34, Kutch 32, Patan 28, Amreli 27, Morbi 26, Mehsana 23, Banaskantha and Bharuch 22 each, Dahod 20, Devbhumi Dwarka 19, Anand, Mahisagar and Surendranagar 15 each.Out of 13 fatalities, six were reported from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Rajkot and one each from Gandhinagar and Vadodara.There are 16,351 active cases in the state, out of which82 patients are on ventilator. A total of 72,076 samples were tested for coronavirus in the last 24 hours, at the rate of 1,108.86 tests per day per million population.Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,06,966, new cases 1,295, deaths 3,136, discharged 87,479, active cases 16,351 and people tested so far 29,25,447.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-295-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-13-deaths-1-445-recover/story-P5DJHAhtyKeIDmTIvxqewL.html
08-09-2020||India||Gehlot decides not to meet people for one month after string of infections at CMO, his residence||After nearly 40 personnel at the Chief Minister’s Office and his residence tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has decided not to meet people for the next one month, according to a release.“As per the advice of doctors, the chief minister has decided not to meet people for the next one month. During this time he will participate only through video conference,” a release said. Nearly 40 personnel of the CMO and the Chief Minister’s Residence (CMR) including some security staff have tested positive for the novel coronavirus over the last few days. The chief minister also appealed to the people to follow social distancing norms, wear face masks and take all precautions to stay safe from the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-decides-not-to-meet-people-for-one-month-after-string-of-infections-at-cmo-his-residence/story-PDGUJq75wh7zFQKKeuLRaP.html
08-09-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh reintroduces Deendayal Rasoi Scheme for meals at Rs 10||Deendayal Antyodaya Rasoi Scheme to provide meals at a subsidised rate to underprivileged people was re-introduced in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. Now the rate per thali has been increased to Rs 10 from Rs 5, said an officer from the urban development and housing department. The decision was taken in the fifth virtual cabinet meeting, held on Tuesday through video conferencing. The scheme, which was launched in 2017 in 49 districts of the state in the name of BJP ideologue Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya, had been discontinued by the previous Congress government in May 2019. Then chief minister Kamal Nath had announced to introduce Indira Thali scheme to provide food to poor people at a subsidised rate but the scheme couldn’t be implemented. The initiative replicated the state-run Amma canteens, started by former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa, to provide food to the poor at low prices.After coming to power in March this year, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made an announcement of reintroducing the scheme. “Now, the number of kitchens will be increased from 56 to 100 this year. The urban development department has given the responsibility to run the kitchens. The necessary changes have been made in the scheme to get the financial support as the municipal corporations, which were bearing the responsibility of running the kitchens effectively, had complained of financial crunch earlier,” said the officer, who did not wish to be named. “Under the scheme, the food civil supplies and consumer protection department has given responsibility of ensuring the availability of wheat and rice as per demand. Not only this, the state government has also given responsibility for generating funds for smooth implementation of the scheme to the Department of Industrial Policy and Investment Promotion under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR),” said Narottam Mishra, minister of home department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-reintroduces-deendayal-rasoi-scheme-for-meals-at-rs-10/story-sgM9KsOXigNT5to1ybIIhO.html
08-09-2020||India||In Bengal, assembly session to be held for 1 day, Covid-19 test must for all||The monsoon session of the West Bengal legislative assembly will be held only for one day, instead of two days, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “It has been decided that the house will be adjourned after an obituary reference and placing of a few reports,” Biman Banerjee, speaker of the legislative assembly told reporters on Tuesday. Even though it had been decided earlier to hold the monsoon session for two days on September 9 and 10, on Tuesday an all-party meeting was held in which it was decided that the session would be held only on September 9. Several MLAs, house staff and journalists underwent a Covid-19 test in the assembly premises as part of safety norms ahead of the monsoon session. “Everyone from MLAs to staff of the assembly, security personnel and media personnel will have to undergo Rapid Antigen Tests without which the person won’t be allowed in,” said Tapas Roy, minister of state for parliamentary affairs and a spokesperson of the ruling Trinamool Congress. The 294-member West Bengal assembly was adjourned sine die on March 17 as the state budget session was curtailed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-assembly-session-to-be-held-for-1-day-covid-19-test-must-for-all/story-mn7gx8VakAr7qG5ELFCgcK.html
08-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea rejected, sent to judicial custody till Sept 22||Actor Rhea Chakraborty was on Tuesday sent to judicial custody till September 22 for her alleged involvement in procuring and consuming drugs in a drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The actor’s bail plea was rejected by the district magistrate. The 28-year-old was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) earlier in the day after three days of questioning by the agency.NCB has claimed in the remand application that Chakraborty used to procure drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput’s consumption. The agency has also claimed that Chakraborty also used to “manage finances for drug procurement along with Sushant Singh Rajput”. Top officials of the drug agency had said that they will not be seeking Rhea Chakraborty’s custody but will oppose if she seeks bail. Also read | Rhea Chakraborty gives NCB names of ‘top Bollywood celebrities’ who may have consumed drugs: reportChakraborty’s arrest comes days after NCB arrested her brother Showik, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and his house help Dipesh Sawant.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are also proving the case with different angles. Chakraborty has been questioned by both the agencies.The CBI has also questioned her parents Indrajit and Sandhya Chakraborty. Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, roommate and creative director Siddharth Pithani, his former business manager Shruti Modi and house manager Samuel Miranda were also questioned by the agency.Also read | Abetment to suicide, cheating: Rhea Chakraborty’s charges against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, doctorThe CBI took over the investigation into Rajput’s death last month based on a FIR filed by his father KK Singh. The actor was found dead in his rented Bandra house on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-september-22/story-eF28bmO6LbpgHLOMMsogHI.html
08-09-2020||India||Temple chariot gutted in fire in Andhra’s Antarvedi, protests follow||The burning of a 62-year-old chariot on the premises of famous Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district on Sunday has triggered unrest from Hindu religious groups across the state. Antarvedi is one of the most revered Vaishnavite religious centres in Andhra Pradesh. The chariot, made of teakwood and used during the procession of the Lord in festive seasons, was burnt to ashes in the early hours of Sunday. The closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed near the chariot did not function. On Tuesday, hundreds of activists belonging to various Hindu groups, including Vishva Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Haindava Sakthi, Hindu Chaitanya Vedika and Dharmaveer Adhyatmik Vedika, etc, stormed the temple located at the confluence of River Godavari. Raising “Jai Sriram” slogans, these activists jumped over the barricades put up at a distance from the temple by the police to prevent untoward incidents. The activists lay siege to the temple demanding that the government order a judicial inquiry into the burning of the chariot allegedly by some miscreants. Alleging that there was a deep-rooted conspiracy behind the burning of chariot, the Hindu activists tried to gherao endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas, social welfare minister P Viswaroop and BC welfare minister Chelluboina Venugopala Krishna were inspecting the spot where the chariot was burnt. The ministers were whisked away by the police. The endowments minister told reporters that the government had taken serious note of the incident and ordered an in-depth departmental inquiry. “We have already transferred temple executive officer N V S Chakradhar Rao and suspended a couple of other temple employees for their alleged negligence,” he said. Stating that the government would take steps to prevent recurrence of such incidents, Srinivas suspected that a conspiracy was going on against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government and it would be foiled. The minister promised that a new chariot would be readied at a cost of Rs 93 lakh before the Lord’s celestial festival in February. BJP Andhra Pradesh president Somu Veerraju said the Antarvedi incident had badly hurt the sentiments of the Hindus. “Ever since YS Jagan Mohan Reddy came to power, there have been attacks on various temples, causing a lot of anguish among the Hindus,” he said. Stating that there was an attempt to wipe out Hindutva in the state, Veerraju demanded that the government act sternly against those accused in the incident. “Otherwise, the BJP will have to take a tough stand against the YSRCP government in Andhra,” he warned. Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu and Jana Sena Party chief Pawan Kalyan also denounced the Antarvedi incident. Several Hindu seers like Kamalananda Bharati, Swaroopanandendra Saraswati, Dr CS Rangarajan of Chilkur Balaji temple in Hyderabad condemned the burning of the chariot at Antarvedi. They alleged that the government was giving lame excuses whenever there was an attack on Hindu places of worship. “Last time when a chariot was damaged in Nellore district, police said some mentally unstable persons had done it. Now, they are saying a short circuit is the reason. But there is an organised attempt to attack the Hindu temples in Andhra Pradesh,” Rangarajan said. Seer of Visakhapatnam Sri Sarada Peetham, Swaroopanandendra Saraswati, described the fire accident as unfortunate. He said it was a matter of sentiment for Hindus. He demanded a probe to identify the reasons for it and punish the guilty. Meanwhile, the state police set up five special teams to conduct a thorough probe into the incident. The teams are functioning under the aegis of Eluru range deputy inspector general of police K V Mohan Rao, East Godavari district superintendent of police Nayeem Asmi and forensic inspector general Rajendra Sen. Initial investigations revealed that some miscreants set fire to the dried palm tree leaves covering the chariot to drive away honey bees which formed a hive above the chariot. “However, there are no fire safety measures in the temple and there was not even a watchman to oversee the temple protection,” an official familiar with the development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temple-chariot-gutted-in-fire-in-andhra-s-antarvedi-protests-follow/story-G7pWxkARxY5Z6hvQ60oLlO.html
08-09-2020||India||ED probes over 24 transactions in Deepak Kochhar’s accounts. It includes one by his wife||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is investigating over two dozen transactions worth over Rs 15 crore in Deepak Kochhar’s three bank accounts in Mumbai between 2008 and 2019, people familiar with the development said. Two transactions, one worth Rs 2.20 crore by Chanda Kochhar in her husband’s account on November 23, 2010 and another – worth Rs 1.39 crore - by her sister Karna Varuna Jaiprakash on January 14, 2016, are of particular interest for the ED investigators. The central agency had sought details from Deepak Kochhar about these two payments in his HDFC Bank account but he had not provided the same till Monday. In fact, he was questioned about these transactions before the arrest, an officer who didn’t want to be named, said. ED is also looking into the transactions - including date, amount involved and purpose of transactions - carried out by Deepak Kochhar with two companies - Pacific Capital Services Pvt Ltd (PCSPL) and Opel Properties Pvt Ltd (OPPL) – allegedly linked to him, according to documents accessed by HT. It says that Deepak Kochhar received Rs 40 lakh in his DBS Bank account in Mumbai from OPPL on June 26, 2009 out of which Rs 39 lakh was transferred to his company NuPower Renewables Ltd (NRL) the very next day. Subsequently, he got Rs 75,000 from OPPL on January 27, 2010. In all, there were nine transactions in DBS, documents suggest. On May 2, 2008, he received Rs 20 lakh in his ICICI Bank account in Mumbai from OPPL, which was transferred to NRL on May 4 (two days later). An amount of Rs 65,000 was received by him in the same account from PCSPL on July 30, 2008. ED documents also reveal that that ED had sought details of at least 15 transactions in Deepak Kochhar’s HDFC Bank account on different occasions as it wants to know the details of sender and purpose of transfer. The 15 payments, totaling around Rs 9 crore, were made within a period of three months, from June 29, 2010 and September 18, 2010. These payments ranged from Rs 4 lakh to Rs 2 crore. The official cited above said – “All these transactions point to layering and money laundering. But we want to be sure so we asked Deepak Kochhar. However, he was being evasive. We hope he will reveal all details during custodial interrogation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-probes-over-24-transactions-in-deepak-kochhar-s-accounts-it-includes-one-by-his-wife/story-6vof1QbGH5gcQSqjMxB4OI.html
08-09-2020||India||NDA hails Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest in Bihar; DGP says stand vindicated||The ruling NDA in Bihar on Tuesday asserted that Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest by Narcotics Control Bureau was “an important step” in the direction of securing justice for Patna-born actor Sushant Singh Rajput whose death has struck an emotional chord with the people of the state. The JD(U)-BJP alliance also lambasted the actor for lodging a “baseless” FIR against the sisters of the deceased actor and questioned the “support” extended to her by the Uddhav Thackeray government in Maharashtra, for “reasons the Shiv Sena knows better”. Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey also reacted with an air of vindication on the development. “Rhea has finally been arrested. We have been seeking a CBI inquiry into the case since the very beginning as the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai police seemed intent on driving the probe in a wrong direction. “ED too has lodged a case against the actress and investigations seem to have opened a can of worms”, BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said in a statement. He expressed confidence that the CBI will ultimately crack the case and ensure justice for the late actor. On Rhea filing an FIR against Rajput’s sisters, Anand said “Chakraborty has exposed herself by doing this. The development flies in the face of her professed love for the actor, whose father had leveled serious allegations against the actress in the FIR he had lodged at Patna. The BJP spokesman, whose party had been an ally of the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra for more than two decades until the exit of the Uddhav Thackeray-led party from the NDA last year, also launched a stinging attack on its spokesman Sanjay Raut. “In the Sena mouthpiece Saamna, Raut had been coming out in support of Chakraborty and making appalling observations about the bereaved family of Rajput. This shows that the Shiv Sena did not want that the truth be out in the case, for reasons it knows better”, he added. The JD(U), headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, also expressed satisfaction over the arrest of the actress and said it hoped that the investigations will wipe Bollywood clean of many ills that plague the Hindi film industry. “Our government agreed to launch an investigation and, later hand it over to the CBI, because the bereaved father had requested the same and also in view of the fact that the probe taking place in Mumbai did not inspire faith. “The CBI inquiry has virtually exposed the dark underbelly of Bollywood, including the close links between narcotics traders and celebrities”, JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Prasad also said that Chakrabrotys FIR, lodged a few hours ahead of her arrest and accusing the deceased actors sisters of administering narcotics to him were ample proof that “she is rattled by the CBI inquiry and the consequences it may have for her given her suspected complicity”. The NDAs another partner in Bihar, Lok Janshakti Party, also hailed the arrest of the actress. LJP president Chirag Paswan, who was among the first politicians in Bihar to demand a CBI probe into the death of the actor, tweeted “NCB today arrested Rhea Chakraborty in a narcotics matter. This development would silence all those who had been standing in her suppor”. Paswan also added the hashtagjusticeforSushantSinghRajput. The 34-year-old actor was found hanging from the ceiling of his Bandra residence on June 14. More than a month later, an FIR was lodged at the local police station here by his father K K Singh who resides in Rajiv Nagar locality of the city. Investigation launched by the Bihar police had raised the hackles of the administration in Maharashtra where the government came out in support of Chakrabortys contention, made before the Supreme Court, that since the death had taken place in the western state, the actors home state had no jurisdiction in the matter. Things reached a flashpoint when an IPS officer from Patna, who was sent to Mumbai to head the investigating team, was forcibly quarantined hours after landing in the metropolis, in a move that was seen as an attempt to sabotage the investigation. Exasperated over the stalemate, Singh requested that the probe be handed over to the CBI, which was promptly granted by the Nitish Kumar government. Meanwhile, Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey who has ruffled many feathers in the recent past with his outspokenness, reacted with an air of vindication. “Rhea Chakrabortys arrest proves that she has some links with drug peddlers and that she is not without blemishes.Moreover, the Mumbai police carried out its investigation in a manner that could not inspire faith and when we tried to probe the matter hurdles were put in our way. “I am now confident that the mystery surrounding the death of Sushant will be unfolded and truth will come out, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-hails-rhea-chakraborty-s-arrest-in-bihar-dgp-says-stand-vindicated/story-8ev0IDw2MvrG5uTTsV9KNN.html
08-09-2020||India||Schools for students of Class 9, Class 12 can reopen on voluntary basis from September 21||As the government starts unlocking activities phase-wise in Unlock 4, the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare on Tuesday issued SOP (Standard Operating Procedures) for partial reopening of schools for students of Class 9 and Class 12 on a voluntary basis to seek guidance from teachers. This would be allowed from September 21, the ministry said.“Health Ministry issues SOP for partial reopening of Schools for students of 9th-12th classes on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers in the context of Covid-19,” the health ministry announced on Twitter.The SOP in health ministry’s fresh guidelines includes various safety measures against Covid-19. “These measures need to be observed by all (teachers, employees and students) in these places at all times,” the ministry said in the guidelines issued.The students of class 9th and 12th who wish to visit their school to speak to their teachers regarding their academics will have to submit a written consent of their parents or guardians, the SOP said.The health ministry issued social distancing precautions such as hand washing and use of face masks. Below are the guidelines mentioned in the SOP released by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare:- Physical distancing of at least 6 feet to be followed as far as feasible.- Use of face covers/masks to be made mandatory.- Frequent hand washing with soap (for at least 40-60 seconds) even when hands are not visibly dirty.- Use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers (for at least 20 seconds) can be done wherever feasible.- Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed. This involves strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing off used tissues properly.- Self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest.- Spitting shall be strictly prohibited.- Installation & use of Aarogya Setu App may be advised wherever feasible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-for-students-of-class-9-12-can-reopen-on-voluntary-basis-from-september-21/story-LT3YXF33zVMVwORCWSPZcM.html
08-09-2020||India||Rafale jets to be formally inducted into IAF on Thursday; French defence minister to attend event||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, his French counterpart Florence Parly and India’s top military brass will attend a ceremony in Ambala airbase on Thursday to formally induct five Rafale fighter jets into the Indian Air Force, officials said.Parly and Singh will hold talks in Ambala on ways to further deepen bilateral defence and security cooperation after the ceremony, they said. The French defence minister is scheduled to arrive Thursday morning and will depart late afternoon, the officials said.The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. The jets, produced by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are yet to be formally inducted into the IAF. Ten Rafale jets have been delivered to India so far and five of them stayed back in France for imparting training to IAF pilots. The delivery of all 36 aircraft is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021. A second batch of four to five Rafale jets are likely to arrive in India by November. Sources said a preliminary discussion on a possible procurement of another batch of 36 Rafale jets by India from France may figure in the talks between Singh and Parly.The Rafale jets, known for air-superiority and precision strikes, are India’s first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The Rafale jet is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA’s Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets.  Meteor is a next generation beyond visual range air-to-air missile (BVRAAM) designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden. Out of 36 Rafale jets, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. The trainer jets will be twin-seater and they will have almost all the features of the fighter jets. While the first squadron of the Rafale jets will be stationed at Ambala air base, the second one will be based at Hasimara base in West Bengal. The new fleet will be part of the 17 Squadron of the IAF which was resurrected on September 10 last year. The squadron was originally raised at Air Force Station, Ambala on Oct 1 1951. The 17 Squadron has many firsts to its credit; in 1955 it was equipped with the first jet fighter, the legendary De Havilland Vampire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-to-be-formally-inducted-into-iaf-on-thursday-french-defence-minister-to-attend-event/story-AieFPS0P9089hmEaUczELJ.html
08-09-2020||India||CM Mamata Banerjee’s 100 sit-ups solution for those spreading fake news||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee directed police to publicly humiliate those responsible for spreading rumors related to imposing restrictions during the Durga Puja. “Find out from where the messages have originated and make the accused persons do 100 sit ups holding their ears in public. I want to see it. Don’t hit them. Who gave them the right to malign Bengal and play with the sentiments of Bengalis?” said Banerjee. The chief minister was addressing the top brass of the state’s police force and senior bureaucrats while observing Police Day at the state secretariat. Launching a veiled attack, the Trinamool Congress said the “IT cell (of a party)” was hard at spreading rumours in the state. “Since Tuesday morning, rumors are being spread by the IT cell that the state government would impose restrictions, including night-long curfew during Durga Puja. Either you prove that the state has imposed restrictions or do sit-ups holding your ears. If you can prove that the government has done it, I would do 100 sit-ups holding my ears in public,” she added. A message was circulated on WhatsApp claiming that the West Bengal government has imposed several restrictions during the festive season. The West Bengal police have already tweeted that the message was fake and that the persons who uploaded such fake messages would be booked soon. “They (the police) first need to prove who has done this. All they do is implicate people in false cases. Second, there is no provision in law to make a person do sit-ups holding his ears. There is a legal system and courts are there to give punishments,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary of the BJP. However, this is not the first time that Banerjee has challenged someone to hold ears and do sit-ups. In May 2019 when PM Modi alleged that TMC leaders in Purulia and Bankura were working as coal mafias, Banerjee hit back asking the PM to perform 100 sit-ups holding his ears if he is proved wrong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-banerjee-s-100-sit-ups-solution-for-those-spreading-fake-news/story-YakG92iCjVeX6lFdyycwJL.html
08-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Guwahati faces scarcity of hospital beds and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid surging Covid cases, Guwahati stares at scarcity of hospital bedsWith 2,785 new Covid-19 cases recorded on Monday, Assam’s tally of positive patients reached 128,244. The fresh cases have put an additional burden on the state’s healthcare facilities, particularly the availability of beds. Read moreGoogle bans 6 malware-infected apps from the Play Store, uninstall them right nowThe notorious Joker malware has turned up on the Google Play Store again just after the platform banned 11 apps in July this year for being infected with the malware. Cybersecurity firm Pradeo has now identified six new apps that have the Joker malware and are on the Play Store, Zee News reported. The firm said that these infected applications have nearly 200,000 downloads. Read more‘Rhea Chakraborty a scapegoat, should reveal names of masterminds behind Sushant Singh Rajput’s epic fall’: Kangana RanautActor Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Sushant Singh Rajput case has led to diverse reactions from Bollywood personalities. While many like filmmaker Alankrita Srivastava has likened it to witch-hunt, actor Kangana Ranaut has claimed that Rhea should ‘expose everyone now’. Read moreIrony only one Indian head coach in IPL: Anil KumbleAt 49, Anil Kumble has witnessed a lot. The greatest Indian bowler, with most hauls in ODIs and Tests, and one of only two players ever to take all 10 wickets in a Test innings, has also captained and coached the national team. Read moreMan’s tabla skills impress netizens. Seen it yet?The Internet is filled with videos showcasing amazing musical skills of people. From singing in a soothing voice to playing piano in a melodious way, the examples are many. Now, there is a latest inclusion to that list and it’s a video which shows amazing tabla playing skills of an individual. There’s a high possibility the video will leave you mesmerised. Read moreSonakshi Sinha stuns on magazine cover in Rs 6.5k outfit. Get the lookSonakshi Sinha has a very unique sense of fashion, the actor’s free spirited demeanour come through her style and while most of us are sitting at home, working on our desktops pajamas, the Akira actor’s latest social media post will make you want to buy formal wear, even if it is just to attend Zoom calls at home.  Read moreWatch: Why Special Frontier Force deployment at LAC rattled ChinaChina continues to provoke India at the LAC in Ladakh. In the latest, the Chinese troops engaged in provocative action along the Rechin La region, south of Pangong Tso Lake. China then blamed India forces and alleged that Indian troops had crossed the LAC and fired warning shots on Chinese border patrol soldiers who were about to negotiate. The Indian Army though countered the Chinese and said that Indian forces had not crossed the LAC and added that the PLA has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive acts. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-guwahati-faces-scarcity-of-hospital-beds-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6VHMJR1sTI3jcavXimz8eL.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19: With 3,609 cases, Delhi records highest ever infections in over 78 days||Delhi on Tuesday recorded highest cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in over 2 months after 3,609 people tested positive for the viral contagion. The fresh cases have pushed the cumulative tally in the national capital past 1.97 lakh mark. The death toll in Delhi reached 4,618 after 19 new deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. Delhi could enter the second wave of disease outbreak if it surpasses its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases on June 23. According to the health bulletin, Delhi logged positivity rate at 7.8 per cent on Tuesday, with cumulative positivity rate at 10.66 per cent. In the last 24 hours, the authorities conducted 45,797 tests — out of which 9,944 were RTPCR tests and 35,853 were rapid antigen tests.Active cases in Delhi have risen significantly in the last one month. While the active cases hovered around 10,000-mark in August, the national capital recorded 22,377 active cases on Tuesday. Out of these, 11,742 people are in home isolation.  The case fatality rate in Delhi was recorded at 2.34 per cent. The number of containment zones stands at 1,166.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-breaks-record-sees-highest-ever-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours/story-2teLcsP7URYxeiIPxpm3TK.html
08-09-2020||India||Day after shots fired, PLA troops parked 200 metres from India-controlled Mukhpari peak||The Indian Army on Tuesday said Chinese troops fired their weapons into the air on September 7 to intimidate its soldiers holding dominating heights near a strategic mountain pass in eastern Ladakh, during a failed attempt to close in on a forward position controlled by India, with bullets flying at the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) for the first time in 45 years. Soldiers from the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) attempted to advance on the Mukhpari peak near Rezang La on Monday evening but they stopped in their tracks after a stern warning from the Indian Army that occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday, requesting anonymity. ALSO WATCH | Why Special Frontier Force deployment at LAC rattled ChinaALSO READ | ‘India fired first’: China repeats after New Delhi says PLA fired near Pangong TsoIndian soldiers had put up a “wire obstacle” near their positions in a warning to the PLA to not cross over, they said. The situation remains tense in the area with around 40 to 50 Chinese soldiers armed with automatic weapons, spears and machetes still holding positions below the Mukhpari peak, said one of the officials cited above. “They are the same soldiers who fired the shots. Our positions are around 200 metres away. They have been in the area for the last two to three days. The PLA’s intent is to occupy high ground,” said a second official. Reacting to a statement made by the PLA’s Western Theatre Command that accused India of crossing the disputed border and firing shots on Monday, the Indian Army said it neither violated the LAC nor fired bullets and the PLA was trying to mislead domestic and international audience with its baseless allegations. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Indian Army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said Indian troops exercised “great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner” despite grave provocation by the PLA. “It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress,” the statement said. ALSO READ | PLA move in Ladakh is part of Beijing plan to destabilize IndiaThe latest tensions in eastern Ladakh come days after defence minister Rajnath Singh asked China to strictly respect the LAC, not make attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, and work with India for complete disengagement from all friction areas in the sensitive sector. “On September 7, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in on one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by Indian troops, the PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops,” the army statement said. It did not specify how Indian soldiers “dissuaded” the PLA. The army said while India was committed to disengagement and de-escalating the conflict, China was undertaking provocative actions to escalate the situation.“At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to the use of any aggressive means, including firing,” the statement said. “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility. However, it is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs. The statement by the Western Theatre Command is an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience,” it added. The Western Theatre Command on Monday accused Indian soldiers of illegally crossing the LAC and firing “warning shots,” forcing the PLA to take countermeasures. During a meeting with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe in Moscow on Friday, Singh made it clear that India was fully determined to defend its frontiers. He told the Chinese defence minister that the PLA’s aggressive actions in the Ladakh sector to unilaterally change the status quo on the ground violated bilateral agreements and the understanding between the special representatives of the two sides. Singh said while Indian troops showed a responsible approach towards border management, there should be no doubt about India’s determination to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Tensions flared up in the Ladakh sector after the army occupied strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake following aggressive moves by the PLA on August 29. China made another provocative move on August 31, targeting these positions but the Indian Army’s swift defensive action thwarted the Chinese attempt. Both sides have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces, and are within each other’s rifle range in the area. The situation on the lake’s southern bank remains tense with both armies sending in reinforcements to the area where the Indian Army controls ridgeline positions that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity --- India holds a series of positions near Black Top (a hill feature) and on Rezang La and Reqin pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-shots-fired-pla-troops-parked-200-metres-from-india-controlled-mukhpari-peak/story-OZA901e2KSBOuZmLbQ0cYI.html
08-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest will ‘silence’ her supporters: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Tuesday said the arrest of actor Rhea Chakraborty will “silence” those supporting her.  “The NCB has arrested Rhea Chakraborty in the drugs case. This arrest will silence all those who were standing with her,” he said in a tweet in Hindi with the hashtag “Justice for Sushant Singh Rajput”.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested Chakraborty after questioning her for three days in connection with drugs-related allegations in her boyfriend and actor Sushant’s death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-s-arrest-will-silence-her-supporters-chirag-paswan/story-SPIX8DJIFyHmJIGkb9mVoN.html
08-09-2020||India||Security tightens for Kangana Ranaut as she returns to Mumbai tomorrow||Kangana Ranaut, who is scheduled to return to Mumbai from her home town Himachal Pradesh on September 9, will be guarded by 11 CRPF personnel, the Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday. The Queen actor was given Y-plus category security after she started receiving threats. The actor had likened Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir, which led to an uproar in the country.“Kangana Ranaut is scheduled to go to Mumbai on Sep 9. We are assessing the situation that might arise there. I’ve directed DGP to give her proper security. Ministry of Home Affairs approved Y+ security to her,11 CRPF personnel have been deployed for the same,” CM Jai Ram Thakur said.Ranaut is currently in the midst of controversy after she said that she felt unsafe in Mumbai following actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and also spoke of drug use in a section of the film industry. Her comments led to a tiff with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut over social media, with Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh saying “she has no right to stay in Mumbai”.“Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?” she had tweeted.On Tuesday, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a probe against Kangana Ranaut based on alleged drug claims made by Adhyayan Suman – the former boyfriend of actor Kangana Ranaut – in an interview three years ago.Ranaut said that she was more than willing to go through drug tests and was ready for an investigation into her call records. “I am more than happy to oblige Mumbai Police and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Please do my drug tests, investigate my call records if you find any links to drug peddlers ever I will accept my mistake and leave Mumbai forever, looking forward to meeting you,” Kangana Ranaut tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-tightens-for-kangana-ranaut-as-she-returns-to-mumbai-tomorrow/story-VYV52s2g8MNzTfoFwh1adL.html
08-09-2020||India||Amid surging Covid cases, Guwahati stares at scarcity of hospital beds||With 2,785 new Covid-19 cases recorded on Monday, Assam’s tally of positive patients reached 128,244. The fresh cases have put an additional burden on the state’s healthcare facilities, particularly the availability of beds.Till date, 99,073 patients have recovered, but there are still 28,798 active patients in the state who need beds and medical attention. The problem is more severe in private hospitals in Guwahati, the state’s biggest city. The state has been witnessing around 2,000-2,500 new cases daily for over two weeks now with Kamrup Metropolitan district, which includes Guwahati, recording around 500-600 cases daily. Out of total patients nearly 30% are in home isolation at present.“There is no dearth of beds. But gradually the requirement of patients needing tertiary care has gone up in the past two months. In recent weeks, the number of serious cases has gone up, so there is an issue in handling them,” said a senior health department official on condition of anonymity. “Initially most patients were young people who came from other states. They were mostly asymptomatic and recovered without much medical intervention. But now we have more aged patients with co-morbidities who need intensive care. We are alive to the issue and are adding additional ICU beds in more hospitals,” he added. The government hospitals in Kamrup Metropolitan district, including Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH), the biggest hospital in the state, have around 1200 beds for Covid-19 patients and nearly 95% of them are occupied now. The situation in dedicated private hospitals is even worse. Almost all beds and ICUs meant for Covid-19 patients in the 10 empanelled private hospitals in Guwahati are occupied at present and there’s a waiting list. “In our hospital out of the total 150 beds, 50 have been earmarked for Covid-19 patients. Right now all those beds and 18 ICUs for Covid patients are occupied and there’s a waiting list. The situation is similar in all other private hospitals,” said Dr Nasimur Riaz, superintendent of Hayat Hospital.In a Facebook post on September 5, Dr Navanil Barua, head of neurosurgery at GNRC Hospital informed that all Covid beds in their hospital were occupied and even the staff anaesthetist is waiting for a bed.“The situation is very critical and scary because cases are going up and the number of serious patients has also increased. People should follow social distancing, wear masks and come out of their homes only when it’s essential. Those in home quarantine also need to be extra careful,” said Samir Kumar Sinha, principal secretary (health and family welfare).Apart from scarcity of beds, another problem that has emerged is conducting last rites of Covid patients. In Assam, as bodies are not handed over to family members, the last rites are conducted by municipal and health workers. Till Monday, the state had recorded 370 deaths due to Covid. “The Kamrup Metro administration is also facing a tough time cremating those who have died of Covid. Resources are stretched to the limit and the team is working overtime. When my brother-in-law died of Covid, he was in serial number 17 waiting for cremation,” Dr Navanil Barua wrote on Facebook on September 6. Guwahati Municipal Corporation (GMC) officials didn’t respond to calls seeking information about the present status of cremation of Covid fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surging-covid-cases-guwahati-stares-at-scarcity-of-hospital-beds/story-qlRw9LIWgR6n5D97ERs0tO.html
08-09-2020||India||India to have 220 GW renewable energy capacity by 2022: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday exuded confidence that India will increase its existing clean energy capacity of 134 GW to 220 GW by 2022 and stressed on reducing tariffs further through technological advancements. The Prime Minister was earlier expected to deliver the inaugural address at the World Solar Technology Summit organised by the International Solar Alliance (ISA), but could not do so due to some other engagements. New and Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh read out Modi’s message at the virtual summit. “We have scaled up our non-fossil fuel based generation to 134 GW, which is about 35 per cent of our total power generation. We are confident of increasing it to 220 GW by 2022,” Singh said, reading out the Prime Minister’s message.  “Technology holds the key to scale up the use of solar energy. Technological advancements have already brought about a significant reduction in the price of solar power. A further reduction in the cost will provide a major boost to the use and expansion of renewable energy,” Modi said in the message. Modi also mentioned the ‘One World, One Sun, One Grid’ project which is aimed at clean energy supplies across nations. The Prime Minister asserted that ISA is part of this project which can bring transformational benefits for entire humanity. He also stated that the government wants to take solar energy to all villages in the country and replace diesel with this clean source in the farm sector. Speaking earlier at the event, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the government is actively encouraging the industry, oil and gas companies in particular, to become participants in this transition to solar energy. “Our oil and gas companies are also making efforts to deploy solar panels across the value chain of their operations, and current installed solar power capacity is 270 MW.  “Additional 60 MW solar capacity will be added in the coming year. We have taken up the mission of solarising about 50 per cent of fuel stations owned by public sector oil companies in the next five years,” he added. Five public sector undertakings (PSUs) under the Petroleum and Natural Gas Ministry will be joining ISA’s Coalition for Sustainable Climate Action (ISA-CSCA) as corporate partners. Pradhan said Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC), Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) and GAIL (India) Limited will be contributing to ISA’s Corpus Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-have-220-gw-renewable-energy-capacity-by-2022-pm-modi/story-0oMXYDZ4PdTqogRaiCwoMP.html
08-09-2020||India||PM, MP CM to take part in housing scheme e-function on September 12||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will take part in a virtual ‘grah pravesh’ (housewarming) function on September 12 for people who have built homes with assistance provided under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.The chief minister also transferred online a cumulative amount of Rs 102 crore, which was the fourth and last installment of home finance, to 68,000 beneficiaries on Tuesday, officials said.In a programme held in Mantralaya here, Chouhan said that 17 lakh homes out of a total of 20.30 lakh have been completed under the rural component of PMAY, and the target for 2019-20 was to build six lakh homes, of which 3.45 lakh have been completed.Those who could not get benefit of the scheme at this time will be covered under the ‘Awas Plus’ scheme of PMAY, the CM added.During his interaction with some beneficiaries, the CM was told by one Sushila Vishwakarma of Betul that she and her husband had built their home in 49 days on their own.Dhar’s Gulab Singh and Gwalior’s Namdeo, both beneficiaries, thanked the government for assistance under the scheme due to which they now have homes of their own.Additional Chief Secretary (Panchayat and Rural Development Department) Manoj Shrivastava said the PM would interact with three beneficiaries during the function on September 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-mp-cm-to-take-part-in-housing-scheme-e-function-on-september-12/story-mLxdfRxU04kMbGjQBzBcnM.html
08-09-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with street vendor beneficiaries of govt scheme in Madhya Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendors’ Aatmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme from Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement. The Union government had launched the PM SVANidhi scheme on June 1 to help poor street vendors impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic resume livelihood activities. Modi will also interact with three beneficiaries from the state by connecting virtually with them from their vending locations, the PMO said, adding that as many as 4.5 lakh street vendors were registered in Madhya Pradesh, with more than four lakh vendors having been given identification and vendor certification. Applications of 2.45 lakh eligible beneficiaries of the scheme have been presented through the portal to banks for credit facility, out of which acceptance has been granted to around 1.4 lakh street vendors of amount worth Rs 140 crore, it said. “The state of Madhya Pradesh stands first in the number of total applications accepted, with 47% of these coming from the state alone,” the statement added. Arrangements for beneficiaries of the scheme in the state to watch the programme in public places have been made through LED screens in 378 municipal bodies, it said, noting that Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, will also participate in the programme through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-street-vendor-beneficiaries-of-govt-scheme-in-madhya-pradesh/story-8owG8yX2ADBWzmogNa47VM.html
08-09-2020||India||Physical hearings will not be stopped, says Delhi HC Chief Justice||The physical hearings started in the high court will not be stopped, however, it would be continue in a slow pace till the Covid pandemic situation is normalised, Delhi High Court chief justice D N Patel said on Tuesday.“Once things have started in this high court, they are not going to be stopped. We will not start and close like the other high courts,” the chief justice said, according to PTI.“We are of the opinion that we will not shut down physical hearings, but we will continue it slowly,” he added.Despite several of his staff members having tested positive for Covid-19, Justice Patel was still holding physical courts and hearing matters via video calls, he said. “We want your (lawyers) cooperation to continue with it slowly,” he added.Justice Patel’s comments come after the counsel in one of the matters before his bench sought that their matter be listed on a date when virtual hearings are held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/physical-hearings-will-not-be-stopped-will-continue-slowly-delhi-hc-chief-justice/story-bJQVziW5JKIpViJdgIouoN.html
08-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand to revive one himalayan river in every district: CM Rawat||The Uttarakhand government has started work to revive one himalayan river in every district, announced chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday. “The goal is to revive one river in every district. A successful effort is being made to recharge more than 400 water bodies in the catchment area of Garuda Ganga river in Bageshwar district. Many works in the area such as plantation of broad leaf, trenches, check dams are being done,” tweeted CM Rawat. He added, “Our mountains, glaciers, rivers, water bodies, forests are all our priceless heritage. Their protection is the responsibility of all of us. During the last nearly three and a half years, the work of conservation and revival of the rivers, lakes, ponds and waters of the state has been done on a large scale.” Speaking on the rejuvenation of Garud Ganga river, Balwant Singh Shahi, divisional forest officer of Bageshwar forest division, said that Garud Ganga is a very important river for this region. It has nine recharge zones. “In the whole catchment area of the river, there are 443 streams which are on the verge of drying up. To rejuvenate the water sources of the river, many works are being carried out like making trenches, plantation of broad leaf plants and making stone check-dams. The main aim is to harvest all rainwater to the maximum possible limit and recharge the sources of water for the river.” As part of the rejuvenation project, a major plantation drive involving over 83,500 saplings has been carried out and the project aims to conserve around 21.90 lakh rainwater in the catchment area of Garud Ganga river, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-revive-one-himalayan-river-in-every-district-cm-rawat/story-KjQQZsY6l63AsLG4zFRV3J.html
08-09-2020||India||India dispatches additional dry chemical powder to douse oil tanker blaze||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has sent additional dry chemical powder on a request from the Sri Lankan Navy as part of efforts to douse the blaze on board an oil tanker off the island nation’s coast, the maritime agency said on Tuesday.           The Indian Navy and the Coast Guard have been helping the Sri Lankan Navy to douse the fire in Marine Tanker New Diamond since September 3. The fire, which killed one Filipino crew member and injured another, was extinguished completely on Sunday but a new fire broke out due to extreme heat, which has also been curbed considerably.Indian Coast Guard ship Abheek was sent with 1,500 kilograms of the dry chemical powder (DCP) for the Sri Lankan Navy at the Trincomalee harbour. A Coast Guard Dornier aircraft was also dispatched to Trincomalee, it added.           “In order to supplement the surface firefighting efforts with the aerial dropping of Dry Chemical Powder (DCP), the Sri Lankan Navy had requested ICG for additional DCP. “ICGS Abheek with 1,500 kgs of DCP was diverted from on scene to enter Trincomalee harbour for handing over the DCP to Srilankan Navy. “CG Dornier 770 with 700 kgs DCP was also dispatched from Chennai to Trincomalee. Sri Lankan ships, Indian Naval ships are also operating in the area,” the Coast Guard said in a statement. Being the competent national authority under South Asian Co-operative for Environment Protection (SACEP) for responding and coordinating pollution response in the South Asian Sea region, the ICG launched an operation towards fire-fighting and consequential pollution response since September 3. A bilateral MoU also exists between ICG and the Sri Lankan Coast Guard (SLCG) covering cooperation in the marine pollution response domain. The fire, which re-ignited late on Monday evening, increased drastically by midnight, with very high flames emanating from the funnel and aft section, reaching almost 50-60 metres from the weather deck. The sustained firefighting efforts by ICG Ships Sujay, Shaurya, Sarang and specialised ICG Pollution Response Vessel Samudra Paheredar along with Sri Lankan ships and tugs ensured the intensity and magnitude of the fire were reduced considerably by daybreak on Tuesday. The captain of MT New Diamond, onboard ICGS Shaurya, has intimated the Coast Guard that the fire appears to have been doused, it said. The situation is being monitored closely and boundary cooling with seawater and application of foam has been enhanced to avoid re-ignition. “The persistence of fire for eight days has weakened the accommodation superstructure. No significant list is observed. The vessel is trimmed by aft by about 3 feet,” the Coast Guard added. MT New Diamond is being held by Tug TTT1 in position about 30 miles from the nearest coast of Sri Lanka for preventing drifting of the vessel ashore and facilitating fire-fighting operation both by ships and aircraft including logistics ease. Continuous liaison and coordination are being maintained with Sri Lankan Navy and Coast Guard and other authorities for augmentation and effective response, the statement added. The Sri Lankan Navy, in a statement, said the re-ignited fire on board the Panama-registered tanker, carrying nearly 2 million barrels of crude oil, has been curbed to an extent. “There is no risk of the fire spreading to the oil storage or leaking oil from the ship into the sea as of now,” the statement said. Ships, aircraft and tugs belonging to the Sri Lanka Navy, Sri Lanka Air Force, Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and other stakeholders are continuing their disaster management operations to suppress the fire caused by adverse weather, the Lankan Navy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-dispatches-additional-dry-chemical-powder-to-douse-oil-tanker-blaze/story-fHm51pccZ0FhnyrdmrsAYM.html
08-09-2020||India||Farmer gets electricity bill of over Rs 3 crore for 2 months. This followed||A farmer in Rajasthan got a bill of Rs 3.71 crore for consuming 38,514,098 units of electricity in two months. Upon checking, it was found that the meter reading and his original bill amount got swapped in the form.The bill was issued on August 22 and the last date of payment was September 3 but the farmer got the shock of his life when he looked at the amount and ran to the nearest e-mitra centre, the Rajasthan government e-governance centres, with the bill in hand. Pemaram Patel, 22, of Gingla village in Udaipur, 65km from Udaipur, owns a shop which he has rented out to someone who runs an auto service centre in it. The bill is for this shop which has an electricity connection from Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (Ajmer Discom).“When I went to the e-mitra, I found out that the bill was exorbitantly high because of a printing mistake. The actual bill was for Rs 6,414, which I paid from the e-mitra itself,” said the farmer.Superintending engineer Girish Joshi said the operator who records meter readings mistakenly keyed in meter number in the column for reading. “Correction was done immediately and a new copy of the bill with the correct amount was given to the consumer,” he added.The bill is circulating on social media in the area and is talk of the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-gets-electricity-bill-of-over-rs-3-crore-for-2-months-this-followed/story-2ZeTz0S0MFscbZBA0Zh6VP.html
08-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut responds to drugs probe against her with an offer to minister||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday said that she was willing to go through drug test and an investigation into her call log after Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a probe into the alleged drug claims made by Adhyayan Suman – the former boyfriend of actor Kangana Ranaut – in an interview three years ago.“I am more than happy to oblige Mumbai Police and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Please do my drug tests, investigate my call records if you find any links to drug peddlers ever I will accept my mistake and leave Mumbai forever, looking forward to meeting you,” Kangana Ranaut tweeted.While addressing the media in Mumbai on Tuesday, home minister Deshmukh said Adhyayan, who was once in a relationship with Ranaut, had alleged that she used to take drugs and had also forced him to consume the substances.“The Mumbai Police will investigate this matter,” the home minister said. The issue was raised by Shiv Sena legislators Pratap Sarnaik and Sunil Prabhu, Deshmukh in the Maharashtra legislative assembly on Tuesday.Deshmukh also said that Mumbai Police would conduct an investigation into the death by suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik three years ago.Naik, in his suicide note, had named a few persons, including a news channel’s editor, who allegedly did not pay his dues worth several crores of rupees, according to the deceased’s kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/please-do-my-drug-test-investigate-my-call-records-kangana-ranaut-after-maha-home-minister-initiates-probe/story-X3QToGkaoL2ObV8H0zrgWN.html
08-09-2020||India||After Ragini Dwivedi, Kannada actor Sanjjanaa Galrani arrested in Bengaluru to aid drug probe||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) wing of Bengaluru police on Tuesday arrested actor Sanjjanaa Galrani in the ongoing drugs investigation in the Kannada movie industry, also called Sandalwood. A team of police officers led by Inspectors Puneeth Kumar and Anjumala Nayak raided the residence of Galrani earlier in the day. The actress’s flat was searched for around four and a half hours. She was subsequently taken into custody for questioning and later arrested. She was produced before the 8th ACMM court via video conference where the judge remanded her to police custody for the next five days. Galrani was taken for a medical checkup at K C General Hospital before being shifted to a women’s remand home for further questioning.The actor is the second well-known person in the Kannada movie industry who has been arrested after Ragini Dwivedi. The police have filed an FIR against 12 people at the Cottonpet police station with film producer Shivaprakash being named the chief accused.ALSO READ | Kannada film producer among dozen named in FIR in Sandalwood drug racketAll the 12 accused have been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 120b (criminal conspiracy), and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act of 1985 under Sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B, and section 29. The 12 accused are said to have held rave parties where select people would be invited including businessmen, celebrities, some film actors, disc jockeys, software engineers and others who would be supplied with drugs for a price.Among the 12 accused is Rahul Tonshe who is said to be very close to Galrani. However, the actor in the past has described Rahul as her ‘rakhi’ brother. A senior officer who did not want to be identified as the investigations are ongoing told HT that “there was more than what meets the eye initially, in the relationship between Rahul and Galrani”.The police have also arrested Niyaz Ahmed said to be a small-time Malayalam actor who is believed to have procured drugs from Kerala and also acted as a dealer and conduit for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ragini-dwivedi-kannada-actor-sanjjanaa-galrani-arrested-in-bengaluru-to-aid-drug-probe/story-GvFpKowZrQL25Mf9kjorjL.html
08-09-2020||India||PUBG pulls India rights from China-based Tencent Games after ban||Barely a week after PlayerUnknown’s BattleGrounds (PUBG), an online multiplayer gaming application (app) developed and published by PUBG Corporation, a subsidiary of South Korean video game company Bluehole, was banned by the Union Ministry of Information and Technology, the firm has pulled its India franchise from Chinese conglomerate Tencent. “In light of recent developments, PUBG Corporation has made the decision to no longer authorise the PUBG Mobile franchise to Tencent Games in India. Moving forward, PUBG Corporation will take on all publishing responsibilities within the country,” PUBG said in a statement. HT on September 2 had reported that PUBG, along with 118 mobile apps that have links with China, was banned because there were reports that these apps were “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner”.The government said these apps promoted activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) had said. The was viewed as targeting some of China’s technology giants such as Tencent Holdings Ltd; the country’s search engine leader Baidu Inc; Xiaomi’s ShareSave; and online payments giant Ant Group Co’’s platform Alipay. PUBG was banned in the third round of blocks done by the government in the wake of the increased tensions between India and China along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC). Union Minister for communications, electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad had called the decision a “digital strike on China”. “This is a business call,” said an official, who did not wish to be named. However, the official added that there was no question of revoking the ban until the government was satisfied that all its concerns have been addressed. “The reasons and grounds on which the ban has been imposed go beyond ownership,” said the official. “Unless those concerns are addressed, there is no reason to revoke the ban. The larger issues are data privacy and security and the information that the apps are collecting from users. We have sent 70-odd questions to the blocked apps and asked them to review and respond.”The government is already going through the answers to the questions provided by the 59 apps banned earlier and the 47 mirror apps banned in the second round. It will also be analysing the response of 119 apps banned in the third round.All applicants will also be given a chance to make their case in front of a panel, which is yet to begin hearing their representations. PUBG’s statement said that the “corporation fully understands and respects the measures taken by the government as the privacy and security of player data is a top priority for the company”. “It hopes to work hand-in-hand with the Indian government to find a solution that will allow gamers to once again drop into the battlegrounds while being fully compliant with Indian laws and regulations,” said the statement. “As the company explores ways to provide its own PUBG experience for India in the near future, it is committed to doing so by sustaining a localised and healthy game play environment for its fans.” India accounts for over a quarter of PUBG Mobile’s lifetime installs though revenues from the country are still minuscule, a Bloomberg report said citing data from research firm Sensor Tower. PUBG had seen its user numbers sky rocket in India following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions.The banned versions of PUBG included PUBG Mobile Lite, a leaner version of the app suited to inexpensive smartphones, as well as PUBG Mobile Nordic Map: Livik, a newer game played on a Nordic terrain.Raman Jit Singh Chima, a lawyer and the policy director at Asia-Pacific at Access Now, believes that the government is citing law and order and data protection as grounds for an economic decision. “Usually, countries prosecute a firm civilly or use criminal law if it violates data protection standards, and not block their services,” said Chima. “PUBG’s actions seem to indicate that they are hopeful that the government may reinstate the app. If we look at the United States (US), they are clear about the fact that their move against Tencent is an economic one and aims to restrict its activities. The US has not banned PUBG,” he added. Chima said it appears to be a political move and the government must also explain why it has used these provisions. “The order should be made public, as should the reports that led to the action. There may be other apps in India doing the same thing but the government won’t take action against them. That shows that it is a response to counter Chinese interests and not to protect the privacy of citizens or for national security,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pubg-pulls-india-rights-from-china-based-tencent-games-after-ban/story-IcRn85Xx5ru9kCA7hcLpwI.html
08-09-2020||India||‘Due to Modi Govt’s gross mismanagement...’: Rahul Gandhi blames Covid crisis on PM||As India reached another grim milestone in the number of coronavirus disease cases, beating Brazil, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that India’s high tally is due to government’s mismanagement.“Due to Modi Govt’s gross mismanagement of Covid: 1. India’s total cases world’s 2nd highest. 2. India’s weekend tally higher than US & Brazil put together. 3. On Sunday, India’s share was 40% of total cases worldwide. 4. No flattening of curve,” Gandhi said in a tweet. Due to Modi Govt’s gross mismanagement of Covid:1. India’s total cases world’s 2nd highest. 2. India’s weekend tally higher than US & Brazil put together.3. On Sunday, India's share was 40% of total cases worldwide.4. No flattening of curve.Stay safe everyone.This is yet another jibe from the Congress leader who has relentlessly attacked the Centre on social media, blaming it for mishandling the outbreak of virus contagion and country’s economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/due-to-modi-govt-s-gross-mismanagement-rahul-gandhi-blames-covid-crisis-on-pm/story-EiL7sEKGSTaiZenHIamrUJ.html
08-09-2020||India||China’s PLA confirms 5 missing civilians from Arunachal Pradesh ‘found by their side’: Union minister Kiren Rijiju||Union minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday said that China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has confirmed that five civilians who went missing from Arunachal Pradesh last week have been found on their side. The process of handing over the youth to India is being worked out, the minister added. China's PLA has responded to the hotline message sent by Indian Army. They have confirmed that the missing youths from Arunachal Pradesh have been found by their side. Further modalities to handover the persons to our authority is being worked out.“Further modalities to handover the persons to our authority is being worked out,” Rijiju tweeted.The five civilians frp, Tagin tribe, who had gone missing on Friday from the Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh, were working as porters and guides for the Indian Army. They were a part seven-member group but went missing reportedly from Sera-7 on the Indian side of the McMohan line bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet Autonomous Region of China. Two other men who were with the missing five reportedly managed to ‘escape’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-confirmed-5-missing-youths-from-arunachal-pradesh-have-been-found-by-their-side-union-minister-kiren-rijiju/story-8qbqjb8SLB3bvYt8Hsve5N.html
08-09-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh lifts weekend lockdown; no curbs on markets||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday revoked its order of mandatory closure of markets on Sunday, reverting to the pre-coronavirus lockdown arrangement.  According to a statement, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said in a review meeting that markets will now close as per their earlier schedule instead of the weekly closure on Sunday. He said except containment zones, hotels and restaurants should be made operational in all areas and it should be ensured that all safety measures are followed.The latest decision comes after the state administration on September 1 had decided to lift the weekend lockdown in the state on Saturdays.Adityanath also asked the officials to create more employment opportunities as the Covid-19 induced lockdown has left a huge number of people unemployed.He also said that except hotels and restaurants should be allowed to operate in all areas and by following all safety measures listed by the union health ministry in regards to the coronavirus disease. The restrictions will continue in the containment zones.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-lifts-weekend-lockdown-no-curbs-on-markets/story-csMHMsJHJM1baCOmMpZXHI.html
08-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi Metro morning ridership picks up on Day 2, over 8,000 take Yellow Line in morning and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi Metro morning ridership picks up on Day 2, over 8,000 take Yellow Line in morningDelhi Metro services continued on the Yellow Line on Tuesday with the ridership in the morning shift, between 7am and 11am touching 8,300 passengers as against the 7,500 on Monday, the first day after resuming services. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty arrested, says NCBThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested Rhea Chakraborty for procuring and consuming drugs. The arrest comes after three days of questioning by the NCB. Read more‘India fired first’: China repeats after New Delhi says PLA fired near Pangong TsoChina on Tuesday said it has made “stern representations” to the Indian government after Indian troops allegedly crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and fired warning shots at Chinese border personnel on Monday. Read moreAssaulted for ‘selling’ daughter, man dies in hospital in UP’s Mainpur; case registeredA 40-year-old man, who was allegedly beaten in Uttar Pradesh’s Mainpuri on Sunday over rumours that he was trying to sell his daughter, died in a hospital on Monday, his family and police said. Read moreWhy Faf du Plessis didn’t convince AB de Villiers to return after retirementThe dynamic batsman would have been an integral part of South Africa’s plans for the 2019 World Cup, and the decision to call time meant that captain Faf du Plessis would be without one of his biggest match-winners for the ICC tournament. Read morePoco M2 launched in India at a starting price of ₹10,999: Specs, price and moreThe Poco M2 features a 6.53-inch FHD+ (2340x1080 pixels) display with 19.5:9 aspect ratio and Corning Gorilla Glass 3 protection. Read more25 Years of Rangeela: Skater dresses, co-ord outfits, berets and everything we loved on Urmila Matondkar25 Years of Rangeela: Two and a half decades later, Urmila Matondkar’s casual style - from co-ords, skater dresses, leotards with scarfs to the oversized shirts, high-waist jeans and wool berets continue to be one of the main talking points of this film. Read moreDelhi poised to be the nerve center of India’s electric vehicle revolutionIndia is taking small but strong steps towards putting more electric vehicles on its roads and Delhi is well poised to charge up the path ahead with several steps either implemented, announced or in the offing. Read moreWatch | ‘World must be better prepared for next pandemic’: WHO ChiefWorld Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the world must be better prepared for the next pandemic. Tedros called on countries to invest in public health.Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-metro-morning-ridership-picks-up-on-day-2-over-8-000-take-yellow-line-in-morning-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jXHy399bhyJ7ybR4Y0u5oJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Maharashtra, Andhra, Karnataka, UP and Tamil Nadu account for 70% of Covid-19 deaths: Govt||The Union health ministry on Tuesday said the most coronavirus-affected states of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu account for 70% of Covid-19 deaths in India.“28 states/UTs have Covid-19 case fatality rate lower than national average of 1.70%. 14 states/UTs have less than 5,000 active Covid-19 cases; Lakshadweep has no active cases,” the ministry stated.Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union Health Ministry said the case fatality rate is continuously declining, adding that it was at 2.15% in the first week of August, now it stands at 1.70%.“People should come forward to get themselves tested for Covid-19 if they have symptoms. India’s Covid-19 cases per million is 3,102 which is among the lowest in the world. India’s Covid-19 deaths per million population is 53 which is among the lowest in the world,” the health ministry said.India’s cumulative tests for detection of Covid-19 have surpassed five crore, while tests per million have witnessed a rise from 6,396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of date,the Union health ministry said.Aggressive and widespread testing have essayed an important role in India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry said.“The average daily tests conducted (week-wise) are demonstrating a consistent increase. This has registered a 3.2 times expansion from third week of July (3,26,971) to first week of September (10,46,470),” the ministry added.The average Tests Per Million (TPM) Per Day have increased from 237 in the second week of July to 758 in the first week of September, it highlighted. In its Guidance Note on Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19, the WHO has advised countries to conduct 140 tests per day per million population for comprehensive surveillance for suspect cases.The average week-on-week data for India shows a rising improvement on this front. Expanding network of diagnostic labs has given a boost to Tests per Million. The testing lab network consists of 1668 labs in the country; 1035 labs in the government sector and 633 private labs. “The TPM have seen a sharp rise from 6,396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of today,” the ministry said.The number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 in India surpassed 4.28 million on Tuesday, a day after a record one-day jump of over 90,000 infections that pushed the country to the second spot in the world, Union health ministry data showed.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-andhra-karnataka-up-and-tamil-nadu-account-for-70-of-covid-19-deaths-govt/story-0iNnhmM0BWkIdE6XkP1ZeJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Bhima Koregaon case: NIA arrests 3 accused, says they are members of Kabir Kala Manch||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested three accused in connection with the violence that took place in Bhima Koregaon in Maharashtra in 2018.While two of the accused - Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe and Ramesh Murlidhar Gaichor - were arrested on Monday, the third named Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap was arrested today, the NIA said.“The accused people are members of Kabir Kala Manch, a frontal organization of banned organisation CPI (Maoist),” the agency said.The case pertains to an incident of violence that took place near the Bhima Koregaon war memorial (near Pune) on January 1, 2018, following alleged provocative speeches at Elgar Parishad conclave a day earlier.The conclave was organised by the Kabir Kala Manch at Shaniwarwada in Pune.Several vehicles were torched and one person killed in the incident, triggering large scale Dalit agitation in Maharashtra.During the investigation, it was revealed by the NIA that senior leaders of the CPI (Maoist) were in contact with the organisers of Elgar Parishad as well as the accused arrested in the case to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities.The Pune police filed a charge sheet and a supplementary charge sheet in the case on November 15, 2018, and February 21, 2019 respectively.The NIA took up the investigation of the case on January 24 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhima-koregaon-case-nia-arrests-3-accused-says-they-are-members-of-banned-group/story-YCofqX5lsddjHDjwISWFaO.html
08-09-2020||India||Goa’s popular beach shacks will likely be missing this season||Goa’s famed beach shacks are likely to give this year’s tourism season a miss with shack owners saying that the likely absence of foreign tourists will be a huge dent in their business, making it an unprofitable exercise.“Around 79-80% shack owners have told us that they will not be setting up shacks this year. Many have suffered losses last year owing to the truncated season and with numbers expected to be low this year as well, many will opt to give this year a pass,” John Lobo, the General Secretary of Shack Owners Welfare Society, said.“Adding to the uncertainty is the likely absence of foreign tourists who it is very unlikely will choose to travel to India given our numbers so far and the Covid situation,” Lobo added.Foreign tourists are dependable customers for many shack operators as they patronise the shacks for the entire duration of their stay which can last a few months. Tourists from within India, on the other hand, spend on average 3-7 days in Goa.The seasonal shacks that are set up on the sand once the monsoons subside and are in place until the following summer are a huge draw for tourists.The season this year is likely to be dominated by domestic tourists, who now face no barriers for entry, with the state government lifting all restrictions on the movement of people.“Some shacks along the most popular and crowded beaches will reopen,” Lobo said.The first weekend of September saw tourists mainly from the neighbouring state of Maharashtra and Karnataka make a beeline for Goa after it was announced that mandatory Covid-19 test upon arrival and the need to pre-book a hotel would no longer be applicable.“The tourists have begun to come in greater numbers and hotel occupancy which was below 5% for most hotels has now marginally increased to 15%. These are encouraging signs and will prompt more businesses to reopen,” Nilesh Shah, president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, said.Many tourists on long term visas have chosen to stay back in Goa than travel during the pandemic back to their native countries.Tourism stakeholders have also begun to worry that it is only the low-spending tourists and not the high spending tourists who will make the trip, offering businesses little chance to break even.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-popular-beach-shacks-will-likely-be-missing-this-season/story-UiPPmFEFul35nKY31wBDbM.html
08-09-2020||India||Assaulted for ‘selling’ daughter, man dies in hospital in UP’s Mainpur; case registered||A 40-year-old man, who was allegedly beaten in Uttar Pradesh’s Mainpuri on Sunday over rumours that he was trying to sell his daughter, died in a hospital on Monday, his family and police said.Mainpuri’s Kotwali police station in-charge, Bhanu Pratap Singh, said Sarvesh Kumar, a Dalit, was trashed badly on the terrace of an under-construction house. No exact reason for the killing has been mentioned in the FIR [First Information Report] lodged by Kamlesh, brother of the deceased. But three people Rajan, Sahul Jadaun and Shivji Gaur have been named in the case,” said Singh. “Efforts are on to nab the named accused and other unidentified people involved in the incident.”Also read: Govt sacks 3 Palghar cops who didn’t stop mob from killing 2 seers, driverPolice have registered a case under Indian Penal Code’s Section 302 (murder) and under Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Samajwadi Party even tweeted a purported video of the lynching, demanding action against the perpetrators.मैनपुरी का यह वीडियो सामने आया है जहां बजरंग दल के कार्यकर्ताओं द्वारा कचौड़ी का ठेला लगाने वाले दलित युवक सर्वेश दिवाकर की लिंचिंग कर हत्या कर दी गई।दोषी बजरंग दल के कार्यकर्ताओं पर कड़ी कार्रवाई करे सरकार। @dgpup pic.twitter.com/H4xdLzNgWTThe rumour was spread when Kumar left his 16-year-old daughter at her aunt’s place in Noida and returned to Mainpuri while his wife and two other children were away at her parents’ place in West Bengal.“Sarvesh’s daughter has returned to Mainpuri and says she was away for studying. Such rumours about her being sold are baseless,” said Singh.Former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav condemned the killing and demanded immediate arrest of those involved in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assaulted-for-selling-daughter-man-dies-in-hospital-in-up-s-mainpur-case-registered/story-S3MFBiw1f7Z8fP7feX0uWK.html
08-09-2020||India||Centre’s eSanjeevani service crosses 300,000 tele-consults||Restrictions on health services and mobility because of the Covid-19 pandemic have accelerated the mainstreaming of telemedicine and e-consultation platforms with the Union health and family welfare ministry’s eSanjeevani telemedicine service crossing 300,000 tele-consultations on Tuesday. Of these, 100,000 were done over the last 20 days.The eSanjeevani service was launched in November 2019 to provide tele-consultation at 150,000 Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs) across states by December 2022. It is based on the hub-and-spoke model to connect HWCs with primary health centres, community health centres, medical colleges, and district hospitals.Also read: Digitising sector a step towards universal careThe platform completed 100,000 consultations on July 23 and 200,000 on August 18.eSanjeevani has been implemented by 23 states and the rest are in the process of rolling it out.Tamil Nadu has recorded the highest consultations (97,204) followed by Uttar Pradesh (65,173). Himachal Pradesh has held the highest number of AB-HWC teleconsultations of eSanjeevani, with 30,869 interactions. Andhra Pradesh is ranked fourth with 30,189 teleconsultations, and Kerala is fifth with 28,173.The platform supports two types of telemedicine services: doctor-to-doctor (eSanjeevani) and patient-to-doctor (eSanjeevani OPD), which was launched on April 13 to take medical services to patients unable to visit hospitals because of the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic spread.“Tertiary institutions such as Lady Hardinge Medical College and associated hospitals in Delhi, AIIMS [All India Institute of Medical Sciences] Bathinda in Punjab, AIIMS Bibinagar in Telengana, and AIIMS Rishikesh in Uttrakhand have set up eSanjeevaniOPDs. Centre Government Health Scheme has started offering eSanjeevaiOPD services for ENT, medicine, ophthalmology and orthopaedics since August 26. The growth has been accelerated because of Covid-19 as people are avoiding going to large hospitals because of fears of getting infected,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity.The Medical Council of India (MCI)’s Board of Governors in supersession issued Telemedicine Practice Guidelines on March 25 to strengthen delivery in a post-Covid-19 world, with a focus on HWCs that provide preventive and primary healthcare within a five km radius at the grassroots level.Dr Nikhil Tandon, who heads AIIMS Delhi’s endocrinology and metabolism department, said telemedicine has helped decongest secondary and tertiary hospitals and improve documentation, data-collection, diagnosis, and care without risking the safety of the patients or the health workers. “Technology platforms were being used but not regulated, which exposed both patients and providers to challenges. These guidelines provide guidance material for reference that can be refined before they become an annexure to the MCI Act, enabling regulation,” said Tandon, who is a member of MCI’s Board of Governors in supersession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-esanjeevani-service-crosses-300-000-tele-consults/story-qpz7FXZeFbtVX8tzRjOUVI.html
08-09-2020||India||Wife of BJD MP who filed for divorce complains of intrusion into bedroom||The case of marital discord between Biju Janata Dal deputy chief whip in Lok Sabha Anubhav Mohanty and his actress wife Varsha Pariyadarshini took another turn on Tuesday with the latter lodging a written complaint with police that two persons entered her bedroom on Monday and clicked photographs.Priyadarshini in her complaint before Purighat police station in Cuttack alleged that two persons, who work in Mohanty’s residence at Nandi Sahi in Cuttack where she is now staying, entered her bedroom Monday evening while she was eating food and clicked photographs and shot videos. Rashmiranjan Sahoo, inspector of police station said the actress had claimed that threat to her life and sought police protection. “A police constable has been assigned for her protection at her in-law’s house,” said Sahoo. On Monday, police had rushed Mohanty’s house after his wife sought protection by calling the emergency helpline.Last month, Priyadarshini had filed a case of domestic violence against Mohanty and his family under sections 12, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23 of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 at a court in Cuttack citing multiple instances of mental and physical torture and demanded Rs 15 crore compensation for the loss of her income due to losing out on movies as well as monthly amount of Rs 70,000 towards houserent and maintenance. She accused her husband of being an alcoholic and having multiple affairs with his co-stars.Mohanty and Priyadarshini married in a massive ceremony in Bhubaneswar in 2014 after years of courtship. Mohanty, superstar of Odia film industry, was then Rajya Sabha MP.The case which was scheduled for first hearing on September 7, was deferred to October 12 as her statement had not been recorded by the Cuttack District Protection Officer. On Monday, Cuttack District Protection Officer recorded her statement.Anubhav Mohanty who is MP from Kendrapara, however, said if his wife feels she is being harassed, her sister and mother should take her away from his house. “On what basis, is she still living in my house?” asked Mohanty, who has filed a divorce suit at a family court in Patiala House court in Delhi in July. “It’s my personal matter but truth will prevail. The matter shouldn’t be sensationalised for TRP,” he added.Mohanty in his divorce suit has alleged that his wife was torturing him mentally and showed no interest in consummating the marriage. Priyadarshini in a Facebook and Twitter post on Monday evening said she will break her silence on the matter soon. “Truth cannot be defeated, it shall be proven soon. Court will take its own action With Lord Jagannath’s blessings & everyone’s blessings I am going to break the silence, nobody has the right to accuse anyone falsely. Love you Odisha, Love you all. Jay Jagannath,” she wrote in capital letters.Meanwhile pressure seems to be mounting on chief minister Naveen Patnaik to take action against Mohanty with the state unit of BJP Mahila Morcha demanding Mohanty’s resignation from the post of MP on moral grounds while Congress accused the actor of submitting false information about his education qualification in his election affidavit in 2014.Congress spokesman Nishikanta Mishra alleged that Mohanty had submitted a false affidavit about his educational qualification while filing his nomination for the 2014 Rajya Sabha polls. “How did Mohanty get admission in Kandarpur College when he failed in +2 exam at Christ College. He has submitted a false affidavit about his educational qualifications during 2014 Rajya Sabha election. The state government had shielded him earlier as he belongs to the ruling party and they are still trying to protect the actor-turned-politician,” alleged Mishra.The BJP too demanded immediate action against Mohanty.“Anubhav’s wife Varsha has brought a domestic violence case against him. This indicates how women are becoming insecure in the state. We strongly condemn the incident. We will hit the streets if immediate action is not taken against the BJD MP,” said BJP Mahila Morcha leader, Smruti Pattnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-of-bjd-mp-who-filed-for-divorce-complains-of-intrusion-into-bedroom/story-eXJHAlHaTx9uf1P6trLiLO.html
08-09-2020||India||Corbett Tiger Reserve set to open, Covid-19 test result must for entry||The Uttarakhand forest department has decided to ban entry of tourists into the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) without a Covid-19 test confirming their negative status, said forest officials. The tourists, said forest officials, will have to get the RT-PCR test done 96 hours before the visit to the park.Kalyani (who goes by her first name), deputy director of the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), said, “Online booking for safari in Corbett will start from September 10. The park will be open for tourists from October 15, 2020.”“We have decided to follow the guidelines of the Central and state government regarding visit of tourists to check coronavirus infection inside the CTR” she said. Tourists have also been advised to follow all safety rules.“Tourists should follow the lockdown rules like wearing masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing in the CTR,” said Kalyani.“It is important to follow the rules of lockdown while moving inside the park. Only four tourists will be allowed in one gypsy,” she said.Generally, six tourists are allowed in one gypsy, but in view of the pandemic, said Kalyani, only four tourists will be allowed to sit in a gypsy.“Hotel, resorts, guesthouse rooms, gypsies will be sanitised after every visit of tourists. The staff has also been directed to follow the lockdown rules strictly,” she said.Deepak Budhani, a gypsy owner from Ramnagar, said, “Corbett’s online booking will increase tourism activities. People suffering from a financial crisis due to Covid-19 will get a lot of relief.”“The CTR administration should open all gates of the reserve with a strict following of the lockdown rules. The livelihood of a lot of people in Uttarakhand is dependent on tourism, especially when it comes to Corbett,” he said. All tiger reserves, sanctuaries and national parks, including the Corbett Tiger Reserve, had to shut operations on March 16 due to the coronavirus pandemic.In unlock 4, online bookings for the CTR have been opened again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corbett-tiger-reserve-set-to-open-covid-19-test-result-must-for-entry/story-wg96Shr9rNNtnFatus3CwK.html
08-09-2020||India||PM Modi, President Kovind condole radio astronomer Govind Swarup’s demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday condoled the demise of Professor Govind Swarup who pioneered radio astronomy in India, saying that he was an exceptional scientist and his works have attained global commendation. “Professor Govind Swarup was an exceptional scientist. His pioneering works in radio astronomy have attained global commendation. Anguished by his passing away. My thoughts are with his near and dear ones. This thread gives a glimpse of Professor Swarup’s brilliance. Do read,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted. President Ram Nath Kovind and Union Home Minister Amit Shah also expressed grief over Swarup’s demise. “With the demise of Professor Govind Swarup, the world has lost an astronomy legend. A pioneer, he contributed to fundamental developments in radio astronomy and created two of the world’s largest radio telescopes in India. Condolences to his family, friends and countless students,” President Kovind tweeted. “Eminent professor and stalwart of radio astronomy, Govind Swarup ji will always be remembered for his immense contribution towards research and development of ingenious facilities. His demise is a huge loss for the entire nation. My deepest condolences with his family. Om Shanti,” Shah tweeted. K Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India also expressed grief over Swarup’s demise.“With Professor Govind Swarup’s demise, the world of astronomy has lost a great scientist, institution-, and telescope- builder. Ever-smiling, not one to take a no for anything he wanted to be done, he took on many impossible tasks, inspired colleagues to accomplish them,” Raghavan tweeted.“He could not but touch deeply everyone he met - Farewell dear Govind Swarup... He so proudly spoke of being inspired by Gandhi on the one hand, and of tracing his lineage (via Wikipedia) back to Isaac Newton - no less - on the other. And the lineage moves forward...” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-president-kovind-condole-radio-astronomer-govind-swarup-s-demise/story-gWgHO7Gek2W3OsPIsJiAJJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty arrested, says NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested Rhea Chakraborty for procuring and consuming drugs. The arrest comes after three days of questioning by the NCB.“Rhea has been arrested and due process of informing the family has been completed,” said deputy director of NCB, KPS Malhotra. The arrest comes after three days of questioning by the NCB.Rhea Chakraborty was being questioned over drug abuse case in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14. The NCB had questioned her for about eight hours on Monday and six hours on Sunday.Also Watch | Sushant death: Rhea Chakraborty arrested by NCB in drugs case after questioning  The 28-year-old was confronted with her younger brother Showik Chakraborty (24), Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda (33) and his house staffer Dipesh Sawant to ascertain their roles in an alleged drug racket.Also read | Rhea Chakraborty gives NCB names of ‘top Bollywood celebrities’ who may have consumed drugs: reportThe NCB arrested the three men in this case last week. Chakraborty’s family and lawyer had said that they anticipate her arrest after Showik was taken into custody.The agency had earlier said that it had obtained mobile phone chat records and other electronic data that suggested some banned drugs were allegedly procured by these people.Chakraborty’s father Indrajit had issued an emotional statement after his son’s arrest. “Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter,” Lt Col Indrajit Chakraborty (retd) had said in the statement.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered an FIR against Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death.Chakraborty was earlier questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the CBI that are probing different angles surrounding Rajput’s death.Also read | Abetment to suicide, cheating: Rhea Chakraborty’s charges against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, doctorSushant Singh Rajput’s autopsy had indicated that he died by suicide. His father, however, filed an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty in Patna, accusing her of driving his son to suicide and misappropriating his money. Chakraborty has denied the allegations on several occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-rhea-chakraborty-prime-accused-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-arrested-by-ncb/story-q5tJR7PXm7gCbu0yOusU5O.html
08-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Procedure to arrest Rhea Chakraborty underway, says NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday said that process to arrest Rhea Chakraborty, the prime accused in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, is currently underway.“The procedure to arrest Rhea Chakraborty is underway,” said deputy director of NCB, KPS Malhotra. The agency said she is being arrested after three days of questioning.Rhea Chakraborty was being questioned over drug abuse case in connection with the death of Rajput on June 14. The NCB had questioned Chakraborty for about eight hours on Monday and six hours on Sunday.Also Watch | Sushant death: Rhea Chakraborty arrested by NCB in drugs case after questioning Also read | Rhea Chakraborty gives NCB names of ‘top Bollywood celebrities’ who may have consumed drugs: reportThe NCB arrested the three men in this case last week. Chakraborty’s family and lawyer had said that they anticipate her arrest after Showik was taken into custody.The agency had earlier said that it had obtained mobile phone chat records and other electronic data that suggested some banned drugs were allegedly procured by these people.Chakraborty’s father Indrajit had issued an emotional statement after his son’s arrest. “Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter,” Lt Col Indrajit Chakraborty (retd) had said in the statement.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered an FIR against Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death.Also read | Abetment to suicide, cheating: Rhea Chakraborty’s charges against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, doctorChakraborty was earlier questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the CBI that are probing different angles surrounding Rajput’s death.Sushant Singh Rajput’s autopsy had indicated that he died by suicide. His father, however, filed an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty in Patna, accusing her of driving his son to suicide and misappropriating his money. Chakraborty has denied the allegations on several occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/procedure-to-arrest-rhea-chakraborty-underway-says-ncb-probing-drugs-angle-in-death-of-sushant-singh-rajput/story-4Y5dVG5r3DbPm2NA5X7tdL.html
08-09-2020||India||Proposal to relocate 3 villages in Chhattisgarh tiger reserve sent to Centre||After Chhattisgarh State Tribal Advisory Council gave its approval to a proposal by the forest department for rehabilitation of three villages located in the Achanakmar Tiger Reserve in state’s Bilaspur district, the forest department has sent a request to the central government for the same. As per Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (APCCF) (wildlife) Arun Pandey, there are a total of 25 villages in the core area of tiger reserve out of which six villages were relocated and rehabilitated in 2010. “Out of remaining 19 villages, proposals of relocation of three villages have been sent to the ministry of environment and forest for the clearance of forest land diversion,” said Pandey. The officer further said that the survey report of the remaining 16 villages of core area of the tiger reserve has started and soon a proposal for their rehabilitation will also be sent to the Central ministry. “We are starting a door-to-door campaign to record everything about the families to be displaced and soon it will also be completed,” said Pandey. The Achanakmar Tiger Reserve was established in 2009. The total area of the reserve is 911.017 square kilometers in which 626.1 square kilometer is core area and about 287.8 is buffer zone. In between 2009 and 2011, a total of six villages were relocated by the forest department. “The people of these villages were initially reluctant to move out and there were other reasons due to which the relocation was stalled,” said a senior forest officer. The forest department claimed that they are giving all benefits to these villagers as per the relocation guidelines of the Central government. “When these villages are removed, we will get many grasslands in the reserve and then we can develop the tiger reserve,” said Pandey. Meanwhile, the wildlife activists also claimed that the relocation is a welcome step. “The people were agreed to be relocated from a long time but the forest department is relocating after 10 years of formation of the Achanakmar Tiger Reserve. This is very good for wildlife and tiger reserve, if it happens,” said Meetu Gupta, member of the State Wildlife Board. Chhattisgarh has two national parks, three tiger reserves, eight sanctuaries, and one biosphere reserve covering 11,310.977 sq km, which is 8.36% of the state’s total geographical area and 18.92 % of the state’s total forest area of 59,772 sq km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposal-to-relocate-3-villages-in-chhattisgarh-tiger-reserve-sent-to-centre/story-WlwBTf7dwwtINmjlHqbqCI.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine latest developments: Russia releases Sputnik V, India candidate in final phase||Russia has released the first batch of Sputnik V vaccine against the coronavirus disease Covid-19, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. On the other hand, Chinese firm Sinovac Biotech Ltd said its vaccine candidate CoronaVac appeared to be safe for older people as per preliminary results from an early to mid-stage trial. In the United States, president Donald Trump has said that the vaccine to treat the deadly disease may become available in October whereas a new experimental Covid-19 vaccine originating from the University of Oxford has begun human trials in Australia in partnership with the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here At a time when the global Covid-19 tally has topped 27 million and the toll from the disease is at 892,880, here’s a look at the latest on Covid-19 vaccines being developed across the world-- India: The Post Graduate Institute (PGI) Rohtak is set to begin phase-2 human clinical trial of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate, based on inactivated virus procured by ICMR, on Wednesday. “We got permission from Bharat Biotech to start a phase-2 human clinical trial of their vaccine. We’ve 300 volunteers, aged between 12 years and 65- years, out of which screening of 15 has been completed,” Dr OP Kalra, vice-chancellor, PGI Rohtak told news agency ANI. Zydus Cadila’s candidate based on viral DNA is also in a second phase trial while the Oxford vaccine candidate developed by Serum Institute of India is already in Phase III trial in Maharashtra and some other states. --Russia: Sputnik V, vaccine developed by Russia against the viral infection, has been released into public civil circulation and regional deliveries are planned in the nearest future, the Russian health ministry was quoted as saying by ANI. It added that the vaccine has passed the necessary quality tests in the laboratories of medical device regulator Roszdravnadzor. --Australia: Australia expects to receive its first batches of a potential COVID-19 vaccine in January, its prime minister Scott Morrison said. Also, a new shot devised by a UK firm SpyBiotech has begun going into volunteers in a phase I/II trial in Australia run by the Serum Institute, which will eventually enroll several hundred participants, said Sumi Biswas, the company’s chief executive officer and a professor at Oxford’s Nuffield Department of Medicine.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage SpyBiotech has an exclusive licensing agreement with the Serum Institute for the vaccine. The institute reached a licensing deal with AstraZeneca earlier this year to produce 1 billion doses of the Oxford shot developed by Gilbert.--United States: US president Donald Trump said at a White House briefing on Monday that a vaccine may be ready in October.Three Covid-19 vaccines are undergoing final-stage, or Phase 3, clinical trials in the US. Each study is enrolling about 30,000 people who will get two shots, three weeks apart, and then will be monitored for coronavirus infections and side effects for anywhere from a week to two years.Also, under a program Trump calls “Operation Warp Speed,” the goal is to have 300 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine in stock by January. --China: China firm Sinovac’s candidate CoronaVac is being tested in Brazil and Indonesia in final-stage human trials to evaluate whether it is effective and safe enough to obtain regulatory approvals for mass use. It has already been given to tens of thousands of people, including about 90% of Sinovac employees and their families, as part of China’s emergency inoculation scheme to protect people facing high infection risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-latest-developments-russia-releases-sputnik-v-india-candidate-in-final-phase/story-PfkmwVO6c5JFjCnCn9EdVM.html
08-09-2020||India||Maharashtra tyrannizing doctors instead of consulting them, says IMA||Days after the Maharashtra government extended the price cap on the treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has decided to hold a peaceful rally against the decision at Azad Maidan on September 10.All branches of the IMA in Maharashtra will also burn replicas of their medical registration certificates at the branch office or at prominent places.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, around 100 doctors will gather in the morning. We will meet the chief minister with our memorandum and demands,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA, Maharashtra.IMA is a pan-India government accredited association of doctors. In Maharashtra, they have 216 branches with over 45,000 registered doctors. In April, the state government had mandated that private hospitals would have to allocate 20% beds for Covid-19 patients. Out of these, 80% beds are regulated by the civic body. On August 21, the health department issued a circular extending the duration of the price cap till November 30. The circular also stated that private hospitals can begin charging regular rates for the 50% beds reserved for non-Covid patients, even as the government rates will be applicable to the remaining 50% beds meant for Covid-19 patients. Following this, the Maharashtra unit of the IMA has come down heavily on the health department for unilaterally extending the Covid-19 price cap on private hospitals without consulting its members. Maharashtra’s Covid-9 tally stands at over 9.23 lakh.The IMA claims that hospitals are finding it difficult to meet the cost of oxygen, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, biomedical waste charges, staff salaries, disinfection at the current government rates. “For this, the health minister had convened a meeting to increase the rates, and it was decided to hold a meeting with IMA representatives, before August 31, to discuss the hike. However, without holding such a meeting, the state health secretary issued a circular on August 31 to maintain the rates and add more items in it to make it more unaffordable,” Bhondwe said.The association had informed the state health minister, Rajesh Tope on September 1 who apparently promised to hold a meeting within three days but till September 8 noon he had not responded.In an open letter, the IMA said doctors are being unjustly criticised. “On one hand the unaffordable rates have been forced on the doctors and on the other hand doctors are being prosecuted by sending auditors if there is any minor mistake in the bills prepared with the unaffordable rates. At the same time, ministers and leaders have continuously been proclaiming that the doctors are robbing patients. Because of this unjust criticism the doctors in the state of Maharashtra are losing their self confidence,” reads the open letter of Maharashtra unit of the IMA. The IMA claims over 150 private doctors have succumbed to Covid-19 while treating patients. But unlike government and municipal employees, they are not eligible for the Covid-19 insurance of Rs 50 lakhs. “The reason for the failure of the coronavirus pandemic in Maharashtra state lies in the short-sighted, unscientific, inhumane and repressive practices of the administrators, who are fully responsible for controlling the epidemic in this fashion, by tyrannizing the doctors instead of consulting with them. All the citizens know that the contribution of all the private hospitals in controlling the coronavirus outbreak in Maharashtra is invaluable,” said Dr Bhondwe.Simultaneously, such protests will also be conducted all across the state in front of the administrative offices like collectors, municipal commissioners among others in their respective regions seeking justice for doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-tyrannizing-doctors-instead-of-consulting-them-says-ima/story-cKPD5anASXUclYFL2OgbZK.html
08-09-2020||India||SC dismisses plea against rise in petrol, diesel prices||The Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking deregulation of petrol and diesel prices and to pass on the benefits to the public owing to a slump in international crude oil rates since April. The petition filed by a Kerala-based advocate, Shaji J Kodankandath, said that oil marketing companies (OMCs), which are directly under the operational control of the central government, were increasing petrol and diesel prices on a daily basis even though international crude oil prices have been at an all-time low since April.“Do you seriously want to argue this? If you do, we will impose costs,” said Justice Rohinton Nariman. The petitioner’s lawyer chose not to pursue the case and accepted that the matter fell within the ambit of the government’s policy decision.The petitioner had highlighted that the current price of crude oil was hovering at around Rs 38 per barrel and the total cost of manufacturing and selling of petrol and diesel would be around Rs 30 per litre.Petrol and diesel prices are over Rs 80, which is over 150% more than the manufacturing cost.“The price of diesel, which is traditionally lower than petrol, has increased. Diesel costs more than petrol in some cities for the first time in recent history,” the plea cited..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-against-rise-in-petrol-diesel-prices/story-Yu2vOIhyIzARywQdCsY8eK.html
08-09-2020||India||‘Hunar Haat’ to return in Prayagraj next month after Covid break||‘Hunar Haat’, the Minority Affairs Ministry’s initiative to generate employment for master artisans, will make a comeback on October 9 in Prayagraj with the theme of “local to global” and a focus on indigenous Indian toys. After a gap of about six months due to the coronavirus pandemic, the next ‘Hunar Haat’ will be organised in Prayagraj from October 9 to 18 and more than 30 per cent stalls will be for artisans who prepare indigenous toys, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said. The artisans will also be extended help through various institutions for attractive packaging of ‘swadeshi toys’, he said. Naqvi said here that every corner of the country has a traditional and ancestral legacy of indigenous toys. This legacy, which was on the verge of extinction, has got a boon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for ‘swadeshi toys’, the minister said. The Indian toy industry has got a tremendous boost after Modi advocated “vocal for local toys”, he said in a statement. Naqvi said that every corner of the country is endowed with various kinds of indigenous toys made with wood, brass, bamboo, glass, cloth, paper, clay, etc. ‘Hunar Haat’ will be an enormous platform, providing market and opportunities to master artisans who prepare these indigenous exquisite toys, he said. Prime Minister Modi’s appeal to get “vocal for local toys” will help the Indian toy industry to gain dominance in the toy market. ‘Hunar Haat’, which has provided employment and employment opportunities to more than 5 lakh Indian artisans, craftsmen, culinary experts and other people associated with them in the last five years, has become a credible brand of rare exquisite indigenous handmade products, Naqvi said. The Minority Affairs Ministry has organised more than two dozen ‘Hunar Haats’ so far across the country. In the coming days, ‘Hunar Haat’ will be organised in Jaipur (October 23 -November 1), Chandigarh (November 7- 15), Indore ( November 21 to 29), Mumbai (December 22 to 31), Hyderabad (January 8 to 17), Lucknow (January 23 to 31), India Gate, New Delhi (February 13 to 21), Ranchi (February 20 to 28), Kota (March 5 to 14, 2021), and Surat/Ahmedabad (March 20 to 27, 2021). Naqvi said that this time, people will also be able to buy ‘Hunar Haat’ products online also. The Minority Affairs Ministry is registering these artisans and their indigenous products on “GeM” (Government e-Marketplace). Several export promotion councils have shown interest to provide international markets on a large scale for handmade indigenous products of these artisans and craftsmen. Naqvi said that several lakh master artisans and craftsmen from across the country are happy and excited that ‘Hunar Haat’ is going to be organised again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hunar-haat-to-return-in-prayagraj-next-month-after-covid-break/story-gaqvsrJXoJRlu3R2t2TP6N.html
08-09-2020||India||PM Garib Kalyan package provided cash benefits of Rs 68,820 crore to 420 million poor: Fin Min||The Union government has so far provided cash assistance of Rs 68,820 crore to 420 million poor since it announced the Rs 1.7 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) on March 26, the finance ministry said on Tuesday.The package, which is around 0.8% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP), aims to ease economic distress, especially for the underprivileged, and promises food and cash security to the poor. Besides direct financial assistance, PMGKP also includes free distribution of wheat, rice, pulses and cooking gas cylinders.The statement said the government has front-loaded a payment of Rs 17,891 crore as the first instalment of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) to 89.4 million beneficiaries. PM-KISAN scheme was launched on December 1, 2018 to provide cash support of Rs 6,000 per year to all farmer families across the country in three equal instalments. While launching the Rs 1.7 lakh crore package on March 26, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the Rs 2,000 instalment of PM-KISAN would be front-loaded and given immediately.Also Read: Centre committed to pay full GST compensation to states, but states must borrowThe statement said Rs 10,325 crore has been already credited to 206.5 million women account holders under the Prime Minister Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) as the first instalment. Rupees 10,315 crore and Rs 10,312 crore were also credited to PMJDY accounts in the second and the third instalments, respectively. In order to help poor women in this difficult time when the livelihoods of most of them are disrupted, Sitharaman had announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 500 per month for three months starting April.“A total of Rs 2,814.5 crore disbursed to about 2.81 crore [28.1 million] old age persons, widows and disabled persons in two instalments,” the statement said. On March 26, Sitharaman had promised an ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 each to 30 million poor senior citizens, widows and divyang (disabled) who were vulnerable due to the economic disruption caused by Covid-19.About 18.2 million construction workers have received financial support amounting to Rs 4,987.18 crore, the statement said.Also Read: Lack of stimulus has hurt economy: Amit MitraBesides transferring cash, the government has already distributed food grains to millions of poor, it said.“Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMJKY), 37.52 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of food grains has been distributed to 75.04 crore beneficiaries in April 2020, 37.46 LMT distributed to 74.92 crore beneficiaries in May 2020, and 36.62 LMT distributed to 73.24 crore beneficiaries in June 2020,” it said.The scheme initially promised to provide 5 kg wheat or rice and 1 kg pulses for free every month till June this year to 800 million poor. The scheme was further extended for five months till November 2020.“Since then, 98.31 LMT food grains have been given to states and union territories so far. In July 2020, about 36.09 LMT food grains were distributed to 72.18 crore beneficiaries, in August 2020, 30.22 LMT were distributed to 60.44 crore beneficiaries, and, in September 2020, 1.92 LMT were distributed to 3.84 crore beneficiaries (as on September 7, 2020),” a finance ministry spokesperson said. In addition, a total of 5.43 LMT pulses have been distributed to 188 million beneficiaries between April and June 2020. This scheme was also extended for five months till November, 2020.The statement also said that a total of 85.2 million cylinders have been booked and delivered under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) in April and May 2020. So far 32.7 crore free cylinders have been delivered to the beneficiaries in June, 10.5 million in July, 8.9 million in August, and 1.5 million in September 2020, the statement said. PMGKY package includes free supply of three 14.5 kg gas cylinders to 80 million poor families.Giving details of the implementation of the package, the statement said, “36.05 lakh members of Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has taken benefit of online withdrawal of non-refundable advance from EPFO account amounting to Rs 9,543 crore.”The government has transferred 24% EPF contribution to accounts of 4.3 million employees, amounting to Rs 2,476 crore, it said. In order to help low wage earners in organised sectors, the government on March 26 announced it would pay 24% of their monthly wages into the PF accounts of wage-earners below Rs 15,000 per month in businesses with less than 100 workers for next three months. “This would prevent a disruption in their employment,” Sitharaman had said, while announcing the welfare package.The government has also notified the increased wage rate under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Program (MNREGA) effective from April 1, 2020, it said. “In the current financial year, 195.21 crore persons’ man-days of work generated. Further, Rs 59,618 crore released to states to liquidate pending dues of both wage and material,” the statement said. Sitharaman had raised wages for MNREGA workers under the PMJKY package by Rs 20 with effect from April 1 to provide an additional Rs 2,000 benefit annually to each worker. “This will benefit approximately 13.62 crore families,” she had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-garib-kalyan-package-provided-cash-benefits-of-rs-68-820-crore-to-420-million-poor-fin-min/story-ez1mkVax0wxpqRzThBhOvL.html
08-09-2020||India||Govt attaches properties of US-based Sikhs for Justice leader and designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, first under amended UAPA||The Centre on Tuesday ordered the attachment of properties of US-based Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) leader and designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannun under Section 51A of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.This is the first time that the government has attached property under the UAPA since its amendment last year.Pannun, along with eight other men, was designated a terrorist by the Union home ministry in July this year. Pannun has been running a campaign against India and motivating Sikh youngsters in his home state Punjab to join militancy, the government said. Govt. Orders Attachment of Immovable Properties of Designated Terrorists Gurpatwant Singh Pannu and Hardeep Singh Nijjar pic.twitter.com/7mOpa7UEkbAlso read: 9 wanted men designated as terrorists under anti-terror law, includes Pannun, Khalistani forcesThe others designated as individual terrorists under UAPA include - Paramjit Singh of Babbar Khalsa International, Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Khalistan Tiger Force, Gurmit Singh Bagga of Khalistan Zindabad Force and Ranjeet Singh from the same outfit.The properties of Pannun and Nijjar in Punjab’s Amritsar and Jalandhar respectively will be attached, the government order said.The order has been issued after the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is investigating the campaign being run by SFJ, approached the government for attachment of these properties. The NIA said that SFJ, a secessionist organisation, is running a concerted campaign “for creation of so called Khalistan”.Last September, the first four terrorists to be declared as individual terrorists under the changed provisions of UAPA were - Maulana Masood Azhar, Hafiz Saeed, Zaki ur Rehman Lakhvi and Dawood Ibrahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-attaches-properties-of-us-based-sikhs-for-justice-leader-and-designated-terrorist-gurpatwant-singh-pannun-first-under-amended-uapa/story-WrTrGsIQOyZBWPJ984DmJM.html
08-09-2020||India||Rajasthan takes Rs 300-cr hit as alcohol sale falls sharply amid pandemic||Despite additional excise tax and Covid-19 surcharge on alcohol, Rajasthan witnessed a revenue deficit of over Rs 300 crore in the current financial year on the back of a sharp decline in sales amid the pandemic and particularly during the lockdown period. Between April to August this year, the excise department earned a revenue of Rs 3,301crore compared to Rs 3,607 crore for the same period in 2019 a deficit of Rs 306 crore despite additional tax and surcharge on liquor. The highest losses came in the April when it garnered revenue of Rs 145 crore against Rs 670 crore in the corresponding period of last year to set up a deficit of Rs 525 crore in the first month of the current fiscal. In subsequent months, the revenue has been more than that the corresponding months of last year because of higher taxes, but sales have dived.The Rajasthan State Beverages Corporation Limited, which has rights for sourcing and pricing of Indian made foreign Liquor (IMFL) sold 46 lakh cases of IMFL in 2019-20, which fell to 29 lakh this year. Similarly, the sale of beer cases fell to 66 lakh from 149 lakh in 2019-20. In comparison to 2019 (April to August 31), the sale of IMFL has reduced by 37% and beer by 56% in the corresponding period this year. Liquor shops which were shut in Rajasthan during the lockdown, reopened on May 4 except in containment zones and those places which were under curfew. To raise revenue amid Covid-19 crisis the state government on April 29 imposed an additional excise duty from 35%-45% on IMFL and 45% on beer. On the same day, the Rajasthan Excise Act was amended to raise the basic license fee for sale of country liquor and Rajasthan made liquor (RML). Thereafter, on June 2, a surcharge was levied on IMFL, beer, RML and country liquor from Rs 1.50 to Rs 30 per bottle. The surcharge was made for the purpose of mitigating natural or man-made calamities like drought, flood, epidemic, public health exigencies, fire etc. Though the government managed to go surplus with the revenue with imposing additional tax and surcharge but the volume of consumption declined steeply. Secretary finance, Prithvi Raj said, “We are getting almost the same revenue as that of last year. At the same time the volume of consumption has decreased, which supports the state’s policy of discouraging liquor consumption.” He said that other than April, the months from May to August are revenue positive – May registered 18% growth, June (15%), July (16%), and August (26%). “There is this price elasticity of demand concept, which says that whenever there is an increase in the price of any product its consumption tends to fall,” said Prithvi Raj. A senior official of the excise department said on condition of anonymity that there has been a decline in liquor sales compared to last year but the sale of IMFL is now rising. The department is focusing on increasing the lifting of the stock from depots. “The sale of beer has fallen in almost all states, which is because of a steep rise in prices; the product is preferred consumed chilled and doctors during the Covid-9 pandemic have cautioned against drinking cold beverages. The tourist footfall is low and the situation is the same with bars,” said the official. said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-takes-rs-300-cr-hit-as-alcohol-sale-falls-sharply-amid-pandemic/story-Kno4Q5sxg5VMjY35K1OdIO.html
08-09-2020||India||Opposition parties to put up a joint candidate for RS deputy chairperson’s election||The opposition parties will put up a joint candidate for the post of the Rajya Sabha (RS) deputy chairperson, people familiar with the developments said. This was decided at a meeting of the Congress’s parliament strategy group on Tuesday, a party leader said. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi presided over the meeting, where it was decided to corner the government over the issue of border standoff with China during the upcoming 18-day monsoon session of Parliament that starts from September 14. Also read: Only paper ballots for voting in Parliament’s monsoon sessionThe RS deputy chairperson’s post has been lying vacant after Janata Dal’s (United) member Harivansh’s tenure had ended in April. However, Harivansh’s got re-elected to the Upper House from Bihar soon after his tenure had ended. He is expected to be the ruling National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) candidate again. Harivansh was elected as the RS deputy chairperson after Congress’s PJ Kurien’s tenure had ended in August, 2018. Harivansh had defeated Congress’s BK Hariprasad, as he had bagged 125 votes to the latter’s 105.The election to the RS deputy chairperson’s post is slated to be held on September 14 and the last date for the filing of nomination papers is on September 11. The post of the deputy speaker in the lower house is also lying vacant since the 17th Lok Sabha was constituted in May last year. Meanwhile, the meeting also listed other key issues to be taken up during the upcoming monsoon session. Besides the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Congress and other opposition parties are going to raise a raft of issues such as nation-wide lockdown restrictions, its resultant economic impact, restoration of Question Hour, Facebook’s alleged nexus with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the massive decline in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the first quarter of the current financial years, non-payment of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to states, job losses and agrarian distress. They will also seek a discussion on the PM-CARES Fund. The meeting was attended by former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, his deputy Anand Sharma, party leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, his deputy Gaurav Gogoi, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Mallikarjun Kharge, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal, Manish Tewari, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu. This was the first time that three of the 23 signatories -- Azad, Sharma and Tewari -- to a letter to the party president seeking complete overhaul of the organisation came face-to-face with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi after the stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on August 24. Four out of the 23 signatories who are CWC members – Azad, Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada – had come under intense fire from other colleagues at the meeting for writing the letter. After chairing the meeting, Sonia Gandhi is likely to leave for abroad for a routine health check-up and will not be able to attend the full monsoon session of Parliament. The meeting also decided to firm up a joint strategy with other like-minded opposition parties. Some key opposition leaders such as Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) leader and Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren have stated that they would work closely to take on the government in Parliament. The leaders expressed their views at a recent meeting of non-NDA CMs called by Sonia Gandhi on holding Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) amid the pandemic and non-payment of GST compensation to states.A meeting of opposition parties is expected to be held later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-to-put-up-a-joint-candidate-for-rs-deputy-chairperson-s-election/story-ifcJ7iCqTt82xGL35SjXhL.html
08-09-2020||India||Dharmendra Pradhan urges railway minister to relaunch Shramik trains from Odisha||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal, seeking his intervention to relaunch the now-suspended services of Shramik Special trains from Odisha to other states to facilitate return of migrant workers to their places of work.In a letter to Goyal, the petroleum and steel minister said he has received many representations from migrant labourers in the state, seeking resumption of such special train services to Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states.“As you would be aware, there was a mass exodus of migrant workers from states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra to Odisha in the wake of nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.“With the efforts of the Railway Ministry, thousands of workers across the country could reach their home towns by Shramik Special trains and the same was appreciated widely,” Pradhan said.There is a need to resume train services for migrant workers so that they can go back to their workplaces, he said, adding that these labourers have expressed their plight due to unavailability of jobs.“I am informed that even though some employers are willing to offer bus transport service from Odisha, due to the prevailing monsoon conditions, a long and arduous journey via road is neither feasible nor safe,” Pradhan said in his letter.“I request your intervention for restarting of Shramik Express Trains from Odisha to states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra at the earliest,” he added.Pradhan’s letter came after eight migrant workers, who were on their way from Odisha’s Ganjam to Surat in Gujarat, were killed and several injured when the bus carrying them met with an accident in Chhattisgarh last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharmendra-pradhan-urges-railway-minister-to-relaunch-shramik-trains-from-odisha/story-S7KHFpxoikGCoHaFKJWe3H.html
08-09-2020||India||Govind Swarup, pioneer of radio astronomy in India, dies at 91||Physicist Govind Swarup, known for pioneering radio astronomy in India and setting up giant radio telescopes, died on Monday in Pune. He was 91. Swarup was the brains behind the designing and installation of the Ooty Radio Telescope and the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope near Pune. Instead of studying the light emitted from an astronomical source like the regular optical telescopes, radio telescopes study the radio waves that are emitted.The Ooty Radio Telescope is a 530 m long and 30 m tall cylindrical parabolic antennae. The rotation axis of the telescope is parallel to the Earth’s rotation axis, which means it can follow a source from the rise to set. The telescope has helped in many discoveries in astronomy, contributed to the studies of the sun, pulsars (stars that cannot be seen but send out pulses of radio signals), and distant radio quasars (extremely luminious astronomical objects formed by gas spiralling into a massive black hole). Using the telescope, Swarup and his students showed that radio source counts were consistent with the predictions of the Big Bang theory.The construction of the telescope was completed in 1970 and it continues to be one of the world’s most sensitive radio telescopes.In the 1980s, Swarup thought of a radio telescope even bigger than the one at Ooty and began his Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope project. It uses 30 fully steerable parabolic radio telescopes of 45 metre diameter the information from which is then superimposed to create the whole picture.The goal of this massive new telescope, which opened up for research in 2000, was to discover primordial hydrogen clouds in the very distant universe.After completing his graduation and post-graduation in physics from Allahabad University, Swarup discovered a new type of burst from the sun, called a Type U burst, during his time at Harvard Observatory. When he applied for a PhD in the US, all the major radio astronomy centres of the time – Harvard, Caltech, and Stanford accepted his application. Swarup was offered a position as an assistant professor in the US but he always wanted to return to India. Along with three other Indians working in the field of radio astronomy abroad, he proposed to set up a radio astronomy facility in India in 1961. The proposal was quickly accepted by Homi Bhabha, then director of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) in Mumbai. He sent Swarup a telegram conveying TIFR’s decision to set up a radio astronomy group, marking the beginning of radio astronomy in India.“With Professor Govind Swarup’s demise, the world of astronomy has lost a great scientist, institution, and telescope-builder. Ever-smiling, not one to take a no for anything he wanted to be done, he took up impossible tasks, inspired colleagues to accomplish them,” wrote principal scientific advisor to the government, K VijayRaghavan.Swarup was part of London’s Royal Society and won India’s highest science award--Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize--and the fourth highest civilian award, Padma Shree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pioneer-of-radio-astronomy-in-india-govind-swarup-dies-at-91/story-q5zhYGFu0FuxjYxPJobtjL.html
08-09-2020||India||Over 5 crore Covid-19 tests conducted till date||India’s cumulative tests for detection of Covid-19 have surpassed five crore, while tests per million have witnessed a rise from 6,396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of date, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.Aggressive and widespread testing have essayed an important role in India’s fight against the Covid pandemic, the ministry said.India has come a long way from conducting just one test at the lab in the National Institute of Virology, Pune in January to 5,06,50,128 as on date with  10,98,621 samples being tested in 24 hours testifying the enlarged testing capacity in the country. “The average daily tests conducted (week-wise) are demonstrating a consistent increase. This has registered a 3.2 times expansion from third week of July (3,26,971) to first week of September (10,46,470),” the ministry said.The average Tests Per Million Per Day have increased from 237 in the second week of July to 758 in the first week of September, it highlighted. In its Guidance Note on “Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19”, the WHO has advised countries to conduct 140 tests per day per million population for comprehensive surveillance for suspect cases. The average week-on-week data for India shows a rising improvement on this front.  Expanding network of diagnostic labs has given a boost to Tests per Million.“The TPM have seen a sharp rise from 6396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of today,” the ministry said.The testing lab network consists of 1668 labs in the country; 1035 labs in the government sector and 633 private labs.India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 42,80,422 with a single-day spike of 75,809 infections, while the  death toll climbed to 72,775 with record 1,133 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5-crore-covid-19-tests-conducted-till-date/story-Wpa6SkqCiJaAvom534XvaN.html
08-09-2020||India||Hunar Haat to begin from October 9 in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj||Hunar Haat, a crafts fair organised by the ministry of minority affairs that gives platform to local artisans will be resumed after a gap of about 6 months from October 9 to 18 at Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh. The fair that was put on hold because of the ongoing Corona pandemic, will have local to global as the theme and the focus will be on indigenous exquisite Indian toys. Union Minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said every corner of the country has a traditional and ancestral legacy of indigenous toys. “This legacy, which was on the verge of extinction, has got a boon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for Swadeshi Toys. The Indian toy industry has got tremendous boost after PM Modi advocated vocal for local toys,” the minister said in a statement. During his radio programme, Man Ki Baat, in August, PM Modi said the global toy industry is over Rs 7 lakh crore but India’s share is very small and urged start-up entrepreneurs to ‘team up for toys’. The Prime Minister held discussions with industry representatives to increase the production of indigenous toys. He also held a meeting with ministers and officials to discuss ways to boost manufacturing and global imprint of Indian toys and said India is home to several toy clusters and thousands of artisans who produce indigenous toys. This art, he said, not only has cultural links but also helps in building life-skills and psychomotor skills among children. The PM suggested that such clusters should be promoted through innovative and creative methods. Taking a cue from the PM’s suggestion, Naqvi said, the haat will offer a platform for indigenous toys made from wood, brass, bamboo, glass, cloth, paper, clay etc. “The Hunar Haat will be an enormous platform providing market and opportunities to master artisans who prepare these indigenous exquisite toys. More than 30%of the stalls will be for artisans who male indigenous toys, they will also be extended help through various institutions for attractive packaging of swadeshi toys,” the minister said. The fair, as per the minister, has provided employment and employment opportunities to more than 500,000 Indian artisans, craftsmen, culinary experts and other people associated with them in the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hunar-haat-to-begin-from-october-9-in-uttar-pradesh-s-prayagraj/story-ujFGhTiwfriIDETBCaWMSN.html
08-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput probe: Rhea Chakraborty at NCB office for third round of questioning||Actor Rhea Chakraborty reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in Mumbai on Tuesday for the third round of questioning in the drug abuse angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Chakraborty was escorted from her residence in Juhu to the NCB office in Fort by a police vehicle after she was mobbed by a horde of mediapersons on Sunday, the first day she was summoned by the agency. NCB said Chakraborty, who was quizzed for around eight hours on Monday and six hours on Sunday, was cooperating in the drug-related probe linked to Rajput’s death on June 14. Also read| ‘Absolutely baseless, illegal’: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer reacts to Rhea Chakraborty’s chargesNCB deputy director general (south-west region) Mutha Ashok Jain on Monday said that the agency was doing a “professionally thorough and systematic job” and that it will inform the court about its “findings in detail”.The agency has said it wants to question the 28-year- old actor and confront her with her brother Showik (24), Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda (33) and his house staffer Dipesh Sawant to ascertain their roles in the alleged drug racket.The NCB launched its investigation after WhatsApp chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with Rajput’s death case surfaced.Chakrabortys’ lawyer, however, had denied that either of the two siblings ever consumed drugs. The agency has till now has arrested eight people including Showik, Miranada and Sawant in the case.Others who have been arrested are Zaid Vilatra, Kaizan Ebrahim, Abdel Basit Parihar, Karan Arora, and Abbas Lakhani.However, Vilatra and Parihar, two accused who had implicated Rhea Chakraborty’s brother and Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and domestic help Dipesh Swant, have retracted their statements given to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-probe-rhea-chakraborty-at-ncb-office-for-third-round-of-questioning/story-9szCh5DXHuUMFTq5Vzbo9L.html
08-09-2020||India||‘Absolutely baseless, illegal’: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer reacts to Rhea Chakraborty’s charges||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer on Tuesday dismissed the police complaint lodged by Rhea Chakraborty against the late actor’s sisters and a Delhi-based doctor, accusing them of abetting suicide, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.Bandra Police have registered a first information report (FIR) against Rajput’s sisters, Priyanka Singh and Mitu Singh, and Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of cardiology from Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. The case has also been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Rajput’s death.“It looks like the Bandra police station of Mumbai Police has become Rhea’s second home. She runs to it on every small occasion and takes refuge just like someone takes refuge in their house. The FIR lodged by the Bandra Police is absolutely baseless and illegal,” Vikas Singh, lawyer of Rajput’s father, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Whatever Rhea Chakraborty is trying to say through this FIR, she could have given the same in a statement to the CBI. And if CBI considered it, it would have given a thought about it in its charge sheet. The second FIR is absolutely invalid in the accordance with the order of the Supreme Court and is in direct violation,” Singh added.Rhea filed a six-page complaint against the three at Bandra police station for allegedly prescribing medicines for Rajput that are banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines, 2020.She has filed the complaint under sections 464, 465, 466, 468, 474, 306, 120 (B), 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and read with sections 8 (c), 21, 22, and 29 of the NDPS act.One of Rajput’s sister, Shweta Singh Kirti, has called Chakraborty’s complaint against her siblings ‘fake’. “Nothing’s gonna break us, definitely not this fake FIR!” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absolutely-baseless-illegal-sushant-singh-rajput-s-family-lawyer-reacts-to-rhea-chakraborty-s-charges/story-Ph1yiDBFKAIVtiWo8VNP5M.html
08-09-2020||India||At Congress’ parliament strategy meeting, Opposition decides to put up joint candidate for deputy Rajya Sabha chairman||The Opposition parties have decided to put up a joint candidate for the post of Rajya Sabha deputy chairman. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Congress party’s parliament strategy group.The Congress decided that it will reach out to various parties in this regard.The Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson’s post fell vacant after Janata Dal (United) MP Harivansh retired in April this year.There is, however, no word on the deputy speaker. The post couldn’t be elected in the budget session of the Lok Sabha which ended in March. And because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the legislative proceedings were affected so a discussion on the same could not be held.The decision comes ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament starting September 14. The last date of filing the nominations is September 11. Also Read: Only paper ballots for voting in Parliament’s monsoon sessionThe meeting was attended by party’s leaders in both houses including Rahul Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and leader of Congress party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.Congress deputy leaders in both houses and chief whips and party’s whips also attended the virtual meeting.This was the first time that some of the letter-writers, who had demanded an overhaul of the party, came face to face with the Congress leadership after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting.The Congress strategy group decided to raise the issue of restoration of the Question Hour in both houses during the session.The Congress also decided to raise the issue of the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic in the wake of rise in daily number of cases and India taking the second spot in total cases in the world, besides the effect of lockdown.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-congress-parliament-strategy-meeting-opposition-decides-to-put-up-joint-candidate-for-deputy-speaker/story-o6S80NABPCT43S4ugWseqK.html
08-09-2020||India||Indian Railways announces ‘clone train scheme’: All you need to know||The Indian Railways, which will operate 80 more special trains from September 12 in addition to the 230 already plying, has now announced a ‘clone train’ scheme to ferry passengers with waitlisted tickets to their destinations.“Wherever there is a demand for a particular train, wherever the waiting list is long, we will run a clone train ahead of the actual train so that passengers can travel,” Railway Board chairperson VK Yadav said while addressing a press conference.“Railways will monitor all the trains that are currently in operation to determine which trains have a long waiting list,” Yadav said.Here’s all you need to know about this scheme:* A ‘clone’ train will be run as an alternative to an actual one and will have its number.* Such a train will be operated only if there is a large number of passengers on the waiting list of a particular train.* Only waitlisted passengers will be accommodated on a ‘clone’ train.* Passengers on the waiting list shall be informed about their berths or seats on a ‘clone’ train after reservation charts of the actual train is released or four hours before departure.* Railways is likely to introduce these trains in the next 15 days and will issue a notification in this regard.* This scheme is similar to the ‘Vikalp’ scheme under which waitlisted passengers are accommodated in another train on the same route, regardless of booking quota and concession.* However, in the case of ‘Vikalp’ scheme, instead of the original boarding and destination stations, nearby boarding and destination stations may be allotted to the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-announces-clone-train-scheme-all-you-need-to-know/story-wuysM8pXqIdBYiQ6ytCTLM.html
08-09-2020||India||10-year-old girl killed in house collapse in Panvel||A 10-year-old girl was killed while her parents and three siblings sustained minor injuries after the family’s house collapsed in Taloja, Panvel in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) Tuesday morning, police said.Officials in the local ward office of the Panvel Municipal Corporation in Pendhar village, said the house collapsed around 7 am.Police officials said one Munna Harijan, 30, was staying in a rented house near a chawl in Pendhar in the MIDC area. Harijan was staying with his wife, and four children - three daughters aged ten, four and three and a son aged 12.“Hina, the eldest of the daughters was crushed under the slab when it collapsed on her in the morning. The entire house collapsed shortly after that. After the Panvel fire brigade was informed, the remaining family members were pulled out of the rubble,” said an officer from the Navi Mumbai police control room.The injured family members were admitted to a hospital in MIDC, Taloja. The local ward office said the cause behind the collapse is not clear yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-year-old-girl-killed-in-house-collapse-in-panvel/story-KBvJsKUNoxUI8YPCzCVZyM.html
08-09-2020||India||Only paper ballots for voting in Parliament’s monsoon session||Passing legislations will be a time-consuming affair in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, which will be held between September 14 and October 1 and without any weekend breaks, amid the unprecedented raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.There won’t be any electronic voting system and the lawmakers have to cast their votes through the traditional paper ballots. The Members of Parliament (MPs) have to maintain social distancing norms, as part of the precautionary measures against the viral outbreak. As a result, few parliamentarians will be able to retain their own seat.Going by the plan, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs will occupy seats in both the Houses and the galleries when Parliament will meet in two separate shifts. Parliament, akin to Indian elections, has graduated to a more efficient electronic system to cast votes on bills and resolutions. Also Read: Congress to give final shape to its Parliament strategy todayHowever, paper ballots still have a limited use for MPs to rectify their votes in case of any mistake with the electronic system. The Covid-19 pandemic has led to the scrapping of the use of the electronic voting system during the upcoming truncated monsoon session of Parliament. “Recording of votes during Divisions, as and when required, will be held under Rule 367A as per the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Lok Sabha by distribution of slips. Division slips will be provided to those members who are seated in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chambers and galleries only,” said a notice of the Lok Sabha secretariat on Monday. Also Read: Monsoon session of Parliament: Over 1k officials being screenedElectronic voting implies instantaneous results and the process takes less than five minutes. The ballots, including distribution and counting, takes at least around half an hour. The government wants to pass at least 11 ordinances, including three on farm sector reforms, and a few other pending bills during the packed 18-day Parliament session. “Members will be supplied with ‘ayes’/‘noes’ printed slips at their seats for recording their votes. ‘ayes’ slips are printed on one side in green and ‘noes’ on its reverse in red, both in English and Hindi languages,” said the notice. “On the slips, members may record votes of their choice by signing and writing legibly their names, Division numbers and date. Members who desire to record ‘abstention’ may ask for the ‘abstention’ slips,” the notice added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-paper-ballots-for-voting-in-parliament-s-monsoon-session/story-al3MNdSXUDj9xsIzS8ZJdN.html
08-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress to formulate strategy ahead of monsoon session of Parliament today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress to give final shape to its Parliament strategy todayThe Congress will formulate its strategy for the monsoon session of Parliament, beginning September 14, at a meeting on Tuesday. The meeting of the party’s parliament strategy group will be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and attended by Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu. Read more2,392 fresh cases push Telangana’s Covid-19 tally to 1.45 lakhTelangana on Tuesday logged 2,329 new cases and 11 deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, taking the overall tally and death toll to 1.45 lakh and 906 respectively.A total of 1.12 lakh people have recovered from Covid-19 so far whereas 31,670 are under treatment. Nearly 25,000 are in home or institutional quarantine in the state. Read moreMBBS students can travel by Mumbai local trains to appear for final examsMumbai’s suburban trains will ferry undergraduate medical students who are slated to appear for their final year MBBS summer theory and practical examinations from Tuesday. The decision follows a request by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), less than 24 hours before the exam, seeking permission to allow MBBS students to travel by trains during exams. Read moreFitch projects Indian economy to contract 10.5% this fiscalFitch Ratings on Tuesday projected a massive 10.5% contraction of India’s economy in the current financial year. India recorded one of the sharpest gross domestic product (GDP) contractions in the world in April-June. India’s GDP shrank by a staggering 24% year-on-year amid the imposition of one of the most stringent global nationwide lockdown. Read moreKangana Ranaut’s office not bulldozed by the BMC, actor receives a notice to stop ‘leakage’ insteadActor Kangana Ranaut has announced that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has given her a notice to tend to ‘leakage work’ at her Mumbai office. Kangana on Monday had claimed that the BMC was going to demolish her Manikarnika Films office, presumably as a fallout of her recent war of words with the Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut. Read morePUBG Corp. responds to PUBG Mobile ban, Tencent will no longer handle its India franchiseThe Indian government banned PUBG Mobile along with 117 more China-linked apps last week. In response to the ban, PUBG Corporation, the parent company of PUBG Mobile has announced Tencent Games will no longer have publishing rights for the game in India. Read moreShilpa Shetty Kundra’s mantra for health: ‘Focus, willpower, consistency, but not at risk of mental, physical health’Shilpa Shetty Kundra has been advocating fitness and yoga long before it became a fad, and the fit actor is constantly sharing her fitness routine, healthy recipes and health tips on social media for her fans. In her latest social media post, Shilpa shared with her fans why it was important to be focused, consistent and have willpower to achieve one’s goals. Read moreIPL 2020: Mayank Agarwal targets elusive Indian Premier League highAs a youngster, Mayank Agarwal’s role model was Virender Sehwag. While retaining his aggression, the Karnataka batsman held firm through a rollercoaster early phase and started his Test career with a bang. Read moreMaruti Suzuki production up 11% to 1.23 lakh units in AugustMaruti Suzuki India said on Monday it clocked 11 per cent increase in production during August to 1.23 lakh units. The country’s largest passenger car manufacturer had produced a total of 1.11 lakh units in the same month of last year, the company said in a statement. Read moreSonu Sood’s reply to fan who painted his pic on SIM card is winning people overSonu Sood has won people’s hearts for going above and beyond to assist those who reach out to him asking for help. The efforts of the actor have also earned him a fan following on Twitter. Some of his fans also share artworks on the micro-blogging platform as a tribute. Read moreWatch: India’s active Covid cases nears the million mark; lockdown fatigue setting in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-to-formulate-strategy-ahead-of-monsoon-session-of-parliament-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qpFGk0owcRNNCEZyKuJidI.html
08-09-2020||India||Not just our products, India’s voice has also become global: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that the world now pays more attention to India and that its voice is being heard globally.“The world is now paying more attention to India, and we have strong presence at most global bodies,” the Prime Minister said while addressing a book launch event virtually. He also hailed the media for serving people in an “unprecedented way” by spreading awareness about the coronavirus pandemic and said that like Indian products, the media too needs to go global. “Not only Indian products but India’s voice also has become global, Indian media too needs to be global,” he said. “Though the media is also criticised at times, more so in this age of social media, everybody needs to learn from criticism,” he said, adding this is what makes India’s democracy strong. ALSO WATCH | ‘NEP focuses on critical thinking’: PM Modi, President Kovind address Governors’ conference He also pointed out how India’s freedom struggle movement was associated with literature. “In our country, writing has developed continuously with Indianness and nationality. During the freedom struggle, almost every big name was associated with writing from somewhere. We have had great saints, scientists and writers known for their literary contribution,” he said. The Prime Minister said that writers are like the guiding forces of any society. Books and authors play a major role in guiding the masses as schooling gets over but the learning process lasts for ages, he said. He also cautioned the country’s youth saying, “Today, in this era of text and tweet, it is more important that our new generation does not get away from serious knowledge.” (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-our-products-india-s-voice-has-also-become-global-pm-modi/story-BkaYX4GLbnb5ULyRkk1AzM.html
08-09-2020||India||Saharanpur wood carvers to begin a new chapter with wooden toys||Artisans in Saharanpur always had a reputation for wood carving. Now, the Saharanpur district administration has planned a project to give a new dimension to that skill by deciding to make indigenous wooden toys. They intend to launch the first lot of toys from the city by Dussehera in October, officials said.The move follows an appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address in August.Saharanpur is globally acclaimed for its wood carving skills and the state government has selected it under its ‘one district, one product’ scheme. Inspired by the advice of the PM, the wood carvers of Saharanpur will make non-toxic wooden toys as part of the national rural livelihood mission (NRLM).Saharanpur divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar explained that the city’s artisans are globally acclaimed for their wood carving skills and the idea is to utilise it for making non-toxic wooden toys.“It will help them add a new dimension to their skill and open new avenues of income for them,” said Kumar, who has directed officials to ensure that wooden toys made here should cater to the needs of children of different ages.Chief development officer (CDO) Pranay Singh is looking after the project and he said that local artisans are already skilled but what they need is proper training and guidance to try their hand at toy-making, which they can easily do with high precision.He said that the project will be linked to the NRLM, seeking financial assistance from NABARD. He further said that Chennapattanam in Karnataka is famous for wooden toys and efforts are underway to bring a trainer from there for basic training of toy-making and to educate artisans about other aspects including its marketing.Officials have shortlisted two self help groups to begin the project with and deputy commissioner (self employment) A K Upadhyay has been given the responsibility to coordinate with members of these groups to finalise training and other requirements. “These groups have more than two dozen women members who work with male artisans. They are skilled wood carvers and well trained in designing, polishing and other works and easily make toys after receiving basic training and other required support,” said Upadhyay, who has linked Bachatgarh and Azad self help groups with the project.Mohd Arif of Bachatgarh said that several rounds of discussions were held with Upadhyay and they are excited at the prospect of exclusively developing wooden toys. He said that they already manufacture some toys but they are mainly for display. He also said that dealing exclusively in wooden toys after seeking training will be a different experience and help in skill-diversification and business.Wood carving was brought to Saharanpur by migrant Kashmiri artisans almost 400 years ago, during the Mughal rule. Over the years, the skill blossomed and spread. Though artisans here are largely involved in making furniture and decorative wooden items, the new avenue of making toys will add a new dimension to their skill.CDO Pranay Singh said that the marketing of the toys will be promoted through Saras Mela, which is a potential platform for marketing items made by local artisans. Moreover, the use of these non-toxic toys could also be promoted in play and other schools in the area to create a demand for these toys. The officials are also excited about launching a whole new range of toys and hope that people will like and accept them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saharanpur-wood-carvers-to-begin-a-new-chapter-with-wooden-toys/story-FshQkT9AX30xee1T6q2gCM.html
08-09-2020||India||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut appointed party’s chief spokesperson||Uddhav Thackeray, the Shiv Sena chief, has appointed Sanjay Raut, a Rajya Sabha (RS) member of the Sena, as the party’s chief spokesperson amid criticism over his alleged comments about actor Kangana Raut. The announcement was made by the Sena in the party mouthpiece Saamana on Tuesday. Also read: Sena-BJP showdown in Maharashtra upper House as former allies field candidates for deputy chairperson postBesides Raut, the party has appointed 10 other members as spokesperson. They are Sena Members of Parliament (MPs) Arvind Sawant, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Dhairyashil Mane; Maharashtra ministers Anil Parab, Uday Samant and Gulabrao Patil; legislators Neelam Gorhe, Pratap Sarnaik and Sunil Prabhu. Kishori Pednekar, the mayor of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has also been appointed as the spokesperson. Sarnaik, too, has been vocal against Ranaut and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the latest controversy between the allies turned arch-rivals. Raut’s remarks on Ranaut have drawn flak from all quarters. Sena insiders said that the announcement has been made to send a message to party members not to speak on behalf of the party on controversial issues such as the spat between Raut and Ranaut. Earlier, a Sena functionary had appeared on a TV news channel debate on the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, much to the chagrin of Thackeray, who is also the Maharashtra chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-appointed-party-s-chief-spokesperson/story-kAYn7MrHJQ3Nt16tNbZKpO.html
08-09-2020||India||2 gang rape and murder accused escape from police custody in Madhya Pradesh||Two gang rape and murder accused, who were among three men arrested by the police in Ratlam on Monday, escaped from custody at night, police said Tuesday.The accused - Deepak Singh and Ravi Singh – are residents of Gurjarpada village of Ratlam district. According to police, Kalu Singh, Deepak Singh and Ravi Singh, who are cousins and residents of Gurjarpada village were arrested on Monday for abducting and gangraping a 13-year-old from another village and killing her by drowning her.Later, the accused allegedly threw the body in a field on Sunday. “They were arrested after the villagers suspected involvement of four villagers in the crime who used to create nuisance in the village in an intoxicated state and one of them on Saturday night tried to mislead villagers when they were searching for the girl saying that she was abducted by some people in a car,” said Gaurav Tiwari, superintendent of police, Ratlam.“Three of the four were arrested. They confessed their crime and told the police that they abducted the girl when she was returning home after purchasing some items from a shop. They raped her and killed her,” said the SP. They were produced before the court and the court allowed police remand for three days on Monday.The SP said, “The accused were lodged at Biplank police station. They fought over some issue on Monday night when the police personnel on duty intervened and tried to stop them from fighting. It was when they ran away. Police nabbed one of the accused Kalu Singh but others succeeded in running away.” The police have announced a reward of Rs 10,000 to whosoever give information to police about their whereabouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-gang-rape-and-murder-accused-escape-from-police-custody-in-madhya-pradesh/story-nVBw7pmWiI8lyknJh3QMiL.html
08-09-2020||India||Pradhan seeks special trains for migrant workers to return to places of work||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal seeking Shramik special trains to states like Gujarat, Karnataka, and Maharashtra for the smooth return of migrant workers to their workplaces with the resumption of normalcy and the lifting of the nationwide lockdown imposed in March to check the Covid-19 pandemic spread.The Centre introduced Shramik special trains to help migrant workers, who were left jobless by the pandemic, to return to their homes this summer after tens of thousands of them were forced to walk amid the suspension of transportation services due to the lockdown.“There was a mass exodus of migrant workers from states like Gujarat, Karnataka, and Maharashtra to Odisha in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown. These workers have highlighted their plights due to the unavailability of livelihood options and difficulty in travelling back to their workplace for re-joining work. Even though some employers are willing to offer bus transport service from Odisha, a long and arduous journey via road is neither feasible nor safe for such long distances due to prevailing monsoon conditions,” Pradhan wrote.Pradhan’s letter came two days after eight migrant workers, who were on their way from Ganjam in Odisha to Surat, were killed and 20 others injured when the bus they were traveling on collided head-on with a truck in Chhattisgarh. The bus was carrying about 60 migrant workers.After the lockdown was announced, over 926,000 migrant workers returned to Odisha after losing their livelihood in Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bengal, Delhi, and Haryana. Of these, 358,000 workers returned on 256 Shramik Special trains while the rest came by buses, cars, taxis, and bicycles.The returnees included 550,000 unskilled workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pradhan-seeks-special-trains-for-migrant-workers-to-return-to-places-of-work/story-EexAPU3BYs003py0ZCq64K.html
08-09-2020||India||China’s PLA fired shots to intimidate Indian soldiers, says Army||India has said that Chinese troops on Monday fired shots to intimidate Indian soldiers while attempting to close in on a forward position held by the army along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh where the border row has worsened. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Indian Army said its troops exercised “great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner” despite the grave provocation. The Indian Army said its troops did not cross the LAC or open fire at any stage, denying accusations made by the PLA. “It is the People’s Liberation Army that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress,” the statement said. Also Read: PLA move in Ladakh is part of Beijing plan to destabilise IndiaThe development comes three days after defence minister Rajnath Singh asked China to strictly respect the LAC, not make attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, and work with India for complete disengagement from all friction areas in eastern Ladakh in the midst of military tensions between the two sides. ALSO WATCH | India calls for disengagement, China hardens stand: Key updates“In the instant case on September 7, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by own troops, PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops,” the army statement said. The army said while India was committed to disengagement and de-escalating the situation on the LAC, China was undertaking provocative actions to escalate the row. Also Read: Past midnight, China claims to have taken countermeasures to India’s ‘military provocation’“At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing,” the statement said. “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity, however is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs. The statement by the Western Theatre Command is an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience,” it added. The Western Theater Command had said that Indian soldiers illegally crossed the LAC and fired warning shots, forcing the PLA to take countermeasures. At a meeting in Moscow on Friday, Singh made it clear to the Chinese defence minister that India was fully determined to defend its frontiers. He told his Chinese counterpart, General Wei Fenghe, that the PLA’s aggressive actions in the Ladakh sector to unilaterally change the status quo on the ground violated bilateral agreements and the understanding between the special representatives of the two sides. Singh said while Indian troops showed a responsible approach towards border management, there should be no doubt about India’s determination to protect the nation’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. The latest round of tensions flared up in the Ladakh sector after the army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to stop the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.China made another provocative move on August 31, targeting these positions but the Indian Army’s swift defensive action thwarted the Chinese attempt. Both sides have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces, and are within each other’s rifle range in the area.Last week, Singh said that the Chinese side should work with India for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas, including the Pangong Lake, and also for de-escalation in border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-fired-shots-to-intimidate-indian-soldiers-says-army/story-QSS1Rjs0lsFjnAViz4aO8O.html
08-09-2020||India||PLA move in Ladakh is part of Beijing plan to destabilize India||China’s moves in Ladakh and the South China Sea are based on a historical construct. If a Green Line crafted in 1960 by then paramount leader Mao Zedong is the People’s Liberation Army’s objective in Ladakh, it is the 9, 10 or 11 dash line (depending on political convenience; the concept has a dubious historical basis in the Sino-French war) that is the target of the Red army in the South China Sea.The PLA’s main enemy in the South China Sea is a competing superpower, the US, which is backing Taiwan, even as the members of the ASEAN look the other way. Its adversary in Ladakh, adjoining sensitive and restive Tibet and Xinjiang, is a rising power, India whose neighbours Have all become increasingly cosy with Beijing in recent years.Although the ambitious western theatre commander of PLA, Zhao Zongqi, portrayed the Indian Army as an aggressor or a warmonger after Monday’s clash at the Rezang La — Rechin La ridgeline, the fact is that Indian troops are only preventing the Chinese from reaching their outrageous Green Line claim in the south of Pangong Tso. The Indian Army did the same on August 29-30, and at the same spot. It is quite evident that there is a short-term and a long-term context to the latest clash, both of which are familiar to commanders on the ground. ALSO WATCH | Indian Army rejects China’s allegations, says never crossed LACClearly, the latest PLA aggression is aimed at teaching the Indian Army a lesson for using the Special Frontier Force, largely comprising Tibetans-in-exile, on the front line in the August clash. What has upset Beijing the most is that the sacrifice of a Tibetan SFF JCO Nyima Tenzin in the battle on August 29-30, something that has become a rallying point for Tibetans all over the world and sparked a new life to the resistance against the Chinese occupation of the region. To make matters worse, the SFF proved its worth in high mountainous terrain.Also read: India refutes China’s LAC allegation, says Chinese soldiers fired in the airHowever, the long-term objective of China is to destabilize India by putting continuous pressure along the 3488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC), fully knowing its impact on Indian polity and on the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On August 12, 2013, Shyam Saran, a China expert and then Chairman of National Security Advisory Board, had submitted a report to the then Prime Minister’s Office that advocated increased patrolling of the LAC by Indian Army and Indo-Tibetan Border. Saran said while the patrolling points (65 in Ladakh) within the Indian LAC were identified by the apex China Study group, there was a need for the Indian Army and the ITBP to patrol till the actual LAC as there were significant gaps between the points and the perceived line. While admitting the patrolling mountainous terrain was difficult, the former foreign secretary pointed to increased PLA activity in these areas due to upgrade in border infrastructure by China.Essentially, what Saran in context of the April-May 2013 PLA intrusion in Depsang Bulge meant was that PLA had the option of nibbling the LAC due to lack of Indian patrolling till the perceived LAC. The 2013 intrusion has ensured that the Indian forces virtually cannot patrol points 10 to 13 with the PLA sitting on the mouth of the Bulge at Raki Nullah. The PLA aggression in the past four months in East Ladakh has left the Narendra Modi government no option but to militarily contest the PLA nibbling of the LAC or lose political equity by ceding territory to Communist China.India is facing a triple whammy from China. First, its economy has shrunk 23 per cent in the first quarter due to the coronavirus pandemic that originated in Wuhan, China. Second, the economic cost of putting the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force on war-like alert with emergency purchases is significant and mounting each day. It is quite evident that the Chinese economy can afford this deployment, and Beijing would like to tire out the Indian Army and economically bleed India until such time status quo ante is restored in Ladakh. The PLA is an expert in tiring out the enemy since the Korean war. Third, the country it is using its all-weather ally Pakistan to provoke India on the Line of Control (LOC) through cross-border firing and terrorist infiltration. Had it not been for umbilical ties between India and the Nepalese army, Beijing may have well been successful in activating the fourth dimension to bleed India.While the PLA’s attention is today diverted on two fronts with the US activating the Indo-China front, with Australia and Japan, India will feel more military pressure in Ladakh should the US position change after the country’s presidential elections in November. Europe is still to understand the rise of China, which has close economic ties with EU powerhouse Germany. The big picture for India appears to be grim at the moment in context of China but the country will be in pole position if it can ride over this round of Chinese checkers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-move-in-ladakh-is-part-of-beijing-plan-to-destabilize-india/story-NUv4DSkiz8ULDg6swNcnHM.html
08-09-2020||India||Cidco opposes bid to declare Navi Mumbai flamingo havens as conservation reserves||The City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco), Maharashtra’s planning agency, has rejected the idea of declaring areas in Navi Mumbai and Uran, where thousands of flamingos migrated to in April and May, as conservation reserves, saying they are “developable land parcels” and originally salt pans.The flamingos coloured the Talawe wetlands near NRI Complex and Training Ship Chanakya (TSC) in Navi Mumbai pink during the Covid-19 lockdown thanks to lack of human activity. Flamingos are known to feed on algae, crustaceans, shrimp, and aquatic plants, which give them pink colour.Also read: Maharashtra forest department confirms mangroves were hacked at Navi Mumbai’s Panje; owner, Cidco to respond“They are developable land parcels and revenue records show them as saltpans. Cidco had constructed several bunds along Navi Mumbai’s coastline as a part of its development strategy. However, overtime villagers broke these bunds for fishing purposes and allowed creek water to create several ponds. TSC and NRI are a result of this. As per 2017 wetland rules, these lands do not qualify to be declared as wetlands,” Cidco said in a letter to the Maharashtra forest department, a copy of which HT has seen.Cidco plans to develop a golf course and 17 buildings with 1,564 flats and 20 offices in the area. Environmentalists and residents have opposed the proposed constructions and the Bombay high has also stayed them. The matter is now pending before the Supreme Court.The State Mangrove Cell in April proposed protection of five sites--NRI (21.9 ha), TSC (14 ha) in Navi Mumbai, and Panje (124 ha), Bhendkhal (8 ha) and Belpada (30 ha) in Uran--as conservation reserves based on a Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) report. It sought comments from the Raigad district administration and landowners--Cidco, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) and some private companies--under the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ). JNPT and NMSEZ have also rejected the proposed protection.Cidco called BNHS’s report incorrect and highlighted the latter’s another 2014 report that recommended making areas, including TSC and NRI, near the Navi Mumbai International Airport unattractive for birds to avoid the risk of bird hits. It added the BNHS’s 2019 report overlooked this aspect of flight safety while recommending conservation reserves.Cidco’s nodal officer (environment), Pramod Patil said they have also accessed a March 2016 letter of the then principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) citing recommendations from the previous Mangrove Cell head against proposing bird sanctuaries at NRI and TSC. “We have shared this letter with the Maharashtra government.”Cidco said the proposed areas in Uran were either salt pans, agricultural areas or allocated to NMSEZ. “Thus, none of these five locations are wetlands and shall not be considered as wetlands,” the letter said.In January, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray asked Cidco to look at alternate options such as a flamingo sanctuary or mangrove park at the site for the proposed golf course.The Mangrove Cell has asked BNHS to respond to Cidco’s submissions. “Our proposal was based on BNHS’ study, and we have also marked these sites as satellite wetlands in the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary Management Plan. There can be further clarity on this only after BNHS responds to [Cidco] submissions...,” said additional principal chief conservator of forests (Mangrove Cell), Virendra Tiwari.BNHS’s Deepak Apte said the suggestions made in the 2014 interim report were specific to a proposed mangrove park adjacent to NMIA’s runway. “It was not at all in the context of NRI, TSC, and the other three wetlands in Uran. Our view is consistent right from the beginning that all these five wetlands need to be protected.”BNHS secretary Debi Goenka said it is common knowledge that a final report will subsume any interim report. “In any case, the National Wetland Atlas Maharashtra, prepared by the Indian Space Research Organisation, already shows these areas as wetlands.”Navi Mumbai resident Sunil Agarwal said he will file a contempt plea in the Supreme Court against Cidco and the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority for failing to implement its directions on conservation and protection of wetlands. “The false stand of these state bodies that there are no wetlands in Navi Mumbai and Uran needs to be called out. Rules have been manipulated to benefit private builders and the large flock of flamingos earlier this year is a testament that the area needs no construction, especially not a golf course.”National Wetland Authority member Afroz Ahmad like the decision on proposing 600 hectares of Aarey in Mumbai as reserved forest, it is up to the state to take a final call on whether these sites are wetlands. “States have been given liberty. It is under their jurisdiction to declare relevant areas as wetlands if the environment is the foremost priority. All these state departments need to discuss and resolve the issue amicably. If these wetlands are coming under the framework and rules, they should be declared appropriately as massive biodiversity is involved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cidco-opposes-bid-to-declare-navi-mumbai-flamingo-havens-as-conservation-reserves/story-ThGrWHgNGmbunUXD2x9Y7L.html
08-09-2020||India||Bombay HC refuses bail to Finnish woman who aided Sri Lankan national’s illegal migration bid||The Bombay high court last week refused bail to a 60-year-old Finnish national arrested for helping a Sri Lankan national to illegally migrate to Europe.Justice Sarang Kotwal rejected the bail plea of Miira Mirva Helena Pasma observing that there were strong circumstances against her.Pasma was arrested after Sri Lankan national Kuhapriya Thevarasa was found carrying a forged French passport issued in the name of Pasma on June 28, 2019 at Mumbai airport. Thevarasa was stopped from boarding a flight to Frankfurt after the airline staff suspected immigration stamps on her passport and handed her over to the Sahar police.Preliminary investigation revealed that Thevarasa had entered the airport with a ticket for Ahmedabad, whereas Pasma had a French passport and a ticket and boarding pass for the Frankfurt flight. Pasma allegedly passed on the forged passport with purportedly fake immigration stamps to Thevarasa after she cleared immigration checks. Thevarasa attempted to board the Frankfurt flight on the basis of the forged documents, whereas Pasma took a domestic flight to Ahmedabad, where she was apprehended on June 30, 2019.Pasma’s interrogation revealed that she had come in contact with an agent who along with others was illegally sending Sri Lankan nationals to European countries from Mumbai, and Thevarasa’s parents had paid the gang Rs. 14 lakh. Pasma, who claimed to be a teacher, was promised 1,500 Euros for helping Thevarasa migrate to Europe.Both of them were then booked by Sahar police for offences punishable under sections 370 (dealing any person as a slave), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) read with section 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.Pasma had moved the high court for bail contending that the offences of human trafficking and cheating were not attracted in the case, as no one was being trafficked for exploitation and there was no dishonest inducement for cheating anybody.Justice Kotwal agreed that there was no material to support the charge of human trafficking, but there was material supporting other charges levelled against the 60-year-old.“The offence is serious. The immigration officers of this country were deceived. Indian territory was used by these two accused for their personal gain,” said the judge.The court refused to take sympathetic view of the fact that she was behind bars for about 14 months and the trial has not started yet. “It is unfortunate that the trial could not start immediately, but the court cannot be oblivious to the current situation which has arisen because of Covid-19 pandemic. All the under-trial prisoners are similarly awaiting trial.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-finnish-woman-who-aided-sri-lankan-national-s-illegal-migration-bid/story-t2Kf28SUgEYz0DxQ1oi3QP.html
08-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surpasses 4.28 million, toll mounts to 72,775||The number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India surpassed 4.28 million on Tuesday, a day after a record one-day jump of over 90,000 infections that pushed the country to the second spot in the world, Union health ministry data showed.India’s Covid-19 tally is now only behind the United States that has 6,300,727 confirmed cases and is followed by Brazil with 4,147,794 cases, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s dashboard.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here As of Tuesday, as many as 883,697 cases are active while the viral disease has claimed 72,775 lives, according to the latest figures released by the Union health ministry. The mounting figures continue to be led by Maharashtra with 236,208 active cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh with 23,6208 cases and Karnataka with 99,285 cases.Surging recoveries from the infection, however, continued to keep the nation hopeful as 3,323,950 have been discharged from hospitals or have recovered in home isolation with 73,521 recovering in the last 24 hours. According to the health ministry, recoveries in India exceed active Covid-19 cases by 2,440,253.The rising recovery figures come in the backdrop of increased testing capacity. More than 1.17 million people are being tested for the coronavirus disease, the health ministry said. India’s cumulative tests are 4,95,51,507, it added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage As higher testing enables early identification of Covid-19 cases, the government has issued a revised and updated advisory that provides for the first time ‘Testing on Demand”, the health ministry said in a statement. The states and Union territories have also been given wider flexibilities to simplify modalities to enable higher levels of testing to ensure faster and higher numbers of recovery, lower fatality and saving of more lives.The global coronavirus tally has crossed 27 million while the toll from the disease stands at 892,443, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surpasses-4-28-million-with-toll-mounts-to-72-775/story-JGFGJ1Apu86dNhYGCQJoyO.html
08-09-2020||India||Climate change activist Ridhima Pandey writes to PM, says ‘worst nightmare was going to school with an oxygen cylinder’||Ridhima Pandey (12), an Uttarakhand-based climate change activist, in her two-page handwritten letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that her worst nightmare is going to school with an oxygen cylinder and has requested the PM to ensure that “an oxygen cylinder doesn’t become an essential part of the life of children, which we have to carry on our shoulders everywhere in the near future”. Pandey said she was compelled to write the letter as she felt that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak had shown that if human activities are limited and regulated, “we can have less pollution and clear blue skies”. “We observed the first United Nations’ (UN) mandated International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies on Monday (September 7) to create public awareness at all levels that clean air is key to health, productivity, the economy and the environment. So I chose this day. I hope the PM will receive my letter and he will respond. I have sent the letter to the PM through post”. ALSO WATCH | India at forefront of developing vaccine against coronavirus: PM Modi HT has a copy of the two-page handwritten letter. “My name is Ridhima Pandey. I am 12 years old. I live in Haridwar, Uttarakhand. I do hope you will read this letter from me and respond ... Once in school our teacher had asked us about our worst nightmares. I had told her that mine was coming to school with an oxygen cylinder because the air has become so polluted. This nightmare is still my biggest worry,” the letter stated. She cited hazardous air pollution levels in many densely-populated cities.“I am worried that, if nothing is done about this problem soon, then in the coming years, we will have to carry an oxygen cylinder to breathe clean air and survive ... kindly help by ensuring that an oxygen cylinder doesn’t become an essential part of the life of children, which we have to carry on our shoulders everywhere in the near future ...” the letter added. Pandey said amid the pandemic, she has come to know about many research studies that are suggesting a link between air pollution and Covid-19-related incidences and mortalities. “This is disturbing. Every year in many parts of India, the air becomes very polluted. It becomes very difficult to breathe after October. I worry that if a 12-year-old like me finds it hard to breathe, what it must be like for babies or children younger than me in cities such as Delhi and others,” the letter stated. She stated that “before the nation-wide lockdown, we thought that we would never be able to breathe clean air but the restrictions proved us wrong. The air became cleaner and the skies blue. It proved that breathing clean air for Indians is possible...” She said the PM has accepted climate change as a reality.“On Monday, on the occasion of the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies on behalf of all children of India, I would like to make a request to you. Please think about our future. Please give strict instructions to all the authorities and officers in charge of managing pollution across the country,” the letter made an impassioned plea. Last December, Pandey had started an online campaign urging the PM to talk about the alarming air pollution situation in the country in his monthly broadcast on radio Mann Ki Baat and declare the menace as a public health emergency. Last year, Pandey had joined Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg and 14 other children at the United Nations Climate Action Summit, a yearly conference held in the framework of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and filed a complaint to protest the lack of government action on the climate change crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-change-activist-ridhima-pandey-writes-to-pm-says-worst-nightmare-was-going-to-school-with-an-oxygen-cylinder/story-IyQZEFUN0zNiO8HFZL1QOO.html
08-09-2020||India||Taj Mahal and Agra Fort to reopen from September 21: What you need to know||Six months after the Taj Mahal and the Agra Fort were closed to the public, the world heritage monuments will reopen from September 21. The two monuments have been closed since March 17—days before the nationwide lockdown was instituted to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “It is perhaps for the first time that the Taj Mahal, credited with attracting the largest number of tourists to India, has been closed for such a protracted period,” said Arun Dang, the former president of Tourism Guild . “It is truly unprecedented. Though the monument was closed during Second World War and also during the two wars with Pakistan in 1965 and 1971, the closure was never this long,” said Arun Dang. “When it was closed during the wars, the white monument was covered with a black cloth to save it from air strikes,” Dang said. “Taj Mahal was also closed during the floods of 1978. But then only the western gate was closed because the Yamuna waters had flooded the roads,” recollected Dang. The Agra administration plans to follow strict protocols while reopening both Taj Mahal and the Agra Fort.If you plan to visit either of these places, here’s what you need to know1. There will be a restricted number of visitors at the monumentsTo prevent crowding and maintain social distancing, not more than 5,000 tourists will be allowed in a day at Taj Mahal. Tourists at Agra Fort will be restricted to 2,500 a day. “We will allow visitors at Taj Mahal in two slots: pre-lunch and post-lunch. In each of these slots, there will be 2,500 visitors at the most,” said Vasant Swarnkar, superintending archaeologist of Archaeological Survey of India, Agra Circle. “All licensed commercial photographers permitted within Taj Mahal premises will also not be allowed in at the same time. Time slots will be given to them for being in Taj Mahal premises,” stated Swarnkar. “For Agra Fort, we will allow 1,300 visitors in the morning and 1,200 in the afternoon,” said Swarnkar. Also Read: Agra stares at possible second wave of coronavirus cases after new spike2. Tickets will be sold online Ticket sales will take place online. Tickets will first be sold for the first slot; once all 2,500 tickets are exhausted, then the 2,500 tickets for the second slot will be put on sale. Thus, in a day, a maximum of 5,000 visitors can visit Taj Mahal, Swarnkar said. Tickets will be sold in a similar manner for Agra Fort—first 1,300 for the morning slot, then 1,200 for the evening slot. “Physical tickets will not be sold. They can be booked online from the website and the mobile phone app of ASI. Tourists can also buy tickets online by scanning the QR Code on standees placed outside the monuments,” Swarnkar added. 3. The monuments will be closed to the public on certain days on the weekThe Taj Mahal will remain closed on Friday (its usual weekly closure day), as well as Sunday—the weekly restriction day across the state, as imposed by the government. Agra Fort, however, will be closed to the public only on Sunday.Also Read: Now, book tickets for monuments via app4. There will be strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols“Safety protocols against the spread of Covid-19 will be followed while allowing tourists inside the monuments,” said the district magistrate of Agra Prabhu N Singh. “The visitors will be thermally checked, asked to santise their hands and will be required to maintain physical distancing at all times while inside the monuments. The monuments themselves will be sanitised from time to time so that there is no scope for the spread of Covid-19. Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Culture will be followed in letter and spirit. The idea is to avoid crowding within the monument so that visitors have a safe trip,” said Swarnkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-and-agra-fort-to-reopen-from-september-21-what-you-need-to-know/story-q9BjaQ3f13IAn4nBp9mrlM.html
08-09-2020||India||Army hands over 13 yaks, 4 calves to China in ‘humane gesture’ amid border row||In a humane gesture, Indian Army extended its arm of compassion by handing over yaks and calves strayed across the Line of Actual Control to China, said the Eastern Command, Indian Army on Monday. The eastern command said that the Chinese officials thanked the Indian Army for the “compassionate gesture”. “In a humane gesture, the Indian Army handed over 13 Yaks and four Calves that strayed across the LAC on August 31 in East Kameng, Arunachal Pradesh to China on 07 Sep 20. Chinese officials present thanked the Indian Army for the compassionate gesture,” the Eastern Command tweeted.The situation with China has been tense and India is continuously engaging with them at the military and diplomatic level, Army Chief General MM Naravane said on Friday, who visited Ladakh to review the situation.India recently outflanked China by taking control of strategic height near Pangong lake’s southern bank. It thwarted an attempt by the Chinese army to transgress into Indian areas near the southern bank of Pangong Tso near Chushul in Ladakh.India and China are engaged in a standoff since April-May over the transgressions by the Chinese Army in multiple areas including the Finger area, Galwan valley, Hot springs and Kongrung Nala. The situation worsened after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan valley in June.The talks between the two sides have been going on for the last three months including five Lieutenant general-level talks but have failed to yield any results, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-hands-over-13-yaks-4-calves-to-china-in-humane-gesture-amid-border-row/story-QWQ3Z223LBbCsOAOJSbhbN.html
08-09-2020||India||23,000 Indian students stare at long wait to return to Chinese campuses||Beijing has conveyed to India that it is not allowing foreign students including students from India studying in China to return because of the global Covid-19 pandemic situation and has advised them to be in contact with colleges and universities until further notice.“At present, foreign students in China cannot enter the country…,” the Chinese ministry of education (MoE) told the Indian embassy in Beijing in a recent note.It did not specify a time frame for the Indian students to return.“In view of the fact that the epidemic situation in the world is still unclear and relevant policies on entry and exit in China are being gradually adjusted, it is suggested that Indian students should maintain close contact with relevant Chinese colleges and universities and arrange to study in China in strict accordance with the suggestions and guidance of the colleges/universities,” the MoE said.Though not explicitly mentioned in the note, it effectively means that Chinese colleges and universities are unlikely to allow foreign – including Indian – students back in China for the current semester, which began this month and will continue until early 2021.India’s increasing coronavirus caseload could make the return of Indian students to China even more complex.The Indian embassy statement pointed out that Beijing is only allowing foreign nationals to return to China in specific cases.“It is reiterated that following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year, the Chinese government had restricted the entry of foreigners into China, permitting such entry only in specific circumstances,” the statement said.It added: “While some exceptions have since been made with regard to some categories of foreigners who can enter China with a fresh visa, foreign students have not been included in any of these categories”.China allowed a staggered reopening of colleges and universities from late last month under strict anti-epidemic rules including mandatory nucleic acid tests for returning students.However, only domestic students have been allowed to return to campuses.According to MoE, until the end of 2018, 4,92,185 international students from 196 countries and regions were studying in China.With 23,198 students, India was fourth on the list of a country-wise breakup of students studying in China.South Korea with more than 50,000 students topped it followed by Thailand and Pakistan with over 28,000 students each studying in China.Most Indian students are enrolled in medical colleges and only a handful of them remain in China at present; the rest having gradually returned to India since January.Many of them are keen to return to continue on-campus studies, especially medical students who are supposed to complete their hospital internships this year.A few medical colleges have given final year students the option to postpone their hospital internships by a year.Many Indian students have petitioned the Indian embassy to take up the matter with Chinese authorities to allow them to return and resume on-campus classes.The discretion to allow foreign students to return, however, is entirely with the Chinese government.As per the MoE note, which was shared by the Indian embassy in a statement on Monday evening, the best that Chinese universities can offer now is online learning.For China, which has effectively controlled the domestic Covid-19 outbreak, to allow hundreds of thousands of foreign students to return is tied with the fear of “imported” infections.Until Monday, including 10 new confirmed cases arriving from outside the mainland, 2,595 imported cases of Covid-19 have been reported in China.As of Monday, the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland had reached 85,144 and 4,634 had died of the disease, the national health commission said (NHC).China reported the last locally transmitted case in August in Urumqi in the northwestern Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.Given China’s controlled and calibrated anti-outbreak response, it is unlikely that it would allow hundreds of thousands of foreign students to return at the same time to campuses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-000-indian-students-stare-at-long-wait-to-return-to-chinese-campuses/story-hscxuuyfDI6f2oZ0EM7ljJ.html
08-09-2020||India||CBI to ‘locally prosecute’ Indian who committed fraud in Bahrain||Acting on a request from Bahrain, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case to “locally prosecute” an Indian national who allegedly embezzled funds worth 50,000 Bahraini Dinar or BD in the middle-eastern country, officials familiar with the development said. Rajeev Ranganathan Udayanandan, a native of Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, while working in one Abdulla bin Ahmed Al-Roomi Contracting Establishment between January and February 2016, allegedly embezzled the cash amounts of the company which were in his possession by virtue of his position, according to the FIR registered by the agency. Also read: CBI court rejects Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s anticipatory bail pleaAs part of his responsibilities in the company, he not only dealt with the customers and managed the establishment on behalf of the proprietor but also handled purchase, supply of building materials and payments for the same. After taking money from customers, he did not deposit the same in company’s account. Rather, he embezzled the same for himself, according to documents shared by Kingdom of Bahrain with the Indian government. From the embezzled money, he bought two vehicles for himself: a Tata Hilux pickup truck and a Nissan Sunny car, the documents reveal. Udayanandan was sentenced in absentia to three years imprisonment by a lower criminal court of Kingdom of Bahrain on November 23, 2017 for breach of trust after which the authorities there approached the Indian government. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) wrote to CBI, saying since the crime is punishable in Bahrain for at least one year imprisonment, similar conduct is punishable in India too and hence is extraditable under the Article 2 (1) of India-Bahrain Extradition Treaty. The MEA added that though article 6 of the treaty excludes extradition of own nationals, it obliges the requested state to prosecute its nationals in respect of the offence sought for. After deliberations, it was decided that CBI will locally prosecute Udayanandan and a case was registered few weeks back. The CBI is the nodal agency in India for prosecuting Indian nationals who have committed crimes abroad. Earlier, in January this year, it had registered a case to “locally prosecute” an Indian national who had committed a fraud in the UAE. Udayanandan could not be located by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-to-locally-prosecute-indian-who-committed-fraud-in-bahrain/story-K976zHkzqtL1LsVaqeOayJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Swapna Suresh shifted to ICU||Kerala gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh was shifted to the ICU at Government Medical College (GMC), Thrissur on Tuesday where she had been admitted after complaining of chest pain.Swapna, who was lodged at Central Prison, Viyyur in Thrissur district had complained of chest pain yesterday following which she was shifted to GMC, Thrissur.Although a slight variation has been noticed in the ECG report of Swapna, the GMC authorities, however, stated that her condition is satisfactory.Earlier on Thursday, the Kerala Police recorded the arrest of Swapna, in connection with a case related to the forgery of a fake degree certificate to secure a job in the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited (KSITIL) under the Income Tax Department.A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Kochi had last week extended the judicial custody of three key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case -- Swapna Suresh, Sarith PS, and Sandeep Nair -- till September 9.The matter, which pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels, had come to light after 30 kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crores, smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage, was busted by the Customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-swapna-suresh-shifted-to-icu/story-UOZAGSBrZlIsGg6RrGN3MN.html
08-09-2020||India||India crosses the 50-million mark for Covid-19 tests||India crossed the 50-million mark for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests on Monday, as 1.09 million tests were conducted in a day until midnight. The country has ramped up its Covid-19 testing mechanism, as 13 million tests were conducted in the past two weeks. On Monday, the daily tests crossed over one million after a dip on the previous day.In July, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the country would build a daily testing capacity of a million swab samples. The announcement was made following a low test count per million population. The one-million daily test mark was crossed for the first time on August 21 and the figure has been consistent over the past week. At present, the number of Covid-19 tests per million population in the country stands at 37,079. Also Read: Covid-19: Uttarakhand crosses 25,000 casesTo be sure, the government has recently modified its strategy to allow Covid-19 tests on demand and did away with a doctor’s prescription in a bid to undergo the test. “Recently, the union government has issued an updated advisory that provides for the first time ‘testing on demand’. States and union territories (UTs) have also been given wider flexibilities to simplify modalities to enable higher levels of testing,” said the Union ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) in a press release. “Higher testing enables early identification of confirmed cases, which, in turn, leads to timely initiation of effective treatment in supervised home/facility isolation or in hospitals. These measures aid faster and higher number of recoveries, lower fatality, and saving of more lives,” the release stated. Also Read: Russia releases first batch of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V into publicThe recovery rate – the proportion of people who have recovered after they had tested Covid-19 positive– has reached 77%. The figure implies that three to four persons, who had been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the country, have recovered from their viral infection to date. The sustained high recoveries have been aided by nine states and UTs that have been reporting over 80% recovery rate, according to the data shared by the MoH&FW. The states that have reported higher recovery rates are the Andaman and Nicobar (88.6%), Bihar (88.4%), Dadra and Nagar Haveli (88.2%), Tamil Nadu (87.2%), Delhi (86.7%), West Bengal (85.2%), Nagaland (84%), Rajasthan (82.3%), and Gujarat (81.2%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-the-50-million-mark-for-covid-19-tests/story-up6ZUGGpE3NauxIedY1SzN.html
08-09-2020||India||Centre committed to pay full GST compensation to states, but states must borrow||The Union government is committed to compensate states for their entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore Goods and Services Tax (GST) shortfall in 2020-21 irrespective of the reason for the fall in revenue, which is either due to GST implementation issues or because of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, an act of God, two finance ministry officials said.It has never been the stand of Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharamaram that the loss of revenue due to Covid-19 would not be compensated, the officials said requesting anonymity. Also Read: GST compensation to states a legal obligation, Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi“The entire compensation sum on account of shortfall in collections of GST will be paid and honoured. The news and opinion circulating in the media that the Centre is not honouring its committment is false and baseless and is aimed at creating unnecessary confusion,” one of the officials said.The officials said the revenue shortfall would, however, be met through market borrowing by states themselves as per the legal position. “Compensation cess is a resource dedicated to states. Only states can borrow on the strength of future flows from cess that will eventually get credited to their consolidated fund,” one of the officials said.However, the states that are ruled by parties in the opposition rejected the Centre’s position about market borrowings. “The states want the Centre to fulfil its constitutional obligation. It should pay full compensation of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year. It should borrow the full amount from the market for us. The debt will certainly be retired from the compensation fund,” said a finance minister belonging to a state ruled by opposition parties, requesting anonymity.Also Read: GST compensation shortfall: Haryana opts for special window borrowingThese states have rejected the two options of revenue compensation proposed by the Centre last week, he said.On August 31, Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac had tweeted, “FMs [finance ministers] of Punjab, Delhi, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Kerala agreed to reject the Centre’s options on GST compensation. Our option: the central government to borrow entire compensation due regardless of acts of gods, humans or nature, to be paid back by extending the period of cess.”The Centre on August 27 had decided to go for the borrowing route to compensate states for the GST revenue shortfall. It gave options --- one for Rs 97,000 crore and the other for Rs 2.35 lakh crore. Two days later, it circulated the details of the two options to the states.Under the first option, states would not have to pay either principle or interest if they opt to borrow Rs 97,000 crore to meet GST revenue shortfall because of implementation issues, but they will have to bear significant interest costs if they choose the lager borrowing option of Rs 2.35 lakh crore due to an “Act of God”, the Covid-19 pandemic.“If states go for the first option and borrow Rs 97,000 crore, it does not mean they will have to forego the remaining compensation. The remaining compensation will be paid to states after the borrowing has been fully repaid. Where is the doubt about the Centre not meeting its committment?” said the official quoted above.He explained the Centre’s constraints regarding borrowing to pay the GST compensation. “It needs to be appreciated that under the GST law, the compensation cess is a tax owned by states and under Article 292 of the Constitution, the Centre can borrow on the security of its own taxes and resources which is the Consolidated Fund of India. It cannot borrow in the security of the tax that it does not own,” he said.“The compensation cess has to be transferred to the Compensation Fund of India and released to states in the form of compensation. It is not a resource of the Central government on the strength of which it can borrow under Article 292 of the Constitution,” he added.Compensation cess is a resource dedicated to states. Only states can borrow on the strength of future flows from cess that would eventually get credited to them, he said.Officials said that partially meeting the resource gap through borrowing is beneficial for both -- the market and states. “It will ensure that some resources in the form of compensation keep coming even after the end of the transition period which will allow future generations to maintain healthy levels of public expenditure. States falling off a resource cliff after the transition period of five years will not be a prudent fiscal strategy,” the official quoted above said.The GST law assures states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years from July 1, 2017 and also guarantee them that their revenue shortfall, if any, will be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liqour, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco products.The finance ministry officials said states have fiscal space to borrow. The Centre has already enhanced the borrowing limit from 3%, which goes up to 5% of gross state domestic product (GSDP). On average, the states have borrowed around 1.25% of the GSDP. Only a few states have reached around above 2% of the GSDP. Enough headroom is available to states to borrow as per their requirements and needs, they said.“In any case, they will get the full compensation shortfall and it is a win-win situation for all – states, the Centre, and economy” a second official said.He said if the Centre borrows it would have a higher impact on the market and push the G-Sec rate which becomes the benchmark rates for other borrowings including that by state governments. “Any borrowing by the Central government would crowd out borrowings by the private sector and will make them costly for entrepreneurs. The deciding factor will be whose borrowings will have least impact on market rates” he added.“It is inarguable that rates on Central government securities work as one of the benchmarks for market rates. Any additional borrowings by the Centre will have a higher impact on the market rates than that by states. If the benchmark rates increase on account of borrowing by the Centre, states, too, will get impacted because it will increase their cost of borrowing,” he said.“In the current scenario, it may be a safer option for states to raise the additional resources to meet the resource gap due to non-availability of compensation. Since the repayment will come from the compensation cess, there is no reason why the rates will be different for each state. The debt window could be packaged in a way that it is state independent altogether,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-committed-to-pay-full-gst-compensation-to-states-but-states-must-borrow/story-entp4iQ9RP3pqUZhtIfAPI.html
08-09-2020||India||Lightning kills a dozen people across Jharkhand||Lightning strikes in Jharkhand have killed at least 12 people in eight districts of the state on Monday while torrential rain left many places waterlogged, officials said on Tuesday.The state disaster management department officials said they were verifying the total death reports so that compensation could be paid to the next of kin of those killed. The Jharkhand government gives Rs 4 lakh to the family of a person killed by lightning.Three persons were killed after being struck by lightning in Giridih district on Monday afternoon. Giridih police said a 60-year-old woman, who went to bring water from a well in Devri area, died due to lightning strike while a 25-year-old youth and 16-year-old boy were killed in Saria and Birni in the district. Two elderly persons in Ramgarh, who took shelter under a tree during the heavy rains, were killed in a lightning strike. One death reported each from Ranchi, Gumla, Latehar, Deoghar, Jamtara and Bokaro.A farmer in Ranchi’s Bero block, identified as Jogi Munda, and his ox were killed in lightning. Munda had gone to the farm field to bring his ox from the field. Lightning has been a major killer in Jharkhand over the years with over 1,600 people dying due to lightning in the past one decade, according to the state disaster management department. Experts, however, say the numbers are much higher as several deaths in remote parts of the state go unreported. The torrential rain on Monday afternoon caused heavy damage in different parts of Jharkhand. Three youths on different bikes were swept into drains in heavy rain in Ranchi’s Khora Toli area and Hindpiri. Two youths, one at Khora Toli while one at Hindpiri, were rescued by local people while one is still missing.The rain caused waterlogging on major roads, overflowing drains and long-hour power cuts in Ranchi. Many low-lying areas and slums submerged due to the rains. Water gushed in Ranchi’s Prem Nagar slum causing heavy damage.In just 90 minutes, Ranchi recorded 23 mm rainfall on Monday afternoon. The rain left knee-deep water on Station Road, near Tribal Research Institute in Morabadi and Bihar Club. Overflowing drains caused a traffic jam in Ratu road. Usha Devi, a resident of Vidyanagar, said, “Drain water entered the house and we are in deep trouble.” The MeT office said similar weather conditions could prevail till September 11 in Jharkhand. “Thunderstorm is likely for next few days, as high convection is being recorded in day time,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-kills-a-dozen-people-across-jharkhand/story-7Rm2vnay1ZfnXfQERhmKLI.html
08-09-2020||India||Infuriated over defeat in games, minor boy kills girl in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore||A boy allegedly killed a girl, who lived in his neighbourhood in Indore, located 188 kilometres south-west of Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal, on Monday afternoon, because she would consistently beat him in games, including those played on mobile phones, and also killed his pet mouse a few days ago.Also read: 17-year-old boy in Kolkata kills 14-year-old friend in scuffleThe minor has been detained under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.The murder was allegedly committed by smashing the head of the girl with a stone in a vacant plot of land near the housing complex, where the victim and the alleged minor offender lived, said police. The girl studied in class 5 and belonged to a middle class family. The boy is a student of class 6. He, too, belongs to a middle class family. Both the families are neighbours and live in apartments of a housing society under the jurisdiction of Lasudia police station in Indore. Deputy inspector-general (DIG) of police, Indore, Harinarayanchari Mishra, said, “Preliminary investigation has revealed that the girl went out of her flat to collect flowers on Monday afternoon. She didn’t return for a considerable period of time. Her anxious father went out of his flat to look for her and spotted her body. Her head was smashed and hidden under a stone.” He said, “The boy was taken into custody after a police team spoke with several children in the housing complex and the neighbourhood and also examined the CCTV (closed circuit TV) footage of the complex. The girl was last seen with him. A boy told the police team that he had seen the boy returning and he had blood stains in his hands and clothes. The boy confessed to having committed the crime during interrogation.” The DIG added, “The boy told the police that the girl was her friend but he was angry with her because she would consistently beat him in games, including those played on mobile phones. She also allegedly killed his pet mouse a few days ago. This further infuriated him and he killed her to take revenge.” The victim’s elder sister said, “We can’t believe that the boy killed her over such petty issues. Police should investigate the murder as adult persons could be involved in the crime.” Dr Vinay Mishra, a Bhopal-based psychologist, said, “Defeat in games or killing of a pet mouse might not have been a significant reason to provoke the boy. Such children suffer from a conduct disorder. They display strange behaviour at an early age while deriving pleasure from hurting animals and setting things on fire. They have a strong desire to destroy things. Usually, they are poor in studies and that’s not because of their low intelligence quotient (IQ). They don’t like discipline in schools.” He added, “The conscience, which tells us what is right and what is wrong, is not fully developed in such children. Even after destroying things, hurting animals and indulging in unlawful activities they don’t repent it. They don’t feel that they have committed anything wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infuriated-over-defeat-in-games-minor-boy-kills-girl-in-madhya-pradesh-s-indore/story-Gj3g8RJP3pl8KQqlokGPeP.html
08-09-2020||India||Abetment to suicide, cheating: Rhea Chakraborty’s charges against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, doctor||Police in Mumbai have booked two of Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters and a Delhi-based doctor after Rhea Chakraborty, who is facing multiple charges in the late actor’s death case, lodged a complaint against them.Bandra Police have registered a first information report (FIR) against Rajput’s sisters, Priyanka Singh and Mitu Singh, and Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of cardiology from Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, for abetting suicide, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. They have also transferred the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Here is what Rhea Chakraborty said in her complaint:* Rhea filed a six-page complaint against the three at Bandra police station for allegedly prescribing medicines for Rajput that are banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines, 2020. * The complaint was filed under section 464, 465, 466, 468, 474, 306, 120 (B), 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) read with section 8 (c), 21, 22, and 29 of the NDPS Act. * She has said in her complaint that she was living with Rajput from December 2019 to June 8, 2020. She had stated in her complaint that during the course of her relationship she learnt that Rajput was undergoing treatment for various mental health issues and had been diagnosed as suffering from Bipolar disorder by multiple renowned doctors. * “However, the deceased (Sushant Singh Rajput) was not disciplined in respect of his treatment and would often abruptly stop his medication to the dismay of his doctors and myself,” she said in her complaint. * “On morning of June 8, 2020, the deceased had been on his phone incessantly and when I enquired what he was doing, he showed me the messages he was exchanging with his sister Priyanka Singh. I say that I was shocked upon reading the said messages as his sister Priyanka had sent him a list of medications to take,” she added. * Chakraborty said that she had explained to Rajput “that given the seriousness of his condition, and the fact that he already had medications prescribed by doctors who had examined and treated him over several months, he ought not to take any other medication, least of all medication being prescribed by his sister who has no medical degree.” * She said in her complaint stated that this led to disagreement between them, and Rajput insisted that he would only take the medicines his sister was prescribing. “The deceased then proceeded to ask me to leave the house as his other sister Meetu Singh was coming to live with him and would take care of him,” she said and added that she left the house after that. * Chakraborty stated that she was shocked to learn about Sushant Singh Rajput’s father registering a FIR at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna on July 25, 2020. “It was preposterous that such false allegations were being made out over 40 days after the demise of the deceased,” she said in her complaint. * She said WhatsApp messages were exchanged between Rajput and Priyanka on June 8, 2020. “In the said messages Priyanka Singh has advised the deceased to take various medication controlled under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance Act. Shockingly, it has come now come to light that his sister Priyanka had subsequently on the same day sent him a prescription by one Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of Cardiology from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi,” she said. * Chakraborty said that prima facie “the said document appears forged and fabricated.* She has also said that the prescription prepared by them is fabricated whereby Rajput is shown as an OPD patient in the hospital in Delhi, while he was in Mumbai. “Deceased died merely in 5 days after he obtained the said prescription wherein he was unlawfully prescribed psychotropic substances at behest of Priyanka and Dr Kumar,” read the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forgery-cheating-rhea-chakraborty-s-charges-against-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sisters-doctor/story-VIdF0CSyZdpXDRbYmwY5IK.html
08-09-2020||India||Akhada Parishad calls for ‘liberation’ of Kashi and Mathura||Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the top decision making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country, has now demanded ‘liberation’ of Kashi and Mathura by removing two mosques.It has also called for support of other Hindu religious bodies including the VIshwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Rastriya Sawayamsevak sangh (RSS) to back their demand. In Kashi (Varanasi), the Gyanvapi mosque shares a boundary wall with Kashi Vishwanath temple while in Mathura, the Shahi Idgah mosque stands next to the Krishna Janmabhoomi temple premises - both of which the saints want removed. In a meeting of the Akhada Parishad, held at Shri Mutt Baghambari Gaddi in the city, the saints from all prominent akhadas unanimously passed eight resolutions and demanded that as after a long wait of 500 years, work for starting construction of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya has finally started, it was now also time to ‘free Kashi and Mathura’ for which, if needed, ABAP was ready to even move Supreme Court. “The Akhada Parishad appeals for voluntary support for liberating Kashi and Mathura from Hindu organisations including Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and also from common man of the country including both Hindus and Muslims. We wish for an amicable solution through consensus to this long pending demand but if this fails ABAP would move the Supreme court”, said Akhada prashad president Mahant Narendra Giri. On the issue of next year’s Magh Mela, the Akhada Parishad appealed to the state government not to ban the annual religious fair. “We want that mela should be held according to the Covid-19 prevention guidelines of the central and state governments. We demand that rather than organisations, only a limited number of saints and all regular kalpwasis be allowed to stay at the mela area so that norms under the present crisis could be followed”, said Giri. The saints also thanked the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath for his action against so-called ‘love jihad’. Mahant Giri said that the Parishad demanded a probe by the CBI into the Palghar incident in Maharashtra where two saints and their driver were lynched a few months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhada-parishad-calls-for-liberation-of-kashi-and-mathura/story-vdNrwQfgDOZXfhPoc3pvWP.html
08-09-2020||India||17-year-old boy in Kolkata kills 14-year-old friend in scuffle||A 17-year-old boy killed his 14-year-old friend in a slum near Dover Terrace , a posh residential area in south Kolkata on Monday after an altercation, police said. Police who nabbed the accused have booked him for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Officials said that the 14-year-old boy was playing a game on his father’s mobile phone when the other approached him and asked what game he was playing. He, however, didn’t answer and instead questioned what the other boy was carrying in his hand. The elder one was carrying a tube of adhesive. “This kicked off an altercation and led to a scuffle between the two. The elder boy kicked and punched the younger one on his chest and abdomen. The latter fell unconscious. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead,” said an officer of the local police station. Locals said that the two teenagers were old friends and used to play and fight frequently. “Initially when the fight started no one cared as they were two friends and used to play and fight regularly. But on Monday when they became violent a few neighbours intervened. But by then the kid had fallen unconscious,” said Ghutan Singh, a neighbour who was an eyewitness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-year-old-boy-in-kolkata-kills-14-year-old-friend-in-scuffle/story-PBPfkWZBxDiJPVzJDFC9FK.html
08-09-2020||India||Congress to give final shape to its Parliament strategy today||The Congress will formulate its strategy for the monsoon session of Parliament, beginning September 14, at a meeting on Tuesday. The meeting of the party’s parliament strategy group will be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and attended by Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu.Sonia Gandhi is also the chairperson of the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP). Also Read: Expelled Uttar Pradesh Congress veterans asks Sonia to rise above ‘enchantment of the family’In the meeting, the Congress will discuss the issues to be raised in both the Houses during the session, such as the border standoff with China in Ladakh and Facebook’s alleged nexus with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic crisis and the decline in GDP, GST compensation to states, job losses and agrarian distress. It will also seek a discussion on the PM CARES Fund. The party will raise the issue of the sale of 32 Public Sector Undertakings and the handing over of railways and airports to private parties. A Congress functionary said the party will talk to other like-minded opposition parties to present a united front in Parliament on all critical issues confronting the country. A meeting of the opposition parties is expected to be held later this week. Opposition leaders are keen to work closely with each other to take on the government in Parliament. This was expressed by Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren at a recent meeting of non-NDA chief ministers with Sonia Gandhi on JEE/NEET and GST issues.Also Read: Opposition planning ‘joint offensive’ against govt in ParliamentIn the meeting, the Congress will also discuss the report submitted by a group, headed by former finance minister P Chidambaram, on the party’s stand on the 11 ordinances that the government is likely to bring in the monsoon session. This will be the first time that some of the 23 signatories to a letter to the party president seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation will come face-to-face with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on August 24. Four of the 23 signatories who are CWC members —Azad, Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada—came under fire from other colleagues at the meeting for writing the letter. After chairing the meeting, Sonia Gandhi is likely to leave the country for a health check-up and will not be able to attend the full monsoon session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-give-final-shape-to-its-parliament-strategy-today/story-kqjCXyDolONl1vExvKa70K.html
08-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Peninsular India to experience rain in next 4-5 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Many parts of peninsular India to experience rain for next 4-5 daysPeninsular India is likely to record widespread rain with thunder and lightning for the next four to five days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its bulletin. Read moreWhere is Covid-19 most active in the country?Around half of India’s 880,790 active cases as of Sunday night were located in just three states, and more than a quarter of these were in just 10 cities. Read moreTwo options offered to states only way out, says Centre on GST compensationThe Centre remains committed to reimbursing states for the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in their share of Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue this financial year – only immediate compensation may not be forthcoming, senior finance ministry officials said. Read moreKangana Ranaut warns ‘movie mafia’ against harming her: ‘Trust me it will hurt you even more’Kangana Ranaut has issued a warning to the ‘movie mafia’ and said that their attempts to harm her might bring them ‘momentary happiness’ but will later blow up in their faces. She said that if they were smart enough, they would know that ‘(her) end is (her) beginning’. Read moreCricket Australia trying to find BBL team for Indian great Yuvraj Singh: ReportA report in the Sydney Morning Herald is claiming that fans could see one of India’s greatest limited-overs cricketers take part in Australia’s Big Bash League. It has been reported that Yuvraj Singh, who retired from international cricket last year, wants to take part in the T20 event. Read moreGovernment wants to use electric vehicles as main weapon in fight vs pollutionThe Centre has upgraded the fuel standard to BS 6 to fight pollution, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar recently said and urged people to shift to electric vehicles. Read moreInternational Literacy Day 2020: History, significance and theme of the UNESCO designated dayAt the 14th session of UNESCO’s general conference in 1966, the first ever International Literacy Day was declared and since then it has been celebrated annually on September 8, in an effort to highlight the importance of literacy to individuals and communities around the world. Read morePune Police’s advisory post references classic Nirma jingle. Seen it yet?“Washing powder Nirma, washing powder Nirma,” if rather than simply reading these words you hummed them in your head, then you probably have heard the classic Nirma ad jingle a whole lot while growing up. Read moreSudheer Babu on ‘V’, working with Nani, making it in film industry on his ownSudheer Babu, who plays a police officer in V, opened up about the film getting a direct-to-digital release, his experience of shooting with Nani, how the film will play up his action hero image and more in an interview with Hindustan Times. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-peninsular-india-to-experience-rain-and-all-the-latest-news/story-aFhp9NYW130WKNOrAyfZ8L.html
08-09-2020||India||Centre calls on cities to deliver on clean air goals in next three yrs||Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar on Monday urged states and cities to deliver on its clean air goals before the 2024 deadline for the national clean air programme (NCAP).The minister made the appeal during a webinar with principal secretaries of urban development and environment departments of all states and union territories (UTs). The webinar reviewed the progress of activities under NCAP. This was the first review meeting since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in end-March. Also read: Report says Air pollution cuts Indians’ life expectancy by 5.2 yearsJavadekar said that states and cities should try to achieve the target of reducing particulate matter (PM) concentrations in non-attainment cities by up to 30% by 2024 over 2017 annual average levels.Non-attainment cities don’t need to meet the national clean air standards.Javadekar was speaking on the occasion of the United Nations (UN)-designated the first International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies, which was observed on Monday (September 7).There are 122 non-attainment cities, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) out of which 48 cities exceed the PM standard by 100% and 35 cities by 50%. Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB, said air pollution action plans for 122 cities had been approved that are focused on management of pollution hotspots, public transport and fleet modernisation, paving of roads, cleaner fuels for industries etc. The 15th Finance Commission has allocated Rs 4,400 crore, which is largely meant for state pollution control boards and urban local bodies for clean air projects.Javadekar said though pollution woes caught the government’s attention since 2014, the problem persisted for decades. He cited that under the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s regime – until 2004 --- industries were moved out of the national capital and public transport had made a switch to compressed natural gas (CNG). “In 2014, PM Modi gave attention to the (pollution) problem again. The following year, we launched the air quality index (AQI). We accepted the problem and were never in denial. We started NCAP as well. India has leapfrogged to Bharat stage (BS)-VI while skipping BS-V emission norms for vehicles. It’s a huge step. In the last six years, several road projects have been launched in a bid to ease traffic congestion,” he said. The minister urged states to focus their resources on public transport, electric mobility, zig-zag technology for brick kilns etc. He also said states could impose tax on polluters.“PM Modi had announced on Independence Day that at least 100 cities will achieve clean air goals in four years. Let’s strive to make a difference in three years,” he added.The New Delhi- based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a not-for-profit public advocacy organisation, in an analysis released on Monday said the government needs a “green recovery” strategy to achieve and even exceed its NCAP goals. Two of the main interventions would be to revive public transport and a road map for electric vehicles to be scaled up, the analysis stated.All clean air action plans have included a bus transport strategy to cut transport sector emissions. But the public transport systems have nearly collapsed in several cities, the analysis showed.A survey conducted by the International Association of Public Transport (UITP) of 14 State Road Transport Undertakings (SRTUs) showed that 81% of the operators have reported no ridership at all during the Covid-19-induced lockdown phases, while others have reported 90% reduction in ridership from the pre-Covid-19 level. Ridership of SRTUs in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Delhi, and Hubli-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HD-BRTS) are still below 90%. Recovery of ridership is expected to be slow due to fear of contagion, but the government needs to have a plan, the analysis added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-calls-on-cities-to-deliver-on-clean-air-goals-in-next-three-yrs/story-ORmxO5RbyUxFih5btSrtiO.html
08-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: FIR against Sushant’s sisters, Dr Tarun Kumar; case sent to CBI||The Bandra police station has registered a first information report (FIR) against late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters Priyanka Singh and Mitu Singh and also Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of cardiology in Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi, for abetting suicide, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy under section 464, 465, 466, 468, 474, 306, 120 (B), 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with section 8 (c), 21, 22, and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, on the basis of a complaint filed by actor and Rajput’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty. Rajput was found dead allegedly by suicide at his Bandra apartment on June 14. HT has a copy of the FIR.  Also Watch | ‘Mischief’: Rhea slammed by Sushant kin’s lawyer for filing new complaintN Ambika, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (headquarters-1) and a spokesperson for Mumbai Police, said, “As per Rhea’s compliant, an FIR has been registered at Bandra police station. In line with the Supreme Court’s (SC) order, the case is duly transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for further investigation.”On Monday, Rhea , who is at the centre of a raging controversy over her boyfriend’s death, filed a six-page complaint against the three persons cited above at Bandra police station for allegedly prescribing medicines for the deceased that are banned under the NDPS Act, 1985 and the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines, 2020. The complaint will further queer the pitch in the high-profile case that has caught the nation’s imagination. The CBI, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have been carrying out separate probes into the case. In her complaint, Rhea had said that she had stayed with Rajput from December 2019 to June 8, 2020. She had stated that during the course of her relationship she had learnt that Rajput was undergoing treatment for various mental health issues and had been diagnosed with suffering from bipolar disorder by multiple renowned doctors. “However, the deceased (Rajput) was not disciplined in respect of his treatment and would often abruptly stop his medication to the dismay of his doctors and myself,” the complaint stated. “On the morning of June 8, the deceased had been on his mobile phone incessantly and when I asked what he was doing, he showed me the messages he was exchanging with his sister Priyanka Singh. I was shocked upon reading the said messages, as Priyanka had sent him a list of medications to take,” the complaint stated. Rhea stated that she had explained to Rajput “that given the seriousness of his condition, and the fact that he already had medications prescribed by doctors, who had examined and treated him over several months, he ought not to take any other medication, least of all medication being prescribed by his sister, who has no medical degree.’ Rhea stated that this led to a disagreement between them, as Rajput insisted that he would only take the medicines that Priyanka was prescribing. “The deceased proceeded to ask me to leave the house as his other sister Meethu Singh was coming to live with him and she would take care of him,” Rhea stated. She had left Rajput’s house shortly after the disagreement and never got to meet him, as he was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. Rhea stated that she was shocked to learn about Rajput’s father registering an FIR at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna on July 25. “It was preposterous that such false allegations were being made out over 40 days after the demise of the deceased,” stated the complaint. Rhea stated after the ED registered a case against her and her family members, all of them had handed over their mobile phones to the agency, which had proceeded to take a full data download of their devices. “It appears that based on certain messages that come to light from the aforesaid data download, the NCB also registered a case against various accused, including me,” stated Rhea. She stated that certain WhatsApp messages exchanged between Rajput and Priyanka on June 8 have come to light that are “disturbing and disclose the commission of various offences”. “In the said messages, Priyanka had advised the deceased to take various medication controlled under the NDPS Act, 1985. Shockingly, it has now come to light that Priyanka had subsequently on the same day sent him a prescription by Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of cardiology in Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi,” Rhea stated. “The said document appears forged and fabricated. In addition, Dr Tarun Kumar appears to have prescribed medication under NDPS Act, 1985 to the deceased without any consultation as mandated by law. The drugs prescribed by Dr Kumar were prohibited from being prescribed electronically under the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines issued on March 25, 2020, which constitutes Appendix 5 of the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics Regulation, 2002),” the FIR added. Rhea has stated that in the said prescription, Dr Kumar has prescribed Nexito 5 milligrams (mg), Librium 10 mg, and Lonazep MD 0.5 mg to Rajput to overcome his anxiety. “It is pertinent to note that the tablet Librium is Chlordiazepoxide which appears at item number 36 in the list of psychotropic substances under the NDPS Act, 1985, while Nexito and Lonazep MD contain Clonazepam that appears at item number 38 in the list,” the complaint stated. Rhea has also claimed that the prescription prepared by them is fabricated because Rajput was shown undergoing treatment at an outdoor patient department (OPD) in a hospital in Delhi, while he was living in Mumbai. “The deceased died only five days after he had obtained the said prescription, where he was unlawfully prescribed psychotropic substances at the behest of Priyanka and Dr Kumar,” the complaint added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-bandra-police-registers-fir-against-sushant-s-sisters-and-dr-tarun-kumar-transfers-case-to-cbi/story-6Nz2efBYtb3Ng7w5zN0LdO.html
08-09-2020||India||Many parts of peninsular India to experience rain for next 4-5 days||Peninsular India is likely to record widespread rain with thunder and lightning for the next four to five days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Monday night.A low-pressure area is lying over east-central Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast with an associated cyclonic circulation. It is likely to weaken over the same region during the next 24 hours.Also read: South India to witness extreme rainfall by end of this century, says IIT studyAn east-west shear zone -- a zone of change in wind direction and velocity -- is running across the cyclonic circulation associated with the low-pressure area. The cyclonic circulation is likely to persist during the next three-four days. Under its influence, widespread rainfall and thunderstorm with lightning is very likely over peninsular India during the next four-five days.Heavy rainfall at isolated places is also likely over Karnataka and Kerala and Mahe until Friday (September 11); over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal until Wednesday (September 9). Very heavy rain is likely over coastal Karnataka between Tuesday and Thursday and over Kerala and Mahe on Tuesday.The western end of the monsoon trough at mean sea level is lying near its normal position and its eastern end lies north of its normal position. The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to be north of its normal position or along the foothills of the Himalayas during the next five days, IMD said.Widespread and heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and the north-eastern states until Friday (September 11).Rainfall is likely to be deficient at least until September 13 in most parts of the country, including north-west and central India, before intensifying after September 17, according to IMD’s extended range forecast. Above normal rains are expected over coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra after September 17.The normal date for the monsoon to begin retreating is September 17. Monsoon withdraws completely from the country by October 15, according to the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates released by IMD in April.Until last year, the corresponding dates were September 1 and October 15. The new onset date is based on an analysis of the monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and the withdrawal date on the basis of the data from 1971 to 2019 by scientists at IMD in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-parts-of-peninsular-india-to-experience-rain-for-next-4-5-days/story-gEFgFI1kZk3aeMnSYFUPmI.html
08-09-2020||India||Delhi Police Special Cell had to convince then PM Dr Manmohan Singh that Batla House encounter was genuine||In his tell-all book about the Batla House encounter in Delhi on September 19, 2008, Karnal Singh, former Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP), Delhi Police, who had led the operation, has written that the incident was bedevilled by vote-bank politics, news channels’ obsessive competition over television rating points (TRPs) and conspiracy theorists. The 1984-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who had retired as the chief of Enforcement Directorate (ED) in 2018, wrote: “the lack of a political consensus on how to deal with terrorism had made it difficult to have stringent policies to tackle it”. “It seemed like we were living in a world with divided media and public opinion. In one realm, our department, Special Cell, was the biggest villain, compromising human rights. In their eyes, we were doing everything wrong. The other realm, comprising public and media persons, was deeply appreciative and supportive of our work,” Singh wrote in his book, “Batla House: An encounter that shook the nation”. Also Read: Slain Batla House inspector among 215 selected for President’s gallantry medalsAsserting that the encounter was put on a public trial, Singh wrote that on October 12, 2008, a group of teachers of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) University had set up a Jan Sunwai, or public hearing. The jury comprised politician and activist Swami Agnivesh, human rights and political activist John Dayal, and Delhi University (DU) Professors Tripta Wahi, Vijay Singh and Nirmalangshu Mukherji. A dozen of residents of Jamia also gave testimonies at that meeting. “Later, the jury gave its findings, which were basically a repetition of what had appeared in some sections of the media and were already addressed and answered by us”. He wrote that the findings of the Jan Sunwai were “devoid” of merit and none of the people who deposed in it had firsthand knowledge of the incident. “That is the reason why none of them subsequently came forward to share these testimonies or gave any affidavit in the (Delhi) high court (HC) or the Supreme Court (SC)”. Also Read: Encounter! Bollywood’s brush with real life crime dramasOn October 14, a new dimension was given to the encounter, when a few senior politicians from the minority cell of the Indian National Congress (INC) decided to send a delegation to meet the then Congress president Mrs Sonia Gandhi and the then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh to raise a complaint against “the injustice done to Muslims” and to order a judicial probe into the encounter, Singh wrote. “Kapil Sibal, Union minister for science and technology, along with other leaders visited the Batla House area before meeting Mrs Gandhi and Dr Singh. On the same day, Mulayam Singh Yadav, the founder patron of the Samajwadi Party, and Amar Singh met Dr Singh to ask for a judicial enquiry. Political pressure was building up from all sides,” he added. Singh wrote that it was only after he showed the evidence to Sibal at the residence of the then Delhi Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) Tejinder Khanna, the government was convinced that it was not a fake encounter. “In the end, Sibal admitted that he was convinced of the genuineness of the encounter and of the accused being involved in terrorist activities. He agreed to convey the same to Dr Singh ( the then PM). He took my number and true to his words, he rang me in the evening to confirm that he had conveyed what he found during discussions to the PM,” Singh wrote. Singh recalled that during the February 22, 2009, At Home function of the Delhi Police, Dr Singh had lauded him. You have done a good job, Dr Singh had told Singh.The retired IPS officer said the Delhi Police presented the truth before the Delhi HC, the SC and the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The SC, the apex court of the country, gave its verdict and cleared the Special Cell of all charges that Batla House encounter was fake, he added. “Although the NHRC report and the HC and SC verdicts were very comprehensive, the Batla House encounter continues to be referenced in political speeches during elections and TV debates till date,” Singh wrote alluding to the conspiracy theories that took a life of their own in the name of vote-bank politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-special-cell-had-to-convince-then-pm-dr-manmohan-singh-that-batla-house-encounter-was-genuine/story-uF4taUVDWLIH9Lv9P6RjWJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Face-off at Rechin La leads to scuffle with aggressive PLA. Situation tense but ground commanders talking||Two days before external affairs minister S Jaishankar meets his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow, there are reports of a scuffle between the Indian Army and an aggressive People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the Rezang-La-Rechin La ridgeline with some injuries sustained by Indian troopers as China wants to unilaterally change the status quo south of Pangong Tso.According to top Indian official on Tuesday morning, the situation is tense but both sides are talking to each other at the ground commander level. Apparently, the situation reached criticality on Monday evening after a stand-off between aggressive PLA troops and Indian troops on Rechin La. The stand-off started at 6.15pm.While the Western Theatre Command late on Monday night accused of Indian troops of firing warning shots and talked about countermeasures to “stabilize the situation”, the fact is that the Indian Army had to open warning shots even in the last week of August as the Chinese wanted to reach to the Green Line (their perception of Line of Actual Control since 1960), south of Pangong Tso. In the first week of September, PLA has fortified all its positions on the contested points and build up troop strength south of the lake as the difference in LAC perception is large in this area.While the Western Theatre Command, which functions directly under Commander in Chief Xi Jinping, accuses Indian troops of aggression, the Indian objective is to hold its territory and prevent a PLA land grab in the area. The Indian ground commanders are under firm instructions to take decisions on the spot so that there is no time lag in a reaction to PLA, which on the face of it is talking peace but out for a fight on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/face-off-at-rechin-la-leads-to-scuffle-with-aggressive-pla-situation-tense-but-ground-commanders-talking/story-hyXXzERKesl1HlBBMyfbEO.html
08-09-2020||India||Govt launches 24X7 toll free mental rehabilitation helpline KIRAN in 13 languages||The Centre on Monday launched a 24X7 toll free mental rehabilitation helpline for providing psychological support to people.The helpline ‘KIRAN’ (1800-599-0019) was launched by Union minister for social justice and empowerment Thaawarchand Gehlot.The helpline will offer mental health rehabilitation services with the objective of early screening, first aid, psychological support, distress management, mental wellbeing, promoting positive behaviour and psychological crisis management, the minister said.“The helpline will function as a lifeline to provide advice, counselling and reference in 13 languages to individuals, families, NGOs, parent associations, professional associations, rehabilitation institutes, hospitals or anyone in need of support across the country,” he said.“I hope this helpline will also be very useful for family members of those with mental illness,” Gehlot said.Prabodh Seth, Joint Secretary at social justice and empowerment ministry, gave a presentation to highlight the salient features of the helpline.“This toll free helpline will be operational 24 hours a day, seven days a week with the technical coordination of BSNL. It is backed by 660 clinical and rehabilitation psychologists and 668 psychiatrists,” he said.The 13 languages covered in the helpline are Hindi, Assamese, Tamil, Marathi, Odia, Telugu, Malayalam, Gujarati, Punjabi, Kannada, Bengali, Urdu and English, he added.Explaining the working of the helpline, Seth said when 1800-599-0019 is dialled from any mobile phone or landline of any telecom network, from any part of India, one gets the option of selecting the language following which they get connected to the helpline centre of native or desired state.The callers will then be connected to mental health experts who will help to resolve the issue or refer and connect to external help (clinical psychologists or rehabilitation psychologists or psychiatrists), the official explained.The helpline is dedicated to resolve mental health issues related to anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, suicide, depression, panic attack(s) adjustment disorders, post traumatic stress disorders and substance abuse.“The helpline will cater to- people in distress, pandemic induced psychological issues and mental health emergency,” Seth said.The helpline is being coordinated by the National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD), Chennai and National Institute of Mental Health Rehabilitation (NIMHR), Sehore.Professional support for the helpline is being provided by the Indian Association of Clinical Psychologists (IACP), Indian Psychiatrists Association (IPA) and Indian Psychiatric Social Workers Association (IPSWA), he added.PTI UZM SRY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-launches-24x7-toll-free-mental-rehabilitation-helpline-kiran-in-13-languages/story-JSfacmFtDqpmht2km9nzGK.html
08-09-2020||India||GST compensation to states a legal obligation, Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday over “hurdles in the payment of Goods and Services (GST) compensation to the states”. Drawing the PM’s attention to the suggestion by Centre in the GST Council meeting on August 27, Gehlot wrote that the Central government’s position that the shortfall is to be paid from the Compensation Fund and was not Government of India’s obligation was against the letter and spirit of the constitutional amendment by which the states gave up their constitutional right to levy certain taxes. “The management of the Indian economy is the responsibility of the Central Government and as it benefits from the upside, it is also expected to accept full responsibility for the shortfall in GST collections due to the downside of the economic cycle,” Gehlot wrote in the letter according to a statement from his office.“Government of India is only recognizing GST loss by assuming a 10% growth over the previous year and attributing the rest to the Covid-19 pandemic. This is arbitrary, takes only the interest of the Central Government into account and has no legal justification. It must be noted that GST revenues were growing at about 4% in 2019-20, which was the pre-Covid year, GDP growth in the last financial year was 4.2%. Therefore, applying a rate of 10% growth to project a higher revenue loss due to Covid is statistically untenable and factually unsound,” the letter said. Gehlot said under the GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, states are guaranteed compensation for loss of revenue on account of implementation of GST for a transition period of five years, starting from 2017. “It is the obligation of the Central Government to ensure that the States receive, without liability, the full amount of compensation, notwithstanding the shortfall in the collection of cess and that the compensation can neither be increased nor decreased without amending this Act,” he wrote. Emphasizing that the quantum of compensation to be paid to the states was not an executive decision of the Central Government or the Council but a legal obligation, Gehlot said the former Union finance minister Arun Jaitley had stated that the GST Council could consider raising additional resources including through borrowing but it was never the understanding that the states would borrow this additional amount. “The Council does not have the power to alter the compensation mechanism without getting the Act amended. Therefore, there is no ambiguity that the shortfall in revenues must be met by revenue transfers from the Central Government,” Gehlot wrote. The CM said if the states borrowed from the RBI, will the RBI hold state government debt on its balance sheet as it does that of the Central Government? Secondly, would the loans so taken be interest bearing? “It is inequitable because under the RBI Act, all RBI surpluses are transferred to the Government of India as dividend. While the Central Government reneges on its promise of paying the compensation to the states, it would end up making profit from the interest paid by the states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-compensation-to-states-a-legal-obligation-ashok-gehlot-tells-pm-modi/story-d2SNcYsaTA3XIOFwGbqXPP.html
08-09-2020||India||Ensure ‘safe return’ of youth allegedly abducted by PLA: Gaurav Gogoi to Centre||Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi wrote a letter to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh urging him to ensure the safe return of five youth from Arunachal Pradesh who have allegedly been abducted by Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).“I am writing to you to register my grave concern regarding the condition of the five young men from Arunachal Pradesh that have gone missing from the Upper Subansiri district during a hunting exercise. Members of the family have made statements alleging that they have been abducted, wherein they hold the Chinese People’s Liberation Army as the party responsible for the said abduction,” Gogoi stated.“I urge the Government to look into this matter and ensure that steps are taken immediately to ensure the safe return of these 5 youth and to strengthen security along the border region,” he said. The Member of Parliament said that such an action in the North East is “alarming” and must be dealt with more sternly in light of rising “aggression” by the Chinese in the Ladakh region.“As per reports, the Indian Army at present is merely waiting for a response from its Chinese counterparts at the respective border point. Besides these statements, the State Government has divulged no further information or elucidated any further steps that would be taken in this regard,” read the letter. “The people of Arunachal Pradesh have already expressed their displeasure at the State’s level of inaction and apathy in the situation. They have raised the question; why has the Government failed to take into account the numerous aggressions and incursions undertaken by the PLA along the McMahon line in Arunachal Pradesh?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-safe-return-of-youth-allegedly-abducted-by-pla-gaurav-gogoi-to-centre/story-s0IH7HFUzI6Nj5HUxZXj0L.html
08-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Taj Mahal, Agra Fort to re-open for visitors from Sept 21||Taj Mahal and Agra Fort will re-open to the public from September 21 as part of unlock 4, Basant Kumar, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI said on Monday.According to Kumar, only 5,000 and 2,500 visitors will be allowed in both the monuments respectively in a day.As a precautionary measure, the ticket counters will not open and electronic tickets will be provided to the visitors.“Taj Mahal and Agra Fort to be opened for visitors from September 21. 5,000 and 2500 visitors to be allowed in Taj Mahal and Agra Fort respectively, in a day. Electronic tickets will be provided as ticket counters will not open,” Basant Kumar told ANI.The monuments have been closed to the public since a nationwide lockdown was imposed in March to combat the pandemic.According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 61,625 active cases in Uttar Pradesh with 3,920 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-taj-mahal-agra-fort-to-re-open-for-visitors-from-sept-21/story-IKyYWTvJOzG8grwS0CpcMM.html
08-09-2020||India||4.4 magnitude earthquake hits Kargil||An earthquake of magnitude 4.4 on the Richter scale jolted Kargil in Ladakh on Tuesday, according to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS).The earthquake occurred 435-km north-northwest of Kargil at 5.47 am.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-4-magnitude-earthquake-hits-kargil/story-leuOSIejQUX5cTIpR7kDwK.html
08-09-2020||India||MP: Minor held for killing girl over losing at games, death of his pet||Police detained a minor minor boy in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore city for allegedly killing a minor girl in his neighbourhood, police said on Monday. According to police, the boy allegedly killed the girl as he was infuriated after the girl allegedly killed his pet mouse and beat him in games on the phone.“As per preliminary investigation, the girl went out of her flat to collect flowers nearby this afternoon. When she didn’t return her father went out and spotted her body. Her head was smashed,” Indore deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Harinarayanchari Mishra said. The girl was a student of class 5 and the boy, class 6. “The boy was taken into custody after a police team spoke with several children in the area and examined the CCTV footage of the apartment. The girl was last seen with him. A boy told the police team that he had seen the boy returning and blood stains on his hands and clothes. During questioning the boy confessed to have committed the crime,” Mishra said. “The boy told the police team that the girl was his friend but what angered him often was her defeating him in games on their mobile phones and other games. A few days back, she killed his pet white mouse. This infuriated him and he killed the girl to take a revenge on her,” Mishra added. However, the elder sister of the deceased girl said, “We can’t believe that the boy killed my sister on such petty issue like defeat in games and killing of the pet mouse. Police should investigate the murder seriously as there might be involvement of some adult person too in the crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mp-minor-held-for-killing-girl-over-losing-at-games-death-of-his-pet/story-YCSrFOvHjJDGviqre88qwI.html
08-09-2020||India||Where is Covid-19 most active in the country?||As total active cases of Covid-19 in India approach the million mark, here is one of the most important statistics of the disease’s run through the country: around half of India’s 880,790 active cases as of Sunday night were located in just three states, and more than a quarter of these were in just 10 cities. A look at five charts that best capture the rise in India’s active cases:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-is-covid-19-most-active-in-the-country/story-YYRBTmz8F9nXB1Hu0jP40L.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown fatigue driving opening of businesses||Businesses continue to open and people are coming out in larger numbers in India even as Covid-19 cases surge. Experts are beginning to see this as a result of lockdown fatigue. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) climbed to 77.4 in the week ending September 6. This is an increase of 1.7 percentage points from the week ending August 30. To be sure, NIBRI is still 22.3 percentage points below pre-pandemic levels of economic activity. The report notes that “the largest upticks were seen in Google retail & recreation mobility and the Apple driving index, while power demand has tapered off”. Rise in retail and recreation mobility suggests that consumers are stepping out for purchases, the report said. “Alongside a faster rise in Covid-19 cases, this suggests lockdown fatigue may have set in”, it adds. The report does add that rising infections cast doubts over the durability of the recovery. Nomura has raised its estimate of India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contraction from 5% to 9%..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-fatigue-driving-opening-of-businesses/story-JYy83NxSMvmNJpGR5dAj6H.html
08-09-2020||India||2 Maoists killed in encounter in Telangana, hours after setting off landmine||Two Maoists belonging to outlawed CPI (Maoist) were killed in an encounter with the police in Telangana’s Bhadradri Kothagudem district on Monday evening, the police said. District Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said the exchange of fire took place at Vaddipeta-Pusuguppa forest area of Charla block at around 3 pm, when a special police team was combing the area following specific information that a team of Maoists was planning to carry out an attack on the people’s representatives and the security forces. “We have zeroed in on two male Maoists, whose identity is yet to be established,” the SP said in a statement. The encounter took place within 24 hours of the Maoists setting off a landmine at Pagidivagu bridge on Pedda Midisileru-Tippapuram road near Taliperu medium irrigation project on Sunday night. The Maoists called for a bandh in the district on Sunday to protest the killing of their outfit’s commander Devalu alias Shankar in an alleged encounter with the police forces at Devarlagudem of Gundala block on September 3. The SP said the exchange of fire lasted about 20 minutes. “On searching the area, the police found bodies of two male extremists. Police also seized two fire arms - one SBBL and one pistol and two kit bags,” Dutt said, adding that the combing operations were still going on. Earlier on Sunday night, the police forces had a providential escape when the Maoists set off an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) on Tippapuram-Pedda Midisileru road. The explosion left a three-feet deep crater on the road. The sound of the explosives was so deafening that it was heard in villages at least five kilometres away from the spot. Charla inspector of police Boddu Ashok told reporters that the Maoists may have set off the IED just to create panic among the villagers and to cause destruction. “There were no injuries to anybody and no casualties,” he said. The police recovered two separate letters written by the Maoist party’s Charla-Shabari Area Committee secretary Aruna and Mahadevpur-Eturnagaram Area Committee secretary Manthu from the spot where the explosion took place. In the letters, the Maoist party called upon the people to condemn the killing of their colleague Dudi Devalu alias Shanker from Konta in Chhattisgarh in an alleged encounter with the police at Devarlagudem in Gundala block on September 3. The Maoists had blasted the bridge over Pagidivagu three years ago and this is the second time that they resorted to explosions. The police believe that the extremists may have planted the IED during the construction of the road last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-telangana-hours-after-setting-off-landmine/story-BiZIvcQoN7UWwYq8woVYrK.html
08-09-2020||India||Ahead of assembly session, Odisha lawmakers to be tested for Covid-19||All MLAs, staff and others senior officials of the Odisha Assembly will have to undergo RT-PCR tests for detection of Covid-19, ahead of the upcoming monsoon session of the Assembly scheduled to be held by end of September.Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro who chaired a meeting to discuss the strategies to be adopted to ensure the smooth functioning of the house, said a special counter will be set up on the Assembly premises for the RT-PCR tests of the MLAs, staff and other officers two days before the commencement of the session.“The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation along with a medical team will collect the swab samples of all the 147 MLAs, employees and other officials two days before the commencement of the Assembly. Those testing negative for coronavirus will be allowed to participate in the Assembly proceedings,” said Patro.The members have to wear masks and maintain social distancing. It’s still not clear if journalists would be allowed to cover the proceedings since some MLAs may have to sit in the press gallery to honour social distancing norms.Five days after the start of the Assembly proceedings, all the legislators will have to again undergo Rapid Antigen test. “After the session is over, the legislators have to remain in home isolation,” said Patro. Special arrangements will be made for the MLAs who are above 60 years of age.So far 21 MLAs of Odisha Assembly, including 4 ministers have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-session-odisha-lawmakers-to-be-tested-for-covid-19/story-5aHe4v8hRGmTvXyihWtCaK.html
08-09-2020||India||Newly-wed couple shot dead at their doorstep. His father is a suspect: Cops||A young couple married just three months earlier were shot dead by unidentified men late on Monday evening in Kashipur area of Udham Singh Nagar district, police said.Rashid, 24, and Nazia, 22, were returning from the local market in Kashipur area when the assailants came on a motorcycle and shot them dead. The couple were at the doorsteps when the firing started.Rakesh Bhatt, additional superintendent of police, Kashipur, told Hindustan Times that the initial probe had led the police to conclude that the man’s father-in-law was not happy with their love marriage.” “At present he is suspected to be behind the crime and is on the run. However, it is also possible that more people are involved in the incident. A probe is on,” said Bhatt. “As they were entering the house, some unidentified men came from behind on a motorbike and shot at them. Both fell on the ground and died on the spot. The accused fled from the scene after the crime. The police were then informed by neighbours after which it rushed to the spot,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newly-wed-couple-shot-dead-at-their-doorstep-his-father-is-a-suspect-cops/story-eHRj0AQlVmteBuXvO6b9sL.html
08-09-2020||India||Why police team did not wear bulletproof jackets in Batla House encounter||Why did the Delhi Police team that raided the flat at Batla House in an anti-terror operation on September 19, 2008 not wear bulletproof jackets? The shootout in which a police officer died had sparked a major controversy and became a political issue.Karnal Singh, the Delhi Police officer who led the operation years ago, now claims to provide some answers in his book Batla House: An Encounter That Shook The Nation.An IPS officer of the 1984 batch, Singh, who is now retired, was Joint Commissioner of Police in the Special Cell at that time, reveals what happened inside flat number 108 at L-18 Batla House that morning and why Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma who was killed in the operation, and his team did not wear bulletproof jackets and how the encounter was given a political colour despite irrefutable evidence against the Indian Mujahideen (IM) members. In his book, Singh says that his team had managed to piece together by September 18, 2008, a day before the encounter, that a number used by slain terrorist Mohammad Atif Ameen was key to solving the conspiracy was key to solving a conspiracy behind a string of blasts in Jaipur (May 13, 2008) and Ahmedabad (July 26, 2008) and the serial blasts on September 13, 2008 in Delhi’s Karol Bagh, Connaught Place and Greater Kailash.After it was established by the evening that Atif Ameen was a “person of interest”, Karnal Singh ordered the team to capture him alive.On September 18 evening, a small team was sent to Batla House to conduct a reconnaissance and familiarize themselves with the Batla House area. “The team was unanimous in its decision to raid Atif’s location – L-18 Batla House. The crucial question was, when? It was the month of Ramadan and, hence, it was not advisable to search in the evening or night. Mohan suggested that we should search Batla House during daytime since this is the time when they would be resting at home,” writes Singh. Two teams were formed for September 19. Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma led an 18-member team while DCP Sanjeev Yadav (ACP at that time) led the second team. Singh recalls Sharma’s son was hospitalized that day due to dengue but the slain Inspector put his duty first. He writes that most of the officers in the team, including Inspector Rahul, Dharmender and others had returned late that night or early morning on September 19 from other states after working on different inputs. “They all had familial responsibilities, emotionally strained spouses (rightly so), and children or/and older parents to be taken care of, among other things, but when it came to the call of duty, everything was secondary. This was my team. And we were ready for the Batla House operation,” writes Singh. Seconds before the raid was to start, around 11 am on September 19, Singh got a call from Sharma who said – “Sir, there are people inside L-18. We are going in”. “After about 10 minutes, my phone rang. This time it was Sanjeev (Yadav). ‘Sir, Mohan and Head Constable Balwant have been shot and are being shifted to hospital. The terrorists are also injured but they are inside the house’. His voice was choking, as if he was in tears”. This is when Singh himself and then Special Cell DCP Alok Kumar also rushed to Batla House while directing Yadav to contain the terrorists. Terming his walk as the “one of most tense moments of his career”, Singh writes, “I could sense animosity for the Delhi Police in the by-lanes”, as a huge crowd had gathered in the area shouting slogans against the department. On reaching the flat, Singh asked his team to explain the sequence of events. “Rahul explained that Mohan was leading the front team. All the team members, except Dharmender, were asked by Mohan to be in casual wear. This was done to ensure even if the target was not found in the apartment, the team could withdraw without anyone knowing about their presence or the search”. “That was also the reason why none of the team members were wearing bullet-proof jackets,’ adds Singh. The terrorists had fired indiscriminately at the first team due to which Sharma was hit by two bullets from the front. Head Constable Balwant was also received a bullet injury but he survived. Singh, who also headed the Enforcement Directorate (ED), says that Sharma’s team had parked their vehicles near the Khalilullah Mosque, which had bullet-proof vests and AK-47 rifles. Sharma’s team carried only small arms with them to the L-18 flat. Singh adds that when he came to know about Sharma’s death at Holy Family hospital, “I walked towards him, put my palm over his forehead and tears started flowing from my eyes. The very life of the Special Cell, the man whose investigation yielded us results, the one who could beat any encrypted message and intercept any call, the one whose network of human intelligence was immaculate, was lying there connected to machines and wires,” writes Singh. Singh recalls how the encounter was given a political colour and even the media was publishing unverified claims by witnesses, making Special Cell the “biggest villain”. Leaders like Mulayam Singh Yadav, Amar Singh, Mamata Banerjee and others had sought a judicial enquiry questioning the genuineness of the encounter. However, after the evidence was shown to then minister Kapil Sibal, he was convinced that it was a genuine encounter. Singh recalls that during the February 22, 2009 ‘At Home’ function of Delhi Police, then PM Manmohan Singh had told him – “You have done a good job”. “The Batla House encounter became a historic event in the fight against terrorism. It caused a critical blow to Indian Mujahideen, as it neutralized its key members and broke the backbone of its network in India. We lost one of the most intelligent and brave officers, whose findings led us to the core IM members. The work done by all the Special Cell personnel helped crack the bomb blast cases and neutralize the threat from this terror group that had caused many blasts across the country between 2004 and 2008, causing injuries to 765 people and killing 239 innocent men, women and children,” he writes. “This case stirred a political storm, instigated a witch-hunt against Special Cell officers, divided public opinion and became a raging controversial topic in the media that continues till date.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/book-claims-to-answer-key-batla-question/story-EYe64oHi7QJta7pDe6UkLJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Past midnight, China claims to have taken countermeasures to India’s ‘military provocation’||China early on Tuesday said its border troops took “countermeasures” after the Indian army crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and fired “warning shots” near the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh.Border troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were “forced to take countermeasures” after Indian army soldiers fired at them near the Shenpao mountain region near the south bank of Pangong Tso lake, a statement issued by China’s western theatre command (WAC) said in a statement issued early on Tuesday.The Chinese statement, however, did not explain what the “countermeasures” were. ALSO READ | China’s PLA in race to reach the green line in LadakhThe statement from the PLA’s WAC would mean that shots were fired at the disputed Sino-India border for the first time in four decades.India has squarely blamed China for the tensions along the LAC in Ladakh over the past four months and said the only way forward was through negotiations – reflecting the impasse created by Beijing’s fresh attempts to alter the status quo along the disputed border.In a statement issued in Mandarin, and tweeted by state media, WAC spokesperson Colonel Zhang Shuili said Chinese border defence troops were forced to take countermeasures to stabilise the situation after Indian soldiers troops “outrageously fired warning shots to PLA border patrol soldiers who were about to negotiate”.ALSO READ | India calls China’s bluff in Chushul“During the operation, the Indian army blatantly shot and threatened the patrol personnel of the Chinese border defence forces who had made representations before, and the Chinese border defence forces were forced to take countermeasures to stabilise the situation on the ground,” Zhang said in the statement.“The Indian side’s move seriously violated related agreements reached by both sides, stirred up tensions in the region, and would easily cause misunderstandings and misjudgments, which is a serious military provocation and is very vile in nature,” the spokesperson said.“We demand the Indian side to immediately stop dangerous moves, withdraw personnel who crossed the LAC at once, strictly control frontline troops, seriously investigate and punish the personnel who fired the provocative shot and ensure similar incidents won’t take place again,” Zhang added.“The PLA WAC troops will firmly fulfill duties and missions and resolutely safeguard national territorial sovereignty,” Zhang said.The last time shots were fired at the LAC was in the Tulung La area of Arunachal Pradesh in 1975.Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a bitter standoff in multiple places in eastern Ladakh.Tensions flared up again in the region after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake last week when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the border row.The tension between the two sides escalated after violent clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. The rise in the border tension comes days ahead of an expected meeting between external affairs minister, S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10,On Monday, Jaishankar, said the failure to observe several understandings on border management dating back to 1993 raises “very important questions” about the status of ties with China.“If peace and tranquillity on the border is not a given, then it cannot be that the rest of the relationship continues on the same basis, because clearly peace and tranquillity is the basis for the relationship,” he said while participating in an online interaction organised by The Indian Express newspaper to mark the release of his book ‘The India Way’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-blames-india-for-military-provocation-at-lac-says-it-took-countermeasures/story-rJ2WlEYh4cSGCyEwu6R7KM.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Two questions.One, what is India’s Infection Fatality Rate for Covid-19?This is different from the case fatality rate, which is simply the number of deaths represented as a proportion of the number of cases. The infection fatality rate, or IFR, is the number of deaths represented as a proportion of the number of infected. Caveat: Death numbers everywhere in the world, directly because of the coronavirus disease, or indirectly caused by it, are being undercounted, but in the absence of accurate death data and records, it is pointless to try and guess by how much.IFR is an important metric because it accurately measures the possible fatalities arising from a disease — and also the chances of dying from it. Measuring it, though, requires knowing the denominator — the number of infected people in a population.This is why sero surveys, blood tests that look for Sars-CoV-2 antibodies (in this case), are important. Such surveys measure the prevalence of a disease in a population — or the infection rate. Since Covid-19 deaths are anyway recorded, it is then possible to calculate IFR.There have been around 20 sero surveys in various parts of India covering close to 110,000 people. I decided to pick four of these, excluding ones with smaller samples. These four surveys, two in Delhi, and one each in Chennai and Ahmedabad, together covered around 78,000 people. The Ahmedabad survey showed that 17.6% of those studied had been exposed to the virus; the Chennai one 21.5%, and the two Delhi surveys 23% and 29%. The Ahmedabad and Chennai surveys were conducted in July; and the two Delhi ones in late June/early July and early August. Delhi’s third sero survey is nearing completion, and the results are expected next week. Based on these numbers, it can be assumed that at least 20% the population in large cities has been exposed to the disease.What does that make Delhi’s IFR? There have been 4,567 deaths on account of Covid-19 in Delhi till Sunday night. A 20% infection rate in the population would mean four million infections. That translates into an infection fatality rate of 0.11%. This compares with a case fatality rate of 2.4% in Delhi. In Ahmedabad, the IFR is again 0.11. And in Chennai it is 0.13. All numbers are based on current population and the total number of deaths in these cities till Sunday night. Three cities in different parts of the countries, all boasting similar IFRs, is interesting, but also expected. Pandemics respect math (it’s also the reason I have repeatedly called out states pretending all is well on the basis of positivity rates that have not followed the trajectory of such rates around the world).The second question, how common is a Covid-19 reinfection?This is prompted by media reports that claim India’s first case of coronavirus reinfection has been identified in a Bengaluru hospital. There have been 27 million coronavirus infections around the world — but only two known and established instances of reinfection (both in late August). There are probably more, but establishing a reinfection requires sequencing the viral genome of the first infection in the patient, and then sequencing the viral genome of the second infection in the patient, and proving that the two are different. Doctors and scientists established this in the case of a Hong Kong man whose second infection was asymptomatic (it was detected because he was travelling) and a US woman whose second infection resulted in severe symptoms.This doesn’t seem to have been done in the case of the Bengaluru patient — which doesn’t rule out a reinfection, but which also doesn’t rule out a residual infection or tests throwing up false negatives.Scientists are very interested in reinfections because these have a bearing on vaccine development. If there are significant reinfections (two in 27 million aren’t) and if the immune system in these patients did work the way it is supposed to, then it makes the vaccine development process a bit more complex — it is always easier to develop vaccines for diseases where an infection results in lifelong immunity (or at least immunity for a significant period of time).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-mtwod5mI80yuQoWEHMPZSJ.html
08-09-2020||India||After 90 days, Assam’s Baghjan gas-well fire doused; blazes again after glitch||Experts attempting to douse the blaze at an Oil India Limited (OIL) natural gas well in Assam’s Baghjan, which had a blowout on May 27 and caught fire on June 9, had temporary success on Monday and were able to put out the flames for nearly eight hours. According to OIL officials, effort to divert the gas from the well to flare pits to the Early Production System (EPS) was successful and led to dousing of the blaze. But due to technical issues, the blow out preventer (BoP) ram was opened and the fire started again. “The fire was doused for eight hours. But considering observed leakage through wellhead, it was decided for the well’s safety to open the BoP ram and flare the gas through it as was the case earlier. Experts will explore the possibility of welding the leakage point,” OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika said. On August 17, foreign experts engaged by OIL were able to cap the well by placing a BO stack over the wellhead. But problems surfaced two days later when attempts were made to douse the fire by ‘killing the well’. The operation was suspended on August 19 following rupture of a casing valve. “Today we were successful (in dousing the fire). It was a unique attempt (to douse fire by diverting gas to flare pits and start production from a blazing well). Hopefully, the leakage will be easily repaired and by Wednesday we should be able to divert the gas from the wellhead once again,” Hazarika said. Last week, Assam industry minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told the state assembly that it would take another 6-8 weeks to douse the fire at Baghjan. “Experts from Canada are coming to Baghjan in a chartered aircraft carrying equipment to kill the well with snubbing technology. It could take another 6 to 8 weeks to complete the operation,” he said. The well in Tinsukia district had a blow out on May 27, during a work over operation and caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-90-days-assam-s-baghjan-gas-well-fire-doused-blazes-again-after-glitch/story-3vioPG5NRmKksxp94UcpvN.html
08-09-2020||India||China’s PLA shrills border pitch, again claims Indian army crossed LAC near Pangong Tso||The Chinese military on Monday accused the Indian Army of crossing the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, the focus of the latest faceoff between the two sides on the disputed border. There was no immediate response by Indian officials to the claim by the Chinese side. The Indian side has insisted that its troops have not violated the LAC and that it was the Chinese side that had triggered the latest faceoff with its “provocative military actions” near Pangong Lake. Also read: Amid border row, Army seeks to upgrade ‘night-blind’ infantry combat vehiclesIndian Army “again illegally crossed the Line of Actual Control in Shenpao mountain near the south bank of Pangong Tso Lake on Monday,” the Twitter handle of state-run Global Times tabloid quoted the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) western theater command spokesperson as saying.“Chinese border defense troops were forced to take countermeasures to stabilize the situation after the Indian troops outrageously fired warning shots to PLA border patrol soldiers who were about to negotiate,” the spokesperson was cited as saying in a second tweet from Global Times. No other details were immediately available. The Chinese claim came days before an expected meeting of the foreign ministers of the two countries on the margins of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers in Moscow on September 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-shrills-border-pitch-claims-indian-army-crossed-lac-near-pangong-tso/story-Kzi7wwvjjTxCEkayyRfh2J.html
08-09-2020||India||Maharashtra govt fumes after Ranaut gets Y+ security||The Union government provided Y-plus category security to actor Kangana Ranaut on Monday, two days before she was expected to return to Mumbai in the midst of a raging controversy triggered by her remarks likening the city to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and subsequent protests by Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena.Ranaut will be guarded by 10-11 armed commandos of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) round the clock in three shifts wherever she travels across the nation, according to officials aware of the developments. The actor, who is in her home state of Himachal Pradesh, thanked Union home minister Amit Shah and said “no one can crush a patriot”. While the Maharashtra government appeared “surprised” over the move, and raised the pitch against the national award-winning actor, the Congress — a partner in state’s ruling alliance — alleged that Ranaut was carrying forward the political agenda of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The Centre’s move to provide security to people who insult Mumbai and Maharashtra is surprising and also sad,” Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said. Even as a debate raged over Ranaut’s VIP security, a fresh row broke out after the actor shared on Twitter videos purportedly showing Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials at her office premises in Mumbai. She said employees of the Sena-ruled civic body may demolish the property on Tuesday. “They have forcefully taken over my office measuring everything, also harassing my neighbours,” she tweeted.BMC officials said they were acting on a complaint. “...there were some deviations including an illegal extension of the office. Also, this property was converted from residential to commercial. Measurements of her office were taken and a report will be submitted in the next two days to top officials,” said an official who did not want to be named.Ranaut’s recent remarks that she felt unsafe in Mumbai after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and a September 3 tweet asking why Mumbai was felt like it was PoK — it was posted in response to Sena’s Sanjay Raut purportedly advising her not to visit the city if she was afraid of the city’s police — have drawn sharp condemnation by a section of Sena leaders, who allege she is insulting the city and its police force.Ranaut has also said she may require security from Himachal Pradesh police or the Centre, but will not accept protection from the Mumbai Police to expose an alleged “drug mafia in Bollywood”.With the Centre approving Y+ security for Ranaut, at least three Personnel Security Officers (PSOs) will accompany the actor 24x7 and one security officer will be deployed at her residence in Mumbai, according to the officials. She will also get an escort vehicle for her security personnel. “Had he (Shah) wanted, he could have asked me to visit Mumbai later, but he respected a daughter of India and acknowledged my self-respect. Jai Hind,” Ranaut tweeted.Ranaut is the first Bollywood celebrity to be guarded by CRPF, which protects about 60 dignitaries, including Shah, Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, and Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. The government will pay for her VIP security cover, said the officials cited above. High-risk individuals are given security (subject to periodic review) on the basis of threat assessment done by government agencies. The categories are broadly divided into four tiers — Z+ (highest level), Z, Y and X — depending on threat perception.On Monday, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur issued a video statement, welcoming the Centre’s decision. Officials said it was the Himachal government that requested the central government to provide security to Ranaut through a paramilitary force.In Mumbai, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said some people don’t have gratitude for the city where they earn their livelihood — a remark interpreted as a jibe at Ranaut. “Many people from other states come to Mumbai. Work here for livelihood and get fame. Some of them are grateful but some are not,” he said in the assembly, speaking on a condolence motion. Thackeray did not name Ranaut.At a virtual press conference, Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, said the Sena-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)-Congress coalition in Maharashtra will ensure adequate protection to her “despite a particular film actress carrying on with the agenda of (Prime Minister) Modiji and the BJP”.“To describe the business capital of the country as PoK is naive, incorrect, political opportunism and reprehensible which no reasonable person will accept. We reject such unfounded and politically motivated allegations being hurled through film actresses by BJP,” he said.Back in Mumbai, BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said Ranaut made a wrong statement, but it was the responsibility of the government to protect her in a land of law.“It is the responsibility of the government to protect the life of an individual. Hence, though we (the BJP) are not supporting what Kangana Ranaut said, and nobody will support it, still it is the responsibility of the government (to protect her),” the Leader of Opposition in the legislative assembly told reporters outside the Vidhan Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-govt-fumes-after-ranaut-gets-y-security/story-SL2R91OC3WdwrUD0ItcUGL.html
08-09-2020||India||Two options offered to states only way out, says Centre on GST compensation||The Centre remains committed to reimbursing states for the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in their share of Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue this financial year – only immediate compensation may not be forthcoming, senior finance ministry officials said on Monday.“We can and will pay the compensation component arising from Covid-19 also, but only after the cess is extended,” a finance ministry official explained, referring to the cess levied on luxury products and sin goods that goes into the compensation fund and is used to make the payout to the states. At an August 27 meeting of the GST Council, chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state finance ministers, the Centre gave the states two options -- either borrow the compensation amount arising from implementation of GST (Rs 97,000 crore) or the entire shortfall (Rs 2.35 lakh crore). If they exercise the first option, the interest and principal amount will come from the cess levied on products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water and automobiles. In the second option, the states will have to bear the interest burden in the second case.Some states have opposed the proposals, and West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said on Monday that “state governments are not in a position to borrow any money from the market”, while lamenting that the “Centre is imposing something on states without any proper consultation”. The finance ministry official cited above explained that the Rs 97,000 crore was the amount that needs to be paid immediately under the law – “within the transition period”. “Option 1 is what can be immediately borrowed and taken. That is the hardwired compensation gap that will have to be paid under the Act, but in letter and spirit we want to give all the compensation that has to be paid to the states,” the official said. “The compensation arising from a shortfall because of Covid-19 will also have to be paid -- only that will have to wait till the cess gets extended.” Some of the states have since demanded that the Centre borrow the money, but the official said this wasn’t a good idea because it would harden yields in the bond market, and make life tough for private-sector borrowers or even states trying to borrow money for other needs. The idea, this person added, was for all states to borrow at the same rate through a special window of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). On August 29, the Centre detailed the options in a written communication to the states. Several states said they were not happy with the options and would not abide by them. On September 1, the expenditure and revenue secretaries met virtually with state finance secretaries to explain how the options would work. “All their doubts have been answered,” the finance ministry official said. “Now, we have to see how they respond.” The official also said too much was being made out of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comment on the compensation crisis being caused by “an Act of God”. This is a “force majeure” this person added. “And instead of using the technical term, the minister used the common term. “Force majeure is an event or effect that can be neither anticipated nor controlled, freeing a party to a contract from a liability or obligation.” The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent 68-day hard lockdown has taken a heavy toll on the economy, causing a 23.9% contraction in the quarter ended June 30. Commenting on the economy, this person cited above said the ministry wasn’t speculating about when it will return to pre-pandemic levels, but is instead focused on “keeping all options open” to support it, especially “industry sectors that have been badly hit”. The officials cited in the first instance added that while they have to, at some point, sit down and figure out the exact hit to revenue on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, they have not done so thus far. Still, there are signs of people and companies restarting work, and the rural sector, both agricultural and non-agricultural doing well, the first official said. The ministry isn’t worried about the fiscal deficit or rating agencies, the official added, but on what the economy needs. As for a second stimulus, the pandemic is still growing, and a vaccine is yet to be developed, the official said, suggesting that the timing is important – but “all options are open”. West Bengal finance minister Mitra stressed that the payment options before the states were not feasible. “The discussion about the option never happened in the five-hour long meeting as the matter was placed before the [GST] Council only at the last moment. Why, five-hour long meeting when you are determined to give two options at the end,” he said. “There is no intimation when the Council will discuss this matter. But, there is only one logical and feasible option -- the Centre must borrow the entire money and the debt is serviced through the amount raised by the compensation cess. Honourable chief minister [Mamata Banerjee] has already written a letter to the Centre in this regard,” he added. Banerjee on September 2 wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that she was “deeply anguished” by the GST imbroglio which was violating the very premise of federalism. In the letter reviewed by HT, she wrote: “The Centre is duty bound to give compensation to states.” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac wrote in a tweet, “FMs of Punjab, Delhi, W Bengal, Chhattisgarh,Telangana and Kerala agreed to reject the Centre’s options on GST compensation .Our option: Central Govt to borrow entire compensation due regardless of acts of gods, humans or nature, to be paid back by extending the period of Cess.” An official in a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state said on condition of anonymity that most of the states were opposed to the Centre’s move, which would put an immense fiscal burden on them. Experts said the matter needs to be resolved speedily. ”Businesses would appreciate if the Centre and the states discuss and resolve the issue of compensation cess as it is not only a fiscal matter, but one that impacts businesses that have to charge, recover and deposit the cess. The situation is admittedly one where the finances of both the Centre and the states are stressed,” said MS Mani, a partner at consulting firm Deloitte India. An indirect tax consultant, who asked not to be named, said it was the duty of the Centre to pay full compensation to states, noting that when the GST regime came into place in 2017, there was no argument that revenue loss from an Act of God wouldn’t be covered. “And, if it is an Act of God for the Centre, it is also an Act of God for the states. God for both is the same. Hence, the Centre should follow the spirit of the federalism and GST law and take a loan for states that will be serviced by compensation cess,” the consultant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-options-offered-to-states-only-way-out-says-centre/story-8wGJf5bXsu0b9oD5eMv6AP.html
08-09-2020||India||India’s defence inches closer to hypersonic tech||India on Monday took the first steps towards developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence, with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) carrying out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from a launch facility off the Odisha coast.Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-manoeuvring hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept. Mach 6 translates into a speed of 7,408kmph. India could develop hypersonic cruise missiles powered by air-breathing scramjet engines in about four years, a top government officer said on condition of anonymity.“The DRDO has successfully demonstrated the hypersonic air-breathing scramjet technology with the flight test of HSTDV at 1103 hours from Dr APJ Abdul Kalam launch complex at Wheeler Island off the coast of Odisha on Monday,” the defence ministry statement said.An improvement over the ramjet technology, the scramjet engine operates efficiently at hypersonic speeds and allows supersonic combustion. Hypersonic missiles travel at speeds in excess of Mach 5.Experts say that such vehicles are launched on rockets before they detach and move towards their target in the upper atmosphere. They can be steered to add unpredictability in an attack and because they follow a flat and low trajectory, it is hard to detect them early with radar.“Congratulations to DRDO India for successful flight of the Hypersonic Test Demonstration Vehicle today. The scramjet engine developed by our scientists helped the flight achieve a speed 6 times the speed of sound! Very few countries have such capability today,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. The hypersonic cruise vehicle was launched using a proven solid rocket motor that took it to an altitude of 30km, where the aerodynamic heat shields were separated at a hypersonic Mach number, the statement said.“The cruise vehicle separated from the launch vehicle and the air intake opened as planned. The hypersonic combustion sustained and the cruise vehicle continued on its desired flight path at a velocity of six times the speed of sound or nearly 2 km/second for more than 20 seconds,” the statement said. The first test of the HSTDV in June 2019 failed to meet mission parameters.Developing hypersonic missiles will require the cruise vehicle to travel at speeds above Mach 6 for a few hundred seconds for the weapon to strike its target, said a second official, requesting anonymity. “Critical events like fuel injection and auto ignition of scramjet demonstrated technological maturity. The scramjet engine performed in a textbook manner,” the statement said.The parameters of launch and cruise vehicle, including the scramjet engine, were monitored by multiple tracking radars, electro-optical systems and telemetry stations, with the engine working efficiently at high dynamic pressure and very high temperature, it added.A warship was deployed in the Bay of Bengal to monitor the performance during the cruise phase of the hypersonic vehicle. All the performance parameters indicated a “resounding success” of the mission, the statement said.“This marks a technological breakthrough for the country. The successful mission will enable us to develop many more critical technologies and pave the way for hypersonic vehicle development,” DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy told HT.The flight test has proven a raft of critical technologies including aerodynamic configuration for hypersonic manoeuvres, use of scramjet propulsion for ignition and sustained combustion at hypersonic flow, thermo-structural characterisation of high temperature materials and separation mechanism at hypersonic velocities, the defence ministry said.With hypersonic vehicles being key to defeating missile defences, the successful flight of the technology demonstrator vehicle is an important milestone, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“This has been some time in the making and the challenge now is to make a time-bound transition to the prototype testing phase. China is quite ahead in hypersonics and India cannot afford to lag behind,” Bahadur said.The dual-use hypersonic technology has non-military applications too – it can be used for launching satellites and developing commercial planes, experts said.Defence minister Rajnath, who spoke with scientists associated with the critical project, congratulated the DRDO on the “landmark achievement” towards realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”.“The DRDO has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” the defence minister wrote on Twitter. Reddy congratulated the scientists, researchers and other personnel associated with the mission for their “resolute and unwavering efforts” towards strengthening the country’s defence capabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-defence-inches-closer-to-hypersonic-tech/story-2XDXkfHhMiulSsdDfVNkbL.html
08-09-2020||India||Decline in demand for MGNREGS jobs||The government’s special job scheme for migrant workers, the reopening of some sectors of the economy, and a bumper sowing season have helped ease the pressure on the flagship job guarantee scheme, MGNREGS, in terms of providing work to millions of desperate daily wage workers in rural India. While MGNREGS has already completed at least 65% of its annual target for work in the first five months, demand for the programme has steadily declined since July. In June, 62.06 million workers wanted work under the scheme, according to the Union rural development ministry. But in July, the total number of beneficiaries asking for work came down to 42.57 million and in August, the demand saw a further dip, to 31.44 million.In the first week of September, 11 million workers asked for work under the scheme. Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra said that the bumper kharif (monsoon crop) sowing season, return of millions of workers to the cities due to staggered re-opening of economic sectors and the Rs 50,000 crore special package for migrants have encouraged many daily wage workers to shift to relatively more lucrative jobs. At least 10 million migrant workers — mostly unskilled or semi-skilled — returned home amid uncertainties triggered by federal lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease between April and June. While construction workers accounted for nearly 60% of all migrant daily wage workers, about 40% were unskilled. As part of the government’s special scheme for migrant workers, public works worth Rs 50,000 crore were offered to create jobs for migrant workers in 116 districts across six states. Each of the selected districts had at least 25,000 returnee migrant workers. Expecting a surge in rural jobs, the Union government pumped in an additional Rs 40,000 crore to increase MGNREGS’ annual budget to Rs 1.05 lakh crore, the highest-ever. The government also enhanced its target to create 3 billion person days of work under MGNREGS this financial year. The world’s largest job scheme started on a tepid note this year. But demand for work surged in both May and June with millions of migrants returning home. As a result, 1.95 billion persondays or 65% of the annual target has already been completed. Mohapatra believes MGNREGS demand will again rise in the coming months due to a rise in Covid cases in big cities and lack of agricultural jobs in the early winter months. “It is indeed a good sign that people have found better jobs. After all, MGNREGS is used only for distress purpose. But the rural job demand will grow in the winter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decline-in-demand-for-mgnregs-jobs/story-6ZN5isASqn8CcAuQMuw5yN.html
08-09-2020||India||Public funeral for soldier of secretive force in Leh||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ram Madhav’s presence at the official funeral of a Tibetan soldier from the secretive Special Frontier Force (SFF) on Monday created a flutter in diplomatic and political circles amid the border standoff with China. The funeral of SFF company leader Nyima Tenzin, killed in a landmine blast in an operation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) during August 29-30, was held at Leh in the union territory of Ladakh. The funeral cortege was joined by scores of cars and motorcycles and people waving the Indian and Tibetan flags. Tenzin’s coffin, carried in an army truck, was draped in the Indian tricolour and Tibetan flag, which were handed over to his widow at the funeral. Experts noted this was probably the first time an SFF personnel who died in action was given a public funeral, complete with military honours and a volley of shots by a ceremonial guard. BJP national general secretary Madhav posted photos of the funeral and paid tribute to Tenzin on Twitter but subsequently deleted the tweet. Screenshots of his tweet, which were widely shared, showed he had posted: “Attended [the] funeral of SFF Coy Ldr Nyima Tenzin, a Tibetan who laid down his life protecting our borders in Ladakh, and laid a wreath as a tribute. Let [the] sacrifices of such valiant soldiers bring peace along the Indo-Tibetan border. That will be [the] real tribute to all martyrs.” People present at the funeral shouted slogans such as “Bharat Mata ki jai”, “Tibet desh ki jai”, “Vikas Regiment zindabad” and “We salute Tenzin”. SFF is also known as Establishment 22 and Vikas Regiment. Banners put up at the funeral site by SFF ex-servicemen described Tenzin as a soldier who “sacrificed his life to protect his second homeland India fighting common enemy China”. Madhav spoke to the media at the funeral, saying in Hindi that he hoped Tenzin’s sacrifice “will bring peace to the border” and that “efforts are on to end the tension”. He added, “We hope peace will be restored soon.” People familiar with developments said Madhav hadn’t attended the funeral as a representative of the government. On Sunday, Madhav began a two-day visit to Ladakh, a union territory that was carved out of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, whose special status was scrapped in August 2019. However, the move marks a shift from the government’s reported decision in early 2018 asking officials and leaders to skip events which were being organised at the time to mark the Dalai Lama’s 60 years in exile. As the government worked to improve ties with China, especially through the mechanism of informal summits, the Tibet issue was largely sidelined. SFF was raised with former Tibetan guerrillas in 1962 and went on to see action during the 1971 war with Pakistan that led to the creation of Bangladesh and the 1999 Kargil conflict. It is led by army officers and most of its personnel are men of Tibetan origin. Amitabh Mathur, a former special secretary in the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) who advised the government on issues related to Tibet, said it made sense for India to use a force such as SFF in the current scenario because of the special skills of its personnel. “They are used to operating at high altitudes and it would be an enormous waste if they are kept away from the terrain where they are most useful,” he said. However, he said the Indian side will have to ensure that their use is followed up with other messages that reach the overall Tibetan community and a consistent policy. “There has to be some sort of gesture, an overt sign and this message should reach the Tibetans in Tibet,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-funeral-for-soldier-of-secretive-force-in-leh/story-UkE10dmKOHGS58Peln6MhO.html
08-09-2020||India||States expedite work on freight corridor||Following union railway minister Piyush Goyal’s letter to the chief ministers of nine states seeking to remove bottlenecks which have hampered work on the Rs 81,000 crore dedicated freight corridor project, several states have expedited land acquisition clearances and deployed police in areas where issues of law and order were holding up work.According to officials aware of the development land acquisition clearances have been provided in the past week by states including Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat. Following concerns raised by the Prime Minister’s Office over delays in the completion of the Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC), one of the largest rail infrastructure projects, Railways cited “poor progress of work” by contractors and raised concerns over law and order in Uttar Pradesh and delays in construction by Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab governments, Hindustan Times reported on August 26.Railways identified delays in both the Eastern and Western dedicated freight corridors and revised the deadline for completion to June 2022 from its earlier target of December 2021.“In Bihar’s Rohtas district, a detailed review was done by the DM (District Magistrate), and three teams have been formed to expedite payment and physical possession. Deployment of police at two road over bridge (ROBs) has been approved. Police force have also been deployed in Aurangabad,” one of the officials said.On August 26, Goyal wrote to the chief ministers of nine states including Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, West Bengal, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Jharkhand, highlighting how the dedicated freight corridor has been facing “long-pending issues” that remain “unresolved”. Goyal flagged issues such as land acquisition, pending arbitrations, demands from local residents, and the slow pace of work by state authorities.The Centre has also agreed to the Punjab government’s demand for borrowing money from Railways’ project implementing arm the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) for construction of ROBs.DFCCIL, in an internal report reviewed by HT, cited slow progress of ROB approaches by Uttar Pradesh (total 46 ROBs out of which only 3 have been completed). It has also pointed to law and order issues in Meerut, Muzzafarnagar and Saharanpur District as an area of concern for the delay in the Eastern corridor. And it highlighted slow progress in construction of ROBs in Haryana and Punjab.In the Western Corridor, DFCCIL mentioned slow progress by the Gujarat government citing “slow acquisition of land for approaches”.In his letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Goyal highlighted a slew of problems including pending road over bridges, obstruction to physical possession of land in areas such as Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and Saharanpur among others due to agitation, arbitration, demand for compensation and jobs by villagers, and undue demand of lease rent by the Uttar Pradesh Forest Department. In a letter to Bihar CM Nirish Kumar, the minister raised concerns over land acquisition in certain stretches due to long delays in the disbursal of awards.“Constant weekly monitoring and meetings with all stake holders lead to acquisition of patches and sections of land which were long delayed . Railway minister Piyush Goyal held a review meeting with Chief Secretaries of State Governments to expedite the progress and resolve critical issues of Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC). ,” the railway ministry said on Monday.“Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Railway Board Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav also wrote letters to Chief Secretaries of State Governments and General Managers of Zonal Railways to expedite the progress and resolve critical issues. Shri Yadav also held a meeting with Dedicated Freight Corridor contractors to resolve their problems and issues,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-expedite-work-on-freight-corridor/story-OZeqHbGJNpVmVNE3W3I2OO.html
08-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty registers complaint against Sushant’s sister||Actor Rhea Chakraborty filed a complaint against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka Singh and Delhi-based Dr Tarun Kumar on Monday, alleging Dr Kumar’s prescription for Rajput contained medication prohibited under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Deputy commissioner of police Manjunath Singe confirmed the receipt of the complaint. Chakraborty’s legal counsel Satish Maneshinde said the six-page complaint was submitted to Bandra police station on Monday, to register a first information report against Priyanka and Dr Kumar. This development came on a day the 28-year-old actor was questioned for nearly eight hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) as part of their probe into allegations of drug abuse in Rajput’s death. So far, the agency has arrested nine people in connection with this case, including Chakraborty’s brother Showik. Deputy director general, NCB, Ashok Jain said, “Rhea has been sent home after today’s inquiry and we have asked her to join again tomorrow. She has been cooperating with the investigation. We are verifying and examining the information that we are receiving from the accused.” Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer says Rhea Chakraborty filed case against Priyanka so Mumbai Police ‘can do some mischief’Chakraborty’s complaint stated that Rajput was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in addition to other mental health issues, and that he “abruptly” stopped medication. It further alleged that Priyanka, who had no medical training, was sending Rajput medication, which Chakraborty discovered on June 8 after Rajput showed her messages he had exchanged with Priyanka. “Prima facie, the prescription appeared to be fabricated. The medicines prescribed by the doctor are prohibited from being prescribed electronically without consultation with the patient,” Chakraborty said in the complaint. “Rajput died just a few days after he obtained the prescription, wherein he was unlawfully prescribedDr Kumar did not respond to HT’s calls or messages. Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh alleged that the complaint with Mumbai Police is a ploy to derail the ongoing Central Bureau of Investigation probe. Singh said Mumbai police did not have any right in this matter. “The complaint is itself an offence. This is a ploy to derail and deflect the investigation. This is an attempt to keep Mumbai police alive in the case so that they can do some mischief and ensure that the family of Sushant does not get justice in this matter,” he told reporters.Chakraborty is an accused in the case of Rajput’s death. She lived with Rajput till June 8. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. His father, KK Singh, alleged Chakraborty abetted Rajput’s suicide in a complaint filed in Patna on July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-registers-complaint-against-sushant-s-sister/story-mDf5MYYae5bl4p6r5x6g5N.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Cases of fatal syndrome reported in children||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection in children is often mild or asymptomatic, and rarely leads to death, but cases of an uncommon, but potentially fatal multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) are being reported in India after being documented in Italy, Spain, the UK and the US. MIS-C remains a rarity in India, where people under 20 accounted for just 1.22% of Covid-19 deaths as of August 22, according to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. MIS-C is marked by high fever, organ dysfunction and strongly elevated markers of inflammation, with many symptoms overlapping with those of the Kawasaki disease, another childhood ailment that leads to inflammation of the arteries (vasculitis), autoimmune dysfunction, encephalitis (swelling of the membranes surrounding the brain), cardiovascular shock and multiple-organ failure. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThere is, however, a marked difference in inflammatory response and biomarkers associated with arterial damage in MIS-C and Kawasaki disease, according to a pre-proof copy of a new study published in the journal Cell. A systems-level analysis of immune cells, cytokines and autoantibodies in healthy children, those with the Kawasaki disease before Covid-19, Sars-CoV-2 infected children, and children with MIS-C, showed that multiple autoantibodies were involved in triggering MIS-C, researchers from Italy and Sweden found. Autoantibodies are immune proteins that mistakenly target a person’s own tissues or organs while cytokines are proteins that regulate immunity and inflammation. While fever, conjunctivitis, swelling in the foot, swollen lymph nodes (throat) and rash were observed in both diseases, headache, abdominal pain, vomiting, sore throat and cough were more common in MIS-C, the study found. Also read: Too many children are going hungry amid Covid-19 pandemicThis supports an earlier study published in The Journal of Clinical Investigation that found MIS-C is a post-viral hyper-inflammatory reaction to Sar-CoV-2, the virus that causs Covid-19, and was related to but distinct from Covid-19 and Kawasaki syndrome. The study found MIS-C was marked with elevated levels of two cytokines, IL-10 and TNF-α, which were not or minimally elevated in children with mild to severe Covid-19. There were mild elevations of other cytokines and not IL-10 in Kawasaki disease. Two MIS-C case studies from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, also demonstrated that while all children develop high fever, other symptoms vary widely. A two-and-a-half-year-old child with MIS-C developed ever, cough, runny nose and seizures while a six-year-old had fever and rash, but no seizure, cough or other respiratory symptoms. Differences in immune response, cross-reactive immunity to common cold coronaviruses, better health compared to the elderly, and differences in the expression of the viral entry receptor ACE2 that Sars-Cov-2 binds to infect human cells are among the factors that protect children from severe disease. “Children have a strong innate immune response, which could be due to trained immunity because of frequent viral infections and vaccinations such as BCG. The expression of primary target receptors for Sars-Cov-2 varies with age, and that coupled with the excellent regeneration capacity of paediatric alveolar epithelium (respiratory membrane in the lungs) may lead to early recovery in children,” said Dr Rakesh Lodha, professor of paediatrics, AIIMS, New Delhi. Children are also less likely to have risk factors and co-morbidities, such as diabetes or heart disease, which raises risk of complications associated with Covid-19. These findings are helping clinicians in Covid-19 management in children, who have limited treatment options as remdesvir is not approved for use in children under 12, and convalescent plasma is recommended once daily for two days. “Treatment (can we explain} should be considered only after a risk-benefit analysis on a case-to-case basis after taking consent from parents. Tocilizumab may be considered in children with progressive disease with inflammation markers,” said Dr Lodha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-fatal-syndrome-reported-in-children/story-wY9edIQlBsNV8Ye1LUFhdN.html
08-09-2020||India||Lack of stimulus has hurt economy: Amit Mitra||New Delhi: India’s economy contracted sharply by 24% in the first quarter of the current financial year because the Union government did not infuse the required stimulus to tide over the devastating impact of a 68-day hard lockdown on the economy that was imposed to check the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said.“Centre rudderless & clueless. Why did India’s GDP [gross domestic product] shrink the most in the world? GoI spent ONLY 1 lakh crores more in April-July 2020, compared to 2019-20, while headlines scream 20 lakh crore stimulus! Negligible additional stimulus meant 11 lakh cr of GDP lost forever. 24% shrink,” he said in a tweet on Monday.His reference is to the incremental spending by the government in the first four months of this financial year compared to a year ago -- Rs 1.06 lakh crore.  India’s GDP contracted by a record 23.9% in the quarter ended June 2020, which makes it the worst performer among major global economies. Mitra said the sharp fall in GDP is mainly because of the wrong policy focus of the Union government. “Instead of focusing on demand generation, the [Union] government’s focus is on the supply side. This is not the right time to apply Say’s law,” he said.“Application of Say’s law – that supply creates demand – is on the condition that all other things are normal. This theory doesn’t work in an unusual situation like this,” he added.Mitra said the Union government should have spent money to create demand, but its Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package that was dubbed as a 10% of the GDP, leans more towards loans than direct fiscal stimulus. “The direct fiscal stimulus, which could have generated demand, is less than 2%, and out of that most of the expenditure is routine revenue expenditure.” “Factories are closed, MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) are in bad shape due to the lockdown. They are not in a position to take loan and start production when demand is subdued. The need is to provide direct fiscal stimulus to create demand, which will attract private investments in the second round,” he said.The Union finance ministry did not respond to HT’s queries on this matter.Earlier, chief economic adviser (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian explained the fall in GDP as “an exogenous shock” that was felt globally. “Just to give the comparison, United Kingdom (UK), where the lockdown was less stringent than India, if you use the Oxford University’s index, India’s lockdown was 15% more intense than that of the United Kingdom. I’m using United Kingdom’s [example] because, it’s a country that is of a similar economic size. The contraction there was 22%,” he said. “But what is important is that India is experiencing a V-shaped recovery after unlocks has been announced. For instance core sector growth, which had declined 30% in April, those declines have progressively reduced to 22% in May 13% in June and 9.6% in July,” he added.Boston Consulting Group (BCG), in its latest report, BCG India Economic Monitor, pointed to signs of recovery in industrial activity and a rise in power and fuel consumption. While year-on-year (YoY) gap in power consumption narrowed to 4% in July 2020 compared to 10% in June 2020, that in fuel consumption narrowed from 8% in June 2020 to 3% in July 2020. Nomura, however, said India’s GDP growth fell lower-than-expected because of a collapse in domestic demand due to one of the most stringent lockdowns. “In our view, the current weak economic conditions requires a more aggressive fiscal response, but budgeted fiscal support has been limited, while monetary policy is hamstrung due to inflation,” the report said.“We also expect a second round of targeted fiscal support in coming months, although it remains unclear if the government will provide a large scale demand stimulus,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-stimulus-has-hurt-economy-mitra/story-aniGDABsUrsTh9pZ7yCdUL.html
08-09-2020||India||ED arrests Deepak Kochhar in money-laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar’s husband, Deepak Kochhar, in connection with a money-laundering probe against the couple and companies linkted to them, people familiar with the developments said.Officials said Deepak Kochhar was arrested in Mumbai after he failed to give satisfactory response to fresh evidence gathered by the investigation team suggesting suspicious transactions in his company NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd.He was called for questioning and confronted with several documents before being arrested. “He was evading answers to certain questions related to transactions in his company,” said an officer who didn’t wish to be named.He will be produced in a PMLA (prevention of money laundering act) court on Tuesday morning.Deepak Kochhar’s lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, declined to comment.Deepak Kochhar’s arrest is the first such action in a multi-agency investigation against the couple for decisions Chanda Kochhar took as the head of the private sector ICICI Bank in giving loans to Videocon Group in lieu of alleged bribes.Chanda Kochhar stepped down from ICICI Bank on October 4, 2018 after allegations of irregularities surfaced.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also investigating the Kochhars for alleged corruption. In its FIR registered in January last year, CBI alleged that six high-value loans worth Rs 1,875 crore were given by ICICI Bank to Videocon group companies between 2009 and 2011.While attaching properties worth Rs 78.15 crore belonging to Kochhars in January 2020, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said an amount of Rs 64 crore — out of a loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited — was transferred to M/s NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd by Videocon Industries Limited (VIL) on September 8, 2009, just one day after the disbursement of the loan.“It is noticed that Chanda Kochhar and Venugopal N Dhoot (chairman-cum-managing director of VIL) are known to each other whereas family members of Chanda Kochhar are having joint holding in certain companies with the persons of Videocon group viz in NRPL (NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd) and SEPL (Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd). The nexus is evident from the changes in the shareholding patterns in the specified companies into and amongst such persons under a design and plan,” said an ED report in possession of HT.In an investigation report filed in a Delhi court, as first reported by HT in April 2019, ED claimed that it was investigating a total of 24 loans aggregating Rs 7,862 crore that were given by the bank to Videocon Group between 2009 and 2018.Both the agencies decided to look at quid-pro-quo arrangements between Dhoot and Kochhars after it emerged that former was an investor in Deepak Kochhar’s company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepak-kochhar-arrested-by-ed/story-enLFgEf37cTXrNGdAJGQlO.html
08-09-2020||India||Passengers, staff cautious as Metros back on track||With the Centre issuing guidelines for their graded resumption under Unlock 4, Metro services resumed in Lucknow, Kochi, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad, apart from the national capital, on Monday after a gap of about five-and-a-half months. The services were still closed in Mumbai, Nagpur, Kolkata and Jaipur.Passengers and staff were cautious and followed social-distancing measures and other safety protocols specified by authorities. Traffic was thin on the first day as many commuters said that they were still not sure if taking public transport was safe due to the risk of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Stickers and markings were seen both in trains and on platforms so that passengers maintain social distancing.Around 6,000 people boarded Lucknow metro trains, as against over 70,000 in pre-lockdown days. Metro authorities said they were encouraging commuters to go for cashless/online ticket transactions. In Bengaluru, all passengers were asked to use smart cards as no tokens were being sold. On the station premises, passengers were permitted to enter the concourse only after temperature checks with thermal guns and sanitisation of hands. Frequently touched areas in coaches like grab rails, poles, handles, passenger seats and door surfaces were sanitised regularly.Tamil Nadu industries minister MC Sampath was among those who boarded the first Chennai metro train that departed from the airport to Washermenpet at 7am. He travelled up to Nandanam station.The Lucknow Metro resumed services at 6am at all 16 stations with a thin crowd. The total ridership by 6pm was around 6,000. “I am happy to see the trains running on tracks again...I hope to see more passengers in the coming days. Initially we have kept the frequency of trains at 5 minutes and 30 seconds, and when ridership increases, we will reduce the frequency to around 3 minutes,” said Kumar Keshav, managing director, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC).Metro Rail services in Bengaluru started operations on the Purple Line from Byappanahalli station to Mysuru Road and vice versa. Karnataka health minister B Sriramulu travelled in a train to review the preparedness. The trains ran between 8am and 11am in the morning and 4.30pm-7.30 in the evening. Only those above 10 years and below 55 were allowed to travel.In Hyderabad, metro train services between Corridor 1 (Miyapur to LB Nagar) started while operations will be resumed in a graded manner on other routes. People were facing a lot of problems in reaching their places of work or destination in the absence of public transport, Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director NVS Reddy told PIT. Trains were being operated from 7am to noon and 4pm-9pm, he said.Services resumed in Kochi with Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurating the newly completed Thykoodam-Pettah stretch, marking completion of the first phase of the urban transport mobility in the coastal city at a cost of Rs 6,218 crore. A Kochi Metro spokesperson said trains will run from 7am-9pm with a 10- minute break.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-staff-cautious-as-metros-back-on-track/story-SrCIFcV2hVRJlVHYeFTz4M.html
08-09-2020||India||Extended monsoon likely this year: IMD||Monsoon rains are likely to enjoy another extended run this year in keeping with the trend over the past decade, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday, emphasising that rainfall in September is likely to range between normal and above normal as the four-month weather phenomenon prepares for a late withdrawal.Rainfall is likely to be deficient at least until September 13 in most parts of the country, including northwest and central India, before intensifying after September 17, according to the IMD’s extended range forecast. Normally, withdrawal of the monsoon begins on September 17 when the rains start reducing across the country until a complete withdrawal on October 15.But this year, the IMD’s extended range forecast shows extensive and heavy rains along the west coast between September 11 and 24 and then until October 1 over several parts of central India, with complete withdrawal likely after October 15. An extended withdrawal process of the monsoon has become the norm over the past 10 years, officials say.“We have indicated in our weekly weather update last week that withdrawal of monsoon may begin from western parts of Rajasthan in the week ending September 18. But we are also expecting a low-pressure area to develop over west-central Bay of Bengal around that time,” IMD director general M Mohapatra said at a press conference.“So, while withdrawal of the monsoon may begin, we are still studying as to when it’s likely to withdraw completely. Withdrawal is likely to be extended. We are expecting normal to above normal rain in Kerala, Karnataka and coastal areas of Maharashtra around and after September 17,” he added.According to the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates released by the IMD in April factoring in the trend of delayed monsoon withdrawal, the normal date for the monsoon to begin withdrawing is September 17; it withdraws completely by October 15. The dates were September 1 and October 15, respectively, until last year. The new onset date is based on an analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal date on data from 1971 to 2019 by scientists at the IMD, Pune.Last year the monsoon started withdrawing on October 9, against the normal date of September 1, and prolonged rains brought a deluge in parts of Maharashtra, Kerala and Bihar in August when rainfall usually reduces. The monsoon completed its withdrawal by October 17.“It’s very difficult for us to say immediately when will it stop raining completely and withdrawal can be announced. We are seeing a pattern of delayed monsoon withdrawal in recent years which needs to be investigated carefully,” Mohapatra said, adding that intra-seasonal variability of the monsoon has been high this year with rainfall excessive in June and deficient in July. August recorded excess rain by a high margin.An active Madden-Julian Oscillation -- characterised by an eastward shift of clouds and rainfall near the equator that recurs every 30 to 60 days -- and cold El Nino neutral conditions favoured good rains in August, he said. “Rain in September is likely to be normal or above normal,” Mohapatra added.A cool El Nino neutral phase indicates that the sea surface temperature is cooler than normal in the tropical Pacific Ocean. It is usually linked to above-normal monsoon rains over India.“This year a good monsoon should have helped farmers and the output must be very good. We don’t have an assessment as to how it will impact the economy,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.Monsoon rains are critical because nearly 60% of India’s net arable land lacks irrigation and half the population depends on agriculture for a livelihood. With good rains, spending by rural consumers on manufactured items such as television sets and gold jewellery goes up, and boosts factory output. A deficient monsoon cuts rural consumption and also drives up inflation.There was 17% excess rain in June with heavy rain and flooding in Saurashtra and some north-eastern states; July rainfall was 10% deficient, but the month was marked by heavy to extremely heavy rain in north-eastern states which led to floods in Bihar, Assam, some pockets of eastern Uttar Pradesh, and Arunachal Pradesh, and landslides in Assam, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim.Rainfall was 27% excess in August, mainly due to extra rain over Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Odisha because of five low-pressure areas developing over the Bay of Bengal. This led to frequent floods and inundation of low-lying areas and urban flooding over different areas; landslides occurred in the Ghat sections of Karnataka and Kerala, Mohapatra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extended-monsoon-likely-this-year-imd/story-xqFE2VDEjDdQYfVegzFUvL.html
08-09-2020||India||‘Right thing to do’: Devendra Fadnavis on Centre providing Y-plus security for Kangana Ranaut||Former chief minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis on Monday welcomed Centre’s move to provide Y-plus category security for Kangana Ranaut.The Bollywood actor started receiving threats soon after commenting on Mumbai Police. Applauding Centre’s decision, BJP leader Fadnavis said that protecting people is Centre’s responsibility. “There will be no rule of law. If you don’t like someone’s opinion then take legal action against them but it is the responsibility of those who have taken the oath of the constitution to protect them. I think what centre did is right,” senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said.Fadnavis, however, further clarified that BJP did not support Ranaut’s comments on Mumbai Police.The controversy erupted over Ranaut’s remarks Mumbai Police which sparked a political row on Friday, with Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh saying “she has no right to stay in Mumbai”. Ranaut tweeted that Sanjay Raut had issued an “open threat” to her to not return to the city if she had no faith in the Mumbai Police. “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-thing-to-do-devendra-fadnavis-on-centre-providing-y-plus-category-security-for-kangana-ranaut/story-laWPK5sssfqGWuGDB9VSLJ.html
