09-09-2020||India||Numbers prove money given was ‘niggardly’, ‘insufficient’: Chidambaram on govt assistance||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday attacked the government over its assistance to the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, alleging that money given was “niggardly and totally insufficient”. The Finance Ministry on Tuesday said more than 42 crore people have received Rs 68,820-crore financial assistance under the government’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to protect the poor and vulnerable from the impact of the Covid-19 crisis. As part of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore PMGKP, announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26, the government announced free foodgrains and cash payment to women, poor senior citizens and farmers. Attacking the government, Chidambaram asked, “How much did each beneficiary get under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana? Was it ‘relief’ in any real sense or tokenism?” Under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP), 2.81 crore people got Rs 2,814 crore or Rs 1,000 per person, the former finance minister said and asked, “Could that sum have kept body and soul together”. “Jan Dhan account holding women (20.6 crore) got Rs 30,925 crore or Rs 1,500 each over three months. Could a homemaker have run a family on Rs 500 a month?” he said in a series of tweets. “Migrants (2.66 crore) got 2.67 lakh MT of food grains over 2 months. That is 5 kg per month. Could it have sustained a migrant and his family? The numbers prove that the money given was niggardly and totally insufficient,” Chidambaram said. “And certainly, the money could not have acted as a ‘stimulus’ to boost demand and revive the economy,” he added. Under the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, the government announced supply of free food grains and chana to migrants for two months, and the estimate of number of migrants provided by the states was about 2.8 crore. “During the distribution period up to August, total 2.67 LMT of food grains was distributed to 5.32 crore migrants. This works out to an average of about 2.66 crore beneficiaries per month, which is nearly 95 per cent of the estimated number of migrants,” the ministry had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/numbers-prove-money-given-was-niggardly-insufficient-chidambaram-on-govt-assistance/story-d2qL1ivddkSvdpy83fRdHP.html
09-09-2020||India||‘Intensify contact tracing in Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj’: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said contact tracing played an important role in checking the spread of Covid-19 and the same should be intensified further in Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar and Prayagraj. Reviewing the Unlock-4 situation at a high level meeting at his Lok Bhavan office, the CM also said contract tracing work should be done in a well organised manner. “Contact tracing has an important role in controlling the spread of Covid-19 infection. This work should be conducted in a systematic and effective manner. In Lucknow, Prayagraj and Kanpur, contact tracing should be increased,” a statement quoted the chief minister as saying. Underscoring that they are working on a strategy, the CM said the government was committed to protecting the people from Covid-19 and providing better facilities for their medical treatment.The chief minister said people should be made aware of measures for protection from Covid-19. He directed officials to consistently increase the number of beds in L-2 (level 2) and L-3 (level 3) Covid hospitals. The work to increase manpower in Covid hospitals should be expedited by imparting training to doctors and paramedical staff, he said. He also said arrangements for providing PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, gloves, masks and sanitisers should be made to ensure protection of medical staff from Covid-19. Yogi said the chief minister’s helpline should be used to get information about the condition of health of the patients under home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intensify-contact-tracing-in-lucknow-kanpur-prayagraj-yogi-adityanath/story-apxNnih9sJKB0KWDoLX6YK.html
09-09-2020||India||Falsely implicated by NCB, says Rhea in bail plea to special court||Mumbai: Actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother, Showik, approached a special court under The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for bail on Wednesday, a day after their pleas were rejected by a magistrate court.In the fresh plea, Chakraborty said she was innocent and falsely implicated in the case. The 28-year0old actor said was forced into making “self-incriminatory” confessions by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and that she was withdrawing them.After questioning her for three consecutive days, NCB arrested Chakraborty on Tuesday in connection with its probe of a drug angle in the death of her boyfriend and actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. A magistrate’s court remanded Chakraborty to 14-day judicial custody.NCB said in its remand application that Chakraborty had revealed her involvement in procuring drugs for Rajput, 32, who was found hanging at his Bandra residence on June 14.Among other offences, she has been charged under Section 27A of the NDPS Act, which pertains to punishment for financing illicit traffic. The section carries minimum rigorous imprisonment of 10 years, which may be extended to 20 years.Chakraborty’s lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, approached the special court on Wednesday with her plea saying the allegations against her “would at the most make out a case of purchasing small quantity of drug — which is in essence a bailable offence”.“There is not a shred of evidence to connect the applicant with financing any illicit traffic or harbouring any offender and hence the ingredients of Section 27 A of the NDPS Act are not made out in present facts and circumstances,” it said.The court is expected to take up the case on Thursday.Apart from Chakraborty and Showik, NCB has arrested Rajput’s house manager, Samuel Miranda, and a member of his personal staff, Dipesh Sawant. The agency has also arrested Bandra residents Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar for alleged drug peddling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/falsely-implicated-by-ncb-says-rhea-in-bail-plea-to-special-court/story-Ik3zTrgnSTacBgd3vkWuhK.html
09-09-2020||India||China deployed combat vehicles in Tibet plateau, reports state media||Beijing Combat aircraft, artillery, armoured vehicles and special forces from across China were deployed to the Tibetan plateau amid fresh tensions with India, state media reported on Wednesday in a rare acknowledgment of the massive mobilisation along the disputed border. China’s official media usually highlights exercises in Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) to reflect the country’s military might along the border with India, as it did in August, and repeatedly during the 2017 Doklam standoff. The more blatant show of military power – including sorties by fighter jets close to the border – is reserved for Taiwan, which Beijing describes as a renegade region to be unified by force if necessary. The words deployment and mobilisation are seldom used in state media reports in the context of the border with India. The news reports didn’t specify since when the troops and equipment were mobilised from different parts of China to the plateau. They attributed the movement of units to “renewed border tensions between China and India” over the past two weeks. The reports said troops, artillery and aircraft were moved to the plateau not only from different parts of China but from different theatre commands. The border with India is under the Western Theatre Command of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), the largest of five commands covering the mainland. Several troop formations in northwestern desert areas in Xinjiang and southwestern TAR were engaged in live-fire drills and complex manoeuvres. The nationalistic Global Times tabloid reported “bombers, air defence troops, artillery, armoured vehicles, paratroopers, special forces and infantry units” from across the country were mobilised to the border areas. H-6 bombers and Y-20 large transport aircraft from the PLA Central Theater Command Air Force were deployed to the plateau for training missions, the reports cited the command as saying on Tuesday, a day after the latest face-off on the south bank of Pangong Lake. National broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV) reported HJ-10 anti-tank missile systems attached to the PLA 71st Group Army were recently moved from eastern Jiangsu province to the northwestern Gobi desert, more than 1,600 km away. For PLA, it would be easier to dispatch troops and equipment to the northwest from the Gobi desert region. An air defence brigade under the PLA 72nd Group Army also mobilised to the northwest region in autumn and held live-fire confrontational drills with anti-aircraft guns and missiles, CCTV reported on Friday. CCTV also reported paratroopers and heavy equipment on board PLA Air Force’s transport aircraft recently conducted a “multidimensional area capture and control exercise” in the deserts of northwest China. The state media reports also said troops had been engaged in “long-distance manoeuvres, deployment exercises and live-fire drills” in desert areas and TAR over the past few weeks. Chinese military experts HT reached out to didn’t comment on the matter. India has consistently rejected China’s claims that Indian troops crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, and asserted that it has always taken a responsible approach towards border management and maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-deployed-combat-vehicles-in-tibet-plateau-reports-state-media/story-HrQI0PuhJxNiYgx7Ow3eUP.html
09-09-2020||India||PLA increases troops in Finger Four region||New Delhi: At a time when the Chinese foreign ministry is expressing hope of troops going back to their camping areas from the present confrontation points in Ladakh, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is showing no such signs on the ground and has undertaken force accretion on the contested Finger Four relief feature of Pangong Tso.The doubling of PLA troop strength on Finger Four on the north bank of Pangong Tso has sowed distrust in the Indian Army’s mind about the sincerity of Beijing’s offer even as it holds dominant positions south of the saltwater lake. The only other explanation is that the Chinese foreign ministry is not on the same page as the Western Theatre Commander of the PLA.External affairs minister S Jaishankar is meeting his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on Thursday to discuss the border situation and remind Beijing about the bilateral commitment to peace and tranquillity accords signed since 1993 which pertain to minimum troop deployment along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The fundamental problem facing the Indian Army in proposed disengagement and de-escalation is lack of any Chinese guarantee that the PLA will not occupy those positions vacated by the Indian troops south of Pangong Tso. Just as the PLA has taken dominant positions up to Finger 4 on the north bank, the Indian Army is now holding the Rezang La-Rechin La ridgeline right upto its perception of the LAC. The PLA troops are virtually contesting these Indian positions through large-scale deployments south of the lake.Although the Chinese spokesperson on Tuesday talked about harsh weather conditions in the area, fact is that the Indian Army has been used to such conditions since Operation Meghdoot in Siachen in 1984. “ The Indian soldier is prepared for mountain and snow from the very beginning with virtually all of them serving either on the Line of Control with Pakistan, Siachen Glacier or the LAC,” said a military commander, who didn’t want to be named. The PLA, on the other hand, last bled in Vietnam in 1979.The basic problem facing disengagement is that the Chinese have road infrastructure right upto the LAC in Ladakh while Indian Army troops have to traverse mountain passes, nullahs and ridges to reach their current posts and positions. “If China is serious about disengagement and de-escalation, then both sides have to bilaterally commit that the other side will not occupy the heights once vacated by the present occupant. Only then will the disengagement be successful,” said a second military commander. In the past 27 years, the PLA has nibbled into the LAC while Indian Army troops, with their defensive mindset, sticking only to the patrolling points (defined by the China Study Group), which fall well short of the Indian perception line. The Indian Army’s posture has changed since the initial PLA transgressions in May. And this time, the troops are not even willing to yield an inch within their side of the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-increases-troops-in-finger-four-region/story-Jilzxs27r1PjqIPlJfOmaK.html
09-09-2020||India||‘I’m tired,’ says 43-year-old Assam man who has cremated 400 Covid-19 victims||Carrying out cremations is not an easy job. More so, if it’s of people who have died due to Covid-19. Forty-three year-old Ramananda Sarkar would know. In the past five months, he’s helped with the last rites of nearly 400 Covid-19 deaths in Guwahati, the biggest city of Assam. “I’ve been conducting last rites of Covid-19 patients since April and till Tuesday have done nearly 400 cremations till date. Earlier, it used to be 1-2 cases in a day, but since the past one month we have 10-12 cremations daily,” said Sarkar, who works at the Ulubari crematorium in Guwahati. In past few weeks, Assam has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases as well as deaths. The state had recorded 130,823 positive cases till Tuesday and 378 deaths. Kamrup Metropolitan district, which includes Guwahati, is the worst affected with 500-600 new cases daily. According to district officials, over 400 cremations have been conducted till date at the Ulubari crematorium, which is handling the bulk of the load while a few cases are shifted to Bhootnath crematorium, the other designated place for cremating bodies of Covid-19 patients. Seventy two more patients have been buried at the Athgaon and Islampur cemeteries in the city. “These days I and my two assistants start conducting last rites daily at 3 pm and by the time we finish it’s nearly 2 am or 3 am. I am getting tired and it seems the flow of bodies won’t stop and there’s no rest for us. Earlier, I used to be afraid to handle bodies of Covid-19 patients, not anymore,” said Sarkar. A resident of Jagiroad in Morigaon district of central Assam, Sarkar had come to Guwahati two years ago and was working at the Bhootnath crematorium before his services were hired by the district administration and he was shifted to Ulubari. These days he stays at a hotel at government expense. He has been tested several times for Covid-19, but not detected positive yet. According to health officials, though the official death count due to Covid-19 is 378, the number of patients who tested positive for the disease but died due to other co-morbidities is over 500 as the death audit board (DAB) doesn’t count them or those who test positive posthumously as Covid-19 deaths. In the past few days, there have been rumours that due to increase in fatalities, bodies of Covid-19 patients have been lying in morgues for days due to lack of enough manpower to dispose them. “The Kamrup Metro administration is also facing a tough time cremating the Covid-19 deaths. Resources are stretched to a limit and the team is working overtime,” Dr Navanil Barua, head of neurosurgery at Guwahati’s GNRC Hospital wrote on Facebook on September 6. “When my brother in law died of Covid-19, he was in serial number 17 waiting for cremation. As deaths mount, waiting time shall also mount as Covid-19 deaths are not handed over to relatives. Also, Guwahati might run out of morgue space too,” he added. The district administration, however, stated that the problem was due to laxity on the part of private hospitals intimating the DAB about Covid-19 deaths. “We are not having any issues in disposing bodies of patients who die at Guwahati Medical College Hospital, the state’s biggest government hospital,” said Chinmoy Nath, additional deputy commissioner, Kamrup Metropolitan. “But there’s delay in performing last rites of those who expire at private hospitals as they inform the DAB about the deaths sometimes after 2-3 days. We can easily perform last rites of 10-15 patients daily at the designated places and there’s enough manpower also available now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-m-tired-says-43-year-old-assam-man-who-has-cremated-400-covid-19-victims/story-JU4ey92qRJGSEBez5aAWRL.html
09-09-2020||India||PM Modi, Saudi King discuss global challenges amid Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Saudi King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud on Wednesday exchanged views on global challenges in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. The two leaders expressed satisfaction at the state of relations between India and Saudi Arabia and committed themselves to strengthen cooperation in all areas, according to a statement issued after their phone conversation. PM Modi expressed his special thanks to King Salman for the support provided to Indian expatriates by Saudi authorities during the pandemic. He also expressed appreciation for the leadership provided by Saudi Arabia during its ongoing presidency of the G20. The leaders agreed that initiatives taken by the G20 had helped promote a coordinated response to the pandemic. The two leaders also discussed the main priorities on the current agenda of the G20. The Indian government has invested considerable diplomatic capital in recent years in improving ties with Saudi Arabia and other countries in West Asia, which is home to some 8 million Indian expatriates. Saudi Arabia is also among the top two sources of energy for India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-saudi-king-discuss-global-challenges-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-5OvtqGyBnLRyYCFmJd3F2N.html
09-09-2020||India||New roles finalised for restructured rly board||New Delhi: Centre has finalised the work allocation of its restructured Railway Board, with the Chairman and CEO in charge of key divisions including safety, human resources, security and infrastructure portfolios.According to a railway board order reviewed by Hindustan Times, the government has also finalised Cadre Controlling Authorities (CCAs) for existing railway services before its unified cadre, the Indian Railway Management Service, becomes functional. In December 2019, the Union cabinet approved plans to trim the strength of the board to half, unify eight railway services (traffic, accounts, personnel, engineering, stores, electrical engineering, signal engineering and mechanical engineering) in a central service called the Indian Railway Management Service as part of a major reform of the 150-year-old transporter . As the first chief operating officer of the national carrier, the railway board chairman will be the cadre controlling officer responsible for human resources (HR), with assistance from a director general (HR). The other portfolios, which have an overarching effect on the running of railways and its immediate modernisation plans, have been entrusted to the CEO; the portfolios include safety, security, health, planning, infrastructure, vigilance, efficiency, research, public relations, heritage, the transformation cell and “corporate coordination.” The appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) earlier this month formally approved the restructuring of the Railway Board and approved the appointment of VK Yadav, the chairman of the railway board, as its first CEO.With the new rearrangement, three apex level posts -- member (staff), member (engineering) and member (materials management) in Railway Board have been surrendered and the post of member (rolling stock) has been utilised for creation of the post of director general (HR).The railway board is the apex body of Indian Railways which reports to Parliament via the ministry of railways. It will now consist of the chairperson and four members, in charge of infrastructure, operations and business development, rolling stock and finance, respectively .According to the railway board order issued on Tuesday: other members of the board including member (infrastructure) have been allotted work related to civil engineering, bridges, signals and telecom, land and amenities, station development and railway electrification.Member (traction and rolling stock) will be in charge of production units, mechanical workshops, coaches and trainsets, among other things. Member (operations and business development), will be responsible for traffic transportation, tourism and catering, non-fare revenue and marketing. Member (finance) will oversee all accounts and revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-roles-finalised-for-restructured-rly-board/story-vfu74snXc8JFOqTupbfo5L.html
09-09-2020||India||Air passengers entitled to refunds due to lockdown, Centre tells SC||The Centre assured the Supreme Court on Wednesday that all air passengers will be entitled to claim refunds for flights cancelled during the lockdown imposed to slow the spread of Covid-19, regardless of when they booked the ticket.“We intend refund of all cancelled flights during the lockdown. There is no catch on when the tickets were booked.” solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing before a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said,.The statement came during proceedings on a bunch of public interest litigations filed by air passengers under the banner Pravasi Legal Cell, seeking refunds for flights booked prior to the lockdown that was enforced on March 25. Individual passengers, too, filed similar petitions that were heard together by the Court.The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, asked Mehta to file an affidavit explaining the Centre’s position within a week.The bench said: “In your affidavit you (Centre) have said (in the case of) tickets booked during the first lockdown period (March 25- April 14) for travel during the lockdown period till May 3, full refund shall be given by the airlines immediately. The petitioners want to know will those who booked tickets before that date also be entitled?.” The Court gave the Centre a week’s time to clarify its position and posted the matter for hearing on September 23.Last week, an affidavit filed by the Centre outlined a scheme for passengers who demanded refund of fares for flights that were cancelled during the lockdown. By a notification of April 16, 2020, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation ordered full refund of tickets booked during the lockdown, but those who booked prior to this date were not considered for similar relief. Passengers claimed that airlines were wrong in denying them a refund and wanted credit for future travel with the carriers. The flight operators, on the other hand, claimed helplessness in repaying the money after being hit badly by the lockdown.On the top court’s prodding, government officials, along with the DGCA and flight operators, met in July and formulated a scheme to protect in interests of both passengers and airlines. The scheme promised immediate refunds for tickets booked between March 25 and April 14, the period coinciding with first lockdown. “For all other cases, the airlines shall make all endeavors to refund the collected amount to the passenger within 15 days,” the scheme added.The solicitor general clarified on Wednesday that this sentence will cover even those tickets booked prior to lockdown.Mehta said, “This scheme is subject to the final approval of the Court. Tickets have to be refunded. If not in cash, the airlines must create a credit shell in the name of the passenger that can be availed on any route for travel on or before March 31, 2021. The Centre has taken care of the interests of both passengers and airlines with this scheme.”Senior advocate CA Sundaram, who appeared for the Air Passengers Association, said, “We are largely agreeable to the proposed scheme.” He proposed higher interest on the money deposited with the credit shell. The rate fixed by the Centre was 0.5% per month from the date of cancellation till June 30 and thereafter, 0.75% every month till March 31, 2021..IndiGo, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, said it was “by and large happy” but sought a little tweaking of some formulations. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for SpiceJet. endorsed the scheme while senior counsel Arvind Datar, appearing for GoAir, claimed that the carrier was not in a position to pay as it had so many other financial commitments. Vistara and Air Asia also supported the stand taken by Datar. The court gave a week’s time to all airlines to respond on the government’s affidavit containing the scheme.The court also allowed tour operators’ associations to give their response as they were not happy with the proposal to open a credit shell in the name of a passenger. Since they book tickets in bulk, the tour operators demanded that for tickets booked by them, the credit shell should be in their name and they would transfer the refund to the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-passengers-entitled-to-refunds-due-to-lockdown-centre-tells-sc/story-tikDRzFwoA2CpM9dp8czAK.html
09-09-2020||India||Man beaten up by over 6 people in UP’s Gorakhpur; 2 arrested||Two people were arrested in Badhalganj town here on Wednesday for allegedly beating up a man after a purported video of the incident surfaced online, police said.The incident had taken place on August 31, they said, adding that a search was on for others involved in it.In the video clip that surfaced on social media, over six men can be seen beating up the victim. They also allegedly made him spit on the road and lick it.Another man can be seen in it wearing a helmet and sitting on a motorcycle. By the end of the video, the victim leaves with him on the two-wheeler.The victim is learnt to have given a written application against two named and four unidentified people at the Bahalganj police station. However, a case was not registered at the time of filing this report.“Two named accused, Narad, a resident of Bahsua village, and Nagendra, a resident of Dadri village, have been arrested. After interrogation, a case will be registered under relevant sections. Other unidentified accused will be arrested soon,” SO, Badhalganj police station, Rana Devendra Pratap Singh said.Superintendent of Police, Gorakhpur South, Vipul Srivastav said, “Police have taken cognisance of the viral video in which some people are beating a youth of Khutbhar village under Badhalganj police station. The case will be investigated and stern action will be taken against the culprit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-beaten-up-by-over-6-people-in-up-s-gorakhpur-2-arrested/story-EiV9B828YdDB8OKf8nr2ZJ.html
09-09-2020||India||Rafale jets to be inducted into IAF. India’s warplane move explained in 15 news articles||Marking a feat, the Indian Air Force will formally induct its latest Rafale fighter jets at the Ambala airbase on Thursday at 10 am in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, officials said Wednesday. French defence minister Florence Parly and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria are also expected to attend the ceremony. The acquisition of jets by India is a part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron which is also known as the ‘Golden Arrows’. The new Rafale fighters are expected to be deployed in the Ladakh sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region. The move is seen as India’s attempt to flex muscles where its troops are engaged in a bitter and tense border confrontation with China, where military friction has grown in recent weeks. Here is all you need to know about India’s latest warplane move:Guarding over skies night and day, hail or shineThe arrival of Rafale combat jets last month has added more muscle to the Indian Air Force’s ability to secure our country’s airspace. Here’s a detailed look at all the major aircraft in the IAF’s formidable fleet.Read more.Rafale vs J-20: Ex-IAF chief Dhanoa calls China’s bluff with ‘two simple questions’Former Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa on Friday dismissed claims that the Rafale fighter jets inducted by the Indian Air Force this week had no chance against China’s J-20 stealth fighter.The claims, made by an ‘expert’ in Chinese Communist Party’s tabloid Global Times, said that the Rafale was only superior to the IAF’s Sukhoi-30 MKI jets but a generation below Chinese PLA’s J-20 fighter.Read more. ‘Birds have entered Indian airspace’: Rajnath Singh tweets his welcome to 5 RafalesThe five Rafale aircraft, on their way to the Indian Air Force base in Haryana’s Ambala, were on Wednesday escorted into the Indian air space by Sukhoi fighter jets. Defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted several photographs and a video of the Rafale jets entering Indian air space. Read more. Moments after Rafale fighter jets land, Rajnath Singh’s veiled warning to ChinaWhile the Indian Air Force (IAF) plan against the threat of Chinese Air Force remains classified, the basic strategy against People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was put to test very successfully during 2018 Gagan Shakti pan-India air exercises. The strategy is simple: Disperse, Absorb, Recoup and Retaliate.Read more. With Rafales’ induction, IAF will have an edge over neighbours. Here’s howThe new aircraft will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of IAF, which has for long-planned to update its fighter jet force. Defence experts have said the induction of the controversial Rafale fighter jets will be a “game-changer” for India in regional politics of South Asia.Read more.‘Shots from 30,000 feet’: Pics show Rafales re-fuelling mid-air on way homeThe first batch of five Rafale fighter jets, on their way to India, were seen being re-fuelled mid-air from a French Air Force tanker, and the pictures taken at 30,000 feet were posted on Twitter by the Indian embassy in France.Read more.IAF may deploy Rafale fighters in Ladakh sector amid border rowThe Indian Air Force could deploy its new Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region, where Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a tense border confrontation and disengagement has turned out to be a challenging process, people familiar with the developments said on Sunday.Read more.Rafale, the fighter jet that will be a game changer for India: 10 pointsThe induction of the controversial Rafale fighter aircraft will be a “game changer” for India in regional politics of South Asia, as far as its neighbours are concerned, defence experts have reiterated.Read more. Rafale case: The Supreme Court verdict is a boost for transparencyThe Supreme Court ruling on Wednesday in the Rafale case came as a setback to the government. The unanimous judgment by the three-member bench, led by chief justice Ranjan Gogoi, overruled the central government’s objections over the admissibility of some documents, which, the latter claimed, were sensitive in nature and had been obtained through “unauthorised photocopying and leakage”. Read more.CAG compares Rafale deal with similar aircraft offersThe CAG report on capital acquisitions by the IAF may compare the Rafale deal with offers made by other manufacturers whose products were being considered, such as the Eurofighter Typhoon made by the European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS), HT learns.Read more.Question the government on RafaleThe Rafale deal is back in the news. Writing in The Hindu, its former editor N Ram has shown why the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government ended up paying substantially more for 36 fighter aircraft. The article has drawn the ire of the government’s votaries and their responses merit scrutiny. But we also need to go beyond the question of costs and look at the causes and consequences of the decision to scrap the older process for acquiring 126 aircraft.Read more.‘Give me 20 minutes’: Rahul Gandhi dares PM to one-on-one debate on RafaleHours after he opened a debate on the Rafale deal in parliament, Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday launched a fresh attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to renew the opposition’s demand for a joint parliamentary committee probe into the purchase of the 36 aircrafts.Read more.India needs fourth generation aircraft, Rafale fits the bill, IAF tells Supreme CourtAs part of a four-hour-long Supreme Court hearing in the Rafale case, air vice marshal J Chalapathi, who has been associated with Rafale aircraft procurement decision, defended the purchase, saying India needed a fourth generation plus aircraft and Rafale fitted the bill.Read more.‘This is Dassault Aviation’s choice’, says French firm after Hollande’s remarksIt was Dassault Aviation’s choice to partner with the Reliance group, the French company has clarified as a political firestorm raged in India after former president Francois Hollande’s reported remarks on the multi-billion dollar Rafale jet deal on Friday.Read more.CAG to audit Rafale procurement only after payments are completedThe Comptroller and Auditor General of India will audit the government’s procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets from France for $8.7 billion, as it does all other deals, but only after the “ deal is fully executed and the payments are completed”, according to a senior CAG official who asked not to be identified.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-to-be-inducted-into-iaf-india-s-warplane-move-explained-in-15-news-articles/story-tGImIEZYPtHQGg58tBp8qK.html
09-09-2020||India||Strategic Paris-Delhi-Canberra axis gets off to a flying start amid China tension||India, France and Australia on Wednesday jump started a new strategic alliance proposed by French President Emmanuel Macron two years ago with the first meeting of top foreign ministry officials of the three countries. Maritime security in the Indo-Pacific region got the top billing at Wednesday’s meeting held over video conference.The officials spoke about “enhancing maritime security cooperation” including maritime domain awareness, mutual logistics support and capacity building of other friendly countries in the Indo-Pacific region, people familiar with the matter said.There was broad agreement among the three partners that they should look at a multi-polar world where countries join hands for mutual benefit and support rather than a unipolar or multipolar world.China did figure in the discussions but the meeting wasn’t focussed on one country. It took an overarching view, one Indian official later told Hindustan Times. The virtual meeting was co-chaired by foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, secretary-general in French ministry for Europe and foreign affairs François Delattre and secretary in Australian department of foreign affairs Frances Adamson.ON THE TRILATERAL TABLEMARITIME SECURITY COOPERATIONExplore trilateral cooperation in mutual logistics supportConsider greater operational coordination towards maritime security Collaborate to set up a pan Indian Ocean Region- Search and Rescue mechanismJoin hands in Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster ReliefPHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCHCollaborate on therapeutics and vaccine for COVID-19BLUE ECONOMYBlue Economy initiatives such as hydrography, meteorology and oceanography, and marine medicine Environmental Challenges- marine pollution, etc.Collaborate on identifying, monitoring and reducing pollution sourcesINTERNATIONAL SOLAR ALLIANCEPromote solar-energy based solutions in countries of the regionFrench President Macron was among the first to call for building a strategic alliance between the three countries that could respond to challenges in the Asia-Pacific region and the growing assertiveness of China. On a visit to Australia before he flew down to India back in May 2018, President Macron had spoken about the need for the partners to ‘organise’ themselves. “We’re not naive: if we want to be seen and respected by China as an equal partner, we must organize ourselves,” President Macron said in a speech at an Australian naval base. “This new Paris-Delhi-Canberra axis is absolutely key for the region and our joint objectives in the Indian-Pacific region,” he said, according to a 2018 Reuters report.On the India leg of his trip, President Macron and Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled a blueprint to step up cooperation in the Indian Ocean to counter China’s growing influence in the region.“The Indian Ocean, like the Pacific Ocean, cannot become a place of hegemony,” President Macron said as the two countries signed pacts that gave Indian warships access to French naval bases in the Indian Ocean.At Wednesday’s meeting, Indian foreign secretary Shringla underscored PM Modi’s vision for the Indo-Pacific that he had articulated at the Shangri-La Dialogue in 2018 to promote the concept of Security and Growth for All in the Region or SAGAR.The three countries also discussed cooperation on marine global commons – blue economy, marine biodiversity and environmental challenges such as marine pollution. Shringla spoke about India’s interest in collaborating on sustainable fisheries in the Indian Ocean, technologies for harvesting of Deep Ocean Resources and Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strategic-paris-delhi-canberra-axis-gets-off-to-a-flying-start-amid-china-tension/story-NCGSsM222KMyoZXxpEGnwJ.html
09-09-2020||India||Youth wants employment, govt giving them ‘hollow speeches’: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said the youth of the country wants employment and alleged that the government was giving “hollow speeches” and “ignoring them”.Asserting that the country’s young population wants employment, she said they want to join their stalled recruitments, dates for examinations, notifications for new jobs, proper recruitment process and more job opportunities.“In return, the government gives them hollow speeches, sticks and is ignoring them,” the Congress general secretary said in a tweet in Hindi and asked, “till when”.The youth of this country want to make their voice heard, Priyanka Gandhi said in an earlier tweet in Hindi using the hashtag ‘9 baje 9 minute yuvaon ki baat’ and ‘stop privatization save govt job’.The youth are raising their voice against stalled recruitments, exam dates, appointments and new jobs, she said.“Today, all of us need to support the youth in their fight for employment,” she said.The Congress has stepped up its attack on the government over the state of the economy and alleged rise in unemployment after the gross domestic product (GDP) contracted by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this year as the coronavirus-related lockdowns weighed on the already-declining consumer demand and investment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-wants-employment-govt-giving-them-hollow-speeches-priyanka-gandhi/story-2Vkkg2VrlJgNPqBo1TTAaK.html
09-09-2020||India||Tremendous growth in our bilateral ties: PM Modi after phone call with Saudi King Salman||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the growth in India’s bilateral ties with Saudi Arabia with the crown King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud on Wednesday during a telephonic conversation.The two leaders also discussed G20 and challenges being faced due to Covid pandemic. “Spoke on phone with His Majesty @KingSalman about the important role being played by the G20 under the Saudi Presidency, including against Covid-19. We also reviewed the tremendous growth in our bilateral ties in recent years,” PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi conveyed his appreciation for King Salman for the leadership being provided by Saudi Arabia during its ongoing presidency of the G20 grouping, the Prime Minister’s Office said.The two leaders agreed that the initiatives taken at the level of the G20 had helped in promoting a coordinated response to the pandemic. He also expressed “special thanks” for the support provided to Indian expatriates by the Saudi authorities during the pandemic.PM Modi and the Saudi crown king expressed their satisfaction at the state of bilateral relations between India and Saudi Arabia, and committed to further strengthening cooperation in all areas, the PMO said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tremendous-growth-in-our-bilateral-ties-pm-modi-after-phone-call-with-saudi-king-salman/story-GNw6kNe99ulZUrPSbPVOaI.html
09-09-2020||India||‘Absue of Covid rules by callous few won’t be tolerated’: Naveen Patnaik||The spread of coronavirus due to “callous attitude” of a few people will not be tolerated, underlined Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday amid surge in Covid cases in the state.Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, Patnaik expressed concern over instances of small traders, roadside vendors flouting Covid guidelines.“Social distancing, wearing masks, and not spitting at public places was very important in containing Covid-19 from spreading. A majority of the people were obeying the guidelines and it was because of a few violators the infection was spreading. The spread of the virus due to the callous attitude of a few people will not be tolerated,” said Patnaik, amid reports of people not wearing masks properly and flouting social distancing rules in public places.The chief minister’s warning came in the background of rising local transmission in Bhubaneswar where more than 400-450 news cases are being reported daily.Last month, Odisha had announced amendment in Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to increase imprisonment to two years with a fine of Rs 1 lakh for people not wearing masks.Two days ago, special relief commissioner Pradip Jena had said people in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, the two hotspots, have become callous and there is no seriousness towards the Covid-19 pandemic. Jena said 10 senior IAS and IPS officers had conducted surprise visits in the twin cities of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar and later drone cameras were used to watch public behaviour.“The videos showed that people are crowding markets, not maintaining social distancing and also not wearing masks. With such behaviour, we are inviting the virus home and will never be able to win this fight against Covid-19. Such unnecessary trips outside the house should be avoided,” said the CM.Patnaik also directed authorities to increase the number of ambulance services and make more ICU facilities available for critical patients. Officials in the meeting said that the recovery rate in Odisha has climbed to 77.8%, higher than the national recovery rate while the fatality ratio in the state was 0.43%, lowest in the country.Odisha has emerged second among states in the country by conducting 1,265 tests per million per day, compared to the national average of 580. Only Goa is doing more tests than Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absue-of-covid-rules-by-callous-few-won-t-be-tolerated-naveen-patnaik/story-IeajK0woVRYYl0hveGi65K.html
09-09-2020||India||SC seeks response from Centre, states on reopening of places of worship amid Covid-19||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to consider a PIL which questioned the closure of religious places during the Covid-19 pandemic even as states are giving markets, manufacturing units and liquor stores priority to remain open.“The pandemic due to unemployment, financial stress, etc. has affected the mental health of many followers and worshippers which can be majorly resolved by allowing religious places to reopen and helping them attain spiritual peace and happiness,” said a petition filed by a Gujarat-based public trust Gitarth Ganga Trust. The petitioner demanded opening of all places of worship belonging to all religions.“Even when the Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed opening of religious places under its May 30 “Unlock 1.0” guidelines, no order has been passed by states for nearly three months to allow opening of places of worship of all religions abiding with the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) issued for containing the spread of Covid-19 released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on June 8, 2020,” said advocate Surjendu Sankar Das, who filed the petition for the trust.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued notice on the petition to the Centre and all states and union territories. Interestingly, the CJI-headed bench on August 21 had allowed opening of three Jain temples in Mumbai for the last two days of the Paryushan festival. While allowing five devotees at a time to offer worship at the Jain temples in Dadar, Byculla and Chembur, the bench had remarked, “We find it strange that you (Maharashtra government) are allowing every activity involving economic interests and money. But if it involves religion, you say you cannot do it because of Covid-19.” The present petition has adopted a similar line of argument by stating, “In permitting businesses and commercial activities and prohibiting religious practices, the states have weighed the risk of a Covid-19 outbreak with the “reward” of the value of the business.” The petition goes on to state that it is concerned for the “well-being and spiritual happiness of each and every resident of India” and wants all religious places to open with all necessary precautions as not doing so violates fundamental rights of citizens to practice and profess any religion protected under Articles 25 and 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-response-from-centre-states-on-reopening-of-places-of-worship-amid-covid-19/story-3BT8TqSzx3R9uj82tAZSBM.html
09-09-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to Saudi King, two leaders exchange views on global challenges following Covid||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a telephonic conversation on Wednesday with King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia and the two leaders exchanged views on the global challenges following the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister’s Office said Modi expressed his appreciation for the leadership provided by Saudi Arabia during its ongoing presidency of the G20 grouping.  He also expressed “special thanks” to King Salman for the support provided to Indian expatriates by the Saudi authorities during the pandemic. The two leaders agreed that the initiatives taken at the level of the G20 had helped in promoting a coordinated response to the pandemic.  They also discussed the main priorities presently on the agenda of the G20, it said.  The two leaders expressed satisfaction at the state of bilateral relations between India and Saudi Arabia, and committed to further strengthening cooperation in all areas, the PMO said. Modi conveyed his warm wishes for the good health and well-being of King Salman, other members of the royal family of Saudi Arabia and all citizens of the kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-saudi-king-two-leaders-exchange-views-on-global-challenges-following-covid/story-Auq8zF1gLmvYSA4UJMNBcK.html
09-09-2020||India||Duraimurugan is DMK general secretary, TR Baalu appointed treasurer||Veteran Duraimurugan, 82, was unanimously elected as DMK’s general secretary while former union minister TR Baalu was named treasurer at the party’s general council meeting on Wednesday.Controversial former telecom minister A Raja and senior party leader K Ponmudi were elected as deputy general secretaries. These announcements were made by DMK party president MK Stalin, who chaired the meeting.The DMK general secretary’s post was vacant ever since veteran and long term incumbent K Anbazhagan died in March at the age of 97. Anbhazhagan had held that position for over four decades. Duraimurugan, an advocate by profession, is a nine-term legislator and a former minister in several DMK governments in the past.The meeting was initially scheduled to be held in March, but had to be postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic and was held virtually for the first time in the party’s history.A series of resolutions were also passed at the general council in one of which it vowed to ensure that the party returns to power and Stalin becomes the next CM of the state.State assembly elections are due early next year with the term of the current assembly ending in May 2021. Another resolution also criticised the ruling AIADMK government for what it said was increased corruption as well as poor governance leading to overall setback to the state in the socio-economic and industrial growth of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duraimurugan-is-dmk-general-secretary-tr-baalu-appointed-treasurer/story-8Shin8jqFhQvTTW6BJkupL.html
09-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 daily cases dip slightly, more than a million cases recorded in 2 weeks: All you need to know today||India on Wednesday recorded 89,706 positive cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , pushing the country’s cumulative tally past 4.3 million-mark. The country also saw 1,115 deaths in the last 24 hours, which logged the cumulative death toll at 73,890 due to the disease outbreak.Here is all you need to know about the Covid-19 disease in India today:- India saw 89,706 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, marking the total positive cases at 43,70,128. - India’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 73,890 after 1,115 people died due to the disease in the last 24 hours.- The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.69 per cent, data from the health ministry website showed.- More than 1 million people have tested positive for the coronavirus in India in less than two weeks. Testing has been ramped up to more than 1 million daily, with cumulative testing exceeding 50 million.- India has 8,97,394 active cases of Covid-19 as of Wednesday. This accounts for 20.53 per cent of the total caseload in the country.- At 27,407, Maharashtra has reported the highest number of deaths so far, followed by 8,012 in Tamil Nadu, 6,680 in Karnataka and 4,618 in Delhi. - A total of 11,54,549 tests have been conducted for detection of Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours on Tuesday. So far, India has tested 5,18,04,677 people for the infection.- The number of people recovered from Covid-19 in India has surged to 33,98,844, further improving the recovery rate to 77.8 per cent- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are among the five states contributing 61 per cent of the total active cases.- More than 70 per cent of Covid-19 deaths occurred due to comorbidities, the health ministry has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-daily-cases-dip-slightly-more-than-a-million-cases-recorded-in-2-weeks-all-you-need-to-know-today/story-P9BtURl4wRXDF18DSDkI6M.html
09-09-2020||India||India’s August fuel consumption posts biggest monthly decline since April||India’s fuel demand slipped further in August and posted its biggest monthly decline since April, as a surge in coronavirus infections continue to throttle economic activity and transportation, government data showed on WednesdayCoronavirus cases has soared past 4.3 million on Wednesday making India the second worst-hit country in the world.Sales of refined fuels, a proxy for oil demand, fell to 14.39 million tonnes in August, about 16% lower from a year earlier, its sixth consecutive year-on-year slide.It also fell 7.5% from the prior month, its biggest month-on-month decline since April, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas showed.Diesel consumption, a key parameter linked to economic growth and accounts for about 40% of overall refined fuel sales in India, fell by about 12% to 4.85 million tonnes last month from 5.51 million tonnes in July.On an annual basis, demand for diesel declined about 20.8%. Falling monthly diesel sales indicate a slowing economic and industrial activity. India’s economy contracted 23.9% in the June-quarter as consumer spending, private investments and exports collapsed during the lockdown imposed in late March to curb the coronavirus outbreak.India’s economy is projected to contract 11.8% on the year in the current fiscal year beginning from April, India Ratings and Research, a domestic arm of ratings agency Fitch, said on Tuesday. The economy is projected to contract 11.9% in the current quarter.Heavy floods in some Indian states, such as Gujarat, Assam and Odisha, also disrupted life and hit industrial and construction activity.Sales of gasoline, or petrol, fell by 7.4% from a year earlier to 2.38 million tonnes, although it rose 5.3% from 2.26 million tonnes in July.August naphtha sales decreased by 24.6% to 1.07 million tonnes from a year earlier and was down 16.4% from July.Sales of bitumen, used for making roads, rose 39.1% on an annual basis, but was down about 18% month-on-month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-august-fuel-consumption-posts-biggest-monthly-decline-since-april/story-nPMRUf8mg5a8xEoEsTPZTM.html
09-09-2020||India||For NOC, Telangana official demands bribe of Rs 1.12 crore; arrested||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) authorities in Telangana on Wednesday arrested an additional collector for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 1.12 crore for granting a no-objection certificate (NOC) to a person in a land transaction.Apart from Gaddam Nagesh, additional collector Medak district, the ACB sleuths also arrested B Aruna Reddy, Narsapur revenue divisional officer, Abdul Sattar, tehsildar (block revenue officer) of Chilpiched block, Mohd Waseem Ahmed, junior assistant in the office of Medak Survey and Land Records for assisting Nagesh. Another person Kola Jeevan Goud, a suspected benami of the additional collector, was also arrested. “They will be produced before the special court for ACB cases in Hyderabad on Thursday,” an official statement from director general of Telangana ACB said.The ACB authorities acted on a complaint filed by one K Linga Murthy on August 22 stating that he had approached the revenue authorities of Medak district for issuing an NOC for purchasing of 112.21 acres of land at Chippalaturthi village of Narsapur block in February this year.As the file came to Nagesh in July, he demanded Rs 1.12 crore bribe at the rate of Rs 1 lakh per acre to issue NOC for the transaction. On July 31, Murthy paid an amount of Rs 19.5 lakh to Nagesh as initial payment of bribe and another Rs 20.5 lakh as second instalment on August 7.However, Murthy could not arrange cash for the remaining amount of bribe to the additional collector. “Instead, Nagesh asked him to register five acres of land in the name of his benami Kola Jeevan Goud from Secunderabad. He obtained an Agreement of Sale dated August 21 for the same. Nagesh also took eight signed blank cheques from Murthy as surety till the registration of land,” the ACB official said.Murthy was also forced to pay Rs 5 lakh to the other staff members including Waseem Ahmed, B Aruna Reddy and Abdul Sattar for processing the file and completing the pending survey work.Based on the complaint from Murthy, the ACB authorities raided the house of Nagesh at Machavaram in Medak town on Wednesday and seized eight blank cheques given by the complainant, agreement of sale in the name of Jeevan Goud and other incriminating material.“During the searches conducted at the house of Aruna Reddy, unaccounted cash of Rs 28 lakh and about half a kilogram of gold ornaments were found,” the ACB official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-noc-telangana-official-demands-bribe-of-rs-1-12-crore-arrested/story-qLo7uM3Q1QTVhg2462LvQJ.html
09-09-2020||India||Amid ongoing drug probe, cache of ecstasy pills seized at Bengaluru airport||Customs authorities at the Bengaluru International Courier Centre of the Kempegowda International Airport have seized 1.98 kg of MDMA (commonly called ecstasy) pills hidden in an electric foot massager. The drugs are said to be valued at Rs one crore and was being shipped from Belgium to India.A customs officer said that on suspicion an electric foot massager was thoroughly scanned and inside green and violet coloured ecstasy pills were discovered which had been wrapped in brown tape. A customs officer at KIAL said that investigations are on with regard to whom the shipment was addressed to.In an unrelated incident, a 24-year-old man has been arrested in Hassan district for procuring and selling drugs. Satish, the alleged drug dealer has been arrested by Pension Mohalla police station authorities who have also seized 180 grams of Ganja from him. He is accused of procuring it from a network in Bengaluru and selling it to youth in Hassan. Pension Mohalla police station authorities said that they are investigating the source from where the alleged drug peddler used to get his consignment.The police across Karnataka have been intensifying a crackdown on drug dealers and peddlers. Two well-known Kannada actors - Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani have been arrested in an ongoing crackdown on drug peddling and use in the Kannada movie industry. An FIR naming 12 people has also been registered in this regard at Cottonpet police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-ongoing-drug-probe-cache-of-ecstasy-pills-seized-at-bengaluru-airport/story-pQeo96g6Rw2xNy4VyIWuRN.html
09-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Railways seal new roles for top officers of restructured railway board and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Railways seal new roles for top officers of restructured railway boardAs part of its exercise to merge railways services and restructuring the railway board, the Centre has finalised the work allocation of its restructured Railway Board, with the Chairman and CEO in charge of key divisions including safety, human resources, security and infrastructure portfolios. Read moreRhea Chakraborty retracts confession in drugs case, says she was forced by NCBActor Rhea Chakroborty and her brother Showik have approached the special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for bail as their pleas were rejected by the Magistrate court on Wednesday. Read moreDelhi shatters its record of coronavirus infections with new 4,000 cases, breaches 2-lakh markShattering its own record, Delhi on Wednesday recorded highest ever Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, pushing the cumulative tally past the two lakh mark, sparking fears of second wave in the national capital. Read moreIPL 2020: Rohit Sharma hits a huge six in practice as ball hits a moving bus; Mumbai Indians share video - WATCHMumbai Indians are back in practice mode after spending some quality time at the beach in Abu Dhabi and it is captain Rohit Sharma who is leading the charge. In a new video posted by Mumbai Indians, Rohit can be seen practising under lights. Read moreRahul Pandita slams Kangana Ranaut for comparing herself to Kashmiri Pandits after demolition of office: ‘Do not belittle our tragedy’Rahul Pandita, journalist and writer of the film Shikara: The Untold Story Of Kashmiri Pandits, has lashed out at Kangana Ranaut after she likened herself to Kashmiri Pandits. He wrote that she could not comprehend their pain ‘from the demolition of a wall’ in her office. Read moreManish Malhotra’s 30 years of Bollywood fashion: Urmila Matondkar, Kareena Kapoor, Deepika Padukone and other iconic looksFrom Urmila Matondkar in Rangeela, to Kareena Kapoor’s Poo in K3G, to Deepika Padukone in Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani, Manish Malhotra has been the force behind some of the most iconic Bollywood fashion looks in recent times. Here’s a look at some of the most iconic ones. Read moreDonald Trump nominated for Nobel Peace Prize for helping broker Israel-UAE deal | WatchA far-right Norwegian lawmaker said Wednesday that he has nominated US President Donald Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in the Middle East. Christian Tybring-Gjedde, a member of the Norwegian Parliament for the far-right Progress Party, said Trump should be considered because of his work “for a peace agreement between the United Arab Emirates and Israel which opens up for possible peace in the Middle East.” Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-railways-seal-new-roles-for-top-officers-of-restructured-railway-board-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mP7jI7G3Ev8tjFG9IilIYJ.html
09-09-2020||India||‘Delhi wages war against Corona’: CM Kejriwal tweets after city breaks own record of Covid-19 cases||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the national capital will wage a war against the coronavirus disease outbreak after more than 4,000 infections were recorded within a span of 24 hours, breaking its previous record of highest single-day spike. “Highest no of cases-4039. But also, highest no of tests-54,517 against 15,000/20,000 tests till last week. If we did same no of tests, today’s cases wud be less than 1500,” CM Kejriwal said in a tweet, underlining the reason behind  surge in cases. The chief minister had stated on August 26 that Delhi will witness intense testing in order to combat the resurgence of viral contagion. Today, highest no of cases-4039But also, highest no of tests-54,517 against 15,000/20,000 tests till last weekIf we did same no of tests, today’s cases wud be less than 1500So, don’t b scared by no of cases. Del wages war against corona wid aggressive testingKejriwal assured people to not be scared by the number of cases and said Delhi wages a war against the disease by adopting an aggressive testing approach. Also read: Delhi shatters its record of coronavirus infections with new 4,000 cases, breaches 2-lakh markHe added that the number of deaths continue to be low, as Delhi continues to be the fourth worst-hit state in terms of the death toll. It is 20 today against more than 100 per day in June, Kejriwal said. The chief minister’s tweet comes on the day Delhi shattered its own record and witnessed highest ever Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, pushing the cumulative tally past the two lakh mark, sparking fears of a second wave in the national capital. The number of Covid-19 tests conducted in a single day also rose to a new record high with 54,517 tests conducted in the last 24 hours.Also read: Where is Covid-19 most active in the country?Delhi had last witnessed the highest cases within a span of 24 hours on June 23 after 3,947 new infections were registered. Over the past week, Delhi has recorded more than 2,800 new cases every day on an average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-wages-war-against-corona-cm-kejriwal-tweets-after-city-breaks-own-record-of-covid-19-cases/story-ZC7qCitHb0Vc4dhY0BGWJI.html
09-09-2020||India||At Rajasthan Congress feedback meet, slogans against minister, posters torn||At a Rajasthan Congress feedback meeting helmed by Ajay Maken, the Ajmer police had to disperse party workers who allegedly tore posters and raised slogans against health minister Raghu Sharma on Wednesday. A section claimed that some members were detained. Rakesh Pareek, Congress MLA from Masudha, reached the police station and asked to free the workers. Then, along with his supporters, he sat outside the police station. However, superintendent of police, Ajmer, Kunwar Rashtradeep said they were some who were tearing posters and as a precautionary step they were dispersed. The officer denied that members have been arrested. The incident happened outside a hotel in Ajmer, where Congress AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, along with co-incharge Vivek Bansal, state party chief Govind Singh Dotasra, minister Raghu Sharma and Pramod Jain were holding a feedback meeting to strengthen party organisation. Addressing the media, Pareek said, “When we came out from the meeting, we learnt that supporters of leaders were raising slogans. The police misbehaved with some of the workers from Masudha assembly constituency. They were also asked to remove clothes – what crime have they done?” He said, “Raising Sachin Pilot Jindabad slogans cannot be a crime. No leader is involved but some prejudiced officers. There is no BJP, all were Congress workers here – they (officials) did it to get a good posting. We will speak to the CM, Pilot, state party chief and apprise Ajay Maken. This is an intolerable act and action should be taken against those responsible.”A leader on condition of anonymity said that some people first tried to enter inside the meeting and when denied shouted slogans against Raghu Sharma and tore posters. Maken had met workers and leaders of Ajmer division today and will next be meeting those from the Jaipur division tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-rajasthan-congress-feedback-meet-slogans-against-minister-posters-torn/story-L9ISrgz2vB317wZZJs5MTO.html
09-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty retracts confession in drugs case, says she was forced by NCB||Actor Rhea Chakroborty and her brother Showik have approached the special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for bail as their pleas were rejected by the Magistrate court on Wednesday. Showik Chakraborty, Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda and Sushant’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant, and Bandra residents Zaid Vilatra, Abdel Basit Parihar who were arrested for allegedly peddling drugs were produced before a magistrate court which sent them to judicial custody till September 23, said NCB officials.They have all applied for bail but the matter has been adjourned till tomorrow.In her plea, Rhea has stated that she is innocent and falsely implicated in the case. Further, it is claimed that Rhea “was coerced into making self-incriminatory confessions and by her application on September 8 the applicant has formally retracted all such incriminatory confessions”. The actor’s bail plea too was not accepted by the court after the prosecution raised objections regarding jurisdiction of the magistrate court to hear her plea. Questioned for three days by all levels of officers of the NCB from September 6 to 8, Rhea was formally arrested on Tuesday. “There was not a single lady officer who interrogated the present applicant as mandated by law. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Sheela Barse VS State Maharashtra, has held that the interrogation of females should be carried out only in the presence of a female police officer/constable,” reads the bail application, highlighting that the agency failed to comply with the guidelines of the apex court. The sister-brother duo has been booked under Section 27 A of the NDPS Act which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders. As per the provisions, if found guilty the two can face imprisonment not less than 10 years and can also be fined Rs 2 lakh. They have been arrested for allegedly arranging a narcotic substance for actor Sushant Singh Rajput. After the bail pleas were turned down by the magistrate court, the 28-year-old’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde approached the special court. The pleas are scheduled for hearing on Thursday where the investigating agency would be required to file their reply before the special court. The defense has raised the issue of applicability of charges of Section 27 A of NDPS Act against the two. In Rhea’s plea, the defense has stated, “The allegations against the present accused would at the most make out a case of purchasing a small quantity of drug which is in essence a bailable offence. There is not a shred of evidence to connect the applicant with financing any illicit traffic or harbouring any offender and hence the ingredients of Section 27 A of the NDPS Act are not made out in present facts and circumstances.” “The respondent (NCB) is silent as to the amount of financing, quantum of drugs and the type of drugs allegedly procured and financed by the present applicant. The case of the respondent in the layman term is that the applicant would co-ordinate the delivery of the drug for her then boyfriend and occasionally pay for them herself. In essence, her alleged role, if any, is purchase of a small quantity of drugs for her then boyfriend which would squarely fall within the ambit of Section 20 (b) (ii) (A) (produces, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-State, exports inter-State or uses cannabis,) which is punishable with a maximum imprisonment of upto a year or with fine or both,” reads the bail plea filed by Rhea’s lawyer. The defense alleged that even though the role attributed to Rhea and her brother Showik is identical to that of another accused in the case – Kaizan Ebrahim, NCB selectively invoked charges of Section 27 A only against Rhea and Showik.“The co-accused Kaizan was in fact released on provisional cash bail on the very first day of his remand by the magistrate court,” defense claimed in Rhea’s bail plea, adding that the agency did not even ask for his custody. The defense have cited several rulings of the Supreme Court to support their contention and contented that in a case when the person is found to have been booked under bailable offence he or she is entitled for bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forced-confessions-quizzed-by-male-officers-rhea-chakraborty-seeks-bail/story-njgg7EohHz4T6sT0Og50kJ.html
09-09-2020||India||Delhi shatters its record of coronavirus infections with new 4,000 cases, breaches 2-lakh mark||Shattering its own record, Delhi on Wednesday recorded highest ever Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, pushing the cumulative tally past the two lakh mark, sparking fears of second wave in the national capital. The number of Covid-19 tests conducted in a single day also rose to a new record high with 54,517 tests conducted in the last 24 hours.Delhi had last witnessed highest cases within a span of 24 hours in June 23 after 3,947 new infections were registered. Over the past week, Delhi has recorded more than 2,800 new cases every day on an average. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayCases in Delhi rose rapidly through May and June but started dropping by the end of June after hitting an initial peak. After a steady drop in cases for around three weeks (seven-day average of daily cases dropped to 983 by August 4), cases again started rising alarmingly from mid-August. As of Wednesday, there are 2,01,174 cases in the city.With the increase in tests, the average positivity rate has also started declining. Around 7.41 per cent of tests came back positive on Wednesday. The number, which had dropped from a peak of 31.4 per cent in mid-June to 5.7 per cent at the end of July, was 8.4 per cent in the past week. Overall, 10.57 per cent of all tests done in Delhi have come back positive.With 11,101 RT-PCR tests, Delhi also set a record for the highest number of single-day RT-PCR tests, according to Wednesday’s health bulletin. Previously, this record was set on Tuesday (September 8), when Delhi conducted 9,944 such tests.Also read: Where is Covid-19 most active in the country?According to Wednesday’s bulletin, 20 people died of the coronavirus disease taking the total death toll in Delhi to 4,638. The city’s case fatality rate now is 2.31 per cent. As many as 1,72,763 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi till now, of which 2,623 recovered in the last 24 hours. The number of containment zones also is now at a record high with 1,226 localities, buildings, lanes under lockdown in the city. On Tuesday, there were 1,166 containment zones in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-4039-delhi-records-highest-ever-covid-19-infections-in-24-hours/story-PNRDRdWlmomGtU0ECtMkuM.html
09-09-2020||India||5 suspected Maoists killed in encounter with Odisha police; combing ops on||Five suspected Maoists, including three women, were killed on Wednesday in an encounter with the anti-Maoist force of special operations group of the Odisha police and District Voluntary Force on the borders of Kalahandi and Kandhamal districts.On the basis of reliable intelligence input, an operation was launched on Kalahandi-Kandhamal border on September 8, said Inspector general of police (anti-Maoist ops) Amitabh Thakur. Two composite teams of SOG and DVF had participated in this operation.Following heavy firing from the ultras near Sirki village in Belghar area of Kandhamal district at around 11 am today, the teams resorted to retaliatory firing, said an official statement issued by the Odisha police.“The exchange of fire lasted for around 30 minutes, during which four Maoists were neutralised and a SOG Jawan suffered injuries. More teams of SOG, DVF and CRPF have been sent to the area for combing and search operations,” said Thakur. Five armed weapons have been recovered from the spot. However, the rank of the deceased Maoists is yet to be verified.On July 23, two more Maoists were killed in an exchange of fire with the anti-Maoist cops in Kandhamal.Earlier on July 5, five Maoists, including two women, were killed by the security forces in Sirla Reserve forest area under Tumudibandha police station of Kandhamal district.One of the dead Maoists was Kosa Sodi alias Sukru, a member of the Odisha State Committee of the CPI(Maoist) with a bounty of Rs 20 lakh on his head. Maoist activities declined considerably in Odisha in 2019 with just 14 incidents of Maoist-linked killings reported in which 19 deaths were reported. Of the 19 deaths, 10 were civilians who were killed by the Maoists over allegations of being a police informer.In 2019, 13 Maoists had surrendered. But despite the declining Maoist presence, the Kandhamal-Kalahandi-Boudh-Nayagarh (KKBN) division of the CPI-Maoist that operates in the hilly and forested patches of the state has been a matter of concern for police.Odisha director general of police Abhay recently said with Maoist situation improving in the state and more rebels surrendering due to an aggressive police action, the state has now recommended to the Centre to drop the districts of Angul, Boudh, Sambalpur, Deogarh and Nayagarh from the list of Maoist-affected districts.Once the MHA excludes these districts, Odisha would have 10 districts under SRE, a scheme that supplements the efforts of the Maoist-affected states by reimbursing the expenditure incurred by them on anti-Maoist activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-suspected-maoists-killed-in-encounter-with-odisha-police-combing-ops-on/story-teivXZkuM4rEf1dsXpU1SI.html
09-09-2020||India||Shirdi Saibaba shrine’s income dips by Rs 174 crore due to lockdown, says CEO||Coronavirus-induced lockdowns have affected the income of famous Saibaba temple here in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra, a top official said on Wednesday.On the other hand, there is a rise in donations made through the online mode compared to the corresponding period in the previous year.The shrine has been closed for devotees since March 17 in view of Covid-19 restrictions.“The shrine received the income of Rs 115.16 crore from March 17 to August 31 this year, as against Rs 289.55 it had received in the corresponding period last year. This means the income has dipped by Rs 174 crore,” Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust CEO Kanhuraj Bagate told PTI.At Rs 94.39 crore, the maximum income was generated through the interest earned on fixed deposits during the lockdown period. The cash donations stood at 18.32 lakh, he said.“The trust received Rs 11.47 crore as online donations compared to Rs 1.89 crore it had received through online mode during March 17 to August 31, 2019” the CEO said.Last year, the shrine had received donation of 8.868 kg gold and 194 kg silver jewellery, but during the lockdown, it received only 162 gm gold and 2.6 kg silver, he said.The trust spends Rs 55 crore towards management of the temple, he said, adding that an amount of Rs 13 crore goes towards the payment of 5,500 employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shirdi-saibaba-shrine-s-income-dips-by-rs-174-crore-due-to-lockdown-says-ceo/story-vjE1W1IKKT9yee14EJno8I.html
09-09-2020||India||Telangana to set up task force to monitor treatment for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday announced the setting up of a task force headed by a senior IAS officer, to monitor treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals in the state at an affordable cost. Intervening during the short-discussion in the state assembly on the Coronavirus pandemic, the chief minister said there had been innumerable complaints from all quarters over the exorbitant charges being collected by private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. KCR, as the chief minister is called, agreed with the suggestions made by several members that there should be more control over corporate hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. “Right from the beginning, I had been saying that treatment for Covid-19 should be given only in government hospitals, as the corporate hospitals would fleece patients. However, we had no option but to allow corporate hospitals to admit Covid-19 patients after the high court’s intervention,” he said. He said it was unfortunate that these hospitals were extorting money from patients in the name of treating the coronavirus disease at this troubled time. “Is this the time for corporate hospitals to fleece patients for money, taking advantage of their misery?” he asked. Stating that the government would now initiate stern action against the corporate hospitals collecting exorbitant fees from Covid-19 patients, the chief minister said the task force which would be formed on Wednesday and would release weekly reports on the status of treatment in these hospitals. “These reports will also be sent to the leaders of all the opposition parties in the state to create wide social awareness about the “cruel” ways of the hospitals in extorting money from the victims of the pandemic,” KCR said. Reacting to suggestions by Congress floor leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen leader Akbaruddin Owaisi, the chief minister said the government would examine the possibility of including Covid-19 under Arogyasri, the state government’s health scheme for the poor and government employees. “The government will also consider reimbursement of bills paid by white ration card holders who underwent treatment for Covid-19 in private hospitals,” he said. The chief minister lashed out at the Centre for releasing paltry funds to the states at a time when it should come to their rescue to fight the pandemic. It had released only Rs 256 crore under the National Health Mission, apart from 647 ventilators to the state, he said. He demanded that the Centre increase the budgetary allocations on improving the medical and health infrastructure in the state. “Our government is also planning to increase the budget for medical and health to tackle any emergency like Covid-19 in future,” he said. Earlier, making a statement in the House, state health minister Eatala Rajender said the state had so far registered 1,45,163 cases as on September 7, of which 1,12,587 patients had recovered. Of the remaining, 24,579 patients were in home quarantine and 7,091 people were getting treatment at various hospitals, while 906 people had died. The recovery rate of Telangana is 77.6% which is at par with India’s recovery rate. However, the death rate at the national level is 1.7% whereas in Telangana it is 0.62%. The number of deaths in the entire country is 72,830. Maharashtra has recorded the highest number of deaths i.e. 27,027 while Telangana is at 12th position with 906 deaths. He said tests for Covid-19 were being conducted in 38 private laboratories as well apart from government hospitals. At present, around 60 thousand tests are being conducted daily in the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-set-up-task-force-to-monitor-treatment-for-covid-19-patients-in-private-hospitals/story-XtRG630I8eshpN0T8uREgO.html
09-09-2020||India||Oxford vaccine trials in India offer hope despite AstraZeneca dampener||Even as AstraZeneca has paused trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate after one of the participants in United Kingdom developed an unexplained illness, over 100 volunteers in India have completed the crucial week after receiving shots in the phase two human trials without showing any adverse reaction. Pune based Serum institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. SII clarified that the Indian trials of the vaccine candidate are continuing without any problems. “We (Serum Institute of India) can’t comment on reports of AstraZeneca pausing the trials in the UK, other than that they have been paused for review and shall restart soon. The Indian trials are continuing and we have faced no issues at all,” SII said in a statement. Of the 100 volunteers, 34 were from Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and hospital in Pune, who have been administered vaccine shots after trials for phase two began in India on August 26. Also Read: Anthony Fauci says Astrazeneca vaccine pause unfortunate but a safety valveAccording to doctors at the medical college and hospital, none of the 34 volunteers have shown any sign of any health-related complications, with all their vital parameters appearing normal. Besides Bharti Vidyapeeth, two other hospitals in Pune are carrying out trials including the KEM. Also Read: Pfizer, BioNTech lock biggest EU vaccine deal of 200 million doses“We have completed the phase-two trials of 100 enrolments in India of which 34 were from Bharti Vidyapeeth. It’s been a week after the shots were given to 34 volunteers at our institute and none of them showed any adverse reaction,” said Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director at Bharti Vidyapeeth medical college and hospital. The entire data about volunteers and the results of trials, according to Lalwani, has been submitted to SII. The data in turn will be picked up by Data System Monitoring Board at Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) level for further review.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxford-vaccine-trials-in-india-offer-hope-despite-astrazeneca-dampener/story-g2wzyQbbpzYL8Tpb2az0SM.html
09-09-2020||India||PM Modi to launch flagship fisheries scheme, app for farmers on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will digitally launch the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) on Thursday and also inaugurate the e-Gopala App, a comprehensive breed improvement marketplace and information portal for direct use of farmers.  In a statement on Wednesday, the Prime Minister’s Office said that Modi will also launch several other initiatives in the fisheries and animal husbandry sectors in Bihar, a state which is heading for the assembly polls in October-November.  The PMMSY is a flagship scheme for focused and sustainable development of fisheries sector in the country with an estimated investment of Rs 20,050 crore for its implementation during 2020-21 to 2024-25 as part of Aatmanirbhar Bharat package.   The investment of Rs. 20,050 crore under PMMSY is the highest ever in the fisheries sector, the PMO said.  The project in Bihar envisages investment of Rs 1,390 crore with the central share of Rs 535 crore and the additional fish production target pegged at three lakh tons.  During the current fiscal, the Union government has sanctioned Bihar’s proposal costing Rs 107 crore.Modi will also announce the establishment of a fish brood bank at Sitamarhi and of aquatic disease referral laboratory at Kishanganj, for which assistance has been provided under the PMMSY. “These facilities will help in enhancing production and productivity of fish by ensuring timely availability of quality and affordable fish seed for the fish farmers and address the need for disease diagnosis as well as water and soil testing facilities,” the statement said.  The e-Gopala app, it added, is a comprehensive breed improvement marketplace and information portal for direct use of farmers.At present no digital platform is available in the country for farmers managing livestock including buying and selling of disease free germplasm in all forms, availability of quality breeding services and guiding farmers for animal nutrition, treatment of animals using appropriate medicine.  There is no mechanism to send alerts on due date for vaccination, pregnancy diagnosis and calving among other issues and inform farmers about various government schemes and campaigns in the area.  The e-Gopala app will provide solutions to farmers on all these aspects, the PMO said.  The prime minister will also inaugurate one-unit fish feed mill at Madhepura and two units of ‘Fish on Wheels’ assisted at Patna under ‘blue revolution’. He will also interact with the beneficiaries on the occasion.Among other launches by Modi is the comprehensive fish production technology centre at Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University in Pusa in Bihar.  The centre, with facilities for seed production technology and demonstration unit technology for fish, referral laboratory and diagnostic testing, will facilitate in boosting fish production and assist in capacity building of fish farmers, the PMO said.The PMMSY aims at enhancing fish production by an additional 70 lakh tonne by 2024-25, increasing fisheries export earnings to Rs 1,00,000 crore by 2024-25, doubling of incomes of fishers and fish farmers, reducing post-harvest losses from 20-25 per cent to about 10 per cent and generation of additional 55 lakhs direct and indirect gainful employment opportunities in fisheries sector and allied activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-flagship-fisheries-scheme-app-for-farmers-on-thursday/story-L12vvxfgwrgZ4Qn8uKUboN.html
09-09-2020||India||Serum Institute says India trials of Covid-19 vaccine ongoing||Serum Institute of India said on Wednesday that trials of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country is ongoing and has not faced any issues.AstraZeneca said it has paused global trials, including large late-stage trials, of its experimental coronavirus vaccine due to an unexplained illness in a study participant.“We can’t comment much on the U.K. trials,” Serum Institute said in a statement, adding “as far as Indian trials are concerned, it is continuing and we have faced no issues at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-says-india-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-ongoing/story-pEcy5gh8AFRi81Apfr3rnK.html
09-09-2020||India||India condemns bomb attack on Afghan Vice President Amrullah Saleh||India on Wednesday strongly condemned the deadly bomb attack targeting Afghanistan’s first Vice President Amrullah Saleh in Kabul.The Afghan vice president was “slightly injured” in the bomb attack on his convoy this morning that killed 10 people and injured more than a dozen, according to Afghan media reports.“India strongly condemns cowardly terrorist attack on Afg VP @AmrullahSaleh2. Our condolences to martyrs & prayers with injured,” External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Twitter.He said India stands with Afghanistan in the fight to eradicate “terror infrastructure and sponsors” for enduring peace in that country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-condemns-bomb-attack-on-afghan-vice-president-amrullah-saleh/story-1Uj9Q5B2XshZ3jinV7PjXO.html
09-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: What Sharad Pawar said on demolition work at Kangana Ranaut’s Mumbai office and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.What Sharad Pawar said on demolition work at Kangana Ranaut’s Mumbai officeThe Mumbai civic body’s demolition drive at Kangana Ranaut’s Mumbai office in the wake of recent controversial remarks by the actor gives people reasons to doubt, said Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, whose party is part of the Maharashtra government.Read more. New generation of locusts may attack crops in UP after monsoonExperts have warned that a new generation of locust swarms may attack crops in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Rajasthan after the monsoon retreats even as the toxic insecticides sprayed to kill them might have caused adverse environmental and health consequences.Read more. India, Australia, France hold 1st senior officials dialogue in backdrop of Chinese aggressionThe foreign secretaries of India, Australia and France co-chaired the first senior officials’ trilateral dialogue on Wednesday, with the focus on enhancing cooperation in the Indo-Pacific and strengthening multilateralism.Read more. Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik’s bail plea to be heard by Mumbai court tomorrowA special court in Mumbai will hear the bail applications of Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik on Thursday, the actor’s lawyer said today. Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday for her alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Read more. Kangana Ranaut shares video message for Uddhav Thackeray, compares her plight to that of Kashmiri PanditsAs the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday demolished “illegal alterations” at the Bandra property of actor Kangana Ranaut, she hit back saying ‘My Mumbai is PoK now’. The actor has claimed that there were no illegal structures in her home.Read more. Royal Enfield goes global again, establishes first assembly plant outside IndiaRoyal Enfield on Wednesday announced that it will commence local assembly of motorcycles in Argentina in partnership with Grupo Simpa. Royal Enfield partnered with Grupo Simpa back in 2018 which is the local distributor in the country for RE.Read more. World Suicide Prevention Day 2020: Significance of suicide prevention during a global pandemicWorld Suicide Prevention Day is observed annually on September 10 to raise awareness regarding the subject of suicide and the actions that can be taken to prevent these tragedies on a global scale.Read more. ‘Threat of climate change is real, near and dangerous’: Piyush GoyalUnion Minister Piyush Goyal said that the threat of climate change is real and dangerous and the country has to move towards a world of net-zero carbon emissions. “We ultimately have to move towards a world where we are net zero in terms of carbon emissions. Watch here. Started comparing himself with Dhoni: Fmr chief selector on Rishabh PantMahendra Singh Dhoni announced his retirement from international cricket on August 15, 2020. Every player has to call it a day and Dhoni too has decided to hang up his golden boots. The development didn’t come as a shock and the Indian team management has been working towards preparing itself for this eventuality for a while now.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-what-sharad-pawar-said-on-demolition-work-at-kangana-ranaut-s-mumbai-office-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lQ9XvfmEre6fUYPWzurHPP.html
09-09-2020||India||India, Australia, France hold 1st senior officials dialogue in backdrop of Chinese aggression||The foreign secretaries of India, Australia and France co-chaired the first senior officials’ trilateral dialogue on Wednesday, with the focus on enhancing cooperation in the Indo-Pacific and strengthening multilateralism. “During the dialogue, the three sides discussed economic and geostrategic challenges and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, particularly in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic and domestic responses to Covid-19,” said a statement from the external affairs ministry. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Australia and Japan, both members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad along with India and the US, have been driving efforts to forge greater cooperation among countries that have a stake in the Indian Ocean and with members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean). China’s aggressive actions, including the border standoff with India and its military build-up in the South China Sea, have spurred these efforts, the people said. India, Australia and Indonesia are also set to hold two virtual meetings of their foreign and defence ministers to bolster regional cooperation and maritime security in the Indo-Pacific in the coming weeks. Wednesday’s virtual meeting was co-chaired by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, François Delattre, the secretary-general of the French ministry for Europe and foreign affairs, and Frances Adamson, secretary of Australia’s department of foreign affairs and trade. Also Read: Over 300 civil society groups urge more scrutiny of China on human rights“The focus of the dialogue was on enhancing cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region,” the statement said, adding cooperation on the “marine global commons” and potential areas for practical cooperation at the trilateral and regional levels were also discussed. This included cooperation through regional organisations such as Asean, Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) and Indian Ocean Commission. Also Read: Mulan movie boycott calls grow over scenes filmed in China’s XinjiangThe three sides also discussed priorities, challenges and trends in regional and global multilateral institutions, including the best ways to strengthen and reform multilateralism, the statement said. “The outcome-oriented meeting was held with the objective of building on the strong bilateral relations that the three countries share with each other and synergising their respective strengths to ensure a peaceful, secure, prosperous and rules-based Indo-Pacific Region,” the statement said. The three countries also agreed to hold the dialogue on an annual basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-france-hold-1st-senior-officials-dialogue-in-backdrop-of-chinese-aggression/story-AeSwpbchpOYuFwYtU0uwHO.html
09-09-2020||India||With a recovery rate of 88.98%, Bihar ahead of other states on Covid-19 parameters||Bihar has a reason to be hopeful over its management of the Covid-19 health crisis. At six deaths per million, it ranks the best in this category. Kerala and Assam, with 10 deaths per million each, are next, according to government data released on Tuesday.Bihar’s test positivity rate was also the lowest at 0.9%, followed by Gujarat (1.8%) and Uttar Pradesh (4.3%) on September 8. The growth rate for Covid-19 cases in Bihar is the lowest at 1.3% at par with Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, against a national average of 2.14% in the week ending September 8. Some other states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have a few things to ponder over. At 10,343 cases per million, Delhi ranked the highest, followed by Andhra Pradesh (9,363) and Maharashtra (7,500). Delhi also ranked highest in terms of Covid-19 deaths per million (246), followed by Maharashtra (219) and Tamil Nadu (102). Bihar has been able to shed the ignominy of being the state with lowest tests per million — a position it had occupied till early August — with the ramping up of testing facilities after July 27, when Pratyaya Amrit was posted as the principal secretary of Bihar’s health department. On Monday, Bihar tested 1,53,156 lakh samples, the highest in a day so far, with the average daily testing hovering over 1 lakh tests since August 13. The increased testing had led to a decline in its tests’ positivity rate. Most tests being done were rapid antigen-based, which had up to 40% probability of giving false negative results. The Centre has already advised states to mandatorily do RT-PCR tests of Covid-19 symptomatic people, testing negative on rapid antigen kit. However, many states were not following this practice, leaving out missing cases, said a senior officer of the health ministry. Bihar, for instance, had done reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests of only 6.55% (9,901) samples out of the total 1,51,033 tested on September 5. Rapid antigen tests accounted for 1,36,870, while another 4,262 tests were done on TrueNat machines. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had on May 19 revised its testing guidelines to allow the use of the TrueNat system for screening and confirmation of Covid-19. The test uses a person’s nose or throat swab samples. The nucleic acid extracted from the sample has to be followed by an RT-PCR. Unlike traditional RT-PCR tests, the sample preparation in TrueNAT tests is automated, and the results are available within half an hour. Only 3.11% (1,364) institutional beds were utilised out of the total 43,748 Covid-19 isolation beds available at different levels, while 14,401 patients were under home isolation as per government data of September 5. Bihar’s case recovery rate was 88.98% as against the national average of 77.65% on Tuesday. Health officials were not willing to come on record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-a-recovery-rate-of-88-98-bihar-ahead-of-other-states-on-covid-19-parameters/story-VWoDesOq4AFbJw5YN5Uf6H.html
09-09-2020||India||26-year old Telugu actor allegedly dies by suicide, police hunt for extortionist||A 26-year old Telugu television actor who was found dead at her home in Hyderabad late Tuesday night is suspected to have died by suicide, police said. Her family blamed a man from Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district with whom she had become friends over TikTok, for her death. They alleged he had been harassing her for months and extorted money from her.But police said there was an argument in the family before she was found dead.“Preliminary investigations revealed that there was an argument between the actor and family members before she went to her room and allegedly hanged herself. We are on the lookout for the man who allegedly harassed her,” inspector Narasimha Reddy of the S.R. Nagar police station said. “We rushed to the spot and shifted the body to Osmania General Hospital for post mortem. We have registered a case and are investigating,” he said. The actor’s mother claimed that the police had called the man once to the police station following a complaint by her daughter but let him off. “She was forced to pay him money in different instalments. But when he did not stop harassment, she lodged a complaint with the police in June. The police called him but let him off after he apologised and assured not to repeat the offence,” her mother said. “But he continued to torture my daughter forcing her to take to extreme step,” she added. She claimed her daughter returned home from shooting late in the night and straightaway went into her bedroom. Her family members thought she had locked inside to change clothes. “When she did not come out even after a long time, we broke open the door only to find her hanging from the ceiling fan,” she told reporters. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918, Roshni Foundation (Secundrabad) Contact Nos: 040-66202001, 040-66202000, ONE LIFE: Contact No: 78930 78930, SEVA: Contact No: 09441778290 )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-year-old-telugu-actor-allegedly-dies-by-suicide-police-hunt-for-extortionist/story-GnXschv5SRPoRzcCBzlQgK.html
09-09-2020||India||SVANidhi Yojna gives new identity, opportunity: PM Modi to Madhya Pradesh street vendors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the Centre has formulated a scheme to provide an online platform to street food vendors across the country to help them deliver food to customers like big restaurants. In his address via webcast to street vendors of Madhya Pradesh, Modi said work was going on at a rapid pace on the platform.PM Modi, who interacted with three vendors from the state’s Sanver (Indore), Gwalior and Sanchi, said the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the poor and the society’s deprived sections most. He added the government has made efforts to help them through various scheme. “The government will ensure that those registered under Pradhan Mantri SVANidhi Yojna are taken care of and provided all basic amenities.” The SVANidhi Yojna has been formulated for street vendors to provide them access to affordable loans for resuming their livelihoods hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read: Not just our products, India’s voice has also become global, says PM Modi“Under the scheme, the government will see if the street vendors are getting the benefits of Ujjawala [for distribution of LPG connections], Ayushman Bharat [health insurance scheme], housing and other government schemes. If they do not... the government will work on it on a priority basis.”Modi said the SVANidhi Yojna has given a new identity and opportunity to a large number of street vendors to resume and promote their businesses. He said Rs 10,000 loans can be initially taken under the scheme. Modi added street vendors could improve their borrowing capacity gradually by improving their business and repaying loans on time.He called on vendors to come up with innovative ideas to take their businesses to new levels and work on digital payments. “In the last four years, digital transactions have gone up. During Covid-19 period, we saw it was necessary also. Now customers avoid making a cash payment.”Modi said many people talked about the poor repeatedly but the work done for them in the last six years in a planned manner was never done before. “Several steps were taken...to help the poor become self-reliant and fight against poverty on their own and come out it.” He said the Centre’s schemes have supported Dalits, tribals and other have-nots.Modi said the poor once would not go to the banks out of fear of papers but now 400 million people have their bank accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. “It is because of Jan Dhan Yojna that the poor are linked with the banks, getting easy loans and could get out of tentacles of moneylenders. It is because of these bank accounts that the poor are getting houses without paying bribes. Farmers are getting assistance directly in their bank accounts.”He said during the pandemic over 200 million women got Rs 31,000 crore in their accounts thanks to the Jan Dhan Yojna. “Similarly, under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, more than Rs 94,000 crore were transferred directly to the bank accounts of more than 100 million farmers.”He said soon every village would be linked with online markets and thus the world would be linked to villages. “We resolved on August 15 this year to provide optical fibre to every village in 1,000 days. Thus every village will have internet facility and thus the villages too will benefit from the digital revolution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/svanidhi-yojna-gives-new-identity-opportunity-pm-modi-to-madhya-pradesh-street-vendors/story-caf9IIBQeY2i2Q0tkz4PzJ.html
09-09-2020||India||What Sharad Pawar said on demolition job at Kangana Ranaut’s office||The Mumbai civic body’s demolition drive at Kangana Ranaut’s Mumbai office in the wake of recent controversial remarks by the actor gives people reasons to doubt, said Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, whose party is part of the Maharashtra government.To the actor’s comment comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) in a bid to counter Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut who had slammed her for saying she was scared of the Mumbai police, the veteran leader said people don’t take such statements seriously.The Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) team reached the actor’s bungalow at Pali Hill in Bandra with bulldozer and excavators and demolished alterations made sans the civic body’s approval.“I am never wrong and my enemies prove again and again this is why my Mumbai is POK now,” Kangana tweeted, soon after the demolition work began. She also posted photos of BMC staff engaged in the demolition work.Pawar said that the BMC officials may have found it appropriate to take action, however, their action also gives an opportunity to some to raise doubts considering the prevailing situation.“We are giving too much importance to the people making such statements. One must understand the impact of such statements on the people at large,” said Pawar, who was speaking to reporters at YB Chavan Centre at Nariman Point in the city after a book launch ceremony.Supporting the Mumbai police force, the former chief minister said people of Maharashtra and Mumbai have an experience of years of the police and know how dutiful their force is.“In my view, people don’t take such statements seriously. They have an experience of years of police force and are aware how dutiful they are. We don’t need to take it seriously even if someone is saying that very often,” Pawar said.Responding to the BMC’s action, Pawar said he has no information if there was anything illegal or not but the action has given an opportunity to the people to raise doubt, indicating that it could have been avoided.“I don’t know if there was anything illegal and read about it only in the newspapers. It won’t be appropriate to comment on this without having proper information. Illegal work is not a new thing in Mumbai. However, BMCs action in the backdrop of the ongoing situation allows people to raise doubt over it. BMC officials have their own rules and may have found it appropriate to take the action,” said the veteran leader.Meanwhile, the Bombay High Court stayed the demolition process initiated by the BMC for illegal construction and sought to know how the civic body entered the property when the owner was not present.Before the demolition work on Wednesday, the BMC posted a second notice outside the actor’s bungalow, informing her of the action being taken by the civic body, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-sharad-pawar-said-on-demolition-work-at-kangana-ranaut-s-mumbai-office/story-Rce6fBMrZSenNDppkfbd6N.html
09-09-2020||India||As some states oppose borrowing money, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy says it is the only way to overcome GST shortfall||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has called borrowing the only way to overcome the crisis states face amid the Centre’s inability to reimburse them for the shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in their share of Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue this financial year.“The only way to overcome the crisis is borrowing. The Centre has also asked the states to go for additional borrowings. As we cannot tax people more, we are working on possible additional revenue-generating options,” said Reddy in an interview to HT.Reddy’s comments came even as some states have opposed the option of borrowing the Centre has given to states because of delays in GST compensation. Also Read: Jagan govt withdraws subsidy to Discoms, to directly transfer power bill amount to farmersWest Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Monday said state governments were not in a position to borrow any money from the market and criticised the Centre for imposing the idea on them with no proper consultation.At a GST Council meeting on August 27, the Centre gave the states’ option of either borrowing the compensation amount arising from implementing GST (Rs 97,000 crore) or the entire shortfall (Rs 2.35 lakh crore). If they exercise the first option, the interest and principal amount will come from the cess levied on products like liquor, cigarettes, aerated water and automobiles. In the case of the second option, the states will have to bear the interest burden.Reddy said the Centre is taking its time and paying a little late, but it is not that there has been any drastic cut-down. “They have been passing on [the money] with some delays. This is understandable, keeping in view the Covid-19 situation and its impact on the country’s economy,” he said.Also Read: Building a revenue-earning city to compensate for the loss of Hyderabad ‘perverted thinking’: Jaganmohan ReddyThe Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent 68-day hard lockdown have taken a toll on the economy, causing a 23.9% contraction in the quarter that ended on June 30.HT on Tuesday reported the Centre remains committed to reimbursing states the entire shortfall and that only immediate compensation may not be forthcoming.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on September 2 wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that she was “deeply anguished” by the GST imbroglio which was violating the very premise of federalism. She said the Centre is duty-bound to give compensation to states.Some states have demanded that the Centre borrow the money. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac tweeted, “FMs [finance ministers] of Punjab, Delhi, W[est] Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Kerala agreed to reject the Centre’s options on GST compensation. Our option: Central Govt to borrow entire compensation due regardless of acts of gods, humans or nature, to be paid back by extending the period of Cess.”Isaac was referring to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comment on the compensation crisis being caused by “an Act of God”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-some-states-oppose-borrowing-money-andhra-pradesh-chief-minister-jaganmohan-reddy-says-it-is-the-only-way-to-overcome-gst-shortfall/story-aHg0fNl9joHVt59quUd5pO.html
09-09-2020||India||Climate change may cause 26% habitat loss for snow trout in Himalayan rivers: Study||Snow trout, the iconic cold water fish species found in Himalayan rivers, would lose their habitat by 16 per cent in the next 30 years and by over 26 per cent by 2070, a new climate change study by the government’s Wildlife Institute of India has found. The study -- ‘Is There Always Space at The Top’-- was published in the ‘Ecological Indicators’, a journal of high international repute based at the Netherlands, on September 6. The study indicates that most of the lower altitude streams across the Himalayas would be rendered unsuitable for the existence of snow trout with the rise in temperatures.An ensemble of 72 statistical models across the Himalayas, the study -- authored by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) scientists Aashna Sharma, Vineet Kumar Dubey, Jeyaraj Antony Johnson, Yogesh Kumar Rawal and Kuppusamy Sivakumar – reveals the vulnerable snow trout would be squeezed into the high-altitude rivers in the Himalayas. “Our empirical findings strongly suggest that snow trout, a prime cold water fish of Himalayan rivers, would suffer a habitat loss in the future and the high-altitude areas would act as only saviours, provided suitable habitat connectivity is offered,” senior scientist Kuppusamy Sivakumar told PTI. The study says mountain systems across the globe are conspicuously sensitive to on-going climate alterations and the condition is much more detrimental in the Himalaya, where the rate of warming, and thus the glacier meltdown, is much higher than elsewhere. “The Himalayan coldwater species are concerningly most vulnerable to these changes because of their limited thermal range,” it says.Funded by the Department of Science & Technology (DST), the study is a part of the government’s National Mission for Sustaining the Himalayan Ecosystem (NMSHE), which was launched to research the impact of climate change on the Himalayan ecosystem.The study iterates that if the countries across the globe continue their greenhouse emissions as usual (mentioning it as the ‘business-as-usual scenario’), “the species (snow trout) would lose a net habitat of 16.29% till the year 2050 which would further increase to 26.56% in the year 2070.” “As it stands, the snow trout faces serious threats due to river valley modifications, destructive fishing practices and exotic salmonid introductions,” it says. “Due to ongoing threats, its population size has been reduced drastically in Himalayan waters, hence listed as vulnerable in the IUCN Red List,” it adds.The fish species has great commercial and recreational value and its sole presence in the high-altitude cold waters makes it a flagship species to conserve the Himalayan rivers, the study underlines.“Already exposed to numerous anthropogenic stressors, the fate of snow trout population and many co-occurring genera can be considered explicitly at a higher risk in the Himalaya,” it adds.The also flagged the “rampant” damming of the rivers across the Himalayas, saying the presence of dams would definitely obstruct the fish mode of movements to safer havens, ultimately risking their very survival.“Our results highlight that snow trout would expand their range upwards into the high-altitude streams with a concurrent predominant range contraction in most of their lagging edges, ultimately creating a high-altitude squeeze,” the study says. The study recommends some solutions such as persuasive “conservation efforts beyond political boundaries by combined decisions of the policymakers of Himalayan countries”. It also include reducing “unsustainable harnessing of rivers for hydropower development projects and energy efficiency by improving green energy potential”.They also underscore a need to focus more on climate change science in India, more so in the Himalayas, which, the team says is “predicted to be warming at a rate much higher than the global average rate of about 0.4 °C”.The team detailed that never has such an extensive and rigorous ensemble methodology been used to understand the climate change impacts on any freshwater species in India. They said there was a dire need for inter-governmental policy measures -- involving India, Nepal and Bhutan -- to sustain the biodiversity of these rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-change-may-cause-26-habitat-loss-for-snow-trout-in-himalayan-rivers-study/story-wUvfDe8nuP4Y1Ds79JzAWI.html
09-09-2020||India||France describes India as foremost Asian strategic partner||France on Wednesday described India as its “foremost” Asian strategic partner and said the upcoming visit of its Defence Minister Florence Parly to the country is aimed at further strengthening the “forward-looking” defence cooperation with New Delhi.Parly will visit India on Thursday to attend a ceremony in Ambala to induct the first batch of five Rafale jets into the Indian Air Force (IAF).The French Defence Minister will hold talks with her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval.The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore.In a statement, the French embassy here said the focus of the talks will be on maritime security ties in the Indo-Pacific, counter-terror cooperation and strengthening overall bilateral defence partnership.“Their broad-ranging talks will cover, among others, industrial and technological partnership in line with the Make in India programme, operational defence cooperation, particularly maritime security in the Indo-Pacific, modalities of continuing the armed forces’ joint exercises in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, counter-terrorism cooperation as well as major regional and international strategic issues,” the embassy said.It said the talks will take forward the decision of French President Emmanuel Macron and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deepen and expand the Indo-French partnership with strategic autonomy, and the defence of a multipolar order as its cornerstones.It will be Parly’s third visit to India since 2017 and one of her very first official trips since the outbreak of the coronavirus epidemic, the embassy said.The French defence minister will be accompanied by top executives from Dassault Aviation, Thales Group, Safran, and MBDA, representing the French defence majors that have been partnering with many Indian companies as part of the Rafale deal.The Rafale jets, produced by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, will be formally inducted into the IAF at the ceremony in Ambala air base on Thursday in presence of Singh, Parly and several top military officials.During her visit to the national capital, Parly will also pay floral tributes to India’s valiant soldiers at the National War Memorial.The ties between India and France are on an upswing in the last few years with cooperation witnessing a major expansion in key areas.The areas of defence and security, civil nuclear cooperation and trade and investment constitute the principal pillars of the Indo-French strategic partnership.In addition, India and France are increasingly engaged in new areas of cooperation such as in the Indian Ocean region, climate change and sustainable growth and development.The two countries share a close degree of convergence on a range of regional and global issues as well including ways to deal with terrorism and extremism.Both India and France have important bilateral investment and trade cooperation. France has emerged as a major source of FDI in India with more than 1,000 French establishments operating in the country with a total turnover of around USD 20 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-describes-india-as-foremost-asian-strategic-partner/story-rJmsUIWze24pfh3Ekip7yL.html
09-09-2020||India||Jaishankar meets his Kyrgyz counterpart on sidelines of SCO meeting||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday said he held a fruitful interaction with his Kyrgyz counterpart Chingiz Aidarbekov here on the sidelines of the SCO meeting during which they agreed to further enhance their strategic partnership in all spheres.Jaishankar arrived here on Tuesday on a four-day visit to Russia to attend a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). “A fruitful meeting with FM Chingiz Aidarbekov of Kyrgyz Republic on SCO sidelines,” Jaishankar tweeted.The two leaders discussed issues of bilateral and regional interest.“Agreed to further enhance our strategic partnership in all spheres,” Jaishankar wrote.Jaishankar thanked Aidarbekov for the support in facilitating the return of Indian nationals from the Central Asian country.Air India operated several flights under Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate its nationals stranded in other nations due to lockdown. About 4,500 Indian students are studying medicine in various medical institutions in Kyrgyzstan. A few businessmen are engaged in trade and services in Kyrgyzstan, according to the Indian Embassy in Bishkek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-meets-his-kyrgyz-counterpart-on-sidelines-of-sco-meeting/story-MOfumBe50CrKeYn3b8W2ZL.html
09-09-2020||India||French defence minister Florence Parly to visit India for Rafale induction ceremony||French Defence Minister Florence Parly will embark on an official visit to India on September 10, where she will attend the induction ceremony of the first batch of the Rafale fighter aircraft by the Indian Air Force at Air Force Station (AFS) Ambala.This will mark Parly’s third official visit to India since 2017 and one of her first official trips since the outbreak of the Covid-19 epidemic, according to a statement by the French Embassy in New Delhi.“On this occasion, Minister Parly will strengthen France’s forward-looking defence cooperation with India, its foremost Asian strategic partner,” the statement said.During her visit the French Minister will meet her counterpart Rajnath Singh and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. Their broad-ranging talks will cover, among others, industrial and technological partnership in line with the Make in India programme; operational defence cooperation, particularly maritime security in the Indo-Pacific; modalities of continuing the armed forces’ joint exercises in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic; counter-terrorism cooperation; and major regional and international strategic issues.At AFS Ambala, she will be received by Rajnath and the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshall RKS Bhadauria. The French Minister will be accompanied, among others, by top executives from Dassault Aviation, Thales Group, Safran, and MBDA, representing the French defence majors that have been partnering with many Indian companies as part of the Rafale agreement.“These talks will further President Emmanuel Macron and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to deepen and expand the India-France partnership, with strategic autonomy and the defence of a multipolar order as its cornerstones,” the statement said.At Ambala, the programme will include the ceremonial unveiling of the Rafale aircraft, a traditional ‘Sarva Dharma Puja’, air display by Rafale and Tejas aircraft as well as by ‘Sarang Aerobatic Team’. Afterwards, a traditional water cannon salute will be given to the Rafale aircraft, the Indian Air Force said in a separate statement.The programme will culminate with the ceremonial induction of Rafale aircraft to 17 Squadron. After the ceremonial events the Indian and French delegation will have a bilateral meeting, the statement said.During her visit, Parly will also pay floral tribute to India’s valiant soldiers at the National War Memorial in Delhi, according to the statement by the French Embassy in New Delhi.Five Rafale fighter aircraft arrived in India from France on July 29. The French-origin fighter aircraft are part of the 17 Golden Arrows squadron of the Air Force.The Rafale aircraft have already flown over the Ladakh region and have been familiarising with the terrain over which they have to fly in different parts of the country. The five Rafales which have arrived in the country include three single-seaters and two twin-seaters.The Rafales, armed with the air-to-air meteor, air to ground SCALP and hammer missiles, are expected to give an edge to the Indian Air Force over its traditional adversaries China and Pakistan in the South Asian skies due to its long-range hit capabilities.India had signed a contract for 36 Rafale jets under the largest-ever defence deal signed by the country worth over Rs 60,000 crores, of which the majority payments have already been made to French firm Dassault Aviation.Rajnath had paid a visit to France in October last year to accept the first batch of the Rafale jets on the auspicious festival of Dussehra and also flew the aircraft after performing pooja with traditional Hindu rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-defence-minister-to-visit-india-for-rafale-induction-ceremony/story-m7PuoUgjqhrvqxzgpSZ9jN.html
09-09-2020||India||Aged man bludgeoned to death with grinding stone in Prayagraj district||A 70–year-old man was bludgeoned to death in Bharari village about 60 km southeast of Prayagraj late Tuesday night, police said WednesdaySenior police officials reached the spot and began investigations after the man’s body was .discovered in the morning.According to reports, the body of Shobhnath Yadav was found on his cot in the courtyard of his house with injuries on his face. A grinding stone suspected to have been used in the assault was lying on his face. Police said Shobhnath’s son Ravishankar told them that he saw two persons talking to his father at around 11 in the night and assumed that they may be neighbours. Early this morning, he saw a grinding stone on his father’s face and removed it only to discover that he was dead. Superintendent of police (Crime) Ashutosh Mishra reached the spot and questioned the family and villagers in connection with the murder. “Shobhnath’s family had enmity with one of their neighbours in which a person was killed. Shobhnath’s son was arrested for the murder in 2014 and is out on bail. There are no indications of any loot attempt and it is possible that the murder took place over old enmity. However, further action will be taken after receiving a complaint from the family” Mishra said. In another crime in Prayagraj district, unidentified miscreants barged into a house and looted cash and valuables after taking the family hostage at gunpoint at Updaura village in the trans-Ganga area.Police reached the spot and launched a hunt for the looters but to no avail. The house where the robbers struck belongs to a lawyer who lives in the city. His wife Gauri Mishra and three children live in the village. Gauri told the police that at around 2 am, she opened the main door of the house to go to the toilet in the outer part of the residence when some robbers held her at gunpoint and took her and the children hostage. The miscreants then looted Rs 3,000 in cash and gold and silver ornaments worth several lakhs of rupees. Gauri and the children raised an alarm after the robbers left. Villagers rushed to the spot but the looters had fled by then. SP (trans-Ganga) NK Singh said miscreants were being traced on the basis of details provided by the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aged-man-bludgeoned-to-death-with-grinding-stone-in-prayagraj-district/story-2de8KDnr0lnwCQvdCIQv2I.html
09-09-2020||India||JD-U’s Harivansh files nomination for Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman poll||Janata Dal (United) Rajya Sabha MP Harivansh on Wednesday filed nomination for Deputy Chairman of the Upper House as National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate.The monsoon session of Parliament which is scheduled to begin from September 14 is slated to conclude on October 1. The election for the Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha is expected to be on the agenda of the House on the first day.As per the notification from Rajya Sabha Secretariat, the nomination filing process began from September 7. The last date for filing the nomination is September 11.As the ruling NDA alliance is trying for unanimous election for Deputy Chairman, JDU MP Harivansh likely to be elected again, sources told ANI.Sources also informed that the BJP led NDA alliance will speak to all political parties with representation in Rajya Sabha and try to build consensus for the election.Harivansh has been widely appreciated, across the party lines, for running the Rajya Sabha for the last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-s-harivansh-files-nomination-for-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-poll/story-Ug0tgiJpfHJPsRrUO4mLNO.html
09-09-2020||India||Efforts on for online delivery platform for street vendors: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said efforts are being made to provide an online delivery platform to street food vendors on the lines of big restaurants.After a virtual interaction with beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendors’ Aatmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme from Madhya Pradesh, Modi praised the state government for ensuring the scheme’s benefits to over lakh people and providing identity cards to over 4.5 lakh people (scheme beneficiaries) in just two months.The Union government had launched the PM SVANidhi scheme on June 1 to help poor street vendors impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic resume livelihood activities.“I congratulate those who are moving ahead with the SVANidhi Yojna. It is a big thing to provide benefits of the scheme to over one lakh street vendors and providing identity cards to over 4.5 lakh such people. Other states must take inspiration from Madhya Pradesh,” Modi said.After his interaction with the street vendors, Modi in a televised address said, “A scheme has been prepared to provide an online platform to street food vendors by using technology. This means, the street food vendors will be able to make online delivery like big restaurants. Efforts are being made to provide this kind of facility.” He told the street vendors that if they come forward, the government will take this effort further.The prime minister also urged the street vendors to adopt the digital payment system on a large scale.“The use of digital payment has increased during the past three-four years. Its importance was realised during the corona (Covid-19 outbreak) period. Now customers avoid making payment in cash and pay directly through mobile phone,” he said.Appealing street vendors to come forward to adopt the digital system, Modi said, “A new beginning has been made by the banks and digital payment system providers.” Modi told the street vendors that representatives of banks and such organisations will reach out to them, provide the QR code and inform them about its use.“I appeal to them (street vendors) to use digital payment more and present an example before the world,”he said.He said the government will make efforts to ensure that street vendors in all big cities of the state get benefit of the PM SVANidhi scheme.“Whenever there is a pandemic, it hits the poor brothers and sisters hard. They always suffer whether it is excessive heat, rainfall or cold and these create problems for their employment and food, Modi said.“They (the poor) faced it the most during the pandemic and were even were forced to return to their native places.The government has realised this and tried to help them as much as possible by providing them ration and creating employment opportunities,” he said.The government launched the PM SVANidhi scheme with easy rules so that they can get rid of paying interest on loans which they used to take from private lenders.“You are getting a rebate of seven per cent in interest in these loans (under the scheme). If you repay to the bank on time, you will get more facilities. If you make digital transaction, you will get rewarded for it and you get more loan next time, he said.Referring to attempts made earlier to remove poverty, Modi said, “In our country, a lot has been talked about the poor. But in the last six years, everything has been done in a planned manner. Steps have been taken, which were not taken earlier, like the Jan Dhan Yojna under which 40 crore bank accounts of poor people were opened.” These people are getting loans and are liberated from the clutches of money lenders. Farmers are getting assistance directly, he mentioned.He also said that soon villages will also be associated with online marketing platforms.“On August 15, we took a vow to connect all villages with the optical fibre network in next 1,000 days. People will also get digital health identity cards for getting health facilities in rural areas also,” he said.Earlier, he interacted with some beneficiaries of the PM SVANidhi scheme, including street vendor Chaganlal and his wife from Sanver in Indore district, Gwalior’s Archana Sharma and vegetable vendor Dalchand in Raisen district.Modi advised Chaganlal how to enhance his business by asking customers to return the pipe used in making broomsticks to reduce the cost of making a broomstick.Chaganlal also told Modi that he wanted to enhance his business. After spotting a plastic water bottle kept behind Chaganlal’s chair, Modi advised him to use an earthen pitcher instead of a single-use plastic bottle for drinking water to save the environment.Modi also asked him about the Ujjwala Yojna and how it benefited his family.Interacting with Archana Sharma from Gwalior, Modi asked whether she would serve him ‘tikki’ (patties) that she sells at her joint. He also asked her about the SVANidhi scheme and how it benefitted her.He also asked her if she was aware of the Ayushman Bharat health care scheme, to which she said her husband was getting treatment through this scheme only. Modi also interacted with her husband Rajendra Sharma.Talking to vegetable vendor Dalchand from Sanchi in Raisen district, Modi praised him for using the QR code digital platform for receiving payments. He also suggested him ways to improve his vegetable business.After the interaction, Modi also informed street vendors about the ‘one nation one ration card’ scheme to make things easier for people.The prime minister also cautioned people about the threat of Covid-19 until its vaccine is developed, and advised them to follow guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining two-yard distance. He also asked people to avoid single-use plastic products, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efforts-on-for-online-delivery-platform-for-street-vendors-pm-modi/story-tsph2swN8zwTZWPbPpKCxN.html
09-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 43 lakh mark, Centre says 60% cases from five states alone||With India’s coronavirus tally crossing the 43 lakh-mark, the Ministry of Health on Wednesday said 60% of the total cases are from the five worst-hit states, adding that of the cases in the last 24 hours, over 20,000 are from Maharashtra alone.“60% of the total cases are recorded only in five states. Of the total 89,706 new cases, which have been reported in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra has alone contributed more than 20,000 and Andhra Pradesh has contributed more than 10,000”, the Health Ministry said today.Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, in that order, are the five worst-affected states in the country. India’s current Covid-19 tally stands at 43,70,128. This includes 33,98,844 recovered cases, 8,97,394 active cases and 73,890 deaths, of which 1,115 are from the last 24 hours.Of the 89,706 cases in the last 24 hours, 20,131 were from Maharashtra, the second time the state has reported over 20,000 cases in a single-day. It has been the worst-hit state since the early days of the outbreak of the pandemic in the country.Andhra Pradesh, meanwhile, reported 10,601 cases on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-43-lakh-mark-centre-says-60-cases-from-five-states-alone/story-LpQBOsRaiUTKEI19ucFBlJ.html
09-09-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally crosses 135,000; shortage of medical staff may worsen situation||Odisha on Wednesday registered 3,748 new cases and 11 more deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, which pushed the state’s tally and death toll to 135,130 and 580 respectively. The new Covid-19 cases were reported from all 30 districts of the state. With this, the active cases have mounted to 32,312 while 102,185 people recovered from Covid-19 so far, an official said. Out of the new cases, 2,210 were found from quarantine centres and the rest 1,538 people were found to be infected during contact tracing, he added. Khurda district, which also includes the state’s capital Bhubaneswar, added the maximum number of cases (615), and followed by Cuttack (392) and Puri (387).Also read: AstraZeneca pauses Covid-19 vaccine trial after unexplained illnessBhubaneswar, which turned into a Covid-19 hotspot is facing a severe shortage of ICU beds. The city is adding 400 cases on a daily basis. State government data showed that of the 268 ICU beds available, almost all have been occupied though 40% of its ventilator beds are still vacant. Odisha is also short on trained doctors and paramedical staff that can deal with critical patients. The doctor patient ratio is 1: 2597 whereas it is 1: 1457 nationally. This shortage indicates the state’s difficulty in combating the pandemic. Meanwhile, the official said that Ganjam district accounted for 213 of the total 580 deaths in Odisha, followed by Khurda (80). The state recorded its highest ever single-day spike of 14 Covid-19 related deaths on August 29.Odisha has tested over 2.26 million samples for Covid-19 till now out of which 41,595 were tested on Tuesday. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-135-000-shortage-of-medical-staff-may-worsen-situation/story-IuAWe3LVrWGhaABnziAC2K.html
09-09-2020||India||Building a revenue-earning city to compensate for the loss of Hyderabad ‘perverted thinking’: Jaganmohan Reddy||Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has rejected the idea of building a revenue-earning city to compensate for the loss of Hyderabad to Telangana when Andhra Pradesh was bifurcated in 2014, calling it “perverted thinking” as mega-cities bring no additional income and instead lead to debt. “Nowhere in the world has it been proved. Major cities grow over the decades and centuries. Investing Rs 1,00,000 crore to build a mega metro is not viable. Forget about additional revenue, you cannot even repay the debt [incurred by spending] …on infrastructure,” Reddy said in an interview to HT.He was responding to a question on his predecessor Chandrababu Naidu’s idea to build a revenue-earning city comparable to Bengaluru, Chennai, and Hyderabad and why not much has been heard of that since Reddy took over.Reddy cited the example of Omaha city in the Midwestern US state of Nebraska with a population of just 400,000. He added 23 of the largest US corporations are headquartered there. “That is where [business tycoon] Warren Buffett stays. [Business magnate and Microsoft co-founder] Bill Gates operates from Seattle [in the northwestern US state of Washington with a population of 608,660],” he said. Also Read: Jagan govt withdraws subsidy to Discoms, to directly transfer power bill amount to farmersReddy underlined mega-cities are unwanted, and only drain resources and become a burden on the people. He said none of the top 10 developed countries have a metro and a mega city. “Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland, and Finland…all these developed countries have no mega-cities. Development is not industrialisation or urbanisation. Development means many things like per capita income and happiness index.”Reddy said Kerala, too, has no major cities and yet is ahead of other states in terms of several parameters. “Development has to be distributed across the state. Visakhapatnam, Anantapuram, Kurnool and Tirupati, and a few other cities can become clusters of development. Ports are being developed. Central Andhra, which is an agriculture hub, can have some agro-logistic parks and all can prosper.”Reddy argued revenue gets generated through manufacturing and a proper service sector. “Why should the industry be located in urban areas? For instance, Visakhapatnam is not our capital. When it was a small town, a steel plant and a few other industries were set up there a few decades ago. Now, it is emerging as a major city.” He added in a similar way, they can have growth centres where industries can be promoted. “The Covid-19 experience tells us that most of the cities ultimately become sick. There is a gradual shift from the so-called major cities or metros to medium and small towns.”Reddy argued against pouring money into building a congested and “a not required urban place”. He added money should instead be spent on connecting places and ensuring faster mobility and cost-effectiveness. “It is a wrong perception that cities generate more money. Barring a couple of exceptions, greenfield capital cities did not succeed anywhere in the world.”He questioned whether the state has resources to build Amravati as per Naidu’s plan. “[US management consulting firm] Boston Consulting Group analysed it from an economic perspective and said its investments are not viable.”Also Read: Only way to overcome GST crisis is to borrow money: Jaganmohan ReddyHe defended his plans to have separate capitals for executive, judicial, and the legislative arms of the state in Visakhapatnam, Kurnool, and Amravati, saying they should not put all their eggs in one basket. “The capital’s functions can be distributed among different places. Why all these functions should be delivered from a particular place? The residuary state of Andhra Pradesh suffered twice in the past on account of [loss of] Chennai and Hyderabad. That is what history tells us. If you put all your eggs in one basket, you are going to suffer. Then why you want to continue with the same approach without taking into account past experiences? It is not logical and rationale thinking,” he said. “The document prepared by the previous [Naidu] regime says that you need Rs 1,00,000 crore [for building the new capital in Amravati]. Instead of planning to build a so-called city at a place which is not suitable for construction of any mega structures on 33,000 acres land acquired or pooled from farmers, he could have planned something on 500 acres elsewhere.”Reddy said a special investigating team is probing land deals of his predecessor and “his cronies”. “People with vested interests purchased lands from poor farmers. Then came the announcement of the capital and subsequent scam. Those who purchased land at throwaway prices benefited to the tune of thousands of crores of rupees. It was just a real estate business by the previous regime to benefit a certain section of people. Once the development is diversified and spread across the state, they become centres of growth...”Reddy rejected as absurd the suggestion that he wanted to downgrade Amravati to slight Naidu. “Why should we bother about Amravati? We believe in the overall development of the state. We did not leave Amravati. The legislature will continue to work from Amravati.” He added had there been a referendum option available, they would have gone for it over Amravati. “We are confident the people would have given a thumbs up for our decentralised development.”A group of farmers have in the high court challenged the move to have three capitals, saying Amravati was made the capital as per a presidential order. The state cannot have three capitals in violation of the order, the farmers have argued.As many as 55 petitions have been filed in the high court challenging the law for the creation of three capitals and abolition of the Capital Region Development Authority for the development of Amravati as the state capital.The Supreme Court last month refused to stay a high court order for the status quo on continuing Amravati as the state capital. It said it cannot interfere in the matter as it was pending before the high court. The Supreme Court also rejected the state government’s plea to direct the high court to expedite the hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/building-a-revenue-earning-city-to-compensate-for-the-loss-of-hyderabad-perverted-thinking-jaganmohan-reddy/story-k42KEUrSvjRRPCiQLHcHrK.html
09-09-2020||India||Omar Abdullah house-hunting in Srinagar, says will vacate government house||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah on Wednesday morning announced that he is vacating the government house at Gupkar road, occupied by him since he was elected a MP from Srinagar in 2002. In a tweet, Omar said that he is vacating the house as the rules of entitlement have changed in the Union Territory (UT) of J&K. Last August, the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two UT’s – Jammu-Kashmir and Ladakh and the special status enjoyed by the region was revoked by the parliament.Omar said he has started house-hunting and will voluntarily vacate the house by the end of October. “My letter to the J&K administration. I will be vacating my government accommodation in Srinagar before the end of October. The point to note is that contrary to stories planted in the media last year, I received no notice to vacate and have chosen to do so of my own accord,’’ Omar Abdullah tweeted the letter addressed to the administrative secretary of the estates department of the J&K government. “I was allotted a house G -1 in 2002 in my capacity as a member of Parliament (MP) representing Srinagar constituency. Subsequent to my election as chief minister in 2008, the adjoining house was renovated and the complex of G1 and G- 5 was used as the official CM residence from October 2010 onwards. I continued to remain in occupation of this accommodation subsequent to my demitting the office of CM in January 2015, as the rules allowed me to retain an accommodation in Srinagar,’’ he said in the letter. Also Read: Pulwama pencils script a made-in-Kashmir story“Consequent upon the change in entitlements for former CMs of J&K some months ago, I now find myself in an unauthorized occupation of this accommodation as no attempt has been made to regularise the allotment to me on security or any other grounds. This is a situation that is unacceptable to me. I have never held on to any government property I was not entitled to and have no intention to start now.’’ Also Read: Ramesh Pokhriyal inaugurates three newly completed projects at Central University of JammuFormer J&K chief minister further states that he is searching for a suitable accommodation. “The process is taking longer because of constraints caused by Covid -19. I intend to complete the process in 8-10 weeks and should be in a position to handover Gupkar road accommodation accordingly.’’ Omar’s official residence was close to the houses of his father Farooq Abdullah and his aunt and sister. It is not clear whether the former CM will shift to his father’s house or any other place within the city. Gupkar is considered the most secure zone in the city and has round the clock security protection and security surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-voluntarily-vacating-official-house-citing-changed-entitlement/story-0q7uisDNPy0aIUG7uyjk7J.html
09-09-2020||India||Farm loan waiver worked, says Congress as farmers’ suicides drop 53% in MP||The Congress in Madhya Pradesh has claimed that the initiatives of former chief minister Kamal Nath to waive of farm loans contributed to the decrease in farmers’ suicides in the state.The Congress claim came on the back of the National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB) annual report that showed a drop of 53% in farmer suicides in Madhya Pradesh in 2019.The NCRB released its accidental deaths and suicides in India (ADSI) report for the year 2019 last week. The Congress said that although the farmers suicide rate increased by 3% in rest of the country, it came down by 53% in Madhya Pradesh. The central Indian state reported 303 farmer suicide cases in 2018 when the Bharatiya Janata Party was in power and it came down to 142 cases in 2019 when Congress ruled the state.The Congress had ended the BJP’s 15-year rule in the state in December 2018 by winning the polls with a slender margin. The Congress formed the government with the help of smaller parties and independents and Nath became the chief minister.Although there is a significant improvement in the suicide cases of farmers, the suicide by farm labourers increased from 352 to 399 in MP during this period, the report says.However, the farmer suicide trend in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, where Congress came to power in 2018 simultaneously with MP and introduced the farm loan waiver scheme, is different. In Rajasthan, only two farmers had committed suicide in 2018 and the number is reported as same in 2019 too while in Chhattisgarh, the number of cases increased by 21% from 182 in 2018 to 233 cases in 2019, according to the ADSI report. Rajasthan government officials said farmer suicides are reported separately only if the investigation shows the reason for committing the acct was farm related.The Congress in Madhya Pradesh had promised Rs 2 lakh per head loan waiver to farmers in the run-up to 2018 assembly elections. Once in power, the Congress government claimed to have waived loans of more than two million farmers who had loans up to Rs 50,000. The second phase of the loan of farmers having loans of Rs 50,001 to Rs one lakh was announced in December 2019. However, the Congress government was dislodged by BJP in March 2020 before the second phase of loan waiver scheme could be implemented. A Congress leader said, “We are not concerned about what happened in other Congress ruled states but in MP we have decided to make the significant fall in the number of farmer suicides a major poll issue in the bypolls in 27 assembly constituencies.” Farmer welfare and agriculture development minister in Kamal Nath government, Sachin Yadav, said, “Former chief minister Nath’s agrarian policies and schemes had given a ray of hope to farmers. The farm loan waiver scheme proved a boon and many farmers got the benefits from the scheme. But other reforms like action against the land mafia, mandi mafia and money lenders,helped bring down the production cost of crops and farmers were getting a fair price for their crops. All these factors brought happiness to farmers in MP.” Farmers and farmers associations have mixed opinions about the Congress’s claim. Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangh president Shivkumar ‘kakkaji’ said, “Apart from the major schemes meant for farmers, Congress-led state government had started addressing small issues too related to farmers. In just one year, more than 2 lakh agriculture land dispute cases, which were in pendency for the past several decades, were resolved by the revenue department. Similarly, farmers were being trained for horticulture too so that their sole dependence on traditional crops could be reduced to some extent.” Bharaitya Kisan Union general secretary Anil Yadav said, “It’s true that the then Congress-led state government’s loan waiver promise reduced the stress on farmers but there was unequal distribution of benefits and poor implementation of the scheme. In fact, both BJP and Congress use farmers to win election and after election they forget them.” A farmer Bhagwan Meena of Sehore district said, “Congress promise of loan waiver raised the hope of farmers. Loan of a section of farmers was waived to a certain amount but a good number of farmers who expected waiver of Rs 2 lakh loan became defaulters in the records of banks as they were not given the benefit of the scheme.” The ruling BJP rubbished the Congress’ claim of improving the condition of farmers.Minister for farmer welfare and agriculture development in the BJP-led government, Kamal Patel said, “The farmers trusted lies of the Congress but in just one year, the then Congress government stood exposed for its falsehood. Now, farmers are facing a tough time due to the Congress’ poor policies. We are helping the farmers overcome their problems. We are also giving compensation to farmers by conducting a swift survey of damaged crops.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-loan-waiver-worked-says-congress-as-farmers-suicides-drop-53-in-mp/story-ipRkgP4c8L5rP6SJWSjtmM.html
09-09-2020||India||Maharashtra home minister gets 2 more threat calls, one from Kangana’s fans||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh received two more threat calls on Wednesday morning after three such calls were made over the last four days. One of the fresh threat calls was reportedly from Himachal Pradesh and is believed to have been made by actor Kangana Ranaut’s fans, who were upset after the minister announced a probe into allegations of drug abuse by Ranaut.According to the officials from the office of the home minister, Deshmukh received two more threat calls at around 6am on Wednesday. One of them was from Himachal Pradesh, the home state of Ranaut.Deshmukh had received three calls in the last three days; one of them was made to his office in Nagpur.“The caller expressed discontent over the statements by the minister against Kangana. Police have been intimated about the calls,” the official said requesting anonymity. Minister Anil Deshmukh told HT, “Yes, I have received the (threat) calls and the Mumbai crime branch has been investigating it.”Deshmukh on Tuesday, the second and concluding day of the monsoon session of the state legislature, had announced a probe into allegations of drug abuse by Ranaut in the past.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut compares Mumbai to Pakistan, shares pics of BMC demolishing her property: ‘Death of democracy’Her purported former boyfriend Adhyayan Suman had in an interview three years ago said that she was on drugs and had forced him to consume the narcotic substance as well. This was brought to the notice of the home minister by Shiv Sena legislators Sunil Prabhu and Pratap Sarnaik on Tuesday.Also Read: Shiv Sena slams Centre for providing security to Kangana Ranaut, calls it insult to Maharashtra“Sena lawmakers Prabhu and Sarnaik had raised the issue about the revelation against Ranaut that she was on drugs. Suman was in a relationship with her and he had said that she used to force him to do drugs as well. Mumbai Police will look into the allegations,” Deshmukh said. The minister had said last week that Ranaut had no right to stay in Mumbai or in Maharashtra as she had insulted the state by likening it with the Pak Occupied Kashmir (PoK).Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s personal residence Matoshree, too, had received threat calls on Saturday followed by threat calls to Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-home-minister-gets-2-more-threat-calls-one-from-kangana-ranaut-s-fans/story-swaj62FjckmOsLsJL8OsZL.html
09-09-2020||India||BSF shoots dead 2 smugglers in Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar||Border Security Force (BSF) troops foiled an infiltration attempt along the border with Pakistan and shot dead two armed smugglers near Sriganganagar in Rajasthan Tuesday night, officials said Wednesday. BSF troopers seized arms and ammunition, drugs and Pakistani currency from the slain intruders who tried to cross the border fence. “During the intervening night of September 8 and 9, on specific intelligence about narcotics smuggling from Pakistan to India side of the border outpost Khayaliwala in Sriganganagar, alert BSF troops foiled a nefarious attempt by armed smugglers and shot dead two smugglers,” a BSF official said.On searching the area, the BSF found two pistols, 28 rounds of ammunition, eight packets of narcotics, one night vision device, Rs 13,000 in Pakistani, one national identity card no 31103-7254202-1 in the name of Shahbaz Ali S/o Mustaq Ahmed along with the bodies of the intruders.The BSF and police have launched a search operation in the area and an FIR has been registered at Gajsinghpur police station. The shooting comes less than three weeks after the BSF shot dead five intruders, who were trying to cross over to Indian territory from Pakistan, in a village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district.An AK-series rifle and a pistol were recovered from the site where the intruders were killed near Dal village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-shoots-dead-2-smugglers-in-rajasthan-s-sriganganagar/story-2T9f5NAiz5682RlSvfcQYK.html
09-09-2020||India||French defence minister Florence Parly to visit India for Rafale induction||French defence minister Florence Parly will make an official visit to India on September 10 to attend the ceremony marking the induction of the first batch of Rafale combat jets into the Indian Air Force (IAF) and to take forward cooperation in key areas such as the Indo-Pacific and joint exercises. This will be Parly’s third official visit to India since 2017, and one of her first trips abroad since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also read: 5 things you need to know about the induction of Rafale jets into IAF at AmbalaParly’s visit is aimed at strengthening France’s “forward-looking defence cooperation with India, its foremost Asian strategic partner”, according to a statement issued by the French embassy on Wednesday. She will meet her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. ALSO WATCH | ‘Birds pose threat to Rafale jets’: IAF writes to Chief Secretary over issue“Their broad-ranging talks will cover, among others, industrial and technological partnership in line with the Make in India programme, operational defence cooperation, particularly maritime security in the Indo-Pacific, modalities of continuing the armed forces’ joint exercises in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, counter-terrorism cooperation, as well as major regional and international strategic issues,” the statement said. These talks will also take forward the decision by President Emmanuel Macron and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deepen and expand the bilateral partnership, with strategic autonomy and defence of a multi-polar order as its cornerstones, it said. In a video message posted on Twitter, French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain described the visit as one of the “next steps” in the bilateral relationship. During her visit to air force station Ambala for the ceremony to induct the Rafale jets, Parly will be received by defence minister Singh and the IAF chief, Air Chief Marshall RKS Bhadauria. The French minister’s delegation will include top executives from Dassault Aviation, Thales Group, Safran and MBDA, representing the French defence majors that have partnered with Indian companies as part of the Rafale agreement. Parly will also pay a floral tribute to India’s soldiers at the National War Memorial in Delhi. France has emerged as one of India’s closest partners in the fields of defence and security. Besides backing efforts at world bodies such as the UN and the Financial Action Task Force to crack down on terrorism emanating from Pakistan, France recently provided India 120 ventilators and 50,000 test kits to counter the Covid-19 pandemic. It has also announced it will provide financial aid of up to 200 million euros to support vulnerable sections of society affected by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-defence-minister-florence-parly-to-visit-india-for-rafale-induction/story-CPKMlA2T5VgIp80Q67CtUM.html
09-09-2020||India||Cities becoming concrete jungles, no place to relax or play, says Bombay HC||A Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday expressed grave concern about rapidly ‘disappearing’ green cover and open spaces from urban India and stated that cities are speedily becoming concrete jungle while it struck down a tender by Nagpur municipal corporation to commercialise a park.A two-member bench comprising justice Sunil Square and justice Anil Kilor said that with every passing year and every new census, data evidences that more and more population is living in urban areas, as cities become the economic engines of the future.“Population is so congested in the lanes and streets of colonies in cities that people hardly find a place to relax,” said the bench perturbed by a sharp decrease in green cover in cities.The bench observed that cities are fast becoming a concrete jungle, as green areas have started disappearing with astonishing rapidity and now children hardly get opportunities to play out of their houses and experience the natural environment.The bench expressed a serious need for protecting parks and gardens as they are lungs of the localities while deciding a public interest litigation filed by civic action guild foundation, Nagpur.In the PIL, the non-profit organisation questioned the legality of the tender issued by Nagpur municipal corporation in July 2020 for appointing a contractor to maintain a children’s park. It was particularly aggrieved by the clauses in the tender that allowed the contractor to commercialise the open space by setting up their own sports complex, swimming pool, restaurant etc.Also Read: Maharashtra home minister receives threat call for criticising Kangana RanautHC accepted the arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioner body that the development already carried out at the park was unauthorised, and the civic body could not be allowed to further proceed with the tender. It also accepted that allowing commercialisation of the park, which is reserved in the sanctioned development plan as a garden, would amount to change its use.Also Read: Mumbai consumer rights body to seek clarifications on DGCA affidavit over air ticket refunds in Supreme Court“There is no doubt that if the park is used for commercial purposes, it may frustrate the purpose for which the said open space has been reserved in the final development plan,” said the bench and struck down the tender.It has also directed Nagpur municipal corporation to examine if the construction work done so far was in conformity with the development control regulations and the broader requirement of protecting open and green spaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cities-becoming-concrete-jungles-no-place-to-relax-or-play-says-bombay-hc/story-Gd2VwYMLDB5xDBJcio614J.html
09-09-2020||India||BMC begins demolishing illegal parts of Kangana Ranaut’s Bandra office for ‘structural violations’||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday started the demolition of structural violations carried out at actor Kangana Ranaut’s office in suburban’s Bandra’s Pali Hill. A civic squad has already reached her office.The structure in question is Ranaut’s Manikarnika Films Private Limited office, which is a ground plus two-storey building.Also read: Shiv Sena slams Centre for providing security to Kangana Ranaut, calls it insult to MaharashtraVinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner, BMC, H-West Ward under whose jurisdiction Bandra falls, said: “We will carry out the demolition work on Wednesday over the structural violations carried out at Ranaut’s office at Pali Hill. Further action will be taken after the demolition process.” As per the civic rules, any structure has to be built in line with the plan submitted to the local authorities. Any illegal changes in the plan or alterations in the structure attract legal action. On Tuesday, BMC had issued a notice to Ranaut over several structural violations carried out in her office while asking her to respond within 24 hours and take corrective measures, failing which “the illegal portions” would be demolished.Later, Ranaut’s lawyer had written to the BMC authorities asking seven days to respond to the notice, instead of 24 hours. The lawyer had cited that the notice is legally untenable. Ranaut is incensed at the turn of events. “As I am all set for a Mumbai darshan on my way to the airport, Maharashtra government and their goons are at my property. They are all set to illegally break it down. Go on! I promised to give blood for Maharashtra’s pride. This is nothing. Take everything, but my spirit will only soar higher,” she tweeted on Wednesday morning.Ranaut has been involved in a bitter war of words with Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena, which also controls the BMC, over her remarks likening Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, which also comprises the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, has accused Ranaut of siding with its rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).On Tuesday, a breach of privilege motion was moved against Ranaut in the Maharashtra legislative assembly for her remarks against Mumbai and its police. The Maharashtra government had also said that it would probe into allegations made by actor Adhyayan Suman, her purported ex-boyfriend, in an interview three years ago that Ranaut did drugs and also compelled him to consume narcotic substances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-to-demolish-illegal-parts-of-kangana-ranaut-s-bandra-office-for-structural-violations/story-kanQDWX48iB9OGKbsGajAO.html
09-09-2020||India||No more Sunday curbs for weekly markets in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday decided to restore routine weekly closures of markets and end the Sunday closure policy. He also ordered that Tehsil Diwas and Thana Diwas be restarted for the redressal of public grievances. With this, the Uttar Pradesh government has completely lifted weekend curbs, which were introduced on July 14. Last week, the state government withdrew Saturday’s restrictions. At the Covid-19 and Unlock review meeting held at Lok Bhawan here, the chief minister asked officers concerned to end Sunday restrictions, but emphasised: “Test everyone in containment zones for Covid-19”. Also Read: Covid-19 pop-up test centres near govt offices, weekly markets soonThe CM said, “Encourage the hospitality industry—hotels and restaurants—outside containment zones to operate while following Covid-19 safety protocols. People should be made aware about the disease, but at the same time economic activities should be stepped up.” He asked the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI), King George’s Medical University (KGMU )and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Medical Institute to set up 1,000 ICU beds in total. Also Read: ‘Dragon has many heads’: Court orders Covid-19 tests for migrants returning to DelhiOn public grievance redressal, he said, “Conduct Tehsil Diwas and Thana Diwas while following Covid-19 guidelines. Additional district magistrates, police circle officers and tehsildars should engage in immediate redressal of public grievances in their respective areas,” he said. He asked the officers concerned to make efforts to increasing GST (Goods and Service Tax) collection and register more traders. Yogi also said that he would summon a meeting of Udyog Bandhu for a dialogue with industrialists and entrepreneurs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-more-sunday-curbs-for-weekly-markets-in-uttar-pradesh/story-KpzZc4ge3pMmAEFI8RYhdI.html
09-09-2020||India||East UP migrants to get support for starting fisheries business||Migrant workers form wastern Uttar Pradesh who returned home during the lockdown will now get a chance to start fisheries business with support from the Lucknow-based National Bureau of Fish Genetics Resources (NBFGR).The Institute will provide assistance to migrant labourers in 14 districts of UP to which majority of the migrants returned post lockdown. Most of these migrant workers lost their jobs and savings during the lockdown and depend on government aid to make ends meet. A possible employment in the fisheries sector can help them become self-reliant once again.“The plan is to involve around 3,000 families of migrant workers with the fisheries sector in these districts. We provide training and technological help to these workers. They can use this to set up successful businesses,” said Kuldeep K Lal, director NBFGR.After poultry, fisheries is the second fastest growing meat industry in the country, according to experts. The migrants can capitalise on the upward trend.NBFGR experts will provide training to these migrants to farm a variety of freshwater fish and crustaceans like prawns and crabs.“Easy availability of space and fresh water in the area will make it easier for migrant workers to start their business. We will also take help of the local district administration to provide help in starting the business or taking loans from banks for the same,” said the director.The districts that will benefit through the initiative include Ballia, Ghazipur, Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Mau, Sonbhadra, Gonda, Basti, Jaunpur and Azamgarh etc.Dharmendra Verma, a migrant worker in Gorakhapur is looking forward to the programme. “Around 50 people in my village have returned from different states. We all are ready to take up fisheries as a business because it will allow us to work without leaving our village,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/east-up-migrants-to-get-support-for-starting-fisheries-business/story-kWPXGzFxp4YlMWLUstvK3O.html
09-09-2020||India||Mumbai’s Ro-Ro ferry service gets massive response, frequency to increase||The roll-on/roll-off (ro-ro) ferry service that resumed from August 20 has received a great response from Mumbaikars who have been itching for a getaway after being stuck in lockdown since March. The owners, who resumed with one service between Mumbai and Mandwa, will now be increasing it to three services a day from September 20 owing to increasing demand. According to data shared by the M2M Ferries Pvt Ltd, more than 5,000 passengers, 1,200 cars, 270 two-wheelers and cyclists have taken a trip on the ferry since August 20. Aashim Mongia from M2M Ferries said that most people are taking a leisure trip to Alibag. “Most people are tired of being stuck in their homes. Plus compared to travelling via roads, it is much easier to take the ferry,” Mongia said. The state’s first ro-ro service between Mumbai’s Ferry Wharf and Mandwa in Alibag was launched in March. However, it was shut owing to the lockdown. The operations were limited to one service to and from Mandwa initially, which was then increased to two services a day. “To mark the first month of the resumption of the service, we will be initiating three services to and from Mandwa,” Mongia said.As a precautionary measure, however, ferries are being operated with reduced capacity. A spokesperson said the operator will not be taking bookings for more than 300 passengers and 60 cars for each trip whereas its capacity is close to 500 passengers and 145 cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-ro-ro-ferry-service-gets-massive-response-frequency-to-increase/story-U29izSZZwjYofHJ3tei8xJ.html
09-09-2020||India||5 things you need to know about the induction of Rafale jets into IAF at Ambala||The Indian Air Force is all set to formally induct its latest Rafale fighter jets at the Ambala airbase on Thursday in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, officials said Wednesday. French defence minister Florence Parly and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria will attend the ceremony, they added. The two ministers are likely to hold a meeting on the sidelines of the event, the officials said.Here are five things you should know about India’s latest warplanes 1. Five of the 36 Rafales ordered by the IAF arrived at the Ambala airbase on July 29. India had ordered the jets from France in a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016. While the air chief and other IAF officials welcomed the Rafales and the pilots on arrival, a formal induction ceremony is being held on September 10. These Rafale jets are part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, also known as the ‘Golden Arrows’. Also Read: To protect Rafale from bird-hits, Ambala admn told to clean up litter near IAF base2. The next batch comprising three or four Rafale jets is expected to reach Ambala from France in October, followed by a third batch in December, the officials said. All deliveries will be completed by the end of 2021. 3. India’s new Rafale fighters will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of the air force with their advanced weaponry, high-tech sensors, superior radar for detection and tracking of targets and ability to carry an impressive payload, experts said. Also Read: Defence ministry working to announce new air defence command by October: Report4. The Rafale weaponry includes Meteor, beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica, multi-mission air-to-air missiles, and Scalp, deep-strike cruise missiles—weapons that allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap. 5. Officials said the IAF could deploy its new Rafale fighters in the Ladakh sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region, where Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a tense border confrontation and military friction has grown in recent weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-things-you-need-to-know-about-the-induction-of-rafale-jets-into-iaf-at-ambala/story-Uq9rWS5loRtO9nH4bPWy6I.html
09-09-2020||India||Two held on Jammu-Srinagar highway with huge cache of arms, ammunition||In a joint operation conducted by Jammu Kashmir Police and Indian Army on late Tuesday night, two persons were arrested near the Jawahar tunnel on Jammu - Srinagar national highway and a huge cache of arms and ammunition recovered from a truck in which the accused were travelling. The recoveries include an AK rifle, M4 rifle and six pistols. A senior police officer said the operation was carried out based on technical inputs from Kulgam police.“The teams of army and the CRPF were present along with the police personnel when the vehicle in which weapons were concealed was stopped on the national highway,” the officer mentioned above said.Also Read: No high-speed internet for J-K; only Ganderbal, Udhampur districts to continue getting 4G till Sept-endArmy, in a tweet, said that the two suspects were arrested in a joint operation near Jawahar tunnel, Kulgam at midnight yesterday based on inputs from the police.Also Read: J&K L-G e-inaugurates development projects worth ₹23.40 crore in UdhampurThe truck was coming from Jammu/ Akhnoor and recoveries include an AK rifle with two magazines, one M4 US Carbine with three magazines and six Chinese pistols with 12 magazines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-held-on-jammu-srinagar-highway-with-huge-cache-of-arms-ammunition/story-sirfgFF8kGwcPzQrXUQLYL.html
09-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty taken to Byculla jail||Actor Rhea Chakraborty was brought to Byculla jail by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials on Wednesday morning. She was arrested by the agency on Tuesday in connection with the investigation of a drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The arrest was made under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Her bail plea was rejected by the court on the same day. ALSO WATCH | Sushant’s sister reacts to Rhea’s arrest; Bihar police chief on NCB probeRhea’s Chakraborty’s arrest came 3 days after the arrest of her brother Showik and Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda.The actor was summoned to the NCB office for questioning for three consecutive days before her arrest. “Rhea is an active member of a drug syndicate and used to manage finance for drug procurement along with the late actor,” the NCB had said in its remand application.The agency said it had not found any contraband from Rhea and her brother Showik’s residence in Juhu but there was enough evidence to produce before the court.“We have sufficient material to arrest her, but I will not comment on the evidence in this case. We will produce that before the court,” the agency added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-taken-to-byculla-jail/story-8IAl9OdGanGbYeihy2w5FL.html
09-09-2020||India||PLA’s actions aimed to test India’s mettle||China’s aggressive moves in Ladakh and the South China Sea are based on a historical construct. If a Green Line crafted in 1960 by then paramount leader Mao Zedong is the objective of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Ladakh, it is the 9, 10 or 11 dash line (depending on political convenience; the concept has a dubious historical basis in the Sino-French war) that is the target of the Red Army in the South China Sea.The PLA’s main enemy in the South China Sea is a competing superpower, the US, which is backing Taiwan, even as members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations look the other way. Its adversary in Ladakh, adjoining sensitive and restive Tibet and Xinjiang, is a rising power, India, whose neighbours have all become increasingly cosy with Beijing in recent years .Also read: PLA force accretion on Finger 4 belies Beijing Ladakh disengagement offerAlthough the ambitious western theatre commander of PLA, Zhao Zongqi, portrayed the Indian Army as an aggressor or a war monger after Monday’s clash at the Rezang La- Rechin La ridgeline, the fact is that Indian troops are only preventing the Chinese from reach their outrageous Green Line claim in the south of Pangong Tso. The Indian Army did the same on August 29-30, and at the same spot. It is quite evident that there is a short-term and a long-term context to the latest clash, both of which are familiar to commanders on the ground. .Clearly, the latest PLA aggression is aimed at teaching the Indian Army a lesson for using the Special Frontier Force (SFF), largely comprising Tibetans-in-exile, on the front line in the August clash. What has upset Beijing the most is that the sacrifice of a Tibetan SFF junior commissioned officer, Nyima Tenzin, in the battle on August 29-30, something that has become a rallying point for Tibetans all over the world and revived resistance against the Chinese occupation of the region. To make matters worse, the SFF proved its worth in high mountainous terrain.However, the long-term objective of China is to destabilize India by putting continuous pressure along the 3,488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC), fully knowing its impact on Indian polity and on the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On August 12, 2013, Shyam Saran, a China expert and then chairman of the National Security Advisory Board, submitted a report to the then Prime Minister’s Office that advocated increased patrolling of the LAC by the Indian Army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police. Saran said that while the patrolling points (65 in Ladakh) within the Indian LAC were identified by the apex China Study group, there was a need for the Indian Army and the ITBP to patrol till the actual LAC as there were significant gaps between the points and the perceived line. While admitting that patrolling the mountainous terrain was difficult, the former foreign secretary pointed to increased PLA activity in these areas due to an upgrade of border infrastructure by China.Also read: Face-off at Rechin La leads to scuffle with aggressive PLA. Situation tense but ground commanders talkingEssentially,what Saran, in the context of the April-May 2013 PLA intrusion in Depsang Bulge, meant was that PLA had the option of nibbling at the LAC due to lack of Indian patrolling till the perceived LAC. The 2013 intrusion has ensured that Indian forces virtually cannot patrol points 10 to 13 with the PLA sitting on the mouth of the Bulge at Raki Nullah. The PLA aggression in the past four months in eastern Ladakh has left the Narendra Modi government no option but to militarily contest the PLA nibbling of the LAC or lose political equity by ceding territory to Communist China.India is facing a triple whammy. First, its economy has shrunk 23% in first quarter due to the coronavirus pandemic that originated in Wuhan, China. Second, the economic cost of putting the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force on war-like alert with emergency purchases is significant and mounting each day. It is quite evident that the Chinese economy can afford this deployment, and Beijing would like to tire out the Indian Army and economically bleed India till such time status quo ante is restored in Ladakh. The PLA is an expert in tiring out the enemy since the Korean war. Third, the country it is using is its all-weather ally, Pakistan, to provoke India on the Line of Control (LOC) through cross-border firing and terrorist infiltration. Had it not been for the umbilical ties between India and the Nepalese army, Beijing may have well been successful in activating a fourth dimension to bleed India.While the PLA’s attention is today diverted on two fronts with the US activating the Indo-China front, with Australia and Japan, India will feel more military pressure in Ladakh should the US position change after the country’s presidential election in November. Europe is still to understand the rise of China, which has close economic ties with the European Union powerhouse Germany. The big picture for India appears to be grim at the moment in the context of China, but the country will be in pole position if it can ride over this round of Chinese checkers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-s-actions-aimed-to-test-india-s-mettle/story-gknGfBJaXcfYYCTQZJFEXN.html
09-09-2020||India||NGT raps Rajasthan on the knuckles for inadequate measures in Sambhar lake||The National Green Tribunal has rapped the Rajasthan government for inadequate remedial measures in Sambhar lake where thousands of birds died last year and has ordered the chief secretary to furnish a report of monitoring the water body before the next date of hearing on January 22. “Since Sambhar Lake is said to be a Ramsar site of international significance, and remedial action taken is not adequate even after sufficiently long time, we direct the chief secretary to monitor further remedial steps in the matter, at least once every month, and furnish a report of such monitoring to this tribunal before the next date of hearing,” said the NGT order by chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel and judicial member SP Wangdi.The government received a copy of the order on Monday after it had been passed on August 27. Sambhar lake, the largest inland salt lake in India, hit the headlines late last year after almost 22,000 migratory birds died there and sparked alarm among environmentalists and ornithologists. The birds died due to animal botulism, a neuromuscular illness. The NGT is hearing the original application filed on the basis of a news item published in Hindustan Times, titled ‘Sambhar’s ecology among worst: Report’, on November 20, 2019, and petitions filed by Jaipur-based Wild Creatures Organisation and Delhi-based the Ecology, Rural Development and Sustainability Foundation (ERDS Foundation), both non-profit organisations. During a hearing on March 17, the NGT ordered the state government, among other things, to prepare a comprehensive management plan. The State Wetland Authority (SWA) told the NGT on June 23 that a comprehensive environment management plan had been prepared by the environment department but was yet to be approved by the authority. “Due to Covid emergency, the meeting of wetland authority could not be held which will be held shortly and the plan will be submitted thereafter. Delineation of core and buffer area has been included in the comprehensive management plan and compliance will be submitted along with the management plan,” the SWA report said. Meanwhile, chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup will interact with collectors on September 11 through video conference and the SWA meeting has been scheduled on September 15, officials said. The chief secretary earlier reviewed progress with departments on August 4 and a meeting of the Standing Committee on Management of Sambhar Lake was held on August 6. The NGT noted in the August 27 order that the problem of management of waste and sewage, removal of encroachment and disposal of sodium sulphate waste/ sludge generated from salt refining units still remain to be fully tackled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-raps-rajasthan-on-the-knuckles-for-inadequate-measures-in-sambhar-lake/story-KFrY5gaPcFZKtGvdwPzVeK.html
09-09-2020||India||Mumbai consumer rights body to seek clarifications on DGCA affidavit over air ticket refunds in Supreme Court||A week after the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) informed the Supreme Court that airlines will give full refunds to passengers who booked tickets during the first and second lockdown, which had to be cancelled due to Covid-19, consumer body Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP), also party to the plea, will be seeking clarifications on certain pointers mentioned in the aviation regulator’s affidavit. The hearing of the plea is scheduled for Wednesday morning. According to MGP, senior citizens should not be asked to use credit shells, and airlines should not ask passengers to pay the fare difference and instead be allowed to fly on the original ticket price till March 2021. A credit shell is an open ticket, issued when an airline holds on to the booking amount in the form of credit. Also Read: Centre proposes full refund in 15 days on air tickets booked before lockdown“On the whole, the proposal of the civil aviation ministry is welcome as it tries to harmonise and balance the interest of both passengers and the airlines. There is, however, a need for further relief. The ministry must direct that senior citizens need not use this credit shell. In the present situation, senior citizens are advised not to travel and hence it will be in consonance with government policy to direct airlines to refund the ticket amounts to senior citizens forthwith. There’s also a need to protect these passengers against the possible fare hike and they should be allowed to travel till March 31 on the same fare,” said advocate Shirish Deshpande, chairman, MGP. “Further, the government must make it clear that in no circumstances, can the credit shell period can be extended beyond March 31, 2021.” This comes after DGCA, in its affidavit to the SC, stated that tickets booked for domestic and international carriers between March 25 and May 3 will be fully refunded within 15 days. DGCA’s affidavit also stated that “If on account of financial distress, if the airlines are not able to do so, they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected. This credit shell shall be issued in the name of the passenger who has booked the ticket.”Also Read: Airlines get ready for in-flight meal servicesThe affidavit also stated that passengers will be able to use the credit shell up to March 31, 2021 and change the flight sector. This means that a passenger booked on a Mumbai- Indore flight can change his/ her sector and fly to any other destination till March 2021.This is after an order was issued by SC on June 13 asking private airlines and the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) to find a way to refund the airfare of passengers whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown. It was then the meetings were held with all the stakeholders in July and it was decided that tickets booked directly by passengers during lockdown 1 and 2 will be fully refunded. A former DGCA official said, “Which airline is doing financially well with this pandemic? Why will an airline provide a refund when they can state that they are currently financially unstable and hence cannot provide a refund?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-consumer-rights-body-to-seek-clarifications-on-dgca-affidavit-over-air-ticket-refunds-in-supreme-court/story-Ess65xhjB50OtQXfTvDEVK.html
09-09-2020||India||Nearly 90,000 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally past 4.3 million; active cases close to 9 lakh||India on Wednesday recorded 89,706 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, pushing the nationwide tally to 43,70,129, according to Union health ministry dashboard on Wednesday.The number of fatalities rose by 1,115, according to the health ministry data, to reach 73,890.The number of active cases went up further, with 13,697 recorded in the last 24 hours. The total number of active cases stand at 8,97,394.The number of active cases will soon cross the nine lakh mark. The more worrying situation is that half of these cases are in just three states - Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.India has seen the number of cases rise rapidly in the month of August - in the third week of last month, the country added 4,024 active cases daily. The number has now increased to 14,273 daily active cases.At this rate, India will see a million active cases by next week.There is concern because of more relaxations being allowed by the government. The metro services have been resuming phase wise, and with footfalls expected to increase in the days to come, authorities fear the number of cases could see a rise further.The health ministry had said on Tuesday that the above three states, along with Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, account for nearly 70 per cent of deaths due to Covid-19 in the country.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that apart from these five states, other states and union territories account for 31.37 per cent of the deaths due to the disease.He also highlighted that despite the high number of cases, the number of Covid-19 cases per million population in the country stands at 3,102 - among the lowest in the world.Bhushan said that the global average for number of cases per million population stands at 3,527.He also said that Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is continuously declining. “It was 2.15 per cent in the first week of August. It now stands at 1.70 per cent compared to the global average of 3.04 per cent,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-90-000-new-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-tally-past-4-3-million-active-cases-close-to-9-lakh/story-ObHW7HMRASnrRAKabaL4bJ.html
09-09-2020||India||Damaged British-era Durmi-Gauna lake in Uttarakhand to be revived after 5 decades||A British-era lake which was largely covered by debris following a cloudburst and landslide in Chamoli district will now be revived to make it a prominent tourist attraction. Durmi-Gauna lake also known as Birahi taal, 18 km from Nijmula valley in Chamoli was a prominent lake of Garhwal region on the lines of Nainital in Kumaon during the early part of the last century. Britishers liked this hill spot owing to its scenic beauty against the background of the Trishul Himalayas and water of four rivulets forming the core water supply of this lake. The vast alpine pastures and panoramic Himalayan view from this lake and adjacent villages provide a breathtaking view to the visitors. According to district magistrate Chamoli Swati S Bhadauriya, the Durmi-Gauna lake has vast potential to be re-developed into a prominent tourist destination for which survey and project report is being prepared. “Durmi–Gauna lake is situated in the midst of two villages Durmi and Gauna because of which this lake is known as Durmi-Gauna lake. It was a major lake during the pre and post-Independence era. Boats used to operate on this lake with a large number of tourists and visitors from neighbouring districts of Garhwal-Kumaon division used to arrive. But due to a natural disaster on July 20, 1970 when a cloudburst and heavy rainfall and landslide resulted in burying much of the lake with debris and boulders from the mountain. Now, this lake will be revived and redeveloped with multi development projects to restore its lost status,” Bhadauriya said. On the anvil are re-carpeting of the track route leading to the Durmi Gauna lake, viewpoint, camping sites, cycling track, a mini-museum and basic tourist amenities. A geological survey of the surrounding area of this lake is also being done, officials said. Mohan Singh Negi, headman of the nearby Irani village, who along with12 other village heads, has been pursuing the revival of Durmi-Gauna lake, pointed out that prior to the 1970 catastrophe, there were around a dozen odd British-era boats in the lake. “The remains of a British-era boat was recovered on August 17 this year after carrying out digging work near Durmital. A single line phone facility also existed at Durmi lake then which itself speaks of the significance of this lake. Local people used to get employment as boat operators and the local economy was tourist based but after the lake was covered, there was a mass exodus of youths who moved out in search of employment,” said Negi. “A British-era bungalow near Durmi village is testimony of the Britishers’ love for this place” , said Narayan Singh, who was 30 years old when the natural disaster covered the lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/damaged-british-era-durmi-gauna-lake-in-uttarakhand-to-be-revived-after-5-decades/story-MkOcIt5vfynozhe7VIGqRO.html
09-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut tests Covid-19 negative, leaves Himachal home for Mumbai||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut left her hometown of Mandi in Himachal Pradesh for Chandigarh by road early on Wednesday to catch a flight to Mumbai after testing negative for Covid-19 late Tuesday night. An inconclusive Covid-19 report on Tuesday threatened to disrupt her travel plans to Mumbai amid her ongoing war of words with Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut over her remarks that she doesn’t feel safe in Mumbai after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Last week, Kangana had taken to Twitter to claim: “Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena leader, has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai. After Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?” The actor was provided Y-plus Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) security on the recommendation of the Himachal Pradesh Police chief Sanjay Kundu after she complained of threat to her life. Also Read: Kangana Ranaut to be probed over drug-use claim, says Maharashtra home ministerShe travelled from her home in the periphery of the tourist town of Manali to her native Bhambla village in Mandi district on Tuesday. A medical team in Manali had taken swab samples of Kangana and her younger sister, Rangoli Chandel, for Covid-19 testing as she had plans to travel to Mumbai. However, the report was inconclusive. Later, a team from Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College in Mandi drew fresh samples of the sisters. Both tested negative in results declared around midnight and left for Chandigarh from Mandi district by road to board a flight to Mumbai. It is a five-hour drive from Mandi to Chandigarh. Also Read: Security tightens for Kangana Ranaut as she returns to MumbaiChief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who had described her as a daughter of Himachal Pradesh, spoke to Kangana over the phone on Tuesday and confirmed that she would be travelling on September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-tests-covid-19-negative-leaves-himachal-home-for-mumbai/story-YsnEmTCi3IYjGmtbF1rxvN.html
09-09-2020||India||PLA force accretion on Finger 4 belies Beijing’s Ladakh disengagement offer||At a time when Chinese Foreign Ministry is expressing hopes of troops going back to camping areas from present confrontation in Ladakh, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is showing no such signs on ground and has undertaken force accretion on contested Finger four relief feature of Pangong Tso. The doubling of PLA troop strength on Finger four on north bank of the lake has sowed distrust in the Indian Army’s mind about the sincerity of Beijing offer even as it holds dominant positions south of the saltwater lake. The only other explanation is that the Chinese Foreign Ministry is not on the same page as the Western Theatre Commander of the PLA.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is meeting his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on Thursday to discuss the border situation and remind Beijing about the bilateral commitment to peace and tranquility accords signed since 1993 which pertain to minimum troop deployment along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Also Watch | Explained: Behind China’s LAC dares, a nefarious plot to destabilize IndiaThe fundamental problem facing the Indian Army in proposed disengagement and de-escalation is lack of any Chinese guarantee that the PLA will not occupy those positions vacated by the Indian troops south of Pangong Tso. Just as PLA has taken dominant positions upto Finger 4 on the north bank, the Indian Army is now holding the Rezang La-Rechin La ridgeline right upto its perception of the LAC. The PLA troops are virtually contesting these Indian positions through large scale deployments south of the lake.Although the Chinese spokesperson on Tuesday talked about harsh weather conditions in the area, fact is that Indian Army has been used to such conditions since Operation Meghdoot in Siachen in 1984. “ The Indian soldier is prepared for mountain and snow from the very beginning with virtually all of them serving either on the Line of Control with Pakistan, Siachen Glacier or the LAC,” said a military commander. The PLA on the other hand last bled in Vietnam in 1979.The basic problem facing disengagement is that Chinese have road infrastructure right upto the LAC in Ladakh, while the Indian Army troops have to traverse mountain passes, nullahs and ridges to reach their current posts and positions. “If China is serious about disengagement and de-escalation, then both sides have to bilaterally commit that the other side will not occupy the heights once vacated by the present occupant. Only then will the disengagement be successful,” said a military commander.In the past 27 years, the PLA have nibbled into the LAC with the Indian Army troops with their defensive mindset sticking only to the patrolling points (defined by the China Study Group), which fall well short of Indian perception line. However, the Indian Army’s posture has changed since the initial PLA transgressions in May. And this time, the Indian troops are not even willing to given an inch within their side of the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-force-accretion-on-finger-4-belies-beijing-ladakh-disengagement-offer/story-YKGtaAU3FAkyZ6VSmRExOP.html
09-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s banking sector debt severely affected due to Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.70% of banking sector debt affected by Covid-19 impactThe Indian economy wasn’t in great shape even before the Covid-19 outbreak, which has only made matters worse. The report by the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) expert committee on a resolution framework, headed by former ICICI Bank chief K V Kamath, brings this out clearly. Read moreSadhvi raped at Jharkhand ashram, one held, hunt on for 3 othersOne of four persons accused of raping a 46-year-old Sadhvi at her ashram late on Monday night in Jharkhand’s Godda district has been arrested on Tuesday, while a special investigation team (SIT) was constituted to nab the other three accused, police said. Read moreDelhi to see dry weather this weekDelhi is likely to experience dry weather over the next four-five days after a spell of light rains over the past week, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. The IMD has forecast a partly cloudy sky and strong surface winds at a speed of up to 30 kilometres per hour (kmph) to blow across the national capital on Wednesday. Read moreJapan: Yoshihide Suga in pole position for PM as debate kicks offYoshihide Suga is on course for a landslide victory in the race to become Japan’s next prime minister, an Asahi newspaper tally showed, as debate kicks off later Wednesday among the three candidates vying to succeed long-time leader Shinzo Abe. Read moreIPL 2020: Steve Smith’s wicket on Ravi Bishnoi’s wish listRavi Bishnoi idolises Shane Warne, but neither his bowling action nor approach are similar to the Australian legend. There is a bit of Anil Kumble and some Rashid Khan to his action. While Warne was a classical leggie, Bishnoi, like Khan, has more hustle during release, and a longer run-up like Kumble. Read more‘Padhna Likhna Abhiyan’ to achieve goal of total literacy by 2030: Education ministerThe government’s new literacy scheme, ‘Padhna Likhna Abhiyan’, will be a leap forward for achieving the goal of total literacy by 2030, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said on Tuesday. Read moreHappy birthday Akshay Kumar: When Twinkle Khanna threatened to not have a second child, other lesser-known facts about their marriageDespite being polar opposites of each other, Akshay Kumar and Twinkle Khanna’s marriage has been rock-solid for almost two decades now. If he is diplomatic, she is famous for her no-holds-barred style. He is a fitness enthusiast who loves outdoor activities, while she prefers to curl up with a good book. However, their differences only make them stronger. Read moreTesla CEO Elon Musk loses record $16.3 billion with wild wealth swingsElon Musk’s net worth plunged $16.3 billion Tuesday, the largest single-day wipeout in the history of the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, as the Tesla Inc. rout continued. Read morePeople without masks remind Delhi Police of this Jolly LLB dialogueMasks are essential and people need to wear them while stepping outside. Period. The authorities, every now and then, take to social media to emphasis and create awareness about the importance of following this safety rule. Most of the times, they do so in a creative and witty manner. Case in point is this post by Delhi Police. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-banking-sector-debt-severely-affected-due-to-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Whqd4cQTph9L9eaWwJt0YM.html
09-09-2020||India||Darjeeling, Kalimpong open for tourists, Sikkim to follow suit in October||After remaining shut for almost six months due to the Covid-9 pandemic, the popular hills stations of Darjeeling and Kalimpong in West Bengal have opened their gates for tourists. The neighbouring Himalayan state of Sikkim is expected to follow suit from October. Every year more than 10 lakh tourists visit the region. This year, however, because of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the hill stations were totally shut since March. Sikkim was among the first states to ban the entry of tourists from March 16. On September 5, the West Bengal government had permitted hotels in Darjeeling and Kalimpong to resume their services following social distancing norms and maintaining hygiene. Those within containment zones, however, would have to remain shut. “Now that the hotels have opened up we are optimistic that tourists would start arriving and the tourism industry would roll back to normal in a phased manner. We are expecting tourists soon,” Sangey Tshering Bhutia, president of Darjeeling Hotel Owners’ Association. Tourism is one of the important economic activities in the hills with almost 15% of the population dependent on it for their livelihoods. Both Kalimpong and Darjeeling have low cases of Covid-19. On September 8, Kalimpong which has the second lowest number of Covid-9 cases among the districts of West Bengal after Jhargram, had only 64 active cases compared to 4,067 in Kolkata. Hoteliers said that they have drawn up plans on how to sanitise hotels and maintain hygiene when tourists start flocking in. “Once a guest checks out of the room it would be sanitized and would be kept vacant for at least three days before allotting to another guest. There would be no buffet system, body temperature of guests would be checked when they check in and all hotel staff would be wearing masks and gloves. The entire hotel would be sanitized regularly,” said Diamond Oberoi, managing director of a prominent hotel. Public transport connecting New Jalpaiguri and Siliguri with the hills stations of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and other places have already started. “As many tourists prefer to take shared jeeps and buses to the hills from Siliguri bus stand and NJP railway station the drivers would maintain social distance among the tourists while ferrying them to their destination. They would be taking only half the passengers they used to take during pre-Covid times,” S N Pradhan, president of Himalayan Transport Coordination Committee So far around seven long distance trains are running via New Jalpaiguri railway station including Agartala-Delhi Rajdhani Express, Brahmaputra Mail and Padatik Express. Subhanan Chanda, chief public relations officer of North East Frontier Railway said that more trains are expected to ply from September 12. In Sikkim, the state tourism department has come up with a draft proposal to open the state for tourists from October. The proposal says domestic tourists with pre-booked or package tours would be allowed initially and they need to produce valid Covid-19 negative certificates at the border check posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-kalimpong-open-for-tourists-sikkim-to-follow-suit-in-october/story-hcGm0Atz1DUEVq5DhKFsUO.html
09-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Blue Line, Pink Line of Delhi Metro resume services after 171-day Covid hiatus||Delhi Metro’s Blue Line and Pink Line resumed services with curtailed operation timings on Wednesday after being closed for 171 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. Trains are to operate in batches of four-hour each from 7-11 AM in the morning and 4-8 PM in the evening in the first stage. “The Blue and Pink lines resumed services today. Slowly and steadily, Delhi Metro will be back to take you places! #MetroBackOnTrack,” the DMRC tweeted. On Monday, the Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operation of the Yellow Line, since the closure of the urban transporter on March 22. The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours -- 7-11 AM and 4-8 PM. While nearly 15,500 passengers availed the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro combined on Monday, the figures stood at nearly 17,600 on Tuesday. Metro services in Delhi-NCR was closed since March 22 due to the pandemic. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the rapid transport only if urgently needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-blue-line-pink-line-of-delhi-metro-resume-services-after-171-day-covid-hiatus/story-wcN4Vsue6cqSUXBRtx9SQJ.html
09-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty active member of drug syndicate, used to manage finance for drug procurement with Sushant: NCB||In its remand application of actor Rhea Chakraborty, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) stated that she is an active member of a “drug syndicate” and used to manage finance for drug procurement along with the late actor.Chakraborty is appearing before the Magistrate via video conference from NCB office in Mumbai. NCB said that Chakraborty’s disclosure/statement had made it clear that she is an active member of a “drug syndicate” connected with drug supplies.It said that Chakraborty revealed about her involvement in the procurement of drugs and financial transactions and also her instructions to Dipesh Sawant, Showik Chakraborty and Miranda. Sawant was arrested by the NCB for his role in procuring and handling of drugs. Showik and Miranda have also been arrested in the same case. As per NCB’s remand copy, Chakraborty has acknowledged the statements of other accused and it is clear that she used to procure drugs for Rajput’s consumption. It stated that Sawant said that financial issues for purchase of drugs were also being dealt with by Rajput and Chakraborty.As per NCB, Showik said that Basit Parihar provided drugs to Dipesh Sawant (Sushant Singh Rajput’s staffer) through Kaizen Ibrahim. NCB said Showik confessed that he used to facilitate the delivery of drugs through Zaid, Basit and Kaizen. It also highlighted that Showik disclosed that these drug deliveries used to be received by Rajput’s aids and every delivery and payment was in conscious knowledge of Rhea Chakraborty. As per NCB’s remand application, Samuel Miranda has confessed that Sushant also along with rhea used to instruct him to procure the drug.Rajput also used to deal with the financial matter regarding these drugs along with Rhea Chakraborty.As per NCB’s remand, Dipesh Sawant (Sushant’s staffer) disclosed that he used to receive drugs for Sushant on his (Sushant’s) instructions.During the statement, Samuel Miranda also disclosed that he used to procure drugs on instructions of Sushant Singh Rajput And Rhea Chakraborty and financial matter in this regard were being dealt by Rhea And Sushant Singh Rajput, read the remand application. Earlier, Ashok Jain, Deputy Director General (DG), South-Western Region, NCB said that the agency will seek her judicial custody.“Rhea Chakraborty will be produced before magistrate shortly. We don’t need her custody remand so we will seek judicial custody. We are not asking for her custody remand as whatever we wanted to cross with her, we have done already,” he said.“We will oppose bail to her. We are only seeking judicial custody but we don’t support the bail. Rhea was sent for a routine medical check-up. She tested negative for Covid-19. Whatever she told was sufficient for the arrest. We have arrested her, it means we had enough,” he added.Jain said that NCB did not recover any contraband from her.Chakraborty is the ninth person arrested by the NCB in the ongoing case.The NCB launched an investigation after it received official communication from Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case.The agency had said that linkages of Parihar with the earlier registered i.e., based on the preliminary enquiry on the details submitted by ED, were found.The ED had on July 31 registered an Enforcement Case Information Report in the late actor’s death case after a First Information Report (FIR) was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-active-member-of-drug-syndicate-used-to-manage-finance-for-drug-procurement-with-sushant-ncb/story-CJrR4kAO2xZVTUWDPiEqjL.html
09-09-2020||India||Stick to rule: SC on Char Dham road||The Supreme Court has ruled that the width of the Char Dham highway, an ambitious 900-kilometre project that promises to offer all-weather connectivity to four Hindu pilgrimage centres in Uttarakhand, and the ancillary benefit of facilitating rapid movement of Indian military forces to areas adjoining its border with China, shall not exceed the 5.5 metres specified in 2018 by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) for roads under construction in mountainous terrain. The matter came up for hearing before a bench headed by justice R F Nariman which told solicitor general Tushar Mehta on Tuesday that the ministry’s guidelines should apply to the two-lane highway, which will connect Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri.“All you have to do is to go by your 2018 guidelines. How can you not go by your own guidelines?” the bench asked Mehta after hearing Ravi Chopra, chairman of the high-powered committee (HPC) formed by the apex court last year to review the environmental impact of the project. The court accepted the final report submitted by the committee, some members of which have differed with the central government on the width of the highway. The Centre has been in favour of a two-lane highway with a width of seven metres; some HPC members , including Chopra, contended that such a broad road would be dangerous for the fragile Himalayan ecology that is highly susceptible to landslides.In its order published on Wednesday, the apex court rejected Mehta’s suggestion that the 2018 circular on road width was prospective in nature and not meant for projects under construction. “Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, persisted with his arguments that the 2018 circular is only prospective in nature. We are well aware of the distinction between something which is retrospective in the sense that it applies for the first time to projects which are already completed as opposed to ongoing projects, where it is necessary to take stock of the current situation and then move forward,” the court said. “Having taken stock of the current situation and of the fragility generally of the ecosystem in mountain terrain, we are of the view that this argument has no legs to stand on,” the order read. It also says that plantations should be taken up in stretches affected by landslides and construction activity.Solicitor general Mehta submitted to the court an affidavit by MoRTH hich said a width of seven metres was required for strategic roads connecting to international borders such as the one between India and China on which military vehicles ply. Mehta said the argument that the intermediate carriageway’s width should no exceed 5.5 metres was a “minority view” in the committee.The advocate who represented the petitioner Citizens of Green Doon and Ors, a Dehradun-based environmental group, said the contentious issue of the highway’s width had been addressed by the apex court.“The SC has clearly said that in the Char Dham project’s intermediate lane configuration with road width of 5.5 metres has to be followed, as per the MoRTH’s circular of 2018 meant for hilly and mountainous regions. The Centre’s plan of building a seven-metre wide highway will not be considered. I have highlighted that a lot of damage has been done to the fragile ecology of the Himalayas. Now, the damages have to be mitigated,” said the advocate, Sanjay Parikh.Several landslides were triggered by construction work on the Char Dham highway this year, according to the committee that reviewed its environmental impact..The affidavit, seen by HT, said that the Geological Survey of India (GSI) was engaged by the ministry to carry out landslide susceptibility mapping of vulnerable areas in Uttarakhand. The exercise revealed that around half of Uttarakhand is highly or moderately susceptible to landslides, establishing that the work on the Char Dham highway is not the only factor responsible for the phenomenon.MoRTH cited a report by the Disaster Management Centre of Uttarakhand, which showed that between January 1 and August 28, 66 people were killed, 40 injured and 419 buildings destroyed by natural disasters in the state. Landslides claimed 22 lives; 38 died because of flash floods.Chopra, the chairman of the committee, submitted a detailed report to the ministry of environment on August 13 citing environmental lapses and violations that took place during the construction of the Char Dham highway.The report said the developer carried out extensive work such as felling of thousands of trees without the clearance of the ministry.“Works such as hill cutting, digging and dumping of muck is in gross violation of the Forest Conservation (FC) Act, 1980, which has resulted in massive damage to the ecology of these valleys,” the report added.In August last year, the apex court cleared the decks for the Char Dham highway project by modifying a National Green Tribunal order to constitute a high-powered committee to look into environmental concerns. It said the committee shall consider the cumulative and independent impact of the Char Dham project on the entire Himalayan valley. (PTI contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-resolves-char-dham-road-width-issue-order-awaited/story-1gdFTnHZQNa9fv6canQUjL.html
09-09-2020||India||Centre releases SOPs for reopening of schools: All you need to know||Metro services across the country have resumed as part of Unlock 4, since being suspended in March due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. From September 21, also as part of Unlock 4, schools, too, will partially reopen, albeit only for classes 9-12.On Tuesday, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) released guidelines for partial reopening of schools.Here’s all you need to know:• Only schools outside containment zones will reopen, and only those staff members and students, who live outside containment zones, will be allowed to attend.• Students can visit schools on a voluntary basis, to take guidance from teachers. Also, they will have to take written permission from their parents for the visit. •Student-teacher interaction will take place in a staggered manner.•These SOPs are in addition to specific measures that will be taken when schools allow students to come for guidance purpose.•These will also apply to skill or entrepreneurship institutions, higher educational institutions conducting doctoral courses and post graduate studies.•Detailed SOPs are available on the health ministry’s website mohfw.gov.in.•Schools and educational institutions have been closed since March as the pandemic started spreading across the country. Since then, online classes are being conducted, and will continue for the time being.•After four phases of nationwide lockdown, from March 25 to May 31, the country started reopening from June 1. Currently, Unlock 4 is in effect; it began on September 1 and will end on September 30.•India has overtaken Brazil to be the second worst-hit country after the United States. Its tally currently stands at nearly 43 lakh, including over 33 lakh recoveries and more than 72,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-sops-for-reopening-of-schools-all-you-need-to-know/story-qfyzqQTh8iAYMQbW6JzriL.html
09-09-2020||India||No high-speed internet for J-K; only Ganderbal, Udhampur districts to continue getting 4G till Sept-end||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday decided against extending the 4G mobile internet facility outside the districts of Ganderbal and Udhampur, citing apprehensions about possible misuse by those indulging in terror activities. However, it said the high-speed facility which was restored on a trial basis in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal and Jammu region’s Udhampur on August 16 would continue till this month-end as there has been no report of its misuse in the two districts.Also read: 4G internet services to be restored in two J-K districts after more than a year In an order issued this evening, Principal Secretary in the Home Department Shaleen Kabra said that after a fresh review of the situation, it has been decided that internet speed will remain restricted to 2G in the rest of the 18 districts. The order said that the law enforcement agencies have furnished credible inputs on terror modules making sustained efforts to provoke sentiments of gullible youths and lure them into terrorist organisations and “indicated potential misuse of high-speed data services in disturbing public order”. The agencies have also expressed apprehensions that the high-speed data services can be misused for assisting infiltration attempts by terrorists. The 4G mobile internet services in Ganderbal and Udhampur would continue till September 30, unless modified earlier, the order said, adding no report of misuse has been received from the two districts. In the rest of 18 other districts, the internet speed would continue to be restricted to 2G only, it said. The internet services were snapped in Jammu and Kashmir before the Centre’s announcement on August 5 last year to scrap J-K’s special status and split it into two Union Territories.Also read: Mobile phone services, 2G internet , shut for R-Day, restored in Kashmir However, the 2G internet facility on mobile phones was restored on January 25 this year. The resumption of 4G internet services in Ganderbal and Udhampur after a gap of one year on August 16 came days after the Centre had informed the Supreme Court that a special committee looking into the matter was considering allowing the facility on a trial basis in two districts of the Union Territory. The order said: “Whereas the law enforcement agencies have furnished credible inputs that the terror modules operating in various parts of the UT of J&K, with active support from across the border as well as separatists/anti-national elements from within, are making sustained efforts to provoke sentiments of the gullible youth and lure them into terrorist organizations to fill the vacuum created by the killing of many terrorists.” “Also, the agencies have reported infiltration attempts by terrorists, along the LoC (Line of Control) and the IB (International Border), and apprehension of facilitation of these attempts if high-speed mobile data services are restored. They have also indicated potential misuse of high-speed data services in disturbing public order,” Kabra said in his order. However, he said the review committee, while taking note of the assessment made by the law enforcement agencies, observed that no reports of misuse of high-speed internet services in the districts of Ganderbal and Udhampur had been reported but said the situation needed to be monitored closely. After considering the reports of law enforcement agencies, inter-alia, bringing out the necessity of speed-related restrictions on mobile data services, and upon assessment of the available alternatives, Kabra said the 4G mobile internet services in Ganderbal and Udhampur would continue till September 30, unless modified earlier. “In the rest of 18 districts, the internet speed would continue to be restricted to 2G only,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-high-speed-internet-for-j-k-only-ganderbal-udhampur-districts-to-continue-getting-4g-till-sept-end/story-4ElOg6LZtpCkPLSHAAlUxK.html
09-09-2020||India||Newlywed couple shot dead by woman’s family in Uttarakhand||A newlywed couple was shot dead in Kashipur area of US Nagar district of Uttarakhand allegedly by the family members of the woman who opposed her marriage to a man she loved, police said Tuesday.The two deceased identified as 22-year-old Rashid Siddiqui and 20-year-old Nazia Khan, were allegedly shot dead near the latter’s house on Monday night while they were going to Rashid’s house in the same neighborhood. Nazia’s father, brother and two maternal uncles absconded after the incident, police said.Rakesh Bhatt, additional superintendent of police said, “The two had died on the spot. In the initial probe, it has been found that the two had eloped and then married. Nazia’s family members, especially her father Muzammil and brother Mohsin were against the marriage.” “After the marriage, the two returned to the town and were living in Rashid’s house. But Nazia’s father and brother were not talking to her because they disapproved of her marriage. On Monday night, when the two passed in front of their house, they shot the two dead,” said Bhatt. He said that the two are on the run along with Nazia’s two maternal uncles Afsar Ali and Jouhar Ali who are also accused of being involved in the case.“During the investigation it was also found that Muzammil was particularly angry with the fact that Nazia had married a Muslim man from another clan. While she belonged to the Pathan community, Rashid belonged to the Chipi community of the Muslims which Muzammil considered to be an interior one to his,” said Bhatt. Satish Kapri, senior sub-inspector, Kashipur police station said, “Five rounds were fired at the couple in which Rashid sustained injuries in his face while Nazia was shot in the chest.” “Following the incident, the family members of Rashid lodged a complaint. Muzammil, Mohsin, Afsar and Jouhar were booked for murder. All are absconding and police are trying to nab them,” said Kapri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newlywed-couple-shot-dead-by-woman-s-family-in-uttarakhand/story-LXvJGRS0RLzS1uz9Dh4UGP.html
09-09-2020||India||Alongside Dhannipur mosque in Ayodhya, a 200-bed multi-specialty hospital||The hospital that would come up on the 5-acre land in Dhannipur village in Ayodhya along with the mosque would be a multi-specialty 200-bed hospital with world class facilities, the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) said. IICF is the trust set up by the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) for the construction of the mosque at Ayodhya on the land allotted by the UP government in compliance with the Supreme Court order. The hospital will be part of Indo-Islamic Centre Complex in Ayodhya village that will also include a community kitchen and an Indo-Islamic Research Centre. The research centre will have a museum and a library too. IICF spokesman Athar Hussain said the maximum area of land would be allocated to the hospital, which will also be the largest public utility establishment at the Indo-Islamic complex. The name of the hospital, whose construction is expected to start in next couple of months, is yet to be finalised. “We plan to develop a multi-specialty hospital that would be equipped with the state of the art facilities. The entire hospital would be established in two phases. In the first phase, the arrangement for 100 beds would be made at the hospital while in the second phase 100 more beds would be added to it,” Hussain said.IICF office bearers said the hospital would offer best treatment in cancer care, transplants, spine, heart, robotics, orthopaedics, emergency and others. Officials said that hospital would help in serving the society and play a major role in bridging gap between the communities. On September 1, the trust had appointed a Lucknow- based architect-cum-town planner and a founder of dean faculty of Architecture Jamia Milia University, Delhi to design the mosque that would come up in Dhannipur village, Ayodhya in place of the Babri Masjid. The trust has also appointed noted Indian academician and food critic Pushpesh Pant as consultant curator for the food archive a - section of the museum that would be a part of the Indo Islamic Centre Complex||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alongside-dhannipur-mosque-in-ayodhya-a-200-bed-multi-specialty-hospital/story-9ghYXb0Ew9DlBT23My2B5I.html
09-09-2020||India||PLA territorial violations since July not limited to eastern Ladakh: Intel||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) violated the Line of Actual Control several times in the past two months, and in several places across the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Uttarakhand, according to intelligence reports, and security and intelligence officials who asked not to be identified.The Chinese transgression was not restricted to Eastern Ladakh alone, the officials and reports reveal — with, in one case, the PLA transgressing up to 40km inside Indian territory before withdrawing. Accounts by the officers also belie Chinese claims of India transgressing the LAC between the two countries. They also point to the larger Chinese strategy: the officials contend that the increased activity along the unsettled, approximately 3,500-km-long border is aimed at keeping the Indian Army on its toes at multiple places and injecting an element of surprise in the ongoing tension, even though Eastern Ladakh remains the main standoff theatre.India and China have been involved in a prolonged, four-month-long standoff since April in which both sides have suffered casualties. At least 20 Indian Army soldiers, including a commanding officer, were killed, and 80 injured, in Galwan in Eastern Ladakh on June 15. Also read: The breakdown with China | HT EditorialAccording to one intelligence official, who cannot be named as he is not authorised to speak to the media, the PLA entered Arunachal Pradesh twice in July. According to him, Chinese soldiers transgressed at least 26km inside Indian territory in district Anjaw and “camped for three to four days”, in the first half of that month, before exiting.In the second instance, also in Anjaw, the PLA transgressed through Arunachal’s Hadigra Pass and came in 40km, and retreated only after leaving telltale marks. In early August, there was a face-off in eastern Sikkim’s Jelep La area in which the PLA occupied higher ground and rolled stones onto Indian Army troops. The tension eased after senior officers intervened, but in a joint meeting between the two sides, both stayed adamant on their claim over the Jelep La area. A security official said: “The development was worrying because this was the first such instance in an area which has largely remained undisputed.” Again, in mid-August, the PLA’s presence was noted in Uttarakhand’s Tanjun La Pass “for the first time this year”. A senior army official who asked not to be named said: “The PLA is trying to dominate important heights to gain tactical and strategic advantage. It is also trying to use the disengagement process to upgrade its infrastructure.” The Indian Army did not officially comment on the multiple transgressions. The army is engaged in ground-level talks at the Brigade and Division level. At the political level, defence minister Rajnath Singh held talks with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe in Moscow last week. China reached out for a meeting with Singh on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meetings after India gained an advantage by occupying heights in the Pangong Tso area in eastern Ladakh. In the meeting last Friday, Wei blamed India and said China was not willing to lose a single inch of its territory. Singh told his Chinese counterpart that Beijing was in violation of border agreements while New Delhi was being responsible, and that there should be no doubt about India’s determination to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity.The foreign ministers of the two countries are scheduled to meet later this week. A statement issued by India after Singh and Wei’s meeting held China responsible for the prolonged conflict along the LAC. The statement said: “The actions of the Chinese troops, including amassing a large number of troops, their aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo were in violation of the bilateral agreements, and not in keeping with the understandings reached between the Special Representatives of two sides.” On Monday, the Indian Army said in a statement that PLA troops attempted to “close in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by our own troops, fired a few rounds in the air” to intimidate “our troops”. The statement added that the Indian troops exercised “great restraint”.HT learns that the latest incident happened at the Rezang La-Rechin La ridgeline. Tensions between the two neighbours are far from over. India has now sought information of five missing civilians from Arunachal who might be in Chinese custody. According to an army official, “We continue to be on heightened alert.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-territorial-violations-since-july-not-limited-to-eastern-ladakh-intel/story-WFOMnyoYDzN24s4FuramFM.html
09-09-2020||India||After a 4-day adventure inside Delhi airport, cat returns home||Pet parent Astha Shah’s anxiety, and her cat Nala’s grand adventure,came to an end last Friday. Airport security traced the eight-month-old feline, which — after being loaded in an Air India flight from Bengaluru on September 1 — managed to slip out of her crate in the aircraft’s cargo belly, steal into the terminal building, and roam the airport for four days, before she was rescued and reunited with her family.An official from the Delhi-based NGO Wildlife SOS, which helped track Nala, said that Shah was travelling with her two cats to Delhi on the Air India flight.“Both cats were being transported in certified pet carriers. When the plane landed in Delhi, the passenger was informed that one of the cats went missing from her carrier during transit at the Indira Gandhi Internation airport. “Our enquiries revealed that the pet carrier in which Nala was put had come undone in the aircraft’s cargo compartment.The cat had slipped out and gotten lost on the vast Delhi airport premises,” a spokesperson for the Wildlife SOS said. When Shah was told that Nala had gone missing, she cancelled her onward journey to Ahmedabad and stayed back in Delhi to help find the cat. “The airport authorities immediately launched a search for the missing feline. Wildlife SOS also assisted with the search operation by placing food baits at several locations inside the airport to lure Nala out. After four days of tracking the cat, she was finally located in the airport’s cargo hold area,” the spokesperson said.Even after she was traced, it took the Wildlife SOS team hours to ease out the terrified and hungry Nala from the cargo facility before being reunited with Shah, the spokesperson added.Shah, who lives in Bengaluru, said the cats are her family and the incident had left her in tears. “House cats struggle to survive on their own for long. The past few days have been extremely stressful, but I received a lot of support from the animal community, the Air India staff, airport authorities and the airport operator. This incident showed me that compassion is not dead and people will still go the extra mile to help a stranger desperately searching for her beloved pet,” Shah told Wildlife SOS.Air India also said the airline was delighted that Nala is now safe with her pet parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-4-day-adventure-inside-delhi-airport-cat-returns-home/story-gushNUknvN4j4Mf2ess4PI.html
09-09-2020||India||Russia in touch with India over vaccine trials, manufacturing||India is considering Russia’s proposal for conducting third phase of clinical trials and manufacturing of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Sputnik V by firms in the country, Niti Aayog member Vinod Paul said on Tuesday, adding that specific outcomes of the deal are expected very soon.“Indian scientists have looked at data and we are paving the way for phase 3 trials or bridging studies as per science and the requirements of regulatory system of India. We are working in partnership with this vaccine candidate for manufacture, trials and regulatory facilitation,” Paul said at a briefing.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSputnik V received regulatory clearance from Russia on August 11, making it the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine to be approved by a government. Russian scientists published the results of Phase 1 and Phase 2 of trials in The Lancet last week that demonstrated Sputnik V was safe and induced a satisfactory antibody response in all participants within 21 days. Phase 3 trials of the vaccine began last week.“The government of Russia approached the government of India and sought help on two counts. One, to consider manufacturing through our network of companies for manufacturing high quality vaccines, as the size, volumes and capacity is perhaps the best in the world… And whether, if need be, phase 3 or bridging studies can be conducted in India, which means support in regulatory processes and finding suitable partners for trials,” said Paul. On both counts, there has been significant movement, he said. “The outreach has been extended to several companies in India and three to four have already come forward, and the others are in discussion with their Russian counterparts and the government is facilitating the process of how the connect can be made. There may be specific outcomes very soon,” he added.Dr K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific adviser to the government, said: “The Department of Biotechnology and its agencies have put in place collaborative processes... They will then decide if the next steps, which are clinical trials at the appropriate phase, are to be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-in-touch-with-india-over-vaccine-trials-manufacturing/story-g8da7IveSrAJxYRagzr5gL.html
09-09-2020||India||70% of banking sector debt affected by Covid-19 impact||The Indian economy wasn’t in great shape even before the Covid-19 outbreak, which has only made matters worse. The report by the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) expert committee on a resolution framework, headed by former ICICI Bank chief K V Kamath, brings this out clearly. The report notes that the pandemic “has affected the best of companies” and businesses that were otherwise viable before the outbreak. Experts believe that banks may be more risk-averse to restructuring loans this time around, having already suffered big losses in previous restructuring efforts. ₹15.5 lakh crore: Covid-19’s exclusive addition to stressed debt Nineteen sectors, which were not under stress before the pandemic but have been hit it, account for Rs 15.5 lakh crore of debt. Retail and wholesale trade are the worst affected with outstanding debt of Rs 5.4 lakh crore. The pandemic has also affected 11 sectors which were already under stress. These sectors have a debt of Rs 22.2 lakh crore. Non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) have the highest , Rs 7.98 lakh crore, among these sectors. Agriculture and allied products make up the biggest silver lining in India’s debt landscape. This sector has debt of Rs 9.8 lakh crore. It was stress-free before the pandemic and continues to be so.  Up to half of stressed companies do not meet restructuring criteria The Kamath committee has specified sector-specific ratios on five major parameters – total outstanding liability to adjusted net worth, total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA), current ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities), debt service coverage ratio and average debt service coverage ratio to decide whether or not companies will be eligible for loan restructuring. A Nomura analysis of 5,179 companies across 25 sectors shows that 30-50% of them do not meet the necessary criteria on backward looking data.  Huge write-offs in previous restructuring might make banks more risk-averse The Nomura report expects risk-aversion among banks to rise given their bad experience in previous restructuring cycles. “We think banks will be a lot more prudent towards restructuring in this cycle vs past restructuring cycles where ultimate slippages/write offs were as high as 70-75% in the corporate segment”, the report said. That’s bad news for industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-of-banking-sector-debt-affected-by-covid-19-s-impact/story-MAYiYZWz5NE6Pijm7XQNSJ.html
09-09-2020||India||Only way to overcome GST crisis is to borrow money: Jaganmohan Reddy||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy is upfront in his criticism of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP)’s Chandrababu Naidu but cautious while talking about the Congress or explaining his supportive, issue-based approach to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In an interview to Vinod Sharma, Reddy spoke about this, Covid-19 pandemic, his vision of three capital cities for Andhra, etc. Edited excerpts: How prepared are you to contain the spread of Covid-19? The infection has gravely spiked in recent weeks amid reports of the health infrastructure seemingly crumbling under pressure. The decision of your deputy chief minister Amjad Ali and other legislators to seek treatment in private facilities is an expression of no confidence in the state’s health infrastructure.We are fully prepared to contain the spread. From being a state with not even a single lab to test for the virus, Andhra Pradesh has, since March (when the sample of the first case was sent to Bengaluru), acquired the capacity to test more than 60,000 samples a day. We are pursuing a trace, test, isolate and treat policy. All district health teams supported by line departments are fully involved in cluster containment under the direct supervision and monitoring of district collectors. A look at the spread of infection in Andhra indicates that the cases started spreading after unlocking started.The recent spike in cases is expected as lakhs of migrant workers have returned to the state. Our health infrastructure is fully prepared to handle any surge with 4,214 ICU [intensive care unit] beds with oxygen, 17,232 non-ICU beds with oxygen, 17,161 general beds and 1,620 ventilators. In terms of human resources also, we are fully geared up. In addition to the existing health care workers in the system, 2,926 general duty medical officers, 15,98 specialists, 1,461 anaesthesiologists and other technicians, 4,487 staff nurses, 11,200 trainee nurses, 4,109 nursing orderlies, 4,394 sanitation workers and 712 data entry operators have been recruited by district collectors. Above that, 9,712 health professionals are being recruited on regular basis at the state level. That includes 2,000 medical officers, 4,600 staff nurses and other paramedics. The health infrastructure with this kind of manpower and a fully committed administration will be handling any surge without any pressure on the system.You have said the people have to learn to live with the virus. By official counts Covid-19 cases are rising in thousands every day. What is your strategy to contain the pandemic?It is now an accepted fact that the people have to live with the virus in the manner we are living with other diseases. To contain its spread, we have to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. We are aggressively tracing and testing (60,000 samples daily) people in containment clusters. We are leveraging on the availability of two lakh volunteers [200,000] under the newly established 13,000 village and ward secretariats. Each volunteer is allotted 50 households approximately with the mandate to closely monitor their health. In the last five months, these volunteers, supported by 43,000 ASHAs [Accredited Social Health Activists] and 23,000 auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) have visited 1.4 crore [14 million] households five times during the fever survey and identified persons with Covid-like symptoms and started testing them. Testing is happening in cluster/containment zones. All primary and secondary contacts of positive persons are being tested. Our strategy of aggressive testing has taken a cue from international learning and WHO guidelines. We have put in place a RCCE [Risk Communication and Community Engagement] strategy with the support of UNICEF for training and awareness on Covid-appropriate behaviour to 1.06 crore [10.6 million] households. A month-long mask campaign has also been initiated for 95% mask utilisation in urban and rural areas. With such a robust system in place, we are very confident of controlling and containing Covid-19. The curve will hopefully be flattened very soon. Going by your government’s statements, the YSR Cheyutha scheme is said to be a game-changer for rural Andhra by benefitting women belonging to the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Backward Classes and minority communities. But there is criticism that it is not reaching the targeted beneficiaries across caste and religion.The idea is to help women take up self-employment ventures. Nearly 80% of women between 45- 60 are being covered. To make the effort successful, the government is trying for backward and forward linkages to these units with companies like Amul and ITC. The scheme will cover all religions. The scheme is not meant for any particular religion.Your bid to help the poor through direct benefit transfers (DBT) is laudable. The flip side is the outreach will consolidate your vote bank, not the state’s economy that is in the red.All states and the central government have been implementing several schemes. A few are through DBT... The reform that we brought is to ensure that the DBT system is foolproof, that there are no leakages and benefits reaches the genuine beneficiary directly, completely, in time and without corruption. New schemes such as Amma Vodi and Rythu Bandhu are investments in social sector. What the state’s responsibility? Maintaining law and order besides focusing on education, health and agriculture. Any investment in these sectors cannot be simple welfare measures. These, in fact, are social capital building investments. If we can provide free education to all depending on their requirement without compromising on quality, that is the best any state can do towards its people. It is a misconception that only private institutions provide quality education. The IITs [Indian Institutes of Technology], IIMs [Indian Institutes of Management], IISC [Indian Institute of Science] and several other top educational institutions are in the public sector. My government’s focus is to bring back primacy to education in government sector and schemes like Amma Vodi [for financial assistance to mothers to educate their children] are a step in that direction. Providing school books, improving the quality of mid-day meals, strengthening staff and physical infrastructure are aimed at providing quality education. Investments in such schemes cannot be looked at as a burden on the exchequer. Same is the case with the health sector. Andhra’s per capita expenditure in the health sector is more than any other state because of schemes like Arogyasri, which has been revamped in terms of coverage and reach. Improving support systems like ambulances and providing some financial relief to the poor after they are discharged from hospitals is something which any government should do. Expenditure on health cannot be considered as a drain on the state’s finances. To provide good quality and free health services is the fundamental responsibility of the state. Most of our welfare schemes revolve around education, health and agriculture. The services we extend to farmers are limited because we will never be able to do as much as they need. That is one sector which had always been neglected. A portion of the money is spent on irrigation and the rest on investment subsidy to the farmer. Direct or indirect investments in the primary sectors ultimately come back to the state’s economy in one form or the other.My father late YS Rajasekhara Reddy [YSR] studied the ground realities when he came to power in the undivided Andhra in 2004. In 1997, more than 7,000 farmers committed suicide in the state. Instead of going to the root cause of the problem, the then TDP dispensation brushed the issue under the carpet by passing the buck... YSR understood the problem and realised that most of the farmers committed suicide because of debt. They incurred debt for three reasons: children’s education, health issues and for digging bore wells in the absence of surface water. That is what brought about the fee reimbursement scheme, Arogyasri, irrigation projects and free power supply to the agriculture sector. These schemes addressed the problem and yielded the desired results. I am carrying forward these schemes with some improvisation besides expanding the base. While continuing fee reimbursement, we are focusing on schools, where the infrastructure is being revamped and the curriculum redesigned to meet high standards of education. In the irrigation sector, we are extending input subsidy to save the farmer from debt trap. We are doing that while not ignoring infrastructure creation. Irrigation projects like Polavaram are going on. Three sea ports are coming up. Huge investments are being made in the power sector. Some roads and buildings projects are being lined up with the aid of the World Bank.It is not the large number of welfare schemes which are causing the so-called financial stress. I inherited pending bills of Rs 40,000 crore in the power sector alone from the previous government. No one was aware of it. This is equal to the money my government spent in a year on all welfare schemes. The state had a debt burden of Rs1,17,000 crore when Andhra Pradesh was divided in 2014 and by 2019 it went up to Rs3,00,000 lakh crore. Repayment stress is there. Pending bills were huge. Then to our misfortune, the economy started doing badly and then came the Covid pandemic.What was the need for separate village secretariats and village volunteer system? Is the administration unable to reach the people properly at the grassroots level?The village secretariat and village volunteer system is to provide a delivery mechanism at grassroots level, or in panchayat raj parlance [designating] functionaries in the villages to ensure that schemes are delivered without pilferage. After the introduction of the village secretariat system, pilferage has come to a nought in DBT schemes and welfare measures. There were some functionaries earlier in the panchayat raj system, but the people did not know who they were and where they sat? Now, they are in the midst of the beneficiaries.For want of employment, many governments have been trying to give unemployment doles. Instead of a dole, why not use youths in a purposeful and service-oriented manner—and pay them Rs5,000 as honorarium instead of Rs2,000 dole. That makes them better and more responsible human beings. In Andhra, they are playing a crucial role in the implementation of welfare schemes. They have played a crucial role during natural calamities and against the Covid-19 pandemic. People have positively received the experiment and appreciated the village volunteers for their efforts.When 60% of the population lives in villages, common sense tells us that 60% of the government employees should be available in villages. In reality, till this government came to power, not even six per cent of the government employees were in villages. Most of them were in urban centres. That is what we have reversed.The Centre has lagged behind in paying GST compensation to states. If the stalemate lingers, would you be open to borrowing from the market? What will be its impact on Andhra’s exchequer?It is okay. They are taking time and so far paying a little late. It is not that they have drastically cut down. They have been passing on [the money] with some delays. This is understandable keeping in view the Covid-19 situation and its impact on the country’s economy. The only way to overcome the crisis is borrowing. The Centre has also asked the states to go for additional borrowings. As we cannot tax people more, we are working on possible additional revenue generating options.In the context of the New Education Policy, how do you move forward with your promise of English medium in schools? The problem is till Class 5. The policy says post Class 5, there is no compulsion to have mother tongue as the medium of instruction. In other words, we can implement English medium in schools from Class 6 the way we have designed and planned. Up to Class 5, primacy has to be given to the mother tongue. While conforming to the national policy, we can start giving more and more inputs on English up to Class 5 so that the students are equipped to switch over to English medium from Class 6.We feel the Centre has done an excellent job in bringing equity in the policy. We decided to introduce English medium not because we love English and want to neglect our mother tongue. It is because we wanted to bring in equity. Those who can afford to are sending their kids to English medium schools while the children of the poor are being forced to study in regional languages as they cannot afford English medium schools. Students with private school background are taking away major chunk of the jobs in public and private sectors, leaving behind those who are educated in mother tongues in government schools. The idea of English medium education is to create an equal platform. If private schools across the country introduce mother tongue as the medium of instruction till Class 5 in conformation with the new policy, then there is no issue at all.After Telangana’s creation, your predecessor Chandrababu Naidu unsuccessfully sought a special category status from the Centre for Andhra. He wanted to build in the state a revenue-earning city comparable to Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. Not much has been heard of that since you became the CM.We cannot give up the demand for special category status. An agro-based state like Andhra can take off industrially only if some quality industrial incentives are given. That would be the biggest incentive as revenue deficit is being taken care of anyhow. Both the previous finance commission and present finance commission have addressed the revenue deficit issue. The so-called financial package is not going to help address the fundamental issue of industrial incentives which the hill states are extended. We continue to harp on the status as we cannot afford to give it up....on revenue earning city, I call it perverted thinking. Nowhere in the world has it been proved. Major cities grow over decades and centuries. Investing Rs1,00,000 crore to build a mega metro is not viable. Forget about additional revenue, you cannot even repay the debt which you have spent on infrastructure. What is the contribution of major cities of the US to its economy? Take for example a place called Omaha. With 400,000 population, it headquarters 23 of the fortune 500 companies of the world. That is where Warren Buffet stays. Bill Gates operates from Seattle. Revenue gets generated through manufacturing and a proper service sector. Why should industry be located in urban areas? For instance, Visakhapatnam is not our capital. When it was a small town, a steel plant and a few other industries were set up there a few decades ago. Now, it is emerging as a major city. In a similar way, we can have growth centres where industries can be promoted. The Covid experience tells us that most of the cities ultimately become sick. There is a gradual shift from the so-called major cities or metros to medium and small towns. Look at the top 10 developed countries. None of them have a metro and mega city. Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland and Finland…all these developed countries have no mega cities. Development is not industrialisation or urbanisation. Development means many a things like per capita income and happiness index.Instead of pouring in entire money in building a congested and a not required urban place, spend that money in connecting various places and ensuring faster mobility and cost-effectiveness. It is a wrong perception that cities generate more money. Barring a couple of exceptions, green field capital cities did not succeed anywhere in the world. The success of one such city was built on oil money, which was abundantly available in that nation. Infrastructure was created as financial resources were available in plenty. They did not look at it from the economic angle. Do we have that many resources to build the so-called Amaravathi? The Boston Consulting Group analysed it from economic perspective and said its investments are not viableThat brings one to your plans to have separate capitals for the three arms of the state: the executive, the judiciary and the legislature. The matter is sub-judice. But you certainly can share the administrative vision behind the move.The three capitals is a layman perception. [In effect] a capital city’s functions are being distributed: executive functions from Visakhapatnam, legislative from Amaravathi and judicial from Kurnool. These are the exact words used by Sivaramakrishnan Committee. The capital’s functions can be distributed among different places. Why all these functions should be delivered from a particular place? The residuary state of Andhra Pradesh suffered twice in the past on account of Chennai and Hyderabad. That is what history tells us. If you put all your eggs in one basket you are going to suffer. Then why you want to continue with the same approach without taking into account the past experiences? It is not logical and rationale thinking. The insider trading approach in Madhapur of Hyderabad in late 90s is tried again by the previous regime in Amaravathi. If the secretariat and assembly or High Court do not mean development, then why bother… do not talk about them. The document prepared by the previous regime says that you need Rs 1,00,000 crore. Instead of planning to build a so-called city at a place which is not suitable for construction of any mega structures in 33,000 acres land acquired or pooled from farmers, he could have planned something in 500 acres elsewhere.Why does he need 33,000 acres when a mere 500 acre land is sufficient as per the Siva Rama Krishnan report? The special investigating team is probing land deals unearthing benamis of my predecessor and his cronies. People with vested interests purchased lands from poor farmers. Then came the announcement of the capital and subsequent scam. Those who purchased lands at throwaway prices benefited to the tune of thousands of crores of rupees. It was just a real estate business by the previous regime to benefit a certain section of people. Once the development is diversified and spread across the state, they become centres of growth in near future.How many major cities Kerala has? None! And yet, Kerala is ahead of other states in several parameters. Development has to be distributed across the state. Visakhapatnam, Anantapuram, Kurnool and Tirupati and a few other cities can become clusters of development. Ports are being developed. Central Andhra, which is an agriculture hub, can have some agro-logistic parks and all can prosper.What will you say to the criticism that you want to downgrade Amaravathi to slight Naidu? The charge sticks also because the TDP leader has not been too kind to your administration whom he accuses of spying on the Opposition.This is absurd. Why should we bother about Amaravathi? We believe in the overall development of the state. We did not leave Amaravathi. The legislature will continue to work from Amaravathi. When experts say it is a wrong approach, why do not you respect their opinion?In India, the concept of referendum is not in use. The other option available for taking a decision is the experts’ opinion. Had there been a referendum option available, we would have definitely gone for it. We are confident the people would have given a thumps up for our decentralised development. Except those 29 villages and 10,000 farmers opposing decentralisation for obvious reasons, the entire state would have stood behind us if a referendum were to be conducted. Since, there is no scope for this, we respected the committee appointed by the central government [and] we appointed our own expert committee. They too have given their opinion. We took the opinion of BCG. Based on the feedback from such quarters, the state’s political executive took a conscious decision that a decentralised model is far better than a centralised model.Mega cities are unwanted, they only drain resources and become a burden on the people. The government’s role is to provide services at optimum cost. We are for decentralised development. We are going for multi-speciality hospitals and medical colleges in all districts (new districts are going to be carved from the existing 13 districts).The spying allegation is absurd. The DGP [director general of police] asked the opposition to produce evidence which they could not. In fact, when we were in the opposition, phones of our senior leaders were tapped and we had provided official proofs to that effect.Your father was also a political opponent of Naidu. But he would often say that they started in politics at the same time, in the same party and were friends. Is not there a need for rival parties and leaders to work together when the pandemic is posing serious challenges to public health and the economy?They are stuck up with the single idea that they should protect their investments in Amaravathi. They have no other agenda. In the last 15 months, he is only talking about Amaravathi and nothing else. Amaravathi is not worth discussing. We have said time and again that we are for decentralised development. There is no way we can consider one single place for development just because you and your colleagues purchased land there. What cooperation you are referring to? After March, he [Naidu] has not set foot in Andhra while the state is battling the pandemic.How are you viewing the recent demands for an overhaul of the Congress, your erstwhile party? Can it stay intact without a Gandhi family member at the helm?Ours is a regional party and is very strong in Andhra. We do not have the numbers to influence national politics despite being the fourth-largest party in the Lok Sabha. Our role is confined to the development of the state which was pushed into a disadvantageous position after the bifurcation. We are in the process of rebuilding the state. National aspirations are not of a priority to us.How would you describe your equation with the BJP whom your party has often supported in the Parliament? Are you a proximate ally or an issue-based supporter?We place the interests of our state ahead of other [matters] and navigate in that direction in dealing with every issue. We believe that the special category status for Andhra will be a reality, if not now then in the near future. We are optimistic on that count. Our support will be issue-based and will dovetail the betterment of our state in every aspect. We are in the process of rebuilding the state after its reorganisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-way-to-overcome-gst-crisis-is-to-borrow-money-says-andhra-cm-jaganmohan-reddy/story-79cYAtlfPS4rraXdcVp2zL.html
09-09-2020||India||Deepak Kochhar arrest: Transactions worth ₹15 cr under ED lens||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday remanded former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar’s husband, Deepak Kochhar, until September 10 to the custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED).Deepak Kochhar’s remand, a day after his arrest, came as the ED investigates over two dozen transactions worth over Rs 15 crore in three bank accounts of Deepak Kochhar in Mumbai between 2008 and 2019, people familiar with the development said.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, along with Sunil Gonsalves, seeking Kochhar’s custody, argued that his interrogation was required to determine crucial aspects of funds received by his company and unravel the money trail.The people familiar with the development said two transactions, one worth Rs 2.20 crore by Chanda Kochhar in her husband’s account on November 23, 2010 and another worth Rs 1.39 crore by her sister Karna Varuna Jaiprakash on January 14, 2016, are of particular interest to ED investigators. The central agency sought details from Deepak Kochhar about these two transactions in his HDFC Bank account but said he had not provided them until Monday. In fact, he was questioned about these transactions before his arrest Monday night in Mumbai, said an officer who didn’t want to be named. ED is also looking into the transactions carried out by Deepak Kochhar with two companies , Pacific Capital Services Pvt Ltd (PCSPL) and Opel Properties Pvt Ltd (OPPL), suspected to be linked to him, according to documents reviewed by HT.  Kochhar received Rs 40 lakh in his DBS Bank account in Mumbai from OPPL on June 26, 2009 out of which Rs 39 lakh was transferred to his company NuPower Renewables Ltd (NRL) the very next day. Subsequently, he received Rs 75,000 from OPPL on January 27, 2010. In all, there were nine transactions in DBS, the documents show. On May 2, 2008, he received Rs 20 lakh in his ICICI Bank account in Mumbai from OPPL, which was transferred to NRL on May 4. An amount of Rs 65,000 was received by him in the same account from PCSPL on July 30, 2008. ED documents also reveal that the agency sought details of at least 15 transactions in Deepak Kochhar’s HDFC Bank account on different occasions; it wants to know the details of the senders and purposes of transfers. The 15 payments, totaling around Rs 9 crore, were made within a period of three months, from June 29, 2010 to September 18, 2010. These payments ranged from Rs 4 lakh to Rs 2 crore. “All these transactions point to layering and money laundering. But we want to be sure so we asked Deepak Kochhar. However, he was being evasive. We hope he will reveal all details during custodial interrogation,” the officer cited above said.  ED took up the probe into money laundering after the Central Bureau of Investigation registered a case of corruption against the Kochhar couple. CBI initiated its inquiry in 2017 against the couple on the basis of a whistle blower complaint about quid pro quos for loans sanctioned by ICICI Bank. In a first information report registered in January last year, CBI alleged that six high-value loans worth Rs 1,875 crore were given by ICICI Bank to the Videocon Group of companies between 2009 and 2011. It said that a 2009 credit facility to Videocon was extended in contravention of rules and policy of the sanction committee, of which Chanda Kochhar was a member.It alleged that a loan of Rs 300 crore was disbursed to Videocon International Electronics Limited on September 7, 2009, out of which an amount of Rs 64 crore was transferred to Deepak Kochhar’s NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd by Videocon the following day..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepak-kochhar-arrest-transactions-worth-15-cr-under-ed-lens/story-kOXKWhohfVMhQNlnr2rtaL.html
09-09-2020||India||Delhiwale: No time for spicy golgappas||No crowd on the street. No hope of getting a customer. Golgappa vendor Sooraj Pal’s face is hidden behind a blue mask. “I will wait,” he says.This evening, he was walking by a south Delhi lane when he decided to stop by this spot. Mr Pal’s street stall moves with him—it consists of a tripod stand called tirona (it is sold in Old Delhi’s Khari Baoli for ₹150), a large glass-shielded basket at the top of the tirona filled with golgappas and papris, a brass platter to support the large basket, a small plastic basket tucked at the bottom of the tirona for customers to dispose of their used bowls, and vessels containing tamarind water and spiced chickpeas.Gazing upon the crispy shells, Mr Pal hopes “more people will start coming to my stall, like in the old days.” He means the pre-corona era.Unlike many of the fellow vendors he knew, Mr Pal stayed in the city instead of returning to his family in Badayun, UP. “There was nothing to do in the village.”He resumed work following the challenging months of the lockdown “but the earnings are barely enough for my daily survival.” Absolutely no possibility to send savings home, he notes matter-of-factly.Mr Pal leaves his rented room in Kotla village at 10 in the morning and returns twelve hours later. “So often I stay idle with nobody approaching me for golgappas.”Showing his clipped finger nails, he says that “I wash my pants and shirt everyday, so that people have confidence in the cleanliness of my food.”Now a man approaches the stall. He is an auto driver wearing a colourful mask. The driver stares at the golgappas, stays motionless for a few moments, and turns back, retracing the route to his auto.Mr Pal blankly watches the speeding cars on the road. After some time he lifts the golgappa basket and keeps it on his head. He places the tirona under his arm and walks away.Some minutes later, some turnings away, he is spotted sitting on a pavement, his masked face hidden behind his stall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-no-time-for-spicy-golgappas/story-Sf6OviCNmisnqr4SZIhQCK.html
09-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||In the beginning (I’ve always wanted to start a column thus), everyone thought the battle against the coronavirus disease would be a sprint. One 49-day long lockdown, or multiple weeks-long lockdowns interspersed with breaks for a few months, would flatten the curve, experts said. A post titled The Hammer and the Dance, detailing one such lockdown-and-fight approach, went viral. The HT newsroom wrote up (and talked up) several research studies and papers that spoke of this. How wrong we all were.The pandemic is now in its seventh month in India. A 68-day long lockdown (albeit, with some relaxations after three weeks) was imposed when the country had a few hundred cases. It now has over four million. And among large countries hit hard by the viral disease, it is the only one yet to see its peak (or even its first peak).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the beginning, everyone was careful. People respected rules, wore masks, socially distanced themselves, didn’t venture out unless they had to (and when they did, the sensible ones wore gloves even if they made them look funny), asked the help not to come (the generous ones still paid them), stocked up, and stayed safe.Even those who couldn’t afford to stay home did so — fear and the rules kept them there.In the beginning — after a few missteps, most notably in the case of migrant workers left stranded in large cities without jobs, and in some cases, without homes — the central government was proactive. There were daily briefings by the health ministry, expert groups addressing various aspects of the pandemic, sincere efforts to acquire ventilators and PPE, regular interactions between the Prime Minister and chief ministers, addresses to the nation by the PM, and there was a general sense that we would overcome.Things are opening up now, from a feeling that the infection fatality rate (see Dispatch 152 for more on this) is only around 0.1% in large cities; from the knowledge that masks, hand hygiene, and social distancing can prevent infections; but also from a sense of resignation, fatigue, desperation, and lack of any other options.The opening can’t be driven by the confidence that the worst is behind us, simply because it isn’t. India is seeing the most cases in a day, and the most deaths, and no amount of spin about how many recoveries there are (there are bound to be, it’s simple math) or how low the fatality rate is (it is, but if we accept this cheerfully, we somehow seem to be suggesting that a thousand deaths a day is a price worth paying) can hide the fact that we are in the midst of a huge crisis.It is a crisis that has wreaked havoc on lives and livelihoods — and transformed life, work, study, and play. Indeed, it has become so bad that many of us no longer even talk about the crisis — unfortunately, this includes those who should only be talking about it.The battle against Covid-19 is a marathon, and it is suddenly becoming clear that many may not have the mental stamina for it. Managing Covid-19 requires respect for science and data (don’t get me started on this); attention to detail; an understanding of cause, effect, and consequences; and a willingness to read, listen, assimilate and synthesise.Policymakers and political leaders need this (the latter have, in the past, displayed tremendous physical and mental stamina for political work), and many have been found wanting. It still isn’t clear who is leading the fight against the disease in the country — when India crossed a million cases, Dispatch 108 recommended that the government appoint a Covid Commissioner to spearhead the country’s response, and also a data chief.Health administrators need this stamina too — and many of them have also been found wanting. In hindsight, India’s testing strategy was wrong (it took till the end of last week for the Indian Council of Medical Research to even recommend when which test should be used); it didn’t trace aggressively enough; and even if the system of isolating the infected worked (it didn’t always), people let themselves down with their behaviour.So, what should we do now?Like a flagging marathoner, all of us need to refocus, and run on. To quote from the best book of running ever written (I may have referred to it before in this column): “You don’t become a runner by winning a morning workout. The only true way is to marshal the ferocity of your ambition over the course of many days, weeks, months, and (if you could finally come to accept it) years. The Trial of Miles; Miles of Trials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-E2BmjvUDC0uDcg0X48AnWJ.html
09-09-2020||India||Bengal’s Sunderbans billed ‘endangered ecosystem’, mangroves show signs of climate-resilience||The Sunderbans in West Bengal – a UNESCO world heritage site and home to the only tiger that lives in mangroves – has been categorized as an ‘endangered ecosystem’ by a team of scientists from four countries. But there is a silver lining too. The researchers have found that the world’s largest mangrove system, which has been degraded because of unbridled human activities in the past, is showing signs of stabilization and is gradually becoming resilient to climate change. “The Sunderbans, which has seen much degradation in the past, has been categorized as an endangered ecosystem according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s The Red List of Ecosystems. Felling of trees for human settlement over the past few centuries which has degraded the mangrove to a large extent and the declining fish population were the two primary reasons to tag the delta as an endangered one. Ongoing threats, including climate change and reduced freshwater supply may further impact the delta,” said Punyasloke Bhadury, who heads the Centre for Climate and Environmental Studies at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research. The IUCN’s Red List of Ecosystems (RLE) is a global standard for assessing the risk of ecosystem collapse. The Giant Kelp Forest in Alaska, the tidal flats of Yellow Sea in east Asia and Lake Burullus in Egypt also fall in the endangered category. The Gnarled Mossy Cloud Forest in Australia and Gonakier forest in Senegal are two critically endangered ecosystems. The Aral Sea which has dried up has been tagged as a collapsed ecosystem. “However, mangrove extent has since stabilised, tiger numbers are slowly recovering and analysis of mangrove condition highlights that only a small proportion of the forest is classified as degraded. We are cautiously optimistic about the future of the Indian Sundarbans,” said Michael Sievers, a scientist with School of Environment and Science at Griffith University in Australia and the corresponding author of the research paper.The study was done by researchers from various institutes including the Oxford University and Griffith University in four countries – India, UK, Australia and Singapore. The findings have been published in the latest issue of Biological Conservation-- a journal of the Elsevier group. The Sunderbans sprawls over 10,200 sq km. While 4200 sq km lies in West Bengal in India, the remaining 6000 sq km is in Bangladesh. Around 200 tigers have adapted to this mangrove and hence have acquired global importance. The scientists have analysed data of past five decades till March 2020, which means even though they have included the effects of Cyclone Aila in 2009 and Cyclone Bulbul in November 2019, they missed out the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan in May 2020. Cyclone Amphan had devastated almost one third of mangrove forest, top forest officials had said. The scientists have warned that despite the positive signs, several threats remain. Impacts from hydrological modifications and salinity alterations, from climate change and sea level rise, and from coastal erosion and reduced sediment supply all need to be properly monitored and managed where possible. The findings have been shared with authorities of the state pollution control board and the forest department. “We are planting around 50 million saplings of mangrove species in the Sunderbans to cope with the loss which the delta has suffered during Cyclone Amphan. The tiger population has increased from 88 to 96 in the past one year. A series of measures such as generating jobs though MGNREGA are being taken for the villagers,” said VK Yadav, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-sunderbans-billed-endangered-ecosystem-mangroves-show-signs-of-climate-resilience/story-sixh1ndTydSFSbP3WLhSxM.html
09-09-2020||India||No door-to-door collection of samples of Covid suspects in MP||The door-to-door sample collection of Covid 19 suspects will be discontinued in Madhya Pradesh and the samples will now be collected at fever clinics, said an officer of the health department on Tuesday. The facility was discontinued after alleged harassment of health workers by people and difficulty in reaching every house, said Mohammad Suleman, additional chief secretary, health department. Suleman said, “Fatality rate of Covid 19 patients has come down in Madhya Pradesh to 1.4 % from 2.4%. The recovery rate in Madhya Pradesh has been recorded at 76%. At present, there are about 17,000 active cases in Madhya Pradesh. About 40% patients in Madhya Pradesh are availing treatment under home quarantine.” “At present, about 55% ICU beds are occupied in cities like Bhopal and Indore. Along with this, the authorised hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 will also give bills for the amount spent on the admitted patient. It will completely be up to the patient’s will to pay 100 percent or some part of it,” said Suleman. Chief minister Shivraj Singh, who chaired the meeting, said control command centres will be introduced in every district, doctors will also be made available in these centres for counselling of common people. He further said that Urban Administration and Panchayat & Rural Development Department will organise awareness programme. The CM also showed concern on the increasing number of cases in Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur in the meeting, said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-door-to-door-collection-of-samples-of-covid-suspects-in-mp/story-AyMrOwecGIY74alidmWNSL.html
09-09-2020||India||Dharmendra Pradhan writes to railway minister, seeks Shramik trains to ferry migrant workers from Odisha||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday wrote to railway minister Piyush Goyal seeking to restart Shramik Special trains from Odisha to states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra to ferry migrant workers who had returned to their home state during the lockdown back to their workplaces.“As we resume our path to normalcy with lifting of the nation-wide lockdown, there is a need to resume rail services for migrant workers back to their workplaces. These workers have highlighted their plight due to unavailability of livelihood options and difficulty in travelling back to their workplace for rejoining work,” Pradhan wrote.“I am informed that even though some employers are willing to offer bus transport service from Odisha, due to the prevailing monsoon conditions, a long and arduous journey via road is neither feasible nor safe for such long distances. Keeping in mind the need to reignite our economy and the plight of migrant workers in Odisha, who are in urgent need of livelihood. I request your personal intervention for restarting of Shramik Special Trains from Odisha to states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra at the earliest,” he added.The Centre had begun operation of Shramik Special trains’ from May 1 for transportation of stranded migrant labourers during the lockdown period. Railways has said more than 63 lakh migrants were ferried in over 4,600 Shramik Special trains and the last Shramik train ran on July 9.According to officials aware of the development, the ministry may soon announce additional special trains from Odisha to meet the state government’s demand.“No other state has requested to run Shramik Trains as yet. But in addition to the 40 pairs of trains announced recently more regular trains are expected to be run from Odisha to meet the demand,” the official said requesting anonymity.The Indian Railways will deploy 80 special trains from September 12, in addition to the 230 special trains currently operating, the railway ministry announced on Saturday. The reservation for the special trains will begin from September 10.Chairman and CEO of the railway board VK Yadav had last week said that a key factor in starting the 80 new trains were migrant workers returning to their places of work. Yadav said the occupancy of the trains has gone up to 80-85% now and about a dozen trains are low occupancy.“Many of these trains are running in reverse direction of the Shramik Special trains. So, they are leaving their homes and going towards their workplaces. The occupancy of 12 trains is very less among the 230 trains, so we are running them, but will reduce the number of coaches. We are monitoring the occupancy of trains and will run more trains as per demand,” Yadav had said.To be clear, the ministry had clarified that all regular trains will continue to remain suspended but additional special trains will be operated based on the requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharmendra-pradhan-writes-to-railway-minister-seeks-shramik-trains-to-ferry-migrant-workers-from-odisha/story-KtBWXLEKVvCVtcARgukbxM.html
09-09-2020||India||PUBG pulls India rights from China-based Tencent Games after ban||Barely a week after PlayerUnknown’s BattleGrounds (PUBG), a popular gaming app, was banned by the ministry of electronics and information technology, the South Korean operator of the app has pulled its franchise from Tencent Holdings Ltd in India, apparently seeking to distance itself from the China-based company . “In light of recent developments, PUBG Corporation has made the decision to no longer authorize the PUBG MOBILE franchise to Tencent Games in India. Moving forward, PUBG Corporation will take on all publishing responsibilities within the country,” PUBG said in a statement. Hindustan Times on September 2 reported that the Indian government has banned PUBG, along with 118 other mobile applications with links to China, citing reports that these apps were ‘stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner.” The government said these apps promoted activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY) said. Tencent confirmed that PUBG Corp would take on the responsibilities of publishing the mobile game in India, news agency Reuters reported. “Our existing cooperation with PUBG Corporation in global markets other than India is not affected,” Tencent said in a statement, according to Reuters.The move was seen as being aimed at Chinese technology giants such as Tencent Holdings, the country’s search engine leader Baidu Inc., Xiaomi’s ShareSave and online payments giant Ant Group Co.’s platform Alipay. PUBG was banned in the third round of blocks ordered by the government in the wake of the increased military tensions between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had called the move a :”digital strike on China.” “This is a business call,” an IT ministry official (CHECK) said, asking not to be named. The official added that there is no question of revoking the ban until the government is satisfied that all its concerns have been addressed. “The reasons and grounds on which the ban has been imposed go way beyond ownership,” said this person. “Unless those concerns are addressed, {there is no} no reason to revoke the ban. The larger issues remain that of data privacy, data security and the information that the apps are collecting from users. We have sent 70-odd questions to the blocked apps, we will review them and respond.” The government is also going through the answers provided by the 59 apps banned in the first round, including TikTok, and the 47 mirror apps banned in the second. All the app operators will also be given a chance to make their case in front of a panel which is yet to begin hearing their representations. PUBG’s statement said that the ‘corporation fully understands and respects the measures taken by the government as the privacy and security of player data is a top priority for the company.”“It hopes to work hand-in-hand with the Indian government to find a solution that will allow gamers to once again drop into the battlegrounds while being fully compliant with Indian laws and regulations,” said the statement. “As the company explores ways to provide its own PUBG experience for India in the near future, it is committed to doing so by sustaining a localized and healthy gameplay environment for its fans.” India accounts for over a quarter of PUBG Mobile’s lifetime installs though revenues from the country are still minuscule, a Bloomberg report said, citing data from research firm Sensor Tower. PUBG had seen its user numbers rocket in India as the coronavirus disease-related lockdown boosted gaming. The banned versions of PUBG include PUBG Mobile Lite, a leaner version of the app suited to inexpensive smartphones, as well as PUBG Mobile Nordic Map: Livik, a newer game played in Nordic terrain.According to Raman Jit Singh Chima, lawyer and Asia Pacific policy director at Access Now, a digital rights advocacy group, the government is citing law and order and data protection as grounds for an economic decision. “Normally, countries criminally charge a firm for violating data privacy and not block the services,” said Chima. “PUBG’s actions seem to indicate that they are hopeful that the government may reinstate the application now. If we look at the US, they are clear on the fact that their move against Tencent is an economic one and aims to restrict its activities; they have not banned PUBG,” he added. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pubg-pulls-india-rights-from-china-based-tencent-games-after-ban/story-Ia2b2tRATCfKaLkoOCMYxI.html
09-09-2020||India||20-year-old put morphed nude images of minors on Instagram; arrested||Mumbai police’s cyber unit arrested a 20-year-old from Mahua in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat on Monday for alleged child pornography, stalking and blackmailing of girls between 10 to 15 years of age.Cyber police found nude photographs of more than 800 girls from the mobile phone of Alfaz Jamani, who allegedly managed to get them from the girls after blackmailing them. According to cyber police officials, Jamani dropped out of school after class 12 and started working at an onion dehydration plant. Dr Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber), said, “On September 4, we received complaints from seven parents whose children are in the age group of 10 to 15 years. The parents complained that someone had uploaded morphed nude images on Instagram, a photo sharing app, of their children, following which an FIR was registered.” “We have recovered four mobile phones from his [Jamani] house which he used for this crime. These phones belong to his mother, father, elder brother and himself. From one of those phones we have recovered more than 800 nude images of minor girls and the accused said he had blackmailed them to get these pictures. We have found his 17 fake Instagram profiles which he used to become friends with minors. We are further investigating to know why he was collecting these pictures,” Karandikar said.Last year, he was arrested by the Pune police for the same crime and upon release on bail he again started this. On Monday, the accused was produced before metropolitan magistrate court and was sent to police custody for six days.Karandikar said the FIR has been under section 354D (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code section 12 (Punishment for sexual harassment) and 13 (Use of child for pornographic purposes) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 43, 66, 66C, 66D, 66E of Information Technology Act. On September 6, a team was dispatched to Gujarat to arrest him. According to the police, the accused revealed during questioning that he used to first send friendship requests to minor girls and then would start chatting with them. He later would download the girl’s picture, said police, from the Instagram account, morph it with nude picture and then upload it on his other account’s wall.The accused would then send his victim screenshots of the nude picture and would ask the victim to share their username and password so that he could stop it, the police added. “Once the victim shared the details, he would change the password and the password recovery email id and mobile number, to ensure that the victim would not be able to recover their password, and would then blackmail them over nude photographs and videos,” said a police officer from the cyber unit. Jamani, at the same time, also would chat with other female friends of the victim through the victim’s Instagram account and would share morphed images of the victim with them, added officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-year-old-put-morphed-nude-images-of-minors-on-instagram-arrested/story-c4OMpKsbaVASZQJ7PQ9hEP.html
09-09-2020||India||Shots fired at LAC after 45 years||The Indian Army on Tuesday said Chinese troops fired into the air on September 7 to intimidate its soldiers holding dominating heights near a strategic mountain pass in eastern Ladakh, in a failed attempt to close in on a forward position controlled by India as bullets flew at the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) for the first time in 45 years.Soldiers from the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) tried to advance on the Mukhpari peak near Rezang La on Monday evening but stopped in their tracks after a stern warning from the Indian Army, which occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, officials familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity.The last recorded incident when bullets were fired at the LAC was in October 1975, when the PLA ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead. The situation remains tense in the area with around 40 to 50 Chinese soldiers armed with automatic weapons, spears and machetes still holding positions below the Mukhpari peak, said one of the officials cited above. “They are the same soldiers who fired the shots. Our positions are around 200 metres away. They have been in the area for the last two to three days. The PLA is intent on occupying high ground,” said a second official. Indian soldiers put up a “wire obstacle” near their positions in a warning to the PLA to not cross over, the officials said.Reacting to a claim made by PLA’s Western Theatre Command on Monday night that accused India of crossing the disputed border and firing shots, the Indian Army said it neither violated the LAC nor fired bullets, and that the PLA was trying to mislead domestic audiences and the international community with its baseless allegations. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Indian Army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said Indian troops exercised “great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner” despite grave provocation by the PLA. “It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress,” the statement said. Experts said the escalation was worrying.“Shots being fired for the first time along the LAC in 45 years is a clear sign of military tensions escalating. Protocols and agreements for border peace appear to have collapsed. The new developments indicate that military friction will only grow in the future,” former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said. The latest tensions in eastern Ladakh come days after defence minister Rajnath Singh — in a face-to-face meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wei Fengshe on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow — asked China to strictly respect the LAC, not make attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, and work with India for complete disengagement from all friction areas in the sensitive sector. The incident also comes just days before foreign minister S Jaishankar is due to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at the SCO meet in Russia this week.“On September 7, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in on one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by Indian troops, the PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate our troops,” the army statement said. It did not specify how Indian soldiers “dissuaded” the PLA. The army said while India was committed to disengagement and de-escalating the conflict, China was undertaking provocative actions to escalate the situation.“At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to the use of any aggressive means, including firing,” the statement said. “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity. However, it is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs. The statement by the Western Theatre Command is an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience,” it added. The Western Theatre Command on Monday accused Indian soldiers of illegally crossing the LAC and firing “warning shots”, forcing the PLA to take countermeasures. During his meeting with Fenghe on Friday, Rajnath Singh made it clear that India was fully determined to defend its frontiers. He also told the Chinese defence minister that the PLA’s aggressive actions in the Ladakh sector to unilaterally change the status quo on the ground violated bilateral agreements and the understanding between the Special Representatives of the two sides. Singh said while Indian troops showed a responsible approach towards border management, there should be no doubt about India’s determination to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Tensions flared up in the Ladakh sector after the Indian Army occupied strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake following aggressive moves by the PLA on August 29. China made another provocative move on August 31, targeting these positions, but the Indian Army’s defensive action thwarted the Chinese attempt. Both sides have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces, and are within each other’s rifle range in the area. The situation on the lake’s southern bank remains tense with both armies sending in reinforcements to the area where the Indian Army controls ridge line positions that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity — India holds a series of positions near Black Top (a hill feature) and on Rezang La and Reqin pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shots-fired-at-lac-after-45-years/story-o2GjyJqk9qXvLamP55BbwN.html
09-09-2020||India||GST row: Most states likely to opt for borrowing Rs 97k crore||With the Centre clarifying that the only option available to states to receive the GST compensation is for them to borrow, most states, including some ruled by non-BJP parties, are likely to opt for the first of the two options offered at the recent Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting. Their acceptance, which is likely to be confirmed to the Union finance ministry soon, will put an end to the controversy surrounding the compensation payments.The Centre, at the GST council meeting on August 27, gave two option to the states even as it admitted to a total shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. One, to borrow the projected GST shortfall of Rs 97,000 crore from a special window of the Reserve Bank of India, with both the principal and the interest coming from the compensation cess fund — along with Fiscal Regulatory and Budget Management (FRBM) relaxation of 0.5 percentage point. Or to borrow the entire projected shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore – both on account of losses arising from implementation of GST and that arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. States have to bear the interest cost in this case. To be sure, the finance ministry has said it is committed to paying the total compensation — only, states will have to wait for the bit arising from Covid-19 till the compensation cess fund is extended. Also read: GST compensation to states a legal obligation, Ashok Gehlot tells PM ModiThe compensation cess is derived from taxes on sin and luxury goods such as tobacco, cars and aerated drinks. Under The GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, states are guaranteed compensation for loss of revenue on account of implementation of GST for a transition period of five years (2017-22). The compensation is calculated based on the difference between the states’ current GST revenue and the protected revenue after estimating an annualised 14% growth rate from the base year of 2015-16. The council is also working on extending the 2022 deadline for another five years. At the GST council meeting, at least five states — Kerala, Punjab, West Bengal, Puducherry and Delhi — voiced their concerns over the proposals. They wanted the Centre to borrow and pay the GST shortfall to the states, a suggestion that was rejected by the Centre. “We have to take what is on the table,” said a Kerala finance department official. “While noting our dissent to the options, we may opt for the first option as it has lesser burden on the state finances. Everything is under discussion.” Also read: ‘GST means economic apocalypse’: Rahul Gandhi’s latest jibe at govt over economy in new videoKerala finance minister, Thomas Issac, who tested Covid positive on Sunday, was one of the first ones to oppose the options, and accused the Centre of going back on its commitment. An official from Maharashtra, another state which opposed the Centre’s options, said it may also go for the first option. “What other option we have?” the official asked, adding that without GST revenue, the state would not be able to pay salaries to its employees and fund various anti-Covid programmes. Manoj Saunik, Maharashtra’s additional chief secretary, finance, said: “We are weighing the options. It will be finalised and conveyed to the Centre in a day or two.” Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the two options saying they were in violation of the GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017 and said applying 10% (nominal) growth to project a higher revenue loss due to Covid is “statistically untenable” and “factually unsound”, a year after the actual growth was just 4.2%. Nominal growth in 219-20 was 7.2%.“It is the obligation of the Central Government to ensure that the states receive, without liability, the full amount of compensation, notwithstanding the shortfall in the collection of cess and that the compensation can neither be increased nor decreased without amending this Act,” he wrote. He also said that late Arun Jaitley , finance minister at the time GST was launched, had stated that the GST Council could consider raising additional resources including through borrowing but it was never the understanding that the states would borrow this additional amount. “The Council does not have the power to alter the compensation mechanism without getting the Act amended,” he wrote. The Haryana government has decided to go for option 1 as the borrowing will be over and above any other borrowing ceilings eligible notified by the department of expenditure. The special window will not be treated as debt of the state for any norms prescribed by the Finance Commission, a Haryana official said. “The first charge on the GST compensation cess each year will be the interest payable. The second charge will be the principal repayment. The remaining arrears of compensation accrued during the transition period will be paid after the interest and principal are paid,’’ added this official, speaking on condition of anonymity. A Madhya Pradesh finance department official said the state would go for option 1 . Bihar has already communicated to the Union finance ministry that it has chosen option 1. “We have given in writing to the union finance ministry that Bihar will go with option one,” said deputy chief minister cum finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi. Sowjanya (who goes by just one name), secretary, Uttarakhand finance department, said that the state government has not taken a final decision on the matter and will respond to Central government soon. (With inputs from state bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-states-likely-to-opt-for-borrowing-97k-cr/story-AMTqlFXO9KabEPuxrqOc5H.html
09-09-2020||India||Maharashtra orders probe into Kangana’s ‘drug use’||Maharashtra ordered a probe on Tuesday into allegations by actor Adhyayan Suman that actor Kangana Ranaut consumed drugs even as an inconclusive Covid test delayed the latter’s departure from Himachal Pradesh to Mumbai, where a political row is brewing over her comments in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said that Mumbai Police would be asked to probe into claims made by Suman made three years ago. “Sena lawmakers Prabhu and Sarnaik had raised the issue about the revelation against Ranaut that she was on drugs. Suman was in a relationship with her and he had said that she used to force him to do drugs as well. Mumbai Police will look into the allegations,” Deshmukh said.In the assembly, breach of privilege motions were moved and accepted against Ranaut and Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami in the legislature for “defamatory” remarks on Mumbai and “derogatory” comments against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, respectively. Deshmukh also said Ranaut’s statement likening Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir was an insult to Mumbai and Maharashtra. “Mumbai and Maharashtra have given Ranaut everything, but in return she has played with the sentiments of the people. At least, 106 people had laid their lives for a unified Maharashtra. Not only the ruling parties, but even the opposition, BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party), must also condemn her statement,” he said.His statement came on a day the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation served a notice to Ranaut, saying her Pali Hill office violated civic rules, and that action will be taken if she failed to reply in 24 hours. The actor, through her lawyer, requested seven days to reply. Ranaut was given Y+ category security by the central government on Monday in the midst of a raging controversy triggered by her remarks likening Mumbai to PoK and subsequent protests by Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena. Ranaut didn’t respond to Deshmukh’s statement but said BMC was intimidating her. “I have all the papers, BMC permissions and nothing has been done illegally in my property. BMC should send a structure plan to show the illegal construction with a notice. Today, they raided my place and without any notice tomorrow they will be demolishing entire structure.”Ranaut, who was in Himachal Pradesh, wanted to return to Mumbai on Wednesday but swab samples taken of her and younger sister Rangoli Chandel for Covid-19 came back inconclusive in Manali, local officials said. A team from Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College in Mandi visited Ranaut to take fresh samples on Tuesday.Her test report is expected to come late Tuesday night and if cleared, Ranaut is likely to leave for Mumbai on Wednesday morning . She will travel to Chandigarh via road and board a flight for Mumbai. Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said he spoke to Ranaut over the phone. “I have spoken to Kangana ji on phone. She told me she would leave for Mumbai on 9th,” said Thakur....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-orders-probe-into-kangana-s-drug-use/story-oc18jKoXiAzIWhylyrsQPO.html
09-09-2020||India||Not made Delhi HC judge due to sexual orientation: Lawyer||Delhi-based lawyer Saurabh Kirpal, who was one of the lawyers who successfully challenged Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code in the Supreme Court in 2018, has alleged that he was blocked from becoming a judge of the Delhi high court because he is gay.Kirpal, 48, said he was first asked if he was open to become a HC judge in April 2017 and filled a form as part of his formal consent.The proposal was cleared by the high court collegium which comprised justices Geeta Mittal, Sanjeev Khanna and Ravindra Bhatt, but got stuck when it was sent to the Intelligence Bureau and Supreme Court for further clearances.Between September 2018 and April 2019, Kirpal’s elevation came up thrice in the top court’s collegiums, according to Him, but the decision was deferred each time.“My professional competence was known to the high court and the Supreme Court collegium and my case for elevation was presumably not deferred for that reason. Media reports seemed to indicate the issue might have been the nationality of my partner who is Swiss. Had I been a straight man with a foreign spouse, this would not have been an issue; former Supreme Court judges have had foreign spouses. But it became an issue only because I am not,” Kirpal told HT. The top court’s website that lists the names of candidates considered by the SC collegium continues to cite Kirpal’s case, indicating it was considered. The last time the SC collegium met was on August 20 under Chief Justice of India SA Bobde.HT spoke to a judicial officer who was aware of the case and confirmed that the Intelligence Bureau asked for more time to “look into the allegation’’ of his relationship. The SC collegium, he said, could have ignored IB’s report but they decided to wait for their clearance.When contacted, an IB official said, “ The SC has decriminalised section 377, so why should it be a factor?’’But Kirpal said he believed his sexuality was the only stumbling block. “The aim was to have diversity on the bench. I really believe it could change the lives of so many LGBT [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender] people in India.’’In 2018, Kirpal was part of the legal team that argued against section 377, which criminalized intercourse “against the order of nature”. On September 6, 2018 the top court read down the colonial law and decriminalised homosexuality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-made-hc-judge-due-to-sexual-orientation-lawyer/story-wOGl9qxCjf0ddLyEIHYPFK.html
09-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty arrested in drugs case, in 14-day custody||After questioning her for three consecutive days, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested actor Rhea Chakraborty on Tuesday afternoon in connection with its investigation of a drug angle in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.“Rhea has been arrested and due process of informing the family has been completed,” said NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra.Chakraborty’s arrest in connection with the NCB’s probe of the drug angle followed the arrest of her brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and his house help Dipesh Sawant.“We will not be seeking Rhea Chakraborty’s custody as we have questioned her for three days, but we will oppose if she moves for bail,” deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain of NCB said.Chakraborty, 28, was arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act’s sections 8(c) (sale, possession or manufacture of banned drugs), 20(b)(ii) (possession or use of small quantity of banned drugs) and other relevant provisions.“We have not found any contraband from Rhea and her brother Showik’s residence in Juhu. After three days of interrogation, we have sufficient material to arrest her, but I will not comment on the evidence in this case. We will produce that before the court,” said Jain.Rajput, 34, was found dead at his Bandra residence in Mumbai on June 14 in what the city police said initially was a case of suicide. The death is now being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Also read | Rhea Chakraborty gives NCB names of ‘top Bollywood celebrities’ who may have consumed drugs: Report“This is a complete travesty of justice,” Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said about her arrest.At 7.30pm, NCB produced Chakraborty before a magistrate’s court via video conferencing after arresting her on the basis of statements by other people it has held in connection with the case, including her brother Showik. The court remanded Chakraborty to 14-day judicial custody, rejecting her bail plea.NCB said in its remand application that Chakraborty had revealed her involvement in procuring drugs. “It is also clear from the statement that the present respondent (Chakraborty) used to procure drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput for consumption purpose. The present respondent used to manage finance for drug procurement along with Sushant Singh Rajput,” it said in the application. Also read | Abetment to suicide, cheating: Rhea Chakraborty’s charges against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, doctorAn NCB official said the agency had in its custody six other accused, including Showik, Miranda and Sawant, and three alleged drug peddlers, identified as Zaid Vilatra, Abdel Basit Parihar and Anuj Keshwani. “We will produce them before the court tomorrow. We will oppose their bail too. We have not sent any summons to any other person in this case. There should be no speculation beyond this,” added Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-arrested-in-drugs-case-in-14-day-custody/story-Ewyx1T8VVCR96UOcRlKIZI.html
09-09-2020||India||Delhi scales new testing high with more than 45k Covid-19 samples||New Delhi The Delhi government conducted a record 45,797 tests for Covid-19 on Tuesday — days after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the ramping up of testing to 40,000 daily samples to tackle a resurgence of cases. This was the first time that the number of daily tests crossed the CM’s target of 40,000 announced on August 26 though a gradual increase in testing in Delhi had started from August 31, with the city setting new records for daily tests in five out of the last seven days.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe milestone in Covid-19 testing comes on the same day that the Delhi high court removed the requirement of a doctor’s prescription to get a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR, tests in the city. As testing increased, 3,609 new cases were reported in Delhi — the highest single-day case count since June 24, 76 days ago, when 3,788 new cases were reported. Over the past week, Delhi has recorded 2,868 new cases every day on average. Cases in Delhi rose rapidly through May and June, and started dropping by end of June after hitting an initial peak. After a steady drop in cases for around three weeks (seven-day average of daily cases dropped to 983 by August 4), cases again started rising alarmingly from mid-August. As of Tuesday, there are 197,135 cases in the city.Also read | Covid-19: With 3,609 cases, Delhi records highest ever infections in over 78 daysDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said people should not panic over the rising number of daily cases. “The main reason why Covid-19 cases are more now is because we have more than doubled our testing. It is part of our ‘test, track, treat and isolate’ strategy, which essentially is the Delhi model,” he said.He added the current daily numbers cannot be compared to the cases reported in June, when 18,000-20,000 tests were being conducted daily and the fresh cases ranged between 2,000-3,000. Also on Tuesday, the Delhi high court said that a doctor’s prescription is not required anymore for asymptomatic patients to get an RT-PCR test. Until now, if someone who did not have any Covid-19 symptoms wanted to get an RT-PCR test (which is considered the gold standard for tests) in Delhi, they had to produce a doctor’s prescription. Delhi residents, however, could get antigen tests without any prescription.Now, only Aadhaar cards (with Delhi address) and an Indian Council of Medical Research form would be required for people who want to get RT-PCR test. On a trial basis, RT-PCR tests for asymptomatic patients would be capped at 2,000 a day, the court said.With 9,944 RT-PCR tests, Delhi also set a record for the highest number of single-day RT-PCR tests, according to Tuesday’s health bulletin. Previously, this record was set on June 29, when Delhi conducted 9,619 such tests.Also read | Delhi: For some patients, wait for ICU bed is long and agonisingDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet on Tuesday: “The Delhi government has increased testing multifold. I have directed the health minister this morning that doctor’s prescription should not be asked for testing. Anyone can get himself tested.”With the increase in tests, the average positivity rate has also started declining. Around 7.9% of tests came back positive on Tuesday. The number, which had dropped from a peak of 31.4% in mid-June to 5.7% at the end of July, was 8.4% in the past week. Overall, 10.7% of all tests done in Delhi have come back positive.Experts welcomed the increase testing in Delhi and said rising cases are not an immediate concern.“The government has taken a very good step of ramping up testing massively. What we need to see is that the number of positive cases that we are reporting every day is not that bad considering the number of tests. We were reporting the same number of cases with maybe 15,000-odd tests in June. The government has also asked hospitals to test all the patients coming into the OPD and their family members too, if needed. This has resulted in us detecting several asymptomatic cases that might have otherwise transmitted the infection on to others,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Disease where the city’s first plasma bank is located.(With inputs from Richa Banka)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-scales-new-testing-high-with-more-than-45k-covid-19-samples/story-K3wkkSDqO2nE2Dkc0yT2jI.html
09-09-2020||India||Govt to push 3 pending labour codes during House session||The Union Cabinet on Tuesday discussed labour reforms in detail so that the remaining three Codes pending in the Lok Sabha could be pushed for Parliament nod during the Monsoon session beginning Monday.“Some bills which are to come up in the coming session of parliament were approved,” said an official.News agency PTI quoting a person familiar with the development said the the Union Cabinet brainstormed on labour reforms. “The government wants to push all three remaining labour codes pending in the Lok Sabha for passage,” it said quoting the person.Earlier this month, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar had indicated that remaining three labour codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational safety and health would be tabled in the ensuing Monsoon session of Parliament.The three codes on industrial relations, social security and OCH were introduced in the Lok Sabha last year and then sent for scrutiny of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour. The committee has submitted its report on the remaining three codes. Meanwhile, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi also approved monetisation of assets of POWERGRID, a Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) under ministry of power, through Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) model.According to an official statement, approval given by CCEA would help POWERGRID to monetise in the first lot, assets with gross block value of more than 7000 crore. These assets, which are mainly High Voltage Transmission lines and substations, are held by POWERGRID in form of Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs), the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-push-3-pending-labour-codes-during-house-session/story-mNWrBPvjD7pYrYJhNdO3xK.html
09-09-2020||India||Top private hospitals fast running out of ICU beds for Covid care in Delhi||There are no intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators available for Covid-19 patients in eight of the Capital’s 11 top private hospitals, data from the Delhi government’s real-time occupancy tracking app, Delhi Corona, showed on Tuesday, raising concerns that the city may face a shortage of critical care resources if the current spike in new infections worsens. The national capital recorded 3,609 new Covid-19 infections as on Monday, taking the number of active cases to 22,377 – the highest since July 8, the government’s daily health bulletin showed on Tuesday. The number of people in hospital has risen in tandem: from 3,590 beds occupied August 24 to 5,218 on September 7.While this still leaves 8,788 of the 14,202 beds vacant, the concern particularly relates to ICU beds – of the 14,202, only 2,117 are in the intensive care category. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“With the increase in the number of cases, we will have to start optimising our resources and may have to follow a strict cut-off like what was being followed in June -- only those with oxygen saturation below 94% were being admitted to hospitals. However, by then sometimes the condition already starts deteriorating,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonology at Safdarjung hospital.The beds data from the Delhi Corona application reflect a drastic imbalance in people’s preference, with large private hospitals being the most sought after. The high occupancy also extends to ICU beds without ventilators in the top eight private hospitals, where 85% of these were occupied. In three of these, Max Patparganj, Fortis Shalimar Bagh and Apollo, there were zero vacancies even though 35% of such beds were reported vacant across the city.  The Delhi government and top health officials acknowledged that beds in private hospitals were seeing high demand, but added that there is adequate resources for now. “There are enough ICU beds available, there is no need to worry,” a Delhi government spokesperson said.“It is the big private hospitals that have started getting full. And, this is mainly because many prefer to go to these possibly the big multi-speciality ones that have doctors from all disciplines available,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and chair of the first expert committee that had been set up by the Delhi government to manage Covid-19 in the city. Accounting for all private hospitals in the city, 78.6% of ICU beds with ventilators and 66.3% of regular ICU beds were occupied. These numbers were correspondingly higher than government hospitals, where 37.6% of ICU beds with ventilators and 50% regular ICU beds were already full. Also read | Delhi: For some patients, wait for ICU bed is long and agonisingSarin said fatality trends indicate the infrastructure was able to handle the load and the situation was unlikely to become like when it was in June, a time when the capital’s hospitals were stressed. “Even with the increase in the number of hospitalisations, the proportion of deaths is not that high. And, this is because of the standardised treatment protocol that is now in place. Doctors have understood the importance of high flow nasal oxygen, started proning patients to improve their oxygen saturation, started administering antiviral medications and steroids, and of course administering plasma therapy,” he added. Since the June spike, Delhi has beefed up its Covid-19 hospital resources. The city has ordered all private hospitals to reserve 20% of their beds for Covid-19 patients, the army set up a new a field hospital, the operations of two of Delhi governments newly constructed hospitals were expedited and makeshift hospitals were created adjacent to existing ones and in banquet halls.Among the people hospitalised in Delhi are also many who are not from the city. Over 30% of all hospital admissions due to Covid-19 in Delhi were patients from neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan, according to the Delhi government. Among them was a 53-year-old patient from Saharanpur who was brought to the Sir Ganga Ram hospital after doctors in his UP hometown detected pneumonia patches in his lungs. “We booked a car immediately and landed up in Gangaram hospital because I have faith in the doctors here. However, the doctors told us that there were no ICU beds available and we would have to wait. Our family suggested we take him to other hospitals nearby but we did not want to. So, we waited for a bed to become available in the emergency department. He was admitted there for two days,” said the patient’s son, who asked not to be named or for his father to be identified. Dr DK Sharma, the medical superintendent of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) agreed this was one of the factors. “The number of hospitalisations are on the rise in Delhi mainly because of two reasons -- one, the migrant population is returning to the city as the economic activities are picking up and are then getting the disease; two, large number of people from the neighbouring and sometimes even far away states are travelling to Delhi for treatment. For example, in AIIMS 35-40% of the Covid-19 admissions are in people from other states,” he said. “There might not be bed available in the hospital of your choice, however, there will definitely be a bed available for you,” said Sharma. Doctors say it is important to remind people to not become complacent. “We have seen a rise in numbers in the past few weeks for mainly the below mentioned points: 1) the number of tests have gone up, thereby pushing up the diagnosis of the disease; 2) Delhi has eased its earlier lockdown norms. This is visible with increasing traffic and in markets and offices re-opening. People have to be careful in observing social distancing, wearing masks and following hygiene steps because the transmission of virus has picked up pace,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max Healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-private-hospitals-fast-running-out-of-icu-beds-for-covid-care-in-delhi/story-X5NPDK56wIkx2wUuqQLXmI.html
09-09-2020||India||Congress plans joint opposition candidate for Rajya Sabha post||The Congress decided on Tuesday to work to field a joint opposition candidate for the post of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson in a bid to present a united front against the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament beginning on September 14, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. The decision was taken at a meeting of the parliament strategy group of the Congress on Tuesday, a party leader said on condition of anonymity.The meeting was otherwise dominated by the India-China military standoff on the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. The Congress decided to corner the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government on the issue in parliament, but in a “nuanced” way, given that Indian forces are eyeball-to-eyeball with Chinese troops along the LAC, the leader cited above said.The meeting was attended by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, his deputy Anand Sharma, party leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury,, his deputy Gaurav Gogoi, and senior leaders AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Mallikarjun Kharge, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal, Manish Tewari, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu. The Congress leader cited above said Tewari pitched for a nuanced approach on the military standoff with China following the June 15 skirmish in the Galwan valley in which 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese were killed. Tewari also noted nationalistic fervour on the issue and said the Congress needs to be careful how it articulates its position. At the same time, while keeping popular perception in mind, he said it was important to expose the government because there was absolutely no doubt that it had bungled on the China issue. Tewari said that his concern was not what the people will say but what a soldier standing on the borders and guarding the country 24x7 putting his life at stake, will feel at a time when the country is facing the biggest challenge from China since the 1962 war.“Are we going to dampen the morale of the soldiers at a time when they are standing eyeball-to-eyeball with Chinese troops,” he asked. At this point, Rahul Gandhi intervened and agreed with Tewari, said another leader present in the meeting, requesting anonymity. “We need to calibrate our stand,” the leader quoted Rahul Gandhi as saying at the meeting. Venugopal also said the Congress should be vocal in its criticism of China, which he described as the invader and the aggressor. Sharma too echoed Tewari’s views. He said the party should be careful not to demoralise the armed forces given that extensive mobilisation is taking place along the borders and the country faces a situation that is unprecedented since 1962. But some leaders such as Tagore and Bittu said patriotism needs transparency and telling the truth and the Congress should keep up its attack on the government on the issue. Chowdhury said the Congress should demand a white paper from the government on the Ladakh situation. At the outset, Azad listed the issues to be raised in the monsoon session. He said the election to the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson’s post was coming up and all opposition parties should collectively contest it. His views were endorsed by Patel. The Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson’s post is vacant after Janata Dal (United) MP Harivansh retired in April this year. He was re-elected to the Upper House from Bihar soon after and is expected to be the NDA candidate yet again. In August 2018, after the retirement of PJ Kurien of the Congress, Harivansh was elected as the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson. As the NDA candidate, he defeated BK Hariprasad of the Congress. Harivansh secured 125 votes to 105 for Hariprasad. The election to the post is scheduled to be held on the first day of the monsoon session on September 14. The last date for filing nominations is September 11. The Congress is likely to approach the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) for the post, and has authorised Azad to speak to other parties on the issue and finalise a candidate. The post of deputy speaker of the Lower House is also vacant since the 17th Lok Sabha was constituted in May last year. The party will also flag the Covid-19 situation across the country, the impact of lockdowns, the current state of the economy, decline in gross domestic product growth, Good and Services Tax (GST) compensation to states, job losses, agrarian distress, restoration of the Question Hour and Facebook’s alleged nexus with the ruling BJP. It will also seek a discussion on the PM CARES Fund set up in March to provide relief to those affected by Covid-19. Rahul Gandhi said the party should aggressively raise the Covid-19 issue, given that the situation is grim . He said accountability for the deteriorating situation should be fixed. Ramesh briefed the meeting about the 11 ordinances the government is expected to bring in the session and said the Congress will oppose four of them, including the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 and the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020. Tewari said the party should not oppose the ordinance on the Insolvency and Banking Code (IBC), given that the economy is in a bad shape. “It is a good ordinance and suspends the rigour of the Act,” the second leader quoted him as saying at the meeting. Tewari said the Congress should move adjournment motions to find out “who stands where” on these issues. The meeting also decided to firm up a joint strategy with other like-minded opposition parties. Some key opposition leaders like Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren have already stated that they will work closely with each other to take on the government in Parliament. The leaders expressed their views at a recent meeting of non-NDA chief ministers called by Sonia Gandhi. A meeting of opposition parties is expected to be held later this week. This was also the first time that three – Azad, Sharma and Tewari -- of the 23 signatories to a letter to the party president seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation came face-to-face with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi after the stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on August 24. Four out of the 23 signatories who are CWC members – Azad, Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada – had come under intense fire from other colleagues at the meeting for writing the letter. After Tuesday’s meeting, Sonia Gandhi is likely to leave for an overseas trip for a routine health check-up and will not be able to attend the full monsoon session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-plans-joint-oppn-candidate-for-rs-post/story-m777lQY1DWB6xfmdFSV4qO.html
09-09-2020||India||Govt releases guidelines as schools prepare to counsel senior students||New Delhi Distance learning shall be continued and encouraged, but students in standard 9 through 12 can visit schools, subject to written consent of their parents, according to the guidelines on partial reopening of schools released by the union health ministry on Tuesday.Only the schools outside of containment zones will resume and only the students and staff members living outside containment zones will be allowed to attend the schools. Before resuming the activities, all work areas have to be sanitised using 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. Schools that had been used as quarantine centres will have to be deep cleaned before resuming, the guidelines say.The schools will be allowed to call only half of their teaching and non-teaching staff for online teaching. All employees at higher risk – the elderly, pregnant women, or those employees with co-morbid conditions should preferably not be exposed to work requiring direct contact with the students.Seating plans should be made in a manner that social distancing can be ensured and outdoor spaces should be utilised for teacher-student interactions, weather permitting, according to the guidelines. The schools have also been asked to ensure hand-washing facilities along with soap. Alternative to biometric attendance has to be used in schools as they resume work. Assemblies and sports events that can lead to overcrowding have been strictly prohibited, the guidelines say.Bharat Arora, general secretary of the action aided committee of private unaided recognised schools -- and umbrella body of over 400 private schools in Delhi-- said that their association has already released its own SoPs for the partial re-opening of schools from September 21. “Our SoPs cover almost all the points mentioned in the one issued by the ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday. Schools are preparing for the partial reopening on voluntary basis as permitted by the government. We will take all possible measures to ensure safety and security of the students at the school premises,” he said. For practical activities such as laboratories, maximum capacity per session has to be planned with floor areas of 4 m sq available to each student, all equipment has to be disinfected, everyone must sanitise hands before and after using the equipment with sanitisers available on the work stations, the guidelines say.Anyone who develops symptoms in the school has to be isolated from other and their guardians informed. The patient will remain in a mask or face cover and the nearest medical facility will be informed, the contacts will be traced, and the premises disinfected.The schools have been asked to maintain back-up stocks of personal protective equipment such as face covers, masks, visors, and hand sanitizers. Teachers and management should have supply of alcohol wipes, 1% sodium hypochlorite solution, disposable paper towels, and pulse oximeters. The schools must ensure availability of covered dustbins.Apart from the precautions, the schools have been advised to ensure regular counselling for students and teachers reporting mental health issues such as anxiety and depression||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-releases-guidelines-as-schools-prepare-to-counsel-senior-students/story-EUupfa99ov8Wtakb5jf49I.html
09-09-2020||India||Delhi: For some patients, wait for ICU bed is long and agonising||Twenty nine-year-old Pravesh Malik had rushed 25km from Rohini to near Delhi Gate, to get his Covid-19 positive father admitted at Lok Nayak hospital. When Pravesh’s father, Dharamvir, had tested positive for the infection on Monday, the doctor at the government testing centre had advised that he be admitted to a hospital at earliest because of his existing heart condition. “We went to nearby Saroj hospital, where we were told that in case his condition deteriorates, they will not be able to manage him. Their ICUs were full and they asked me to shift him to a bigger hospital,” said Pravesh. However, when he checked the ‘Delhi Corona’ app,the ICU beds at all big hospitals near his house were occupied. “As he was already on oxygen support, I decided not to take any chances and rushed him to Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital in an ambulance. The only reason I travelled so far with him is because there were no beds available at hospitals near my house,” he said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Maliks were one of several hundred residents who have in the past few weeks sought hospitalisation, as the number of Covid-19 cases in the city sees a major upsurge.As of Tuesday, at least 5,400 people suffering from Covid had been admitted to various Delhi hospitals — the highest since the third week of June when the city had 6,200 hospitalised Covid patients. Even though more than 8,600 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 remained vacant in the city (on Tuesday), the ICUs in the large multi speciality private hospitals have started running full. Ashwini Sharma, a businessman from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh brought his 52-year-old uncle, who had tested positive for Covid-19 back home and was running a high temperature, to Delhi’s Max hospital in Saket on Tuesday afternoon. After almost 40 minutes of waiting, they were told that beds were not available at the hospital. “The oxygen levels of my uncle had been dropping since last night. A private hospital in Gwalior suggested that we go to Delhi for treatment. Once here, we were told that there is a waiting of 3-4 days. Now we will try Max hospital in Vaishali. However, the ambulance staff has told me that they are running out of oxygen and it would take at least an hour to reach Vaishali in Ghaziabad. I just hope we make it in time,” said a worried looking Sharma, as his uncle lay in the ambulance. A medical support staff at Max, Saket, who did not wish to be named, said over the past few days, the number of admissions had gone up. “The bed occupancy at our dedicated Covid-19 facilities is running full,” said Max hospital in a statement. Also read: Top private hospitals fast running out of ICU beds for Covid care in DelhiChetan Gupta, 32, from Haryana’s Rewari, who too had come to Max, Saket, said his father used to come for dialysis at the hospital thrice a week and last Saturday tested positive for the virus. “He is a critical care patient. We had to wait for almost 12 hours to get a bed in the hospital. We had reached the hospital at 10am on Saturday and it was only by 9pm that he finally managed to get a bed, after we made several calls. We couldn’t have taken him anywhere else, as his dialysis was being done here ,” said Gupta. At AIIMS too, the Covid screening facility had a queue of ambulances with patients being tested before admission. A medical staff at the facility said that the number of Covid patients coming in for ICU and ventilator support beds had witnessed a sharp rise in the last few weeks. “The workload has increased again with more critical care patients are pouring in. Since morning at least four cases had come that required ICU beds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-for-some-patients-wait-for-icu-bed-is-long-and-agonising/story-YsDfwOlwsSxvENi3mbTYIP.html
09-09-2020||India||5 missing Arunachal men found by PLA, says Indian Army||The Indian Army said on Tuesday that the five young men from Arunachal Pradesh who went missing from near the Indo-China border last week have been found by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA).The five men of the Tagin tribe, who used to work as porters for the Indian Army, went missing on September 2 reportedly from Sera-7 on the Indian side of the McMohan Line bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and the Tibet autonomous region (TAR) of China.  “China’s PLA has responded to the hotline message sent by Indian Army. They have confirmed that the missing young men from Arunachal Pradesh have been found. Further modalities to hand over the persons to us is being worked out,” Kiren Rijiju, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Arunachal West, tweeted on Tuesday evening. Following their disappearance, a brother of one of the men posted on social media that they were “abducted” by the PLA. The same accusation was made by Tapir Gao, the BJP MP from Arunachal East, and Ninong Ering, the Congress MLA from Pasighat . “We came to know about the suspected apprehension of the five young men on September 3. Two days later we sent a hotline message to PLA regarding the whereabouts of these men. Finally, on Tuesday afternoon, PLA sent a message, informing {that} they have been found,” said Lt Col Harsh Wardhan Pande, an army spokesperson based in Tezpur, Assam. “The young men, who were hunting in the area,inadvertently crossed over to the other side. The PLA has informed us that they all are okay. Formalities for their early transfer are being coordinated with the Chinese side,” he added. Lt Col Pande said the PLA has not mentioned the date when the five men were found; standard operating procedures (SOPs) followed for people straying across the border would be followed before they return to the Indian side. On Monday, China’s state-affiliated Global Times tweeted quoting Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian: “China has never recognized so-called Arunachal Pradesh, which is China’s south Tibet region, and we have no details to release yet about question on Indian Army sending message to PLA about five missing Indians in the region”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-missing-arunachal-men-found-by-pla-says-army/story-KZ5VwqzXL2i3l8jlvcDXGL.html
09-09-2020||India||Echoes of heroism in Rezang La||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Monday fired shots in a failed attempt to intimidate and dislodge Indian soldiers holding dominating heights near a towering mountain pass in eastern Ladakh, where heavily outnumbered Indian troops put up a fierce fight against Chinese soldiers on a chilly Sunday morning during the 1962 war.The historic Battle of Rezang La, fought at heights of more than 18,000 feet, saw 124 Indian soldiers repel attack after attack by a numerically superior and better-equipped enemy in November 1962.The soldiers from the Charlie Company of the 13th battalion of the Kumaon Regiment were pitched against more than 5,000 Chinese troops, with the advancing enemy infantry being supported by heavy artillery fire. Led by the legendary Major Shaitan Singh, whose outstanding leadership and courage is the stuff of legend, the unbelievably fearless men from the C Company fought to the last bullet and inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese army.Also read: Face-off at Rechin La leads to scuffle with aggressive PLA. Situation tense but ground commanders talkingThree months after the battle, the frozen bodies of Indian soldiers were found in their trenches – the dead men still holding their weapons. The first attack launched by the enemy at the crack of dawn on November 18 was blunted with the Major ordering his men to open fire at the Chinese the moment they came within their rifle range, according to a book published by the Ranikhet-based Kumaon Regimental Centre.“Many of the enemies fell, others continued to advance. But with every weapon of C Company firing, the gullies in front of the 8 Platoon were soon full of dead and wounded Chinese,” says the book The Images of Valour and Triumph, published in 2005.After their first attack failed due to stiff Indian resistance, the Chinese resorted to heavy artillery bombardment of the positions held by Major Singh and his men. The Indian soldiers had the odds stacked against them, but the fierce assault failed to crush their fighting spirit and determination to defend their positions till their last breath.The heavy shelling helped the Chinese troops launch multiple assaults and the C Company soon found itself surrounded by the enemy. The book says Major Singh reorganised the positions held by his soldiers and re-sited the automatic weapons to take on the Chinese troops, a move that resulted in the enemy suffering more casualties.The heroic officer was killed in action in this phase of the battle that resulted in 114 Indian deaths in a few hours of fighting.A chapter on the Battle of Rezang La in the book says, “The dead men were found in their trenches, frozen stiff, still holding their weapons. Broken light machine gun bipods, and some men holding only the butts of their rifles while the remaining weapon had blown off, bore witness to the enemy fire.” Their mortal remains were found three months later.Different estimates peg the number of Chinese killed in the battle at between 500 and 1,300.Major Singh was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra – the country’s highest wartime gallantry award – for the exceptional courage and leadership demonstrated by him in the battle.General VP Malik, former chief of army staff who was inducted in the Ladakh sector in October 1962 as Captain with 3 Sikh Li, said: “We were directly in the Chushul battlefront, but were preparing defences in the rear on Dungti-Chuma Tang axis. The tactical significance of Rezang La lies in the dominating heights, Gurung Hill and Magar Hill, which have now been occupied by us. During the war, we did hear about Major Shaitan Singh’s heroic action, but it was much later that I visited the place where he had fallen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/echoes-of-heroism-in-rezang-la/story-AGmbeQP72RBpvHP7miRb8H.html
09-09-2020||India||Chanda Kochhar and husband Deepak worked in tandem, says ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has alleged that former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar and her husband Deepak Kochhar, who was arrested on Monday night in connection with a money laundering probe, worked in tandem in a conspiracy to extend a loan to Videocon Group and then used an “elaborate structure/web of entities” for layering a bribe of Rs 64 crore. Deepak Kochhar, according to the ED, not only actively engaged in laundering proceeds of crime and projecting it as “untainted,” but continued to have access to the laundered money. Interestingly, after Deepak Kochhar was arrested around 8.06 pm in ED’s Mumbai office, the agency informed Chanda Kochhar on telephone that her husband had been arrested. In its remand document submitted in a Mumbai Prevention of Money Laundering Act Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday while seeking 14 days’ custody, the ED said that Deepak Kochhar’s arrest was “qualitatively more elicitation oriented” and absolutely necessary since he has been totally non-cooperative and needs to be taken to Delhi to be confronted with voluminous evidence so that the agency can decipher the complete money trail.The ED added that various persons examined by it in the case are linked to various “sham transactions” and several documents have been recovered showing details of other companies controlled by Deepak Kochhar. Also read: ED probes over 24 transactions in Deepak Kochhar’s accounts. It includes one by his wifeDeepak Kochhar.was sent to ED’s custody until September 19. His lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, argued that the arrest was illegal.  “This arrest and remand will not stand scrutiny in higher courts,”Aggarwal told HT, adding that his client joined the investigation and submitted 10,000 pages of documents in two years, and was arrested in a case punishable with seven years’ imprisonment “which is illegal” . According to the amended Criminal Procedure Code, an accused may not be arrested for offences in which the maximum punishment is seven years. At the heart of the case are allegations of loans for favours and conflict of interest. According to the ED investigation, details of which were accessed by HT, ICICI Bank extended a loan of Rs.300 crore to (Rs 283.45 crore was the actual disbursed amount) to Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) on September 7, 2009, following which Rs 64 crore was transferred to Deepak Kochhar’s company NuPower Renewables Ltd (NRL) through Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd, the very next day. NRL was started by Videocon’s Venugopal Dhoot and Deepak Kochhar together; Dhoot later transferred control of it to Kochhar. ED has prepared a detailed flowchart on how money moved from Videocon’s various companies and bank accounts to finally reach NRL, a company controlled, owned and managed by Deepak Kochhar from 2012. “Chanda Kochhar was part of decision making process and chairperson/member of the recommending/sanctioning committees for other loans sanctioned to Videocon Group by ICICI Bank,” it added. SEPL, ED said, was acquired by Pinnacle Energy (a family trust of Deepak Kochhar). “…an elaborate structure/web of entities was created to ostensibly hold this amount of Rs 64 crore. Loan funds travelled from VIL to NRL through SEPL, but two intermediaries were brought in for purpose of layering,” it added. The money was used by Deepak Kochhar for purchase of properties (wind farm projects of 33.15 MW capacity), the agency added. The agency has claimed that Deepak Kochhar was given multiple opportunities to rebut the allegations against himself but his stand has been contrary to the records of the case. “He also wilfully withheld information which was in his exclusive knowledge.” ED has also identified an overseas transaction in Deepak Kochhar’s company. Officials hinted that Venugopal Dhoot and Chanda Kochhar may also soon be called for questioning on the basis of Deepak Kochhar’s custodial interrogation.Calls made to Chanda Kochhar’s mobile number failed to connect and WhatsApp messages did not elicit a response. In January 2019, Chanda Kochhar was sacked as chief executive of ICICI Bank, a post to which she was appointed in 2009, with retrospective effect after a panel indicted her on several counts. The ICICI Bank board terminated her services following a meeting where it discussed the report that found the former banker to have breached the bank’s code of conduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chanda-kochhar-and-husband-worked-in-tandem-says-ed/story-6jqDntpWUf3qijMMotzgZI.html
09-09-2020||India||We are in the process of rebuilding Andhra: CM Jaganmohan Reddy||Andhra Pradesh chief minister (CM) YS Jaganmohan Reddy is upfront in his criticism of the Telugu Desam Party’s (TDP) N. Chandrababu Naidu but is cautious while talking about the Congress or explaining his supportive, issue-based approach to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In an interview to Vinod Sharma, he explained that his vision of three capital cities for Andhra Pradesh was informed by the residuary state’s past two bifurcations (in which it lost Chennai and Hyderabad) and predicated on decentralisation of development. How prepared are you in Andhra to contain the spread of Covid-19? The infection has gravely spiked in recent weeks amid reports of the health infrastructure seeming to crumble under pressure. The decision of your deputy CM Amjad Ali and other legislators to seek treatment in private facilities is an expression of no confidence in the state’s health infrastructure. We are fully prepared to contain the spread of Covid-19. From being a state with not even a single lab to test for the virus, Andhra Pradesh has, since March 2020 (when the sample of the first case was sent to Bengaluru) has acquired the capacity to test more than 60,000 samples a day. We are pursuing a trace-test-isolate and treat policy. All district health teams supported by line departments are fully involved in cluster containment under the direct supervision and monitoring of district collectors. A look at the spread of infection in Andhra indicates that the cases started spreading after unlocking started. The recent spike in cases is expected as lakhs of migrant workers have returned to the state. Our health infrastructure is fully prepared to handle any surge with 4,214 ICU [intensive care unit] beds with oxygen, 17,232 non-ICU Beds with oxygen, 17,161 general beds and 1,620 ventilators. In terms of human resources also, we are fully geared up. In addition to the existing health care workers in the system, 2,926-general duty medical officers, 1,598-specialists, 1,461 anesthesiologists and other technicians, 4,487 staff nurses, 11,200 trainee nurses, 4,109-nursing orderlies, 4,394- sanitation workers and 712 data entry operators have been recruited by the district collectors. Above that, 9,712 health professionals are being recruited on regular basis at the state level. That includes 2,000 medical officers, 4,600 staff nurses and other paramedics. The health infrastructure with this kind of manpower and a fully committed administration will be handling any surge without any pressure on the system. You’ve said the people have to learn to live with Covid-19. By official counts, Covid cases are rising in thousands every day. What’s your strategy to contain the pandemic?  It is now an accepted fact that the people have to live along with the virus in the manner we are living with other diseases. To contain its spread, we have to follow Covid-appropriate behavior. We are aggressively tracing and testing (60,000 samples a day) people in containment clusters. We are leveraging on the availability of two lakh volunteers under the newly established 13,000 village and ward secretariats. Each volunteer is allotted 50 households approximately with the mandate to closely monitor their health status. In the last five months, these volunteers, supported by 43,000 ASHAs (Accredited Social Health Activists) and 23,000 auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) have visited 1.4 crore households five times during the fever survey and identified persons with Covid-like symptoms and started testing them. Testing is happening in cluster/containment zones. All primary and secondary contacts of positive person are being tested. Our strategy of aggressive testing has taken cue from international learning and WHO (World Health Organization) guidelines. We have put in place a RCCE (Risk Communication and Community Engagement) strategy with the support of UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund), to reach training and awareness on Covid-appropriate behaviour to 1.06 crore households. A month-long mask campaign has also been initiated for 95% mask utilization in urban and rural areas. With such a robust system in place, we are very confident of controlling and containing Covid-19. The curve will hopefully be flattened very soon. Going by your government’s statements, the YSR Cheyutha scheme is said to be a game-changer for rural Andhra, aim as it does to benefit women belonging to the SC (scheduled caste), ST (scheduled tribe), BC (backward class) and minority communities. But there is criticism that it’s not reaching the targeted beneficiaries across caste and religion. The idea behind YSR Cheyutha is to help women take up self-employment ventures. Nearly 80% of women between 45- 60 age group are being covered. To make the effort successful, the government is trying for backward and forward linkages to these units with corporate companies like Amul and ITC. The scheme will cover all religions. The scheme is not meant for any particular religion. Your bid to help the poor through direct benefit transfers is laudable. The flip side is that the outreach will consolidate your vote bank, not the state’s economy that’s in the red.  All states, including the central government, have been implementing several schemes, few are through DBT (direct benefit transfer) and others vide traditional methods. The reform that we brought is to ensure that the DBT system is foolproof, that there are no leakages and benefits reaches the genuine beneficiary directly, completely, in time and without corruption. New schemes such as Amma Vodi and Rythu Bandhu are investments in social sector. What the state’s responsibility? Maintaining law and order besides focusing on education, health and agriculture. Any investment in these sectors cannot be simple welfare measures. These, in fact, are social capital building investments. If we can provide free education to all depending on their requirement without compromising on quality--- that is the best any state can do towards its people. It is a misconception that only private institutions provide quality education. The IITs {Indian Institujtes of Technology}, IIMs {Indian Institutes of Management}, IISc {Indian Institute of Science} and several other top educational institutions are in public sector. My government’s focus is to bring back primacy to education in government sector and schemes like Amma Vodi (for financial assistance to mothers to educate their children) are a step in that direction. Providing school books, improving the quality of mid-day meal, strengthening staff and physical infrastructure are aimed at providing quality education. Investments in such schemes cannot be looked at as a burden on the exchequer. Same is the case with the health sector. Andhra’s per capita expenditure in the health sector is more than any other state because of schemes like Arogyasri, which has been revamped in terms of coverage and reach. Improving support systems like ambulances and providing some financial relief to the poor after they are discharged from hospitals is something which any government should do. Expenditure on health cannot be considered as a drain on the state’s finances. To provide good quality and free health services is the fundamental responsibility of the state. Most of our welfare schemes revolve around education, health and agriculture. The services we extend to farmers are limited because we will never be able to do as much as they need. That’s one sector which had always been neglected. A portion of the money is spent on irrigation and the rest on investment subsidy to the farmer. Direct or indirect investments in the primary sectors ultimately come back to the state’s economy in one form or the other. My father, late YS Rajasekhara Reddy, studied the ground realities when he came to power in the undivided Andhra in 2004. In 1997, more than 7,000 farmers had committed suicide in the state. Instead of going to the root cause of the problem, the then TDP dispensation brushed the issue under the carpet by passing the buck on to spurious seeds, pesticides and other trivial issues. YSR understood the problem and realized that most of the farmers committed suicide because of debt. They incurred debt for three reasons: children’s education, health issues and for sinking bore wells in the absence of surface water. That’s what brought about the fee reimbursement scheme, Arogyasri; irrigation projects and free power supply to the agriculture sector. These schemes addressed the problem and yielded the desired results. I am carrying forward these schemes with some improvisation besides expanding the base. While continuing fee reimbursement, we are focusing on schools, where the infrastructure is being revamped and the curriculum redesigned to meet high standards of education. In the irrigation sector, we are extending input subsidy to save the farmer from a debt trap. We are doing that while not ignoring infrastructure creation: irrigation projects like Polavaram are going on; three sea ports are coming up; huge investments are being made in the power sector. Some roads and buildings projects are being lined up with the aid of the World Bank. It is not the large number of welfare schemes which are causing the so-called financial stress. As CM, I inherited pending bills of Rs 40,000 crore in the power sector alone from the previous government. No one was aware of it. This is equal to the money my government spent in a year on all welfare schemes. The state had a debt burden of Rs 1.17 lakh crore when Andhra Pradesh was divided in 2014 and by 2019 it went up to Rs 3 lakh crore. Repayment stress is there. Pending bills were huge. Then to our misfortune, the economy started doing badly and then came the Covid pandemic. Where was the need for separate village secretariats and village volunteer system? Is the administration unable to reach the people properly at the grass-root level? The village secretariat and village volunteer system is to provide a delivery mechanism at gross root level; or in panchayat raj parlance (designating) “functionaries” in the villages itself to ensure that schemes are delivered without pilferage. After the introduction of the village secretariat system, pilferage has come to a nought in DBT schemes and welfare measures. There were some functionaries earlier in the panchayat raj system, the people didn’t know who they were and where they sat. Now, they are in the midst of the beneficiaries. For want of employment, many governments have been trying to give unemployment dole. Instead of a dole, why not we use the youth in a purposeful and service oriented manner--- and pay them Rs 5,000 as an honorarium instead of Rs 2,000 dole. That makes them better and more responsible human beings. In Andhra, they are playing a crucial role in the implementation of welfare schemes. They’ve played a crucial role during natural calamities and against the Covid pandemic. People have positively received the experiment and appreciated the village volunteers for their efforts. When 60% of the population lives in villages, common sense tells us that 60% of the government employees should be available in villages. In reality, till this government came to power, not even 6% of the government employees were in villages. Most of them were in urban centres. That’s what we have reversed. The Centre has lagged behind in paying GST compensation to states. If the stalemate lingers, would you be open to borrowing from the market? What’ll be its impact on Andhra’s exchequer?  It is OK. They are taking time and so far paying a little late. It is not that they have drastically cut down. They have been passing on (the money) with some delays. This is understandable keeping in view the Covid situation and its impact on the country’s economy. The only way to overcome the crisis is borrowing. The Centre has also asked the states to go for additional borrowings. As we cannot tax people more, we are working on possible additional revenue generating options. In the context of the New Education Policy, how do you move forward with your promise of English medium in schools?  The problem is till Class V. The new education policy says post Class V there is no compulsion to have mother tongue as the medium of instruction. In other words, we can implement English medium in schools from Class VI the way we have designed and planned. Up to Class V, primacy has to be given to the mother tongue. While conforming to the national policy, we can start giving more and more inputs on English up to Class V so that the students are equipped to switch over to English medium from Class VI. We feel the Centre has done an excellent job in bringing equity in the new education policy. We decided to introduce English medium not because we love English and want to neglect our mother tongue. It is because we wanted to bring in equity. Those who can afford are sending their kids to English medium schools while the children of poor people are being forced to study in regional languages as they cannot afford English medium schools. Students with private school background are taking away major chunk of the jobs in public and private sectors, leaving behind those who are educated in mother tongue in government schools. The idea of English medium education is to create an equal platform. If private schools across the country introduce mother tongue as the medium of instruction till Class V in conformation with the new education policy, then there is no issue at all. After the creation of Telangana, your predecessor Chandrababu Naidu unsuccessfully sought a special category status from the Centre for Andhra. He wanted to build in the state a revenue-earning city comparable to Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. Not much has been heard of that since you became the CM. We cannot give up the demand for special category status( SCS). An agro-based state like Andhra can take off industrially only if some quality industrial incentives are given. That would be the biggest incentive as revenue deficit is being taken care of anyhow. Both the previous finance commission and present finance commission have addressed the revenue deficit issue. The so-called financial package is not going to help address the fundamental issue of industrial incentives which the hill states are extended with. We continue to harp on SCS as we cannot afford to give it up. Coming to the second part of your question on revenue-earning city, I call it a perverted thinking. Nowhere in the world has it been proved. Major cities grow over decades and centuries. Investing Rs 1 lakh crore to build a mega metro is not viable. Forget about additional revenue, you cannot even repay the debt which you have spent on infrastructure. What is the contribution of major cities of the US to its economy? Take for example a place called Omaha. With 4 lakh population, it headquarters 23 of the fortune 500 companies of the world. That is where Warren Buffet stays. Bill Gates operates from Seattle. Revenue gets generated through manufacturing and a proper service sector. Why should industry be located in urban areas? For instance, Visakhapatnam is not our capital. When it was a small town, a steel plant and a few other industries were set up there a few decades ago. Now, it is emerging as a major city. In a similar way, we can have growth centres where industries can be promoted. The Covid experience tells us that most of the cities ultimately become sick. There is a gradual shift from the so-called major cities or metros to medium and small towns. Look at the top 10 developed countries. None of them have a metro and mega city. Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland and Finland…all these developed countries have no mega cities. Development is not industrialisation or urbanisation. Development means many things like per capita income and happiness index. Instead of pouring in the entire money in building a congested and not-required urban place, spend that money in connecting various places and ensuring faster mobility and cost-effectiveness. It is a wrong perception that cities generate more money. Barring a couple of exceptions, greenfield capital cities did not succeed anywhere in the world. The success of one such city was built on oil money, which was abundantly available in that nation. Infrastructure was created as financial resources were available in plenty. They did not look at it from the economic angle. Do we have that many resources to build the so-called Amaravati? The Boston Consultancy Group analysed it from economic perspective and said its investments are not viable That brings one to your plans to have separate capitals for the three arms of the state: the executive, the judiciary and the legislature. The matter is sub-judice. But you certainly can share the administrative vision behind the move. The three capitals is a layman’s perception. (In effect) the capital city’s functions are being distributed: executive functions from Visakhapatnam; legislative functions from Amaravati and judicial functions from Kurnool. These are the exact words used by Sivaramakrishnan Committee. The capital’s functions can be distributed among different places. Why all these functions should be delivered from a particular place? The residuary state of Andhra Pradesh suffered twice in the past on account of Chennai and Hyderabad. That is what history tells us. If you lay all your eggs in one basket, you are going to suffer. Then why you want to continue with the same approach without taking into account the past experiences? It is not logical and rational thinking. The insider trading approach in Madhapur of Hyderabad in late 90s is tried again by the previous regime in Amaravati. If the secretariat and assembly or high court do not mean development, then why bother… do not talk about them. The document prepared by the previous regime says that you need Rs 1 lakh crore. Instead of planning to build a so-called city at a place which is not suitable for construction of any mega structures in 33,000 acres land acquired or pooled from farmers, he could have planned something in 500 acres elsewhere. Why does he need 33,000 acres when a mere 500 acre land is sufficient as per the Sivaramakrishnan report? The special investigating team is probing land deals, unearthing benamis of my predecessor and his cronies. People with vested interests purchased lands from poor farmers. Then came the announcement of the capital and subsequent scam. Those who purchased lands at throwaway prices benefited to the tune of thousands of crores of rupees. It was just a real estate business by the previous regime to benefit a certain section of people. Once the development is diversified and spread across the state, they become centres of growth in near future. How many major cities does Kerala have? None! And yet, Kerala is ahead of other states in several parameters. Development has to be distributed across the state. Visakhapatnam, Anantapuram, Kurnool and Tirupati and a few other cities can become clusters of development. Ports are being developed. Central Andhra, which is an agriculture hub, can have some agrologistic parks and all can prosper.  What’ll you say to the criticism that you want to downgrade Amaravati to slight Naidu? The charge sticks also because the TDP leader hasn’t been too kind to your administration whom he accuses of spying on the Opposition. This is absurd. Why should we bother about Amaravati? We believe in the overall development of the state. We did not leave Amaravati. The legislature will continue to work from Amaravati. When experts say it is a wrong approach, why don’t you respect their opinion? In India, the concept of referendum isn’t in use. The other option available for taking a decision is the experts’ opinion. Had there been a referendum option available, we would have definitely gone for it. We are confident the people would have given a thumbs up for our decentralised development. Except those 29 villages and 10,000 farmers opposing decentralisation for obvious reasons, the entire state would have stood behind us if a referendum were to be conducted. Since, there is no scope for this, we respected the committee appointed by the central government (and) we appointed our own expert committee. They too have given their opinion. We took the opinion of BCG. Based on the feedback from such quarters, the state’s political executive took a conscious decision that a decentralised model is far better than a centralised model. Mega cities are unwanted, they only drain resources and become a burden on the people. The government’s role is to provide services at optimum cost. We are for decentralised development; we are going for multi-speciality hospitals and medical colleges in all districts (new districts are going to be carved from the existing 13 districts). The spying allegation (by Naidu) is absurd. The DGP{director general of police} asked the opposition to produce evidence which they could not. In fact, when we were in the opposition, phones of our senior leaders were tapped and we had provided official proof to that effect. Your father YS Rajasekhara Reddy was also a political opponent of Naidu. But he’d often say that they started in politics at the same time, in the same party and were friends on that count. Isn’t there a need for rival parties and leaders to work together when the pandemic is posing serious challenges to public health and the economy? They are stuck with the single idea that they should protect their investments in Amaravathi. They have no other agenda. In the last 15 months, he’s only talking about Amaravati and nothing else. Amaravati is not worth discussing. We have said time and again that we are for decentralised development. There’s no way we can consider one single place for development just because you and your colleagues purchased land there. What cooperation you are referring to? After March, he (Naidu) has not set foot in Andhra while the state is battling the pandemic. How are you viewing the recent demands for an overhaul of the Congress, your erstwhile party? Can it stay intact without a Gandhi family member at the helm? Ours is a regional party and is very strong in Andhra. We do not have the numbers to influence national politics despite being the fourth largest party in the Lok Sabha. Our role is confined to the development of the state which was pushed into a disadvantageous position after the bifurcation. We are in the process of rebuilding the state. National aspirations are not of a priority to us. How’d you describe your equation with the BJP whom your party has often supported in the Parliament? Are you a proximate ally or an issue-based supporter? We place the interests of our state ahead of other (matters) and navigate in that direction in dealing with every issue. We believe that the special category status for Andhra will be a reality, if not now, then in the near future. We are optimistic on that count. Our support will be issue-based and will dovetail the betterment of our state in every aspect. We are in the process of rebuilding the state after its reorganisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-in-the-process-of-rebuilding-andhra-cm-jaganmohan-reddy/story-1oXeAQGWLvSwzvKLIzJeOL.html
09-09-2020||India||Fresh Pangong lake face-off complicates Jaishankar-Wang’s face-to-face meet||A fresh face-off between Indian and Chinese troops has added to the complexities of the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) ahead of a meeting of the foreign ministers of the two countries that is being seen as crucial for a breakthrough in the impasse on the disputed border. Hours before external affairs minister S Jaishankar departed for Moscow, where he is set to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting, Chinese troops attempted to close in on an Indian position along the LAC on Monday night and fired in the air when they were dissuaded.The face-off, experts said, underlined the fragile situation along the LAC, especially after several incidents on the south bank of Pangong Lake during August 29-30. This is the first time that shots have been fired along the undemarcated border since 1975, when four Indian troopers were killed in a Chinese ambush in the Arunachal Pradesh sector.Jaishankar is set to meet Wang on the sidelines of the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10 – the first time the two leaders will come face-to-face since the border standoff began in May. They spoke on phone on June 17, two days after a deadly clash in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and caused unspecified Chinese casualties.Participating in an online interaction on Monday night to mark the release of his book The India Way, Jaishankar pointed to the serious situation on the LAC and underscored the need for “very deep conversations between the two sides at a political level”. He also made it clear India wouldn’t delink the border standoff from the overall bilateral relationship.Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said Monday’s face-off illustrated the urgency of reducing friction between troops of the two sides. “I don’t think either India or China have an incentive to go to war over the border dispute, but the increasing intensity and persistence of friction, along with air activity and the presence of loaded firearms may cause them to ‘stumble’ into war,” he said. “An advertent or inadvertent incident at a local flashpoint could now really fuel a broader conflict that neither government wants, as the forces continue to come into contact with each other,” Narang added.At least half a dozen meetings held by local brigade commanders from the two sides since the incidents of August 29-30 have failed to quell tensions on the south bank of Pangong Lake, which has emerged as the latest friction point. Several meetings of the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs too have failed to take forward the stalled disengagement and de-escalation process.The negotiations have been stuck on several key issues, including the mode for determining how troops should pull back at friction points, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Chinese officials have been insisting that troops from both sides should withdraw for an equal distance, while the Indian side has said the withdrawal should be determined according to time it takes troops on each side to deploy to the LAC, the people said.“For instance, in some stretches, a kilometre can be covered by troops on one side in 10 minutes, whereas a kilometre on the other side can be covered by troops in five minutes. Both sides should withdraw to a distance where it takes equal time to deploy to the border,” said one of the persons cited above.Experts said the upcoming meeting between Jaishankar and Wang assumes significance following the lack of a breakthrough in recent talks between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe, who too met on the margins of a SCO meeting in Moscow on September 4.Wei contended the responsibility for the tensions lies entirely with India, while Singh said the actions of Chinese troops, including their aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo, violated several bilateral agreements.Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said the latest face-off should be seen as “part of Chinese mindgames before the meeting of the foreign ministers to build pressure on the Indian side to get it to make concessions”. “The Chinese are very conscious of how the Indian government is projecting the link between border tensions and the overall relationship. At the same time, the Indian side has emphasised negotiations and dialogue for an amicable settlement. No one may expect a miracle at the dialogue in Moscow but everyone is looking at it with some hope,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-fresh-row-on-lac-india-china-foreign-ministers-set-to-meet-in-russia/story-wK24w9zhnclYtQaSVO5doL.html
