10-09-2020||India||India, Japan ink pact to bolster defence forces||India and Japan have signed a key agreement for reciprocal provision of supplies and services between their defence forces, which is expected to drive closer military cooperation and contribute to security in the Indo-Pacific. The Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA) between Japan’s Self-Defense Forces and India’s armed forces was signed by defence secretary Ajay Kumar and Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki in New Delhi on Wednesday. “The agreement establishes a framework such as the settlement procedures for the reciprocal provision of supplies and services between the Self-Defense Forces of Japan and the Indian armed forces,” said a statement from Japan’s foreign ministry. The agreement is expected to facilitate “smooth and prompt provision of supplies and services” between the two sides, promote closer cooperation between Japan’s Self-Defense Forces and India’s armed forces, and enable them to actively contribute to international peace and security, the statement said. The external affairs ministry stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe, during a phone conversation on Thursday, welcomed the agreement and said it will “enhance the depth of defence cooperation...and contribute to peace and security in the Indo-Pacific”. It had earlier been expected the pact would be signed during a summit between Abe and Modi this year. However, the summit has been thrown into doubt by Abe’s decision last month to step down on health grounds. The agreement will cover the reciprocal provision of supplies and services during joint exercises and training missions, UN peacekeeping operations, humanitarian relief operations, operations during disasters in the territory of both parties or a third country, and evacuation of nationals of India and Japan from overseas in exigencies. The supplies and services covered by the pact include food, water, transportation including airlift, petroleum, clothing, communications and medical services, use of facilities, spares and components, and repair and maintenance services. The agreement will remain in force for 10 years and will be automatically extended for periods of 10 years unless one of the parties decides to end it. India has similar agreements with the US, Australia, France, Oman and Singapore, and is negotiating one with Russia. During their 30-minute phone conversation, Modi and Abe reviewed the status of ongoing cooperation, including the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail project. They agreed the strong partnership between the two sides will play a “critical role in charting the course for the global community in the post-Covid world”, the external affairs ministry said. Abe listed actions taken by India and Japan for realising the vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific and the elevation of the special strategic and global partnership between the two countries among the key achievements in bilateral relations, Japan’s foreign ministry said in a readout. The two leaders made it clear the change of leadership in Japan wouldn’t affect the overall arc of bilateral relations. “Both Prime Ministers affirmed that the basic policy of Japan-India-emphasis remains unchanged, and concurred with each other that the two countries continue to work closely in such areas as security, economy, and economic cooperation including the high-speed rail project,” said the Japanese readout. The external affairs ministry said the leaders were confident the strong momentum in the bilateral partnership will continue unabated, and Modi conveyed his intention to work closely with the new government of Japan. Abe and Modi built a good working relationship and helped drive bilateral ties in a number of areas, especially economic cooperation, maritime security and the Indo-Pacific. Abe, Japan’s longest serving prime minister, explained his decision to step down and expressed “gratitude for the friendship and the relationship of trust” built with Modi. He also noted the memories from their mutual annual visits. Modi expressed his appreciation for all the efforts by Abe and recalled the time they spent together, the Japanese readout said. Modi reiterated his appreciation of Abe’s leadership for advancing the relationship between India and Japan. Former navy chief Admiral (retired) Arun Prakash described the logistics support agreement with Japan as a welcome development in the realm of defence cooperation but said there continues to be scepticism as to whether Tokyo can help New Delhi in a war-like situation. “There are three factors at play here – Japan’s fears of China, Japan’s Constitution which allows it to have only self-defence forces and Japanese public opinion. But the signing of the agreement is encouraging as it can be seen as a sign of support and a sign of the convergence of interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-ink-pact-to-bolster-defence-forces/story-xOCacyTP5OIADoqruteQBI.html
10-09-2020||India||Paresh Rawal named chairperson of NSD||New Delhi: President Ram Nath Kovind named former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP and actor Paresh Rawal as the chairperson of the National School of Drama (NSD) on Thursday. Union culture and tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel, under whose ambit NSD falls, confirmed the appointment. Congratulating the actor on his new position, the minister said artists and students will benefit from his talent. “It will be challenging but fun; I will do my best because this is a field I know very well,” Rawal told the Press Trust of India. A ministry official who did not wish to be named said that three or four candidates were shortlisted by the ministry for the post. “The President takes the final call,” said the official. “Rawal will be the chairperson for the next four years.” The post of the NSD chairperson has been vacant since 2017, with vice-chaiperson Dr. Arjun Deo, a Rajasthani poet, critic, playwright, theatre director and translator, acting as the head. Rawal has been in the film industry for more than three decades and has won numerous awards, including the prestigious National Film Award for Best Supporting Actor in 1994. In 2014, he was conferred the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award in India, for his contribution to the entertainment industry. Rawal is famous for his roles in Hera Pheri and Andaaz Apna Apna. He is also a popular Gujarati stage actor. He was also a member of the Lok Sabha from 2014 to 2017 from Ahmedabad East, Gujarat. The post of chairperson of the government’s apex art and theatre school has been occupied by several prominent people in the past, including former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and social reformer Kamala Devi Chattopadhyay. NSD’s prominent alumni include actors like Naseeruddin Shah, Nawazzudin Siddiqui, Irrfan Khan and Om Puri. CAN WE GET A COMMENT FROM ONE OF THEM OR SOMEONE ELSE IN BOLLYWOOD?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paresh-rawal-named-chairperson-of-nsd/story-RMj7aWQgy86ehRg3m7rwYM.html
10-09-2020||India||1,350 kg of cannabis seized in raid at Karnataka’s Kalburgi; 4 arrested||As part of the continued crackdown against drugs, Karnataka police on Thursday said that they have seized 1,350 kg of Cannabis from a farmhouse in Kamalapur of Kalburgi district and arrested four people. The high-quality cannabis, locally called Ganja, was apparently being ferried from Odisha via Telangana.Four people Gananashekar, Siddanath Navali, Naganath and Chandrakanth Chauhan have been arrested by a team of Central Crime Branch police in this regard. A lorry said to have been used to ferry the Ganja from Odisha has been seized by the cops. The Ganja was concealed at a sheep farm in Kamalapur. Big seizures by Bangalore city police .. in our war against drugs. Well done @BlrCityPolice @CPBlr https://t.co/fCCJDiqf7bOn August 27, police had seized 204 kg of ganja and had arrested three people Sameer, Khaiser Pasha and Ismail Pasha. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said that the Kalburgi seizure was possible due to the interrogation of those arrested earlier who lead them to the suppliers. Pant said the 1350 kg of ganja seized is one of the largest hauls ever. The seized contraband drugs are said to be valued at around Rs 6 crore.Meanwhile, chief minister BS Yediyurappa, responding to a question on the ongoing statewide crackdown on illegal drugs, said there was no question of sparing anybody. Accusing the previous governments of turning a blind eye to the growing drug menace in the state, he said, “We will ensure that this is thoroughly investigated and the guilty are punished.”On Wednesday, customs officials at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru had seized 1.95 kg of MDMA (or Ecstacy) pills hidden in an electric foot massager sent from Belgium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-350-kg-of-cannabis-seized-in-raid-at-karnataka-s-kalburgi-4-arrested/story-DIP4GuWvf2y6uA1ZGV8VdL.html
10-09-2020||India||Over 3,000 doctors’ appointment cleared in Bihar, move to help fight Covid||Decks have been cleared to appoint 3,186 doctors in the Bihar health cadre after the Bihar Technical Service Commission published results of general duty medical officers (GDMOs) on Thursday. The appointments will help the state in management of Covid-19, said officials.The results were published against 4,012 posts, which the general administration department (GAD) had sent to the commission for appointment on July 9 last year.The vacant positions were under extremely backward class (EBC), as only 508 out of 1,033 positions could be filled up. Similarly, 381 out of 682 positions could be filled up under the Scheduled Castes category. In keeping with the state government’s reservation policy, many seats in the general category were taken up by candidates belonging to the reserved category — backward class, extremely backward class, SC and ST — who made the cut, as a result of which seats in EBC and SC remained vacant, said officials requesting anonymity.“These doctors will soon be appointed and posted in district and sub-division hospitals and primary health centres (PHCs),” said Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey in a statement issued Thursday.The notification of appointment and posting of the GDMOs is expected before the announcement of assembly elections.Pandey said this was the first time that the government had completed the recruitment process of so many doctors in one go.The government had last month appointed as many as 929 specialist doctors, holding post-graduate degrees.Pandey claimed that the department had recruited as many as 21,530 health workers, including doctors, during the last three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-000-doctors-appointment-cleared-in-bihar-move-to-help-fight-covid/story-tDkXDN7wo9bN7XX7ZeelGM.html
10-09-2020||India||Monsoon revival likely over weekend in Mumbai, IMD issues heavy rain alert||The weather bureau has issued a yellow alert for Friday and Saturday predicting the possibility of thundershowers and heavy rain across isolated areas. After minimal rain activity over the first 10 days in September, monsoon revival is expected from Saturday onwards, said independent meteorologists.According to the rainfall forecast for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar, cloudy conditions with the possibility of moderate rain or thundershowers can be expected in the city and suburbs on Friday, and heavy rain across isolated areas on Saturday.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), an off-shore trough at the mean sea level runs from the Maharashtra coast to the Kerala coast. “Combined with this, an east-west shear zone over peninsular India and land heating leading to tall cloud formation, will account for an increase in moisture, lower level westerly winds and increase in rain intensity for the west coast, north Konkan including Mumbai in coming days,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Also read: 80 new trains from September 12, tickets available from todayOver the past 24 hours, only light showers were recorded in the city. Between 8.30 am Wednesday and 8.30 am Thursday, the suburbs recorded 5.6 mm rain while 4 mm rain was recorded in south Mumbai.During the first 10 days of September, Mumbai has witnessed only 5.5 percent of rainfall recorded during the first 10 days of September 2019. This month, the suburbs recorded 43.3 mm rain while 56.4 mm was recorded in south Mumbai between September 1-10. Last year, the suburbs had recorded 801.4 mm rain while south Mumbai recorded 464.6 mm over 10 days. However, from September 1-10 2018, only 33.6 mm and 12.4 mm rain was recorded in the suburbs and south Mumbai. “Intra-seasonal variability is there but a specific trend from year-on-year rain for a specific period cannot be established as every monsoon is different. No rain-bearing weather systems had formed over Bay of Bengal or the Arabian Sea through the first 10 days of this month,” said Mohapatra.The first 10 days of September have also witnessed the least amount of rain as compared to the first 10 days of June, July and August. Independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom, Akshay Deoras said under the influence of a few monsoon low-pressure systems, the offshore trough will strengthen, thereby leading to some moisture incursion in coming days. “Most of this activity will be of light to moderate intensity (especially during this weekend), so there is no severe weather threat involved. The monsoon is expected to remain active in the region over the next 10 days,” he said.The city can expect overcast skies again from Saturday with the possibility of heavy rain for Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Pune and ghat areas between Sunday and Tuesday, said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. “Rainfall is expected to be between moderate to heavy at around 70-80 mm over 24 hours during this period,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-revival-likely-over-weekend-in-mumbai-imd-issues-heavy-rain-alert/story-dmhtmExCnVJYClSrvPyhNK.html
10-09-2020||India||EAM Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart meet in Moscow amid border tensions in Ladakh||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi met in Moscow on Thursday amid hopes of a possible breakthrough in reducing tensions along the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in eastern Ladakh.The talks between the two foreign ministers are taking place in the backdrop of a massive spike in border tensions in eastern Ladakh triggered by fresh face-offs between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in eastern Ladakh.Also read: China’s foreign minister Wang Yi reaching Moscow to discuss total disengagement in Ladakh with Jaishankar Following fresh confrontation around the southern bank of Pangong lake, India has further strengthened its military presence in the region by sending additional troops, battle tanks and other weaponry. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army(PLA) has also beefed up its presence in the area where the situation remained very tense. “The external affairs minister will be meeting the Chinese foreign minister shortly where he will be discussing this issue,” Ministry of External Affairs(MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a virtual media briefing in the evening when asked whether the four-month-long border faceoff will be raised by Jaishankar at the talks. Jaishankar and Wang are in Moscow to attend a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting. Srivastava reiterated India’s position that it is committed to resolve the current situation through peaceful negotiations. “Both India and China are in regular touch through diplomatic and military channels to resolve the situation. This was the consensus when the two defence ministers met,” he said.Also read: Before PLA took a step back, a 2-hr long video call between NSA Doval and China’s Wang Yi Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held talks with his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe on the margins of another SCO meet in Moscow last Friday, but apparently the meeting did not yield any tangible outcome. The Indian Army on Tuesday said Chinese troops attempted to close in on an Indian position near the southern bank of Pangong lake the previous evening and fired shots in the air, a first such instance of bullets being used along the LAC after a gap of 45 years. The Army said this in a statement after the PLA late on Monday night alleged that Indian troops crossed the LAC and “outrageously fired” warning shots near the Pangong lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eam-jaishankar-and-his-chinese-counterpart-meet-in-moscow-amid-border-tensions-in-ladakh/story-z6hix66Zfi6Tmt8dr8K7hP.html
10-09-2020||India||Jagan Reddy seeks CBI probe into temple chariot burning incident at Antarvedi||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday decided to call for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the burning of a 62-year-old chariot on the premises of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district.Antarvedi is one of the most revered Vaishnavite religious centres in Andhra Pradesh at the confluence of Godavari river and the Bay of Bengal. The chariot, made of teakwood and used during the procession of the Lord during the festive seasons, was burnt to ashes in the early hours of Sunday.The incident triggered widespread protests from Hindu religious groups, seers of various mutts and opposition parties across the state, demanding an inquiry into the incident.On Thursday, the Bharatiya Janata Party and its alliance partner Jana Sena called for an 11-hour fast in the name of Dharma Parirakshana Deeksha by their respective leaders and cadres. BJP state president Somu Veerraju and Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan demanded that the government order a judicial inquiry into the incident.With pressure mounting from all sides, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday evening decided to entrust the probe to the CBI. He asked Director General of Police Gautam Sawang to take steps in this regard.The DGP, in turn, wrote to the Union ministry of home affairs seeking permission for the CBI probe into the Antarvedi chariot burning incident, an official statement from the chief minister’s office said.“There has been malicious propaganda against the government by certain political forces in the social and mainstream media questioning the sincerity of the state police forces, though they have been going all out to unearth the conspiracy behind the chariot burning,” the CMO release said.The chief minister has already declared that he was ready to order any kind of inquiry into the incident. “Since some political parties have demanded a CBI probe into the incident, he has decided to entrust the case to the CBI for a transparent inquiry,” the CMO release said.The Jagan government had already suspended Antarvedi temple’s executive officer NS Chakradhar Rao and a couple of other temple employees for their alleged negligence in the chariot burning incident. It has also transferred special chief secretary (endowments) JSV Prasad after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-seeks-cbi-probe-into-temple-chariot-burning-incident-at-antarvedi/story-ve7Q95E9xCizVZvQmUNIrN.html
10-09-2020||India||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani launches welfare scheme for farmers||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday launched a welfare scheme for farmers with seven components designed for their overall development, an official said.As per a state government release, Rupani launched the scheme vis video conferencing from Gandhinagar. The scheme covers seven welfare components such as cow-based organic farming, economic upliftment of farmers, adoption of new crop varieties and distribution of agri equipment to small and marginalised farmers, the release said. Of the seven components, the chief minister operationalised two major schemes for transportation and storage of produce on Thursday, it was stated.Under the crop storage scheme, farmers will get an assistance of Rs 30,000 to construct godowns to store their produce, it said.In case of the transportation scheme, farmers will get a financial assistance upto Rs 75,000 to buy small vehicles to transport their produce, the release said.On the launch day, the state government disbursed financial assistance of Rs 400 crore to around 1.16 lakh farmers, it was stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-launches-welfare-scheme-for-farmers/story-H4bmRfwplTw6nvDkAaZhoM.html
10-09-2020||India||13.74 lakh Indians have returned from abroad under Vande Bharat Mission: MEA||As many as 13.74 lakh Indians have returned from abroad after the government launched the ‘Vande Bharat’ evacuation mission on May 7 in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday.Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the Vande Bharat Mission Phase 6 became operational on September 1 and 1,007 international flights have been scheduled to operate during this month.“We expect to repatriate over 2 lakh people,” he said at an online media briefing.“As on 10 September, 13.74 lakh Indians have been repatriated through different modes of the Vande Bharat Mission viz. Air India, private and foreign carriers, chartered flights, naval ships and land border crossings,” Srivastava said.Of these, 270 international flights have already been operated from GCC countries, Jordan, Afghanistan, Maldives, China, Thailand, US, UK, Canada, France, Germany, Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines and Australia, he said.Bilateral travel arrangements form the bulk of this phase with travel ‘bubble’ flight operations from 11 countries, he said.The ministry continues to monitor the demand for repatriation through our mission and posts and “we are working with the airlines to ensure assistance”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-74-lakh-indians-have-returned-from-abroad-under-vande-bharat-mission-mea/story-lJqr8f6jsfVfS5hgNxzzZL.html
10-09-2020||India||‘Why not increase this number’: SC on special courts for tainted lawmakers||The Supreme Court on Thursday observed that the government must consider increasing the number of special courts constituted for exclusively trying criminal cases against former and sitting Members of Parliament (MPs) and Members of Legislative Assemblies (MLAs). At present there are 12 such courts constituted by the Central government.The observation came from a bench of Justices NV Ramana, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy while hearing a PIL filed by BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay seeking expeditious trial against MPs/MLAs facing criminal charges and debarring tainted legislators for life.It was on December 14, 2017, the Central Government constituted 12 special courts. Accordingly, high courts were directed to transfer cases against MPs and MLAs to such special courts. The States/UTs where 65 or more such cases are pending were to get a special court, as per the policy introduced by the CentreAs a result, Special Courts were set up in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi and three special courts at magisterial level in Maharashtra, Kerala and Delhi.The bench remarked, “Government of India had considered to set up 12 courts. Why can’t they consider increasing this number? Now that you (Hansaria) have got the figures district-wise, suggest to us how many more courts are needed. We will consider it on Wednesday.” The bench directed all High Courts to supply district-wise details of pending cases against MPs/MLAs (including corruption cases) by Sunday.The Court was informed that presently a total of 4,442 criminal cases are pending against sitting and former legislators in various courts across the country. This data was compiled by various high courts and sent to the court-appointed amicus curiae senior advocate Vijay Hansaria who then compiled it in the form of a report and presented to the Court.Hansaria stated in his report that 2,556 cases out of 4,442 relate to sitting MPs and MLAs where trial is pending at various stages. There are 413 cases in respect of offences punishable with imprisonment for life of which in 174 cases sitting MPs/ MLAs are accused. Other cases involve offences under Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Arms Act; Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, defamation (under Section 500 IPC), cheating (under Section 420 IPC) and willful disobedience/ obstruction of orders promulgated by public servant (under Section 188 IPC).Highlighting the apathy of trial in cases involving the high and mighty, Hansaria said, “Large number of cases are pending at appearance stage and even non-bailable warrants (NBWs) issued by the courts have not been executed. In many cases, even charges have not been framed including those punishable with imprisonment for life.”He cited a case from Punjab where a trial court framed charges in a murder case of 1983 against a former MLA after a gap of 36 years in 2019. Though Hansaria did not disclose the former legislator’s name, records revealed that the case related to former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha who is accused of murdering a renowned doctor of Patti town in Tarn Tarn.Similarly, Hansaria read out a case from West Bengal where in a 1981 case, charges are yet not framed. West Bengal has one special court at Barasat for exclusively trying cases against MPs/MLAs. In this court, 131 cases are pending and in most cases, charges are yet to be framed. “In many cases remarks have been made as ‘ER of WA’, i.e., Execution required of warrant of arrest,” Hansaria told the Court. He also read out similar instances from Uttar Pradesh where two criminal cases at Lucknow, dating back to 1991 and 1993, are at “Appearance” stage, indicating that the trial is yet to begin, Hansaria added.The bench remarked, “It’s shocking that cases as old as 1983 are still at the stage of framing of charge. These are prosecution latches.” Hansaria replied, “Police is not arresting the accused because they are influential people.” Further, the amicus pointed out that special courts constituted to try cases against MPs/MLAs are not enough.Advocate Sneha Kalita, assisting Hansaria, told HT, “There is one special Court each in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal. This is a factor for delay in trial as investigating officer, witnesses have to travel huge distances to attend trial. If special courts are increased within these states, trial can be expedited.”Another area of concern was the stay on trial ordered by higher courts. Hansaria suggested that the high courts and the Supreme Court have stayed the trial in 352 cases for an indefinite period. The court said it will consider this suggestion by the amicus on the next date of hearing.As per the data compiled by Hansaria, among the states having the most number of criminal trials pending against MPs/MLAs, Uttar Pradesh leads the list with 1,217 of which 446 cases relate to sitting legislators. Next comes Bihar with 531 cases, followed closely by Kerala (333 cases), Odisha (331 cases) and Maharashtra (330 cases). Kerala has another dubious record as in more than 100 cases dating back to 2012 and 2013 incidents, charges have not yet been framed, the report stated.In Delhi, 87 sitting legislators and 31 former legislators are currently facing trial. Hansaria said, “The number of legislators involved is more than the total number of cases since there are more than one accused in one case, and the same legislator is an accused in more than one case. Also some of these cases have been transferred from different states to Delhi and pertain to legislators in other states.”The state of Nagaland and Sikkim and the Union territories of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu have no criminal cases pending against lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-not-increase-this-number-sc-on-special-courts-for-tainted-lawmakers/story-V5ph1kXYxOQJoeoBMIWa0J.html
10-09-2020||India||Railways to float tender for AI-based thermal cameras to detect body temperature amid pandemic||The Ministry of Railways has begun work on procuring thermal cameras for deployment at railway stations across its network for thermal temperature screening of passengers via AI-based surveillance cameras. This comes after it had to scrap its previous tender amid allegations of favouring a Chinese firm.The ministry has already begun the induction of the cameras across some zones. The cameras can detect the body temperature of passengers and have helped in detecting symptomatic passengers and prevent them from boarding.“Central railways has begun using thermal cameras already. About two dozen symptomatic passengers were detected through it and were denied boarding. The fresh tender will open on Friday. We plan to induct the AI-based cameras across all zones as more trains begin operations,” an official said.In July, the ministry had scrapped a tender for thermal cameras meant for ‘Covid-19 surveillance’ after Indian firms alleged that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese company, Hindustan Times had first reported. In June, Railtel, the ministry’s telecom arm, had issued a tender for thermal temperature screening AI-based surveillance cameras for assistance in Covid-19 surveillance.Also read: Fastest ‘Made in India’ electric motorcycle KRIDN to be available in OctoberThe government company soon decided to issue a fresh tender after the controversy. The development in June came in the backdrop of a tense border stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh with China.“RailTel has floated an Expression of Interest( EOI ) for finalising partner for provision of thermal scanning solution in customer premises. The EOI is scheduled to be opened tomorrow and the partner will be selected later after due diligence by the nominating committee. In the proposed EOI one partner for each region of RailTel will be identified to offer thermal scanning solution. The selected partner will supply equipment as per purchase orders received from RailTel customers in future,” a spokesperson for RailTel said.Indian firms had alleged that artificial intelligence technology - DeepInMind, which is specified in the tender, is a proprietary feature of Chinese firm Hikvision, a company partly owned by the Chinese government.According to Hikvision’s technology, Network Video Recorder (NVR) has a “mind” of its own and can analyse and classify human and vehicle targets from video streams.The specifications for the cameras include temperature screening with facial recognition and mask detection, simultaneous temperature screening for multiple persons, detecting whether people wear masks and giving timely alarms on people without masks.While the initial tender for these cameras issued on June 9 excluded a crucial specification called “black body” temperature - the ability of the cameras to accurately measure temperatures emitted by a person to say whether a person has a fever or not - and the DeepinMind technology specification, they were included in the revised tender issued on June 23.On November 10, Hindustan Times had reported the national rail carrier is planning a complete overhaul of its security systems across railway stations through the use of facial recognition technology backed by artificial intelligence.The ministry also plans to link the facial recognition system (FRS) with existing databases such as the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) to identify criminals at railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-float-tender-for-ai-based-thermal-cameras-to-detect-body-temperature-amid-pandemic/story-PjfldpseCBMWflUnMUTbqL.html
10-09-2020||India||‘24 kms, 11 hours’: Arunachal CM treks to meet residents of remote village||Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu trekked 24 kilometres for nearly 11 hours to meet residents of a remote village located at a height of 14,500 feet above sea level earlier this week - a feat very few CMs have undertaken. The 41-year-old was accompanied by just one security officer and some villagers when he trekked through passes, difficult mountain terrain to reach Luguthang which falls in his constituency Mukto in Tawang district. The area is close to the McMohan Line that bifurcate Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet Autonomous Region of China. “A 24 km trek, 11 hrs of fresh air and mother nature at her best; crossing Karpu La (16000 ft) to reach Luguthang (14500 ft) in Tawang district. A paradise untouched,” Khandu tweeted on Thursday. With just 10 households and a population of 58 (as per the 2011 census), villagers in Luguthang are mainly engaged in yak rearing. Khandu spent two nights at the village, which is not accessible by roads, and trekked back on September 8. “Has a review meeting with Luguthang villagers to ensure that benefits of every flagship programme reaches the last man standing in forward areas,” Khandu tweeted on Thursday after his return.  Also read: Can count on us, France tells India as Rafale fighters take to the skiesA 24 Kms trek, 11 hours of fresh air & Mother Nature at her best; crossing Karpu-La (16000 ft) to Luguthang (14500 ft) in Tawang district. A paradise untouched. @PMOIndia @HMOIndia @DefenceMinIndia @MDoNER_India @KirenRijiju @TapirGao @RebiaNabam @ChownaMeinBJP @TseringTashis pic.twitter.com/Jxh4Ymtv8KHe also attended the consecration of Jangchub Stupa in memory of his father and former chief minister late Dorjee Khandu along with villagers and monks of the Ganden Namgyal Lhatse monastery in Tawang. Bodies of Dorjee Khandu and others were found close to Luguthang, five days after his helicopter went missing on April 30, 2011, from Se La Pass at 13,700 ft above sea level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-kms-11-hours-arunachal-cm-treks-to-meet-residents-of-remote-village/story-XRgXN8fLWxHCZykYWFhBZM.html
10-09-2020||India||Can count on us, France tells India as Rafale fighters take to the skies||On a quick visit to India to join the formal ceremony to induct the Rafale fighter jets into the Indian Air Force, French defence minister Florence Parly on Thursday spoke in glowing terms about the Indian and French strategic partnership. “You can count on us,” she said at the ceremony, recalling how New Delhi “was by our side” when France was going through a critical phase of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will also be by your side,” she said, underscoring French support for India’s candidacy for the UN Security Council.It is a sentiment that she had underscored well before she landed in India as well, describing India as France’s foremost ally in Asia. Speaking at a glittering ceremony at the Ambala air force station, Florence Parly underlined the “rock-solid” friendship between the two countries exemplified by the deal to buy the fighter jets.Also Read: Strategic Paris-Delhi-Canberra axis gets off to a flying start amid China tension“It takes a lot of confidence, for India, to bet on France; and a lot of confidence, too, for France, to share with India a capability that is so close to the core of our sovereignty,” she said before flying to New Delhi where she met with National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.There was no formal statement on the details of her interactions with the Indian leaders. Or if China figured in the discussion. One diplomat said the conversations covered a gamut of issues between“two close friends”.Back in June when 20 Indian soldiers laid down their lives to repel China People’s Liberation Army troopers in Galwan Valley, the French defence minister Parly had made it a point to write to defence minister Rajnath Singh to convey her country’s “steadfast and friendly” support in these “difficult circumstances”.Diplomats said the expression of solidarity over the loss of life over the Ladakh stand-off wasn’t much of a surprise. France has been the most dependable and consistent supporter of India at the United Nations and elsewhere.Like when India carried out the 1998 nuclear tests, France was the only country among the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council that did criticise or back sanctions against India. Even Russia had criticised New Delhi’s move though it was not supportive of the United States-led push for sanctions against India. China and the United Kingdom had supported the sanctions.It is a point that Prime Minister Narendra Modi acknowledges at internal discussions.“This is a relationship that has commercial aspects to it. But it is a strong bond,” a senior government official said.France initiated the strategic dialogue with India in 1998 when much of the world was criticising us, said a diplomat and was one of the early strategic partners that India had. It was the only country that was ready to sell INGPS (Inertial Navigation and Global Positioning System) for India’s Prithvi nuclear missiles that help them land on the targets.In 1999, a retired air force officer recalled, it was the French Mirage 2000s that dropped the laser-guided bombs - in Muntho Dhalo in the Batalik sector and on Tiger Hill in Drass in June 1999 — that is seen as the turning point of the Kargil war.This partnership extends to space as well. France has helped India launch heavy satellites and allowed New Delhi track satellites, and access telemetry data from Reunion island in the Indian Ocean.When the two countries signed a raft of pacts during President Emmanuel Macron’s India visit in 2018, PM Modi had summarised the relationship between the two countries in one line.India and France strengthened their 20-year-old strategic partnership on Saturday, signing an agreement for reciprocal logistics support between their armed forces and unveiling a blueprint to step up cooperation in the Indian Ocean to counter China’s growing influence in the region.“From the ground to the sky, there is no subject on which India and France are not working together,” PM Modi had famously said in 2018. The two leaders met again the next year, weeks after Parliament revoked the special status for Kashmir. France, along with the United States, blocked a China-sponsored attempt at Pakistan’s behest to get the UNSC to issue a statement on the Kashmir move.France and the United States again stood like a wall, as one diplomat put it, when China and Pakistan made desperate attempts to get the UNSC to designate five Indians as terrorists..“While the United States is a key ally, the French relationship is an additional leverage that helps India in countering its global adversaries,” a top diplomat said, recalling how it took the two P-5 members years to break down the great wall that China had erected to stop UNSC from designating Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar as a global terrorist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-count-on-us-france-tells-india-as-rafale-fighters-take-to-the-skies/story-HHdM0kwme56zQQTxpbT04M.html
10-09-2020||India||In Sena Vs Kangana Ranaut, Ayodhya seers’ message for Uddhav Thackeray||Extending support to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, involved in a face-off with the Shiv Sena, seers of Ayodhya and the Vishva Hindu Parishad said on Thursday that Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is no more welcome in the temple town of Ayodhya, believed to be the birthplace of Lord Ram.Thackeray had visited Ayodhya on November 24, 2018, then on June 16 last year and again in March this year after becoming the chief minister. The war of words between Ranaut and Thackeray’s Shiv Sena had intensified after the Mumbai civic body partially demolished the actor’s office in the city on Wednesday. Ranaut, who landed in Mumbai on Wednesday from Himachal Pradesh, angry and caustic as she took on the Shiv Sena, called her home “Ram mandir”, referred to ‘Bullywood’ and described herself as the daughter of Chhatrapati Shivaji in a series of tweets and a video.Addressing Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray, Ranaut posted a video message saying his “ego will be destroyed” the way her Bandra home was demolished.“Uddhav Thackeray, ‘tujhe kya lagta hai (what do you think)?’ You think you have taken a huge revenge by destroying my house in collusion with the movie mafia. Today my house is destroyed, tomorrow it will be your ego. The wheels of time keep changing,” she said in a video message in Hindi, referring to the chief minister in the informal ‘tu’ rather than the more respectful ‘aap’.Mahant Kanahiya Das, head of the Ayodhya Sant Samaj, accused the Maharashtra government of shielding those who are involved in anti-social activities and warned the Maharashtra CM against coming to Ayodhya. “Now, Uddhav Thackeray is no more welcome in Ayodhya. Why is the Shiv Sena attacking Ranaut? Everyone can understand. It is not a mystery. The Shiv Sena is not what it used to be under Balasaheb Thackeray, founder of the party,” said Kanahiya Das.Ranaut has crossed swords with the Shiv Sena with her remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir.Meanwhile, the Naga seers of Hanuman Garhi temple in Ayodhya have also extended support to Ranaut. Raju Das, priest of the temple, questioned the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s demolition of Ranaut’s office. “Uddhav Thackeray and Shiv Sena are no more welcome in Ayodhya. Now, the Maharashtra chief minister will face stiff opposition from seers of Ayodhya if he comes here,” warned Das. “The Maharashtra government acted without wasting any time against the actor. But the same government is yet to take action against the killers of two seers in Palghar,” said Das. He was referring to the killing of two sadhus and their driver on April 16 in Palghar, Maharashtra, by an unruly mob. The Naga sadhus and the Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) — the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country -- have demanded a CBI probe into the Palghar killings. “The Maharashtra government is acting with a malafide motive against Ranaut. It was not expected from the Shiv Sena to attack a woman and demolish her office without any reason,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson of VHP.“It is very clear that the Shiv Sena is deliberately targeting the actor because she is supporting nationalist forces and has raised her voice against drug Mafiosi of Mumbai,” added Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-shiv-sena-vs-kangana-ranaut-ayodhya-seers-message-for-uddhav-thackeray/story-bo1kzpmSIZdanahqFRpLCL.html
10-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Will welcome Kangana if she joins BJP or RPI, says Ramdas Athawale and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Will welcome Kangana if she joins BJP or RPI, says Ramdas AthawaleUnion minister Ramdas Athawale on Thursday met Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut at her Mumbai residence and said BJP or RPI will welcome her if she decides to join either of the parties. But Kangana said she has no interest in joining politics, Athawale clarified after his meeting. Read more‘Excellent discussions’: MEA on meeting between Jaishankar and Russian foreign ministerExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov met on the sidelines of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit in Moscow. According to the MEA spokesperson, the two ministers had “excellent” discussions on bilateral matters and those of international concern. Read moreAstraZeneca still aiming for Covid-19 Vaccine by year-end, CEO saysAstraZeneca Plc Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said the coronavirus vaccine the company is developing with the University of Oxford could still be ready before the end of the year after pausing its trials due to a possible serious neurological problem in one patient. Read moreEngland vs Australia: Analysis of Mitchell Starc’s poor ODI form in 2020 and why he needs to buck the trend in EnglandThis will also be the first time England will host Australia at home as champions of the 50-over format, a favour they would have long wanted to return to the Aussies who have won the title five times. But the Aussies are a handful on a cricket field, whether champions or not. Read moreKangana Ranaut’s mother thanks Amit Shah for support, says family was Congress loyalist but will support BJP nowKangana Ranaut’s mother, Asha Ranaut, said that their family was associated with the Congress but will now support the BJP. She thanked Union home minister Amit Shah for providing her daughter with security. Read moreInstagram is testing three layouts so don’t be surprised if your friend sees a different oneWe recently saw Instagram rolling out dedicated Reels tab in the app’s bottom bar in India but there are three different ways in how it is positioned along with other buttons for profile, home, explore, adding a new post and more.Read moreThe Taste With Vir: The year of living foolishlyIf you have been following the news then there are certain things you probably already know. You are probably aware that the Covid pandemic has reached an all-time high in India. Read moreWatch why Kangana Ranaut is considered controversy’s favourite childKangana Ranaut has been in the midst of a raging controversy over her ‘Mumbai-PoK’ remark and criticism of the Mumbai police. The actor and some leaders from the Shiv Sena have exchanged barbs over Kangana’s statement. However, this is not the first time that Kangana Ranaut finds herself embroiled in a controversy. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-will-welcome-kangana-if-she-joins-bjp-or-rpi-says-ramdas-athawale-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xXwqfVswC0oq6zo1iiJg3O.html
10-09-2020||India||Cache of arms recovered in Kashmir’s Baramulla, 2 JeM terrorists arrested in Kupwara||Security forces have recovered a cache of arms and ammunition, including two US-made M16 rifles, in a search operation on the Line of Control (LoC) in North Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Thursday, Army officials said.A joint search operation was launched at Dulanja sector in Baramulla’s Uri on Wednesday after information from Jammu and Kashmir police about dumping of arms near the LoC was received.“A cache of weapons was recovered on Thursday,” Army’s strategic Chinar Corps tweeted.The cache included two M16 rifles of Pak origin, two pistols of Pak origin, four magazines of M16 Rifle and four pistol magazines. “(The) Joint operation (has been) completed,” the army said.Besides this, two Jaish-e-Mohammad militants were arrested along with weapons and cash in another operation in the neighbouring district of Kupwara, the officials said.Also read: Pakistan main force behind drive to create ‘so-called Khalistan’ - Canadian think tankSSP Kupwara Shriram Ambarkar Dinkar said that they received a specific input about two JeM terrorists who belonged to Sopore area and were likely to visit Kupwara to conduct terrorist activities and recruit youth in their ranks.The police and the Army’s 47 RR acted on the tip and established checkpoints at different locations in the district. They successfully intercepted a car near FCI Godown at Drugmullah, Kupwara.“Two terrorists namely Waseem Irshad Gabroo, 23, and Mehraraj Ud Din Wani, 21, were apprehended from the car,” he said.The forces recovered an AK 47 rifle along with a magazine, two grenades, 30 AK rounds and cash worth Rs seven lakh from the vehicle.The SSP said that an FIR, under the Indian Arms Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) has been registered at Kupwara police station and an investigation has been set into motion.For the past few days, security forces have been able to arrest militant sympathisers along with arms and ammunition. On the intervening night of September 8 and 9, police in South Kashmir’s Kulgam, along with other security agencies, arrested two militant associates of banned organization JeM and recovered arms and ammunition from their possession.The duo was travelling in a truck from Jammu to Srinagar carrying an AK rifle (short Butt) with two magazines (rounds 59), an M4 Carbine with three Magazines (rounds 90), six Chinese pistols with 12 magazines (rounds 84) in the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cache-of-arms-recovered-in-kashmir-s-baramulla-2-jem-terrorists-arrested-in-kupwara/story-ZMRRlUGZFp0lKzVwJYBjUM.html
10-09-2020||India||Will welcome Kangana if she joins BJP or RPI, says Ramdas Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Thursday met Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut at her Mumbai residence and said BJP or RPI will welcome her if she decides to join either of the parties. But Kangana said she has no interest in joining politics, Athawale clarified after his meeting.“As long as Kangana is working in films, she has no intention of joining politics, but if she joins BJP or RPI, we will welcome her,” the minister said.The meeting comes a day after Kangana’s Mumbai office was demolished by BMC. Athawale, president of the Republican Party of India (A), has been a staunch supporter of the actress in the Kangana versus Shiv Sena episode. After Shiv Sena MP sanjay Raut had reportedly asked Kangana Ranaut not to return to Mumbai as she compared the city to Pakistan-ocupied-Kashmir, Athawale said his workers will provide Kangana protection.On Monday, the Centre provided Y-plus category security to the actress. On Wednesday, Kangana reached Mumbai, the day on which the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation carried out a demolition drive at her office, claiming that substantial changes have been made to the sanctioned plan of the premises owned by the actress. The Bombay High Court, on Thursday, stayed the demolition drive. The actor is in Mumbai for a short visit and hence has been exempted from the quarantine rules. She is scheduled to leave Mumbai on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-welcome-kangana-if-she-joins-bjp-or-rpi-says-ramdas-athawale/story-XPBekkWVW176dnxjcFryFO.html
10-09-2020||India||Rare species of orchid found for first time in western Himalayas||After nearly 124 years, a small and very rare species of orchid Liparis pygmaea has been found again in India, in alpine meadows of Uttarakhand Himalayas, said orchid specialist Jeewan Singh Jalal from Botanical Survey of India, Pune. The specialist from Botanical Survey identified the species after it was found by two officials of Uttarakhand forest department’s research wing during their Suptkund trek in Chamoli district at an altitude of 3800 metres in June this year. Jalal said this very species, which grows up to five centimetres and flowers in June, has been reported for the first time from Western Himalayas. “Earlier this species had been reported from Sikkim (1892, 1877) and West Bengal (1896). So, this is a very interesting and exciting finding for us as this species has been found after over a century, which indicates its rarity and stresses upon the need to make efforts for the protection of Himalayan meadows which are still throwing surprises at us with these rare finds,” he said. Around 1250 species of orchids are found in India, of which nearly 250 Orchid species are found in Uttarakhand alpine zone between 3100 to 3900 metres elevation. Three individual samples of this rare orchid species Liparis pygmaea (Malaxideae, Orchidaceae) were analysed by Jalal and another botanist from BSI, who then jointly with two others who found the species, published a research paper on the find in the French scientific journal ‘Richardiana’ on July 30 this year. The research paper titled ‘Liparis pygmaea (Malaxideae, Orchidaceae), a new distributional record from Western Himalaya’ was jointly authored by Jeewan Singh Jalal (from Botanical Survey of India, Western Regional Centre, Pune), Dinesh Kumar (Botanical Survey of India, Sikkim Himalayan Regional Centre, Gangtok) and Manoj Singh, junior research fellow at Forest Research Wing and Harish Negi, Forest Range Officer Uttarakhand. According to the research paper, Liparis is a large genus of the orchid family (Orchidaceae), which includes about 320 species, with 48 species representing the genus in India. Of these 48, so far 10 species have been reported from Western Himalaya. Manoj Singh said during their floristic exploration in the Saptkund area in Chamoli alpine meadows, they spotted these rare orchids and took their samples for identification. “We photographed and preserved the samples, one in ethanol and two pressed and then sent them to BSI experts on orchids. Jeewan Singh Jalal from Botanical Survey of India, Western Regional Centre, Pune, dissected it for detailed study and after critical examination identified it as Liparis pygmaea, a very rare Orchid species”, he said Jeevan Lal said scrutiny of available literature on the orchids of this region revealed that “it is the first record of this species from the Western Himalaya. Accordingly, an herbarium specimen was prepared and deposited at BSI. This discovery widens the range of distribution of this species in Himalaya and shows that meadows are in good health and need to be protected to ensure the survival of such rare species” “From Sikkim and West Bengal, it has been observed only once in the last 100 years which indicates its rarity. Present report from Western Himalaya involves less than 10 mature individuals at a single location. Although the species is not known under any commercial exploitation, its habitats are vulnerable to several natural and anthropogenic threats. Unsustainable tourism and developmental activities are in full pace at all the Indian localities. The species has pollination and germination constraints and is also subjected to livestock grazing and trampling,” the paper said. Chief conservator of forests (research wing) Sanjiv Chaturvedi said finding of the rare species by the officials of the forest research wing and publication of the research on the same in the noted French journal is a moment of pride for the Uttarakhand forest department. “Generally, you find academics from various research institutions authoring research papers. But this time, two of our employees have co-authored a paper with experts from BSI helping in identifying the rare orchid species,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rare-species-of-orchid-found-for-first-time-in-western-himalayas/story-Dyc6FyvDOvxm3mAqhSb6cL.html
10-09-2020||India||‘Excellent discussions’: MEA on meeting between Jaishankar and Russian foreign minister||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov met on the sidelines of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit in Moscow.According to the MEA spokesperson, the two ministers had “excellent” discussions on bilateral matters and those of international concern. “There was an excellent discussion on bilateral matters, regional developments and international issues of concern,” MEA spokesperson said.Jaishankar also tweeted that he had excellent talks with Lavrov and he valued their exchanges on topics of international concern.“Pleasure to meet FM Sergey Lavrov, this time in person. Excellent talks that reflect our Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership. Value our exchanges on the international situation,” he tweeted.EAM Jaishankar is also set to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi shortly. They are set to discuss the rising tension triggered by fresh face-offs between the armies of India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Indian Army released a statement on Tuesday in which it said Chinese troops attempted to close in on an Indian position near the southern bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh the previous evening and fired shots in the air.The statement was issued after China’s People’s Liberation Army on Monday night alleged that Indian troops crossed the LAC and “outrageously fired” warning shots near the Pangong lake.“This issue will be discussed,” MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excellent-discussions-mea-on-meeting-between-jaishankar-and-russia-s-foreign-minister/story-fewwS6sunYgf59krMQo9HP.html
10-09-2020||India||PM Modi rings up ‘dear friend’ Japanese PM Shinzo Abe, hails him for boosting India-Japan ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday spoke to Japanese PM Shinzo Abe over the phone soon after India and Japan signed a key pact in defence sector.During the telephonic conversation, the prime minister hailed Abe for his leadership and commitment in taking India-Japan ties to “new heights”.“Made a phone call to my dear friend @AbeShinzo to wish him good health and happiness. I deeply cherish our long association. His leadership and commitment have been vital in taking India-Japan partnership to new heights. I am sure this momentum will continue in the coming years,” PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi and his Japanese counterpart agreed that their ties will play crucial role in charting the course globally in the post-Covid world, the Ministry of External Affairs said.“​The two leaders reviewed the status of ongoing cooperation, including the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) project, under the framework of the India-Japan Special Strategic & Global Partnership. They agreed that the strong and enduring partnership between the two countries will play a critical role in charting the course for the global community in the post-Covid world,” MEA said in a statement.India and Japan on Thursday signed a key agreement for reciprocal provision of supplies and services between their defence forces, which is expected to drive closer military cooperation and contribute to regional security.During the phone call, PM Modi and Abe welcomed the signing of the agreement.“They concurred that the agreement will further enhance the depth of defence cooperation between the two countries and contribute to peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region,” MEA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-rings-up-japanese-pm-shinzo-abe-applauds-him-for-boosting-india-japan-ties/story-boYZgllZnrGHBdIMWW98bJ.html
10-09-2020||India||Indian Railways: 80 new trains from September 12, tickets available from today||The Indian Railways will run 80 (40 pairs) new trains starting from September 12, tickets of which went live on Thursday at the Indian Railways website. These trains will be in addition to the 230 special trains already in operation — introduced at various stages of lockdown and unlocking in the last six months. The tickets are also available from station counters.All regular passenger trains were suspended on March 25 owing to the nationwide lockdown. From May, the railways resumed operations in a staggered manner — first it ran Shramik Special trains to ferry migrants workers, then it introduced special trains, which are not regular passenger trains tailor-made according to demand. These new 80 trains, which will connect Delhi-Indore, Yesvantpur-Gorakhpur, Puri-Ahmedabad, Delhi- Bengaluru among other routes, will also be special trains. Here’s all you need to know about the 80 new trains1. Several trains connecting small cities to Delhi are being introduced in this phase. Varanasi-New Delhi vande Bharat Express will run from September 12. Here is the list of all 80 trains:Indian Railways to run additional 40 pairs of more special trains w.e.f. 12th September 2020. These will be fully reserved train. Ticket can be booked from 10th September, 2020https://t.co/nurgBZYvJd pic.twitter.com/TtQKJyKAdQ2. All these trains will be reserved.3. To book tickets, log on to www.irctc.co.in. Or, download the IRCTC app4.  After logging in, you can look for the availability of these special trains and accordingly book tickets through e-payment. You will receive an SMS.5. The stoppages of these trains will be regulated after consulting with the state governments concerned.6. At present, the railways is running 30 Rajdhani-type special trains, which started from May 12. From June 1, the railways has been running 200 special Mail Express trains. 7. As several national-level examinations are going on, the railways is planning to run more special trains as and when the demand rises.8. If waiting lists are long for any particular trains, the railways will run clone train to accommodate the waitlisted passengers, it has said.9. The 80 new trains are being introduced keeping in mind the migrant workers who are now travelling back to their workplaces as unlocking has entered the fourth phase in September.10. Owing to its limited service, the Indian Railways has estimated a loss of around Rs 40,000 crore in the current financial year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-80-new-trains-from-september-12-tickets-available-from-today/story-b38YrWQ0b31jbVgcmpzJPO.html
10-09-2020||India||I love drama in life & on TV, says Urfi||A self-confessed drama queen, actor Urfi Javed feels that she is best suited for TV. “I love drama and TV serials are full of it. TV is my first love and I have grown up watching daily soaps and living them! In real life too, if I don’t get drama, I get bored,” the bubby Lucknowite said.The ‘Bepannah’ and ‘Meri Durga’ actor wants to do only TV for now. “It still has better opportunities for newcomers. There is a lot of work and no nepotism! I will love to do OTT series if I get and even a film but won’t run after it! Also, I don’t have unrealistic expectations in my head. I just want to act immaterial of length of character and medium.”After completing studies from City Montessori School, she took admission in Amity University which she left after a few months, because her parents separated.“I wanted to become an actor but I knew my family would not allow it, so I kept that dream somewhere on the sidelines. I wanted to become a fashion designer but my father did not allow me. After this, I thought that I would end up becoming a waitress or something in a fast-food chain.” She landed in Mumbai for a job in a TV channel which she did not get. “Then I thought, let me try what I wanted in life. And, I have been very, very lucky that in three months I got my first show ‘Tedhi Medhi Family’. I believe God has plans for everyone — just trust the process.”Before the lockdown she left ‘Kasautii Zindagii Kay’ and is now shooting for ‘Aye Mere Humsafar’. “I know it’s unsafe but all precautions are being taken. It’s a Catch-22 situation, if one does not work then one will die of hunger, and if one does then can die of corona…so it’s better to die working…I guess!”Urfi relates to her character in the show. “My character Payal is a small-town girl who aspires to be a big star. She is bubbly, full of life, speaks a lot and is always on her phone like me. Difference is that she is simple, innocent and dumb, while I was always clever and street-smart despite coming from Lucknow — which is like a village for many in Mumbai.” Hailing from the city was an advantage for her. “Since I belong to Lucknow, my Hindi and Urdu were always good. This got me good attention at auditions. People have been very nice to me.” During the lockdown she stayed in Lucknow. “We are four sisters and a brother and with mother we are a loving family and we had a lot of fun and drama during my long stay,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-love-drama-in-life-on-tv-says-urfi/story-jQsmWB1XldsmiWfGoZdyjI.html
10-09-2020||India||Those above 65, kids below 10 years not allowed to visit Corbett Tiger Reserve||As the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) recently released new guidelines on the entry of tourists in tiger reserves, officials at Corbett Tiger Reserve said that tourists above the age of 65 years and below 10 years will not be allowed to visit the reserve. RK Tiwari, wildlife warden at Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) said, “The NTCA has issued new guidelines for visitors who would be allowed to visit tiger reserves and sanctuaries. Following those guidelines, tourists above the age of 65 and below 10 years will not be allowed to visit the tiger reserve keeping safety of both tourists and animals in mind due to the coronavirus epidemic”. Apart from this, the NTCA has also increased the viewing distance of wildlife in protected areas including tigers. Also read: Cigarette, beedi butts are not toxic, claims study“Usually, tourists were shown tigers from a distance of 50 meters in the past, but now, as per the new guidelines, tigers will be shown from a distance of 500 meters. Many times tourists go too near to the animals, disturbing their privacy and this has led to many attacks as well. So, it has been decided to increase the viewing distance,” added Tiwari. He said that all gypsy drivers in the Corbett landscape are being informed about the new guidelines for safari. The official said that if someone does not follow these rules then a fine of Rs 25,000 will be imposed on them. According to officials, ten cases of attacks by wildlife have been reported from Corbett Tiger Reserve in the past five years when tourists went too close to the animals during safari. Uttarakhand’s Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) has the highest tiger density among India’s 50 reserves with a density of 14 tigers per 100 square kilometres. According to the recent All India Tiger Estimation, Corbett has also recorded the highest tiger population- 231 in the reserve and 266 using the reserve - among all 50 tiger reserves in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-above-65-kids-below-10-years-not-allowed-to-visit-corbett-tiger-reserve/story-znIh1Y09eqeKxKb3qAPvfJ.html
10-09-2020||India||This doctor tested Covid +ve in July. A month on, he is positive again||The Uttarakhand government on Thursday claimed that a doctor who was coronavirus positive in July, has again tested positive in an antigen test. The doctor from Dehradun has tested positive in an antigen test, a month after he recovered the first time from Covid-19 infection, informed officials. However, according to medical experts, in cases of suspected Covid reinfection, a genomic test of viral strains is required to ascertain whether the patient has been really reinfected. This has not been done in this case. “This is likely the first time that a case of reinfection of Covid-19 has been reported from Uttarakhand. The person who has tested positive had continued exposure and it could be that they got re-infected because of that,” said Dr Pankaj Singh, state surveillance officer, Integrated Diseases Surveillance Project. The patient, who looks after collection of Covid-19 samples for the health department in Dehradun district, had first tested positive on July 23 and the second test (antigen test) came positive on Monday. “First time I tested positive on July 23 after which I had recovered. Around August 10, my RT-PCR test had also tested negative. Around the weekend, I had slight fever and cough and because I am involved in the sampling process for Covid-19, I thought that I should get myself tested. On Monday, I tested positive again in an antigen test and I isolated myself at home,” said the doctor, who was not willing to be named. Dr Anurag Aggarwal, nodal officer for coronavirus treatment in Uttarakhand from Government Doon Medical College Hospital, said, “When cases were first being reported in the state, certain patients tested negative after around 30-35 days. So that could be the case in this situation, that the virus from the first time is active till 40-50 days from first testing positive. The second situation could be that the person has been reinfected. It is difficult to say if the first condition works on this patient as it has been almost a month testing positive for the first time.” When asked if samples of the doctor have been sent for genome testing to confirm if it is a case of re-infection, Dr Aggarwal said, “We are not clear if a genome test is being done, we have not even received any guidelines on this as of now.” However, the doctor who tested positive said that health officials have taken a sample for RT-PCR test too, through which “they would be studying the viral strain”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-doctor-tests-covid-19-ve-again-a-month-after-recovering/story-x3jOdJVNnDN6OTBA2lxXxL.html
10-09-2020||India||Sudarshan TV’s controversial programme gets green light from Centre||The Centre on Thursday allowed the Sudarshan News channel to broadcast the show which claimed a ‘big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service’.The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting directed the channel to ensure that the show does not violate any programme code. Action would be taken as per the law if any violation was found, it said.The Delhi High Court on August 29 refused to vacate its stay on the telecast of the programme on a prima facie finding that the show’s trailer is violative of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks (Regulations) Act, 1995.The news on the issue came from the high court where a bench of Justice Navin Chawla restrained the Sudarshan TV from telecasting its programme on the petition filed by former and present students of Jamia Millia Islamia University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarshan-tv-s-controversial-programme-gets-green-light-from-central-govt/story-PeezPXRcSk899nLB7cFvcK.html
10-09-2020||India||Pawan Kalyan, BJP leaders on hunger strike over temple attacks in Andhra||Thousands of leaders and activists of Bharatiya Janata Party and Jana Sena sat on an 11-hour long hunger strike all over Andhra Pradesh on Thursday in protest against alleged attacks on Hindu temples and the burning of a temple chariot.The BJP-Jana Sena combine gave a joint call to their respective party workers to take up the fast in the name of “Dharma Parirakshan Deeksha” (Penance to protect Hindu dharma), demanding that action be taken against those responsible for the burning of chariot at Sri Lakshminarasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district on Sunday last.Jana Sena party chief and popular Tollywood actor Pawan Kalyan took up the deeksha at 10 am at his residence in Hyderabad. He alleged that there have been increased attacks on Hindu temples during the Jagan Mohan Reddy regime in Andhra Pradesh. He demanded that the state government order a probe by a retired high court judge into the Antarvedi temple chariot fire. “If the government does not act seriously, we shall approach the Centre seeking a CBI investigation into the incident,” the Jana Sena chief said.BJP state president Somu Veerraju, who sat on a 11-hour deeksha at his residence in Rajahmundry in East Godavari district, said the agitation would continue till the state government brings the culprits to book. He said he would petition the Governor over the burning of chariot at Antarvedi temple.Former state BJP president Kanna Lakshminarayana also sat on a 11-hour fast at his residence in Guntur. He alleged that there had been a systematic attack on Hinduism since the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was formed last year.“The burning of chariot at Antarvedi was atrocious and it has hurt the sentiments of Hindus. Similar incidents had taken place at various temples in the past. Had the government acted on time in the past, such incidents would not have recurred,” Lakshminarayana said.K Raghurama Krishnam Raju, rebel YSR Congress Party MP from Narasapuram parliamentary constituency, also announced that he would take up eight-hour long deeksha at his residence in New Delhi on Friday.He said he would sit on a dharna at his residence from 9 am to 5 pm by following all precautions for Covid-19. He condemned the series of attacks on the Hindu temples in the recent past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawan-kalyan-bjp-leaders-on-hunger-strike-over-temple-attacks-in-andhra/story-xdEhjHKGNFWAsQNzPDVaNK.html
10-09-2020||India||‘Ayodhya, Chitrakoot airports to spur religious tourism’: Yogi tells Puri||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday held a virtual meeting with union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and said that Ayodhya and Chitrakoot airports would spur religious tourism while Sonbhadra airport would boost conventional tourism. During the meeting, Adityanath and Puri reviewed the progress of Ayodhya, Chitrakoot, and Myorpur (Sonbhadra) airport projects.“Three-and-a-half years ago, the state had only two active airports, now seven airports are functioning and the state government is working on developing 17 airports in the state,” Yogi said.“Once all the 17 airports become functional, the state will get a connectivity boost, upswing in tourism, employment generation that will add to the state’s development,” the chief minister said while thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Hardeep Puri for the airports. Also read: Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, CM Yogi calls for special attention to 4 districtsAs per the statement issued by the CM’s office, Adityanath said, “The state government will extend full cooperation to the central government in the airport projects. The state government wants these projects to be completed as soon as possible.”CM Yogi also requested Puri to initiate the development work for the airports in Bareilly, Hindon, Saharanpur, Meerut, Lucknow and Varanasi. “Air travel facility and air connectivity would improve once flights become operational from Bareilly, Hindon, Saharanpur and Meerut,” the chief minister said, adding that the remaining work of the Kushinagar airport project was progressing as per the schedule.Puri thanked the state government and the chief minister for extending full cooperation with the projects. “When all 17 airports will be functional, air connectivity will increase in the state,” he said.“Ayodhya and Chitrakoot are important from a religious point of view, while Sonbhadra has immense tourism potential. Ayodhya airport will be developed in a phased manner,” the civil aviation minister added.Meanwhile, civil aviation ministry officials said they were working on initiating flights from Bareilly and Saharanpur while formalities will be completed for Meerut and Hindon flight operation once relevant clearances are received. Lucknow and Varanasi airport development will take place according to the processes, they said. The district magistrates of Ayodhya, Chitrakoot and Sonbhadra also attended the meeting via video conferencing. Others who attended the meeting included UP civil aviation minister Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’, additional chief secretary (home) Avanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary (civil aviation) SP Goel, additional chief secretary (revenue) Renuka Kumar.Additional chief secretary (PWD) Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, principal secretary (urban development) Deepak Kumar, principal secretary (forest) Sudhir Garg, director information Shishir, chairman of Aiport Authority of India and several other officers from the civil aviation department were also present during the meeting on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-chitrakoot-airports-to-spur-religious-tourism-yogi-tells-puri/story-r74jD7s37dEITIwyZ9YrpN.html
10-09-2020||India||Cigarette, beedi butts are not toxic, claims study||Chemical levels in cigarette and beedi butts are lower than the government-prescribed limits and “not toxic to humans and environment”, according to a recent study by Lucknow-based Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR). Cigarette butts are the most common type of litter on earth, with an estimated 4.5 trillion of them discarded annually around the globe.Most of the cigarette butts are discarded in dustbins, roadside, beaches or other public places, posing a major threat to living organisms and ecosystem health. Some studies suggest cigarette butts are toxic to microbes, insects, and fish etc. In April last year, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) to get a study conducted as to whether cigarette and beedi butts fall within the category of ‘toxic waste’. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed in October last year between the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research to analyse chemical and elemental composition of various brands of cigarettes and beedi butts (both burnt and unburnt) and to see if they meet the required parameters.Burnt and unburnt butts of 10 cigarette brands and beedi brands were used in the study, according to CSIR-IITR.Except endosulfan (in one brand), the levels of chemicals listed in class ‘A’ of schedule II 2016, including arsenic, cadmium, lead, mercury, chromium, and cobalt, “were either below the level of detection or many fold lower than the threshold value”, the IITR report said. The levels of chemicals listed in class ‘C’ of Schedule-II 2016, including anthracene, phenanthrene and amines, were also lower than the prescribed limits under experimental conditions with limited sample size, it said. “The analysis reflects that the concentrations detected will not be toxic to human and the environment,” the study said. It, however, said that “data is not available” on cellulose acetate mediated human health risk assessment and toxic responses, and response on microflora in the soil. Cellulose acetate is a major component (95 per cent) of cigarette butts along with the wrapping paper and rayon. The degradation studies carried out on cigarette butts have shown only 37.8 per cent degradation in two years in the soil under ambient conditions; hence it will persist in soil for a longer duration, the IITR said. “The degradation studies under natural environmental conditions and laboratory simulating conditions will be required to conclude the safety/toxicity of cigarette butts to further correlate with human and environmental health risk assessment,” it said. The research institute suggested recycling of cellulose acetate after recovery from cigarette butts as an immediate solution to the problem until the degradation and safety data are generated.The NGT had earlier issued notices to the MoEF, ministry of health and family welfare and CPCB on a plea filed by a doctors’ body seeking prohibition on consumption of tobacco in all public places and proper disposal of related waste. Doctors for You, an NGO working towards cancer care, had moved the tribunal, asking that the Centre be directed to declare cigarette and beedi butts ‘toxic waste’. It had claimed that tobacco was causing major health problems and its ‘cultivation processing, production and disposal was harming the ecology badly’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cigarette-beedi-butts-are-not-toxic-claims-study/story-9hhiyQVSDqZlB9gudJ9cwI.html
10-09-2020||India||Kolkata Metro to run special NEET trains on Sunday, services resume Monday||The Kolkata Metro – both north-south and east-west corridors - would resume its normal services from Monday after a gap of almost six months.On September 13, however, Metro would run special trains for candidates appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test. “The Kolkata Metro would start its commercial service from Monday. At least 110 trains would run from Monday to Saturday between 8 am and 7 pm in the north-south corridor while 72 trains would run in the east-west corridor. There would be no service on Sundays,” said a Metro official.Only smart cards would be allowed from Monday. Passengers who want to take a ride would have to book an e-pass for a specific time slot at least 12 hours in advance as not more than 400 passengers would be allowed in a train. The e-pass is a QR code which would be scanned at the entry gates. Kolkata Metro Back On Track: To ensure safe metro travel, follow all the Dos and Don’ts. This is for your own safety. Travel responsibly and sensibly. pic.twitter.com/BsEkWZJYZ6“On September 13, however, candidates would have to present their admit cards at the entry gates. Only printed tickets would be issued to the candidates and their guardians,” said the official quoted above. The Kolkata Metro has already come up with a list of dos and don’ts for the passengers which include wearing or masks, sanitising hands at stations and maintaining social distancing, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-metro-to-run-special-neet-trains-on-sunday-services-resume-monday/story-J5C8paBRYilvztTh8CJ2yM.html
10-09-2020||India||Singapore envoy to India presents credentials via video||Singapore’s new high commissioner Simon Wong Wie Kuen presented his credentials to President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday, pledging to take forward ties between the two countries in areas ranging from trade to security. Speaking at the virtual ceremony for the presentation of his credentials, Wong noted that Singapore has become the number one investor in India since 2018. Singapore’s cumulative investment in India between 1990 and 2019 amounted to $85 billion. Even amid the Covid-19 crisis, Singapore’s companies have pledged $2 billion in investments in India between August last year and August 2020, and the two sides have a long-standing strategic partnership in defence and homeland security, he said. Kovind expressed his appreciation for the Singapore government’s efforts to address the Indian diaspora’s concerns related to the Covid-19 pandemic and said such mutual cooperation strengthens the ties of friendship and trust between the two countries. The president also thanked Singapore for its support to India at multilateral fora and for the country’s election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2021-22. This year marks the 55th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Singapore. Prior to his posting in New Delhi, Wong was Singapore’s trade representative to Taiwan during 2015-20, and deputy secretary (international) in the foreign ministry during 2012-15. A career diplomat who joined the foreign service in 1990, Wong has covered several portfolios including the Americas, Europe and northeast Asia. His overseas assignments included postings in Seoul, Beijing and Hanoi, where he served as ambassador during 2009-12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-envoy-to-india-presents-credentials-via-video/story-7QURQtZSgoNjKvVoxspxmM.html
10-09-2020||India||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, CM Yogi calls for special attention to 4 districts||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday took note of over 149,000 tests that have been conducted in the state on Wednesday. He said more RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) and rapid antigen tests should be done. Testing labs should function to their optimum capacity, the chief minister added.Calling for special attention to the Covid-19 situation in Lucknow, Kanpur, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj, he said an action plan should be worked out to strengthen the medical system in these districts.Laying stress on increasing the number of beds for Covid-19 patients in Prayagraj, he said the command and control centre set up there for the Kumbh Mela should be used as a Covid command centre now.The chief minister was reviewing the Unlock-4 situation at a high-level meeting at his Lok Bhawan office in Lucknow on Thursday. He called for consistent effort to make people aware of measures for protection from Covid-19. Surveillance and contact tracing are necessary to check the spread of the Covid-19, he said.Also read: Top Hindu body of sadhus back Kangana Ranaut in political row with Shiv SenaCM Adityanath said besides providing treatment to Covid-19 patients, the focus should be on effective contact-tracing. Admission of seriously ill Covid-19 patients should be ensured to hospitals without any problem, he added. He also asked officials to increase manpower in hospitals as per the need, adding that specialists should be deployed in L-2 Covid hospitals.Adityanath said that the system of issuing entry passes to the secretariat should be made stricter, and called for action against those not following these directives. Asserting that there should not be any complaint about the availability and supply of fertilizers, the CM asked various district magistrates to monitor the situation regularly. He also said a drive to remove illegal possessions and encroachments should be launched.The chief minister also emphasises the importance of providing more jobs in every field. He said a meeting of Udyog Bandhu should be convened at the earliest through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-cm-yogi-calls-for-special-attention-to-4-districts/story-hkl6hFkJam9tbNW2TirvUP.html
10-09-2020||India||Paresh Rawal, ex-BJP MP, appointed chief of National School of Drama||President Ram Nath Kovind named former BJP MP and actor Paresh Rawal as the chairperson of the National School of Drama. Union culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel, under whose ambit the NSD falls, confirmed the news. Congratulating the actor on his new position, the minister said that artists and students will benefit from his talent. A tourism ministry official who did not wish to be named said that three or four candidates had been shortlisted by the ministry for the post. “The President takes the final call,” said the official. “Rawal will be the chairperson for the next four years.” The post of the NSD chairperson has been vacant since 2017, with vice-chairperson Dr Arjun Deo, a noted Rajasthani poet, critic, playwright, theatre director and translator, acting as chair. Rawal has been in the film industry for more than three decades and has won numerous awards, including the prestigious National Film Award for Best Supporting Actor in 1994. In 2014, he was conferred with the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award in India, for his contribution to the entertainment industry. Rawal is famous for his roles in Hera Pheri and Andaaz Apna Apna. Rawal had won from Ahmedabad East in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls by over 3.25 lakh votes.The post of chairperson of the government’s apex art and theatre school has been occupied by several prominent people in the past, including former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and social reformer Kamala Devi Chattopadhyay. NSD’s prominent alumni include actors such as Naseeruddin Shah, Nawazzudin Siddiqui, Irrfan Khan and Om Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-school-of-drama-gets-a-chief-after-3-years-it-is-paresh-rawal/story-DEvJkFEOyjND7qbuGbxpiM.html
10-09-2020||India||HC questions Arnab Goswami for running parallel investigation in Pushkar death case, asks to show restraint||The Delhi High Court Thursday questioned Arnab Goswami for running a parallel investigation and trial in the Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s wife Sunanda Pushkar’s death case and directed the journalist to be bound by his undertaking on showing restraint and bringing down the rhetoric while covering the matter.Justice Mukta Gupta said the court was not saying that anyone will gag the media but at the same time, sanctity of investigation must be maintained.“Please show restraint. Once the police investigation is going on in the criminal case, there cannot be a parallel investigation by the media,” the judge said and remarked that people must take a course in criminal trial and then get into journalism.The high court referred to December 1, 2017 order in which it was stated that “Press cannot ‘convict anyone’ or insinuate that he/she is guilty or make any other unsubstantiated claims. Press has to exercise care and caution while reporting about matters under investigation or pending trial.” It has been noted in the 2017 order that the counsel for the journalist and channel has assured the court that in future they would exercise restraint as well as bring down the ‘rhetoric’. On Thursday, the judge said, “Defendants (Goswami and his channel) are thus directed to be bound by the statement made on their behalf by their counsel till the next date of hearing.” On the channel’s claim that they have evidence with them, the judge questioned them saying “were you at the spot? Are you an eye witness? There is some sanctity attached to the investigation.” To this, advocate Malvika Trivedi, representing Goswami, said there was evidence from AIIMS, based on which certain broadcast was aired.The judge said it was for a court of law to decide what was evidence in a criminal trial and there are statements from here and there which are not evidence.“Can the media sit in appeal against the charge sheet filed by an investigating agency?,” the judge asked.“It is not a reflection on the Plaintiff (Tharoor) but the investigating agency. Can there be a parallel investigation or trial?.. Would you not like the courts to take their own course?,” the judge said. The high court was hearing an application by Congress MP Tharoor seeking interim injunction against Goswami, Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, from making defamatory remarks against the leader.Tharoor’s grievance relates to broadcast of the programmes naming him on the TV channel in July and August and in the telecast, the journalist has claimed that they have investigated Sunanda Pushkar case better than the police and that he still has no doubt that Pushkar was murdered.Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Vikas Pahwa, representing Tharoor, said charge sheet has been filed by the police in the case and he has been summoned for the alleged offence of abetment to suicide then how can the journalist abuse him and allege that there was a murder.The application, filed through advocates Gaurav Gupta and Muhammad A Khan, sought that the journalist should be directed to report only on matters which are factually correct or established.The high court noted that the Delhi Police has filed a charge sheet in the trial court which has taken cognisance of it and he has been summoned under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 498A (cruelty to married woman) IPC in the light of the investigation done by the agency.The high court sought response of the journalist on Tharoor’s application and listed the matter for further hearing on November 20.In the December 1, 2017 order, the high court had said Goswami and his channel have the right to air their stories and the same cannot be curbed, but it has to be tempered and balanced.The court’s 2017 order had come on three different applications filed by Tharoor in his Rs two crore defamation suit against Goswami and the channel for allegedly making defamatory remarks against him while airing news relating to the mysterious death of his wife.Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a five-star hotel in south Delhi on the night of January 17, 2014 under mysterious circumstances. Tharoor has alleged that they continued to engage in “defaming and maligning” him despite an assurance given by their counsel in the court on May 29, 2017.The court had on May 29, 2017 said the journalist and his news channel could put out stories stating the facts related to the investigation of Pushkar’s death but could not call the Lok Sabha MP from Thiruvananthapuram “a criminal”. The Congress leader has sought a direction to them that they should not mention the expression “murder of Sunanda Pushkar” anywhere, since it is yet to established by a competent court whether her death was a “murder”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-questions-arnab-goswami-for-running-parallel-investigation-in-pushkar-death-case-asks-to-show-restraint/story-rW10hoH6YDFc1YcUqKyMLJ.html
10-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Serum Institute pauses Covishield vaccine trials in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Serum Institute pauses Covishield vaccine trials in IndiaA day after the Serum Institute of India (SII) was issued a show cause notice by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), it said it was pausing Covid-19 vaccine trials in the country. Read more.4th day of Delhi Metro service resumption, Magenta, Grey lines from tomorrow: All you need to knowOn Thursday, three days after the Delhi Metro Railway Corporation resumed its services in a phase-wise manner, the total ridership of Delhi Metro was approximately 47,600 between 7 am to 11 am. Read more.Pakistan main force behind drive to create ‘so-called Khalistan’: Canadian think tankPakistan is the main force nurturing the drive to create a ‘so-called Khalistan’ or independent homeland for Sikhs and the extremists backed by Islamabad pose serious threats to India and Canada, according to a report by a leading Canadian think tank. Read more.Half lotus pose is best for ‘connecting with inner universe’ and Rakul Preet Singh shows howBrushing aside our mid-week blues in the midst of the novel coronavirus pandemic, Bollywood star Rakul Preet Singh gave a glimpse of her morning yoga session and our motivation to hit the grind is lit. The diva not only gave fans a sneak-peek into her morning meditation but also shared the key to make “the soul speak”. Read more.France committed to Make in India initiative: Florence Parly at Rafale ceremonyWhile speaking at the induction of five Rafale aircraft into the Indian Air Force, French Defence minister Florence Parly said India will have an edge over the entire region in defending its people with the induction of Rafale fighter jets. She said India and France are writing a new chapter in defence ties. Watch the full video for more.Northern Californian skies turn orange amidst wildfires, netizens share picturesSmoke from raging wildfires, called ‘The North Complex Fire’, in Northern Californian blanketed certain parts of the region turning the sky orange. Many netizens took to Twitter to share pictures of the eerie-looking skyline, including Former US President Barack Obama. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-serum-institute-pauses-covishield-vaccine-trials-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9b1NZwTSXwTkj3PiUlcAGK.html
10-09-2020||India||Kerala CM calls all-party meet to discuss ways to avoid by-polls amid Covid-19 crisis||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has called an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss ways to reach a consensus on calling off two assembly by-elections in Kuttanad and Chavara, scheduled in November. Earlier, many political parties had expressed reservations over the Election Commission’s decision to conduct by-elections along with Bihar elections in November amid Covid-19 pandemic.They say the newly-elected legislators will get only four-five months in office as assembly elections are due in April next year. They feel it is a sheer waste of time and money and polling will be very low due to Covid-19 restrictions. The Election Commission later made it clear that if there is a consensus, it can call off the by-elections.Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has put forward a suggestion that the United Democratic Front (UDF) will be willing if the local body poll, which is also due in October-November, should be postponed by a couple of months. But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) opposed it. Later the government has decided to call an all-party meeting to arrive at a consensus.“There is a consensus on by-elections because only a few months will be left for the incumbents. We need to discuss the matter of the local body polls. Hope a consensus will emerge on both,” said CM Vijayan. Both seats fell vacant after the death of sitting members - NCP’s Thomas Chandy in Kuttanad in Alapuzha district and Vijayan Pillai (CMP) in Chavara, Kollam.Also read: Serum Institute pauses Covishield vaccine trials in IndiaThe government also feels that Covid-19 control measures will be affected once local body elections are announced. In the grassroots, local bodies play an important role in virus control management. Similarly, many health experts have warned that cases may peak in the state by the next month. State Health Minister KK Shailaja has also said that going by the present trend, the cases may peak in a couple of months.“It is a fact that we are easing restrictions one after another. All chances are there for cases to go up and the death rate to also see a spike. The present trend shows we have to foresee such eventuality and prepare for this,” said the health minister. As on Wednesday, the state reported 95,860 total cases and more than half of them were reported in just one month. The number of recovered patients of Covid-19 in the state stands at 70,921 while the active cases are at 24,419. Kerala has reported 385 Covid-19 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-calls-all-party-meet-to-discuss-ways-to-avoid-by-polls-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-L7o7Ls5WsukcmScGTPKWnM.html
10-09-2020||India||Thackeray supporters file police complaints against Kangana for ‘derogatory’ remark against CM||Even as Kangana Ranaut uploaded a video on social media sites on Wednesday, attacking Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, as Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) razed illegal structure of the actor’s Bandra Pali Hill office, Mumbai police started receiving complaints from Thackeray supporters against her for her allegedly derogatory remarks on CM.The Vikhroli police on Wednesday night registered a Non-Cognizable (NC) complaint against Ranaut on the complaint of Thackeray supporter Nitin Mane, a lawyer from Vikhroli (East). In his complaint to police, Mane has claimed that in her video, the actor used derogatory and defamatory language for Thackeray and sought criminal action against her. However, the police could not make out any cognisable offence in the complaint and turned it into an NC complaint.“We have registered an NC complaint and have instructed the complainant to approach the court for further perusal of the matter,” said Sanjay Darade, additional commissioner of police (East region).Similarly, a complaint was submitted to the Dindoshi police station by Malad (East) resident Arun Mishra seeking action against the actor. The police have neither registered an FIR nor an NC, confirmed Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police (North region).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thackeray-supporters-file-police-complaints-against-kangana-for-derogatory-remark-against-cm/story-BKaBCf0H72oqmmQFhQPfEN.html
10-09-2020||India||Top Hindu body of sadhus back Kangana Ranaut in political row with Shiv Sena||Amid a bitter face-off with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has received support from the Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP)— the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country. Describing Kangana as a “brave and courageous” daughter of the country, Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri said the actor was being attacked by a government in “fear”. “The fearless voice of the actor against nepotism and domination of a particular community in Bollywood besides the nexus existing between the film industry and the drug Mafia has caused ripples. The mafia and state government are both in fear and simply hitting out at her,” said Giri.Lending support, Giri further said all saints and the countrymen are with Kangana in this battle of hers. He also thanked Himachal Pradesh and the Central government for giving security cover to Kangana.The attack on her office - the Mumbai civic body partially demolished her office in Pali Hills for what it said was unauthorised alterations, said Giri was an act of simple retaliation aimed at suppressing her voice.Ranaut has crossed swords with the Shiv Sena, which rules in Maharashtra as well as controls the BMC, with her remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir.The 33-year-old actor, who returned to Mumbai on Wednesday from her home state Himachal Pradesh, has alleged that the Maharashtra government was targeting her because of her clash with the Shiv Sena.“However, the Maharashtra High Court has given a huge relief to Kangana by granting a stay on the demolition operations. The bravery with which she has faced drug and Bollywood mafia in Sushant Singh murder case has made many people angry and she is being targeted at their behest,” he added.He went on to allege that the law and order situation in Maharashtra was very bad.“Even in the case of mob lynching of the two saints in Palghar, the Maharashtra government has not taken any action. The Akhada parishad has demanded a CBI inquiry in the Palghar case but the state government has failed to act,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-hindu-body-of-sadhus-back-kangana-ranaut-in-political-row-with-shiv-sena/story-DOmQNaOpPCKZIpCDj3TMVO.html
10-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut’s property had 11 illegal alterations, hence demolished, BMC tells HC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) backed the demolition carried out at actor Kangana Ranaut’s premises in the Bombay high court during the hearing on the matter on Thursday and claimed that BMC officials had found that substantial changes were made to the sanctioned plan of the premises owned by Ranaut.The BMC further stated in an affidavit that the actor had not disclosed this in her petition before the court which sought an urgent relief to stay the demolition activity of the BMC. In light of these submissions and also of a BMC policy, which states that if the unauthorized construction is not stopped even after being served a stop-work notice, then the BMC has the right to demolish the work and hence there was nothing wrong in the demolition undertaken by the civic body. The division bench of justice S J Kathawalla and justice R I Chagla, while hearing the response of the BMC, was informed that pursuant to the HC order seeking an explanation from the BMC for its action of demolishing the unauthorized construction in the Pali Hill premise of Ranaut on September 9, an affidavit had been filed by Bhagyawant Late, designated officer, H-West ward. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta appalled at demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s office: ‘What kind of gunda raj is this?’The affidavit stated that the BMC officers had followed proper procedure of inspecting the site with proper permission from the person responsible for the property. The affidavit states that during inspection on September 7, the officer found that a sizable number of alterations and additions, which were not part of the sanctioned plan, were being made without any permission from the civic authority. Late has stated that around 11 such alterations and additions were noticed by the officer and hence a notice was served upon Ranaut on the same day. Thereafter, a stop work notice was posted on the gate of the premises on September 8. However, as the stop work notice was not heeded and the unauthorized construction continued, demolition was carried out as per BMC policy. Also Read: Kashmiri Pandits show support to KanganaSenior advocate Aspi Chinoy and Anil Sakhare appearing for the BMC drew the court’s attention to the fact that Ranaut had not informed the court about the said facts nor had she disputed the same and hence there was nothing wrong in the demolition work. However, when the court pointed out that the petition was filed in haste, advocate Rizwan Siddiqui for Ranaut admitted to the same and sought permission to amend the petition. Siddiqui submitted that apart from curing the petition, he also wanted to put on record various facts and communications which his client had undertaken with the concerned BMC ward office over two years, which the court permitted. The court then directed Siddiqui to make the amendments and file a rejoinder to the BMC affidavit by Monday and then directed the BMC to file its affidavit on the amended petition and posted the matter for hearing on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-s-property-had-11-illegal-alterations-hence-demolished-bmc-tells-hc/story-N5FixrS0zGhU1ZfiwpS3wN.html
10-09-2020||India||4th day of Delhi metro services resumption, Magenta, Grey lines from tomorrow: All you need to know||New Delhi: On Thursday, three days after the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation resumed its services in a phase-wise manner, the total ridership of Delhi Metro was approximately 47,600 between 7 am to 11 am. Delhi Metro trains were back on track on September 7 after a gap of almost six months. In the fourth phase of unlocking, the ministry of home affairs allowed metro services to begin.1. On September 7, Yellow line and Gurugram’s Rapid metro resumed the services.2. On September 9, Blue line and Pink Line started operations.3. On September 10, Red Line, Green Line, Violet Line resumed operations4. On September 11, Magenta (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden) and Grey (Dwarka-Najafgarh) will start operations.5. On September 12, Airport Express Line will be operational.6. Metro services are currently operational in two time slots: 7 am to 1 pm and 4 pm to 10 pm7. From September 12, services on all lines will be available throughout the day (6 am to 11 pm)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4th-day-of-delhi-metro-service-resumption-magenta-grey-lines-from-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know/story-FjE61AyNpL0svAgPAQisbP.html
10-09-2020||India||HC seeks reply on PIL seeking online nominations for upcoming UP panchayat elections||A division bench of the Allahabad High Court has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a counter affidavit in a PIL, seeking necessary changes/amendments in the UP Kshetra Panchayat and Zila Panchayat (Election and Members) Rule 1994 for free and fair elections in the upcoming three-tier panchayat polls. The bench comprising Justice SK Gupta and Justice Shamim Ahmed passed the order on a PIL filed by Gopal Krishna Pandey.Also read: Serum Institute pauses Covishield vaccine trials in IndiaAdvocate Bharat Pratap Singh, appearing for the petitioner, contended that panchayat elections in UP will begin from the end of this year or immediately thereafter in early 2021. He said that because of the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases across the state, it would not be possible to file offline nominations in the panchayat election. Therefore, through the PIL it has been prayed that the state government may make necessary amendments in the 1994 election rules to permit a candidate to file online nominations for the panchayat polls. The court has fixed September 22 as next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-reply-on-pil-seeking-online-nominations-for-upcoming-up-panchayat-elections/story-n3vTxhMyiXxJbUf5N3ZdSK.html
10-09-2020||India||Covid-19’s shadow over Durga puja in Odisha, govt says no public celebration||There will be no public celebrations of popular festivals like Durga puja, Laxmi puja and Kali puja in Odisha when the festive season begins later this month, the state government said Thursday.Releasing the guidelines, chief secretary Asit Tripathy said the pujas would have to be conducted in indoor-like conditions only for the observance of rituals but without public participation. “Puja pandals/mandaps have to be covered on three sides. The 4th side would be covered in a way not to allow any public view of idols. There would be no darshan by public/devotees. The size of idols in all such pujas would be less than 4 feet and no public address system can be used. There would be no music or any other entertainment programme,” the order said.The guideline said at any point of time, there would not be more than 7 persons including the organisers, priests and support staff present in the puja pandals/mandaps.“The persons present at puja pandals/mandaps shall follow Covid protocols of social distancing, mask use, personal hygiene and sanitation issued by Central/State government or local administration in letter and spirit,” it said.The festive season is set to begin with Vishwakarma puja on September 16 followed by Mahasthami puja of Goddess Durga on October 16 and Laxmi Puja on October 23. The Kali Puja and Diwali is scheduled on Nov 14.The government also said there would be no immersion procession and all idols will be immersed in artificial ponds created by local administration for the purpose.The orders came on a day when Odisha recorded 3,991 Covid-9 cases, its highest single-day surge so far and 13 deaths.Last month, the Orissa High Court had allowed the Balu Bazaar Puja Committee, the oldest puja committee of the Cuttack city, to organise Durga Puja but without public participation and with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. It also said that the state government was the best authority to decide on pujas after some businessmen of Cuttack approached the court seeking to organise Ganesh puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-s-shadow-over-durga-puja-in-odisha-govt-says-no-public-celebration/story-f1CCgHkRK4JkVkw5WsFkbN.html
10-09-2020||India||Serum Institute pauses Covishield vaccine trials in India||A day after the Serum Institute of India (SII) was issued a show cause notice by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), it said it was pausing Covid-19 vaccine trials in the country. The SII is manufacturing Oxford University’s Covishield vaccine in collaboration with UK’s AstraZeneca. “We are reviewing the situation and pausing India trials till AstraZeneca restarts the trials. We are following Drug Controller General of India’s (DGCI) instructions and will not be able to comment further on trials,” the Serum institute said.The DGCI issued the notice to the Serum institute for not informing them about AstraZeneca pausing the clinical trials in other countries and for not submitting casualty analysis of the “reported serious adverse events”. An immediate reply from the Serum institute was sought saying else “it shall be construed that you have no explanation to offer and action deemed fit will be taken against you”.“We are going by DCGI’s direction and so far were not told to pause the trials. If DCGI has any safety concerns, we will follow their instructions and abide by the standard protocols,” the Serum institute had said after receiving the notice on Wednesday.The UK-based pharma giant paused the trials of the vaccine on Sept 8 after one of its recipients in the United Kingdom developed an ‘unexplained illness’. In India, out of the 100 volunteers, 34 were from Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and hospital in Pune, who have been administered vaccine shots after trials for phase 2 began on August 26.None of these volunteers have shown any sign of health-related complications, with all their vital parameters appearing normal, doctors at the medical college and hospital said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pausing-india-trials-till-astrazeneca-restarts-them-serum-institute-on-coronavirus-vaccine-trials/story-FbflyAaM0LtekqVii85KRI.html
10-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Bombay HC asks why there is no state mechanism to regulate content on news channels||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to be included in the petitions filed by former Indian Police Service (IPS) officials and an activist regarding the ongoing separate investigations by three central agencies into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The petitions were filed as an objection to a media trial after selective leaks were being made to a section of the media by the probe agencies following which the public were being prejudiced against Mumbai Police.The court also sought to know about a lack of mechanism of the government authorities concerned to regulate electronic media and directed the prosecution of more channels against whom the petitioners had raised their objections.Also read: Sushant case probe a campaign issue in BiharAn HC division bench, comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni, heard the public interest litigations (PILs) filed by the former IPS officials and an activist.The court was informed that even though the HC through its September 3 order had directed media channels to exercise restraint while reporting the investigations in the Rajput death case, some media houses and TV channels had shown scant regard for the order. The petitions urged the HC to take note of the media houses and TV channels’ egregious conduct. Senior advocate Dr Milind Sathe, who appeared on behalf of the eight ex-IPS officials, informed the court that after the September 3 order some channels had become more vociferous in their vilification campaign as far as Mumbai Police was concerned. He placed the transcripts of some of the news channels on record to bolster his argument and submitted that the court should take cognisance and make these channels party to the petitions. Senior advocate Devadatt Kamat, who appeared for activist Nilesh Navlakha, concurred with the submissions of Dr Sathe.Kamat alleged that the parallel trial by a section of the media had not ebbed as information of the investigation was being leaked by the probe agencies themselves. Kamat agreed to the submissions made by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that it was not leaking any information to the media.However, he singled out NCB and ED and prayed before the court that they be made a party to the petitions in a bid to ascertain whether information of the probe was being leaked by them to the media.The News Broadcasting Standards Association (NBSA) through advocate Nisha submitted that the body was a self-regulating authority for news channels and had also received complaints from viewers about some news channels going overboard in their reporting of the Rajput case. She submitted that the authority was looking into the complaints and would like to file a counter affidavit putting on record the action taken by them.The court upheld her plea. The News Broadcasters Federation (NBF) also sought to be included in the petitions as many channels were their members but were unrepresented. The court upheld this submission as well. The bench took note of advocate Asim Sarode’s separate petition that had sought directions to the authorities to put in place regulatory mechanisms on the functioning of the media. “We are surprised that there is no regulating mechanism of the state to control the electronic media and are prima facie of the opinion that this body (NBSA) does not have teeth. The state may reply in affidavit and indicate the extent of state control that is exercised in respect of telecasting news which has serious ramifications and other ancillary matters which might come up for our consideration while deciding this matter,” the bench observed.The court directed the inclusion of the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the Central government as party to all the petitions. The court also directed the NBSA to hear the complaints received by them.“The said pendency of these petitions shall not preclude NBSA to consider complaints that have been received by it and take appropriate actions as per law. Resultant decisions may be included in the affidavit,” it added.All news channels, which have been made a party to the petitions, have been ordered to file affidavits by September 30.The bench will hear the petitions next on October 8. The court again reminded that the media must continue to exercise restraint while reporting on the investigation in the Rajput case in line with its September 3 order in a bid to ensure that the ongoing probe is not hampered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-bombay-hc-asks-why-there-is-no-state-mechanism-to-regulate-content-on-news-channels/story-t4UYoYbs9dIPdpJzoIpJ3K.html
10-09-2020||India||Covid-19 positive inmates escape from temporary Pune jail||Two inmates of a temporary Pune jail, believed to be Covid-19 positive, escaped the facility in the early hours of Thursday. One of them is an accused in an attempted murder case. The two were identified as Anil Vitthal Vetal, a resident of Ganesh Nagar in Bhima Koregaon, Shirur and Vishal Ramdhan Kharat, a resident of Nigdi area of Pune. They ran away from the prison facility around 1am. As of Wednesday midnight, the Yerawada jail temporary facility had 147-Covid 19 positive patients, housed in a building converted into a Covid care center. While Kharat was in judicial custody in an attempted murder case registered in Shirur, Vetal was in judicial custody in an assault and robbery case registered in Pimpri Chinchwad, according to the police. Also Read: Man kills wife over suspected infidelity in PuneThe two were lodged in a room on the first floor of a building in the campus in Yerawada where the facility is situated. “They were in a room in the Covid care center for the temporary prison. They cut open the grill bars on the window. The inmates who test positive at the central jail as well as the temporary facility are treated there. There were a total of 20 patients in that room,” said Police inspector (crime) Ajay Waghmare of Yerawada police station. Also Read: Pune district reports 5,092 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, 68 deaths on Wednesday A case in the matter was registered at Yerawada police station. Earlier, too, five inmates had escaped the facility by cutting the bars of the windows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-inmates-escape-from-temporary-pune-jail/story-LOISfP2PAZ7wMuSSj6C6LN.html
10-09-2020||India||Woman in Tarun Tejpal case seeks cross examination via video conference||The woman who accused disgraced former editor of Tehelka magazine Tarun Tejpal of sexually abusing her has sought her cross examination to be conducted through video conference because she is unwilling to travel to Goa owing to the Covid-9 pandemic and her weak health.“The petitioner herself is a victim who lives in Delhi... had an attack of severe lung infection. Therefore, she does not want to undertake any journey during these days of pandemic,” her advocate argued in the before the Bombay high court at Goa.The victim had already requested the trial court to examine her through “video device” and had sought the suspension of the bailable warrant “lest the victim, a woman, herself a rape victim, should be subjected to arrest and hardship.”The high court has granted an interim suspension to the bailable warrant that was issued form the woman victim for failing to be present during the trial. The trial court had issued a bailable warrant to the woman to secure her presence in court for the ongoing trial which is currently at the stage of the cross examination of the victim and cannot proceed unless she attends personally or the trial resumes via video conference. She would have to seek ‘bail’ of Rs 5,000 if she could not make herself present. Through her advocate the victim moved an ‘out of turn’ petition before the High Court fearing hardship she will have to undergo should the bailable warrant stand. The trial which resumed in September last year has been plagued by delays owing to several reasons and most recently on account of the cross examination of the woman.The trial, which began in September 2017 was stalled after Tarun Tejpal approached the high court and later the Supreme Court challenging the framing of charges and seeking discharge in the case. The Supreme Court however, in a judgment in August last year, declined his plea and ordered that the trial be completed in six months. The trial is being held in-camera and is not open to media persons or to the public.The Mapusa court framed all the charges levelled against Tejpal in the charge sheet filed on November 30, 2013. These include sections 376 (punishment for rape), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-in-tarun-tejpal-case-seeks-cross-examination-via-video-conference/story-dcyYyAAFHi5LPqNYglkY6H.html
10-09-2020||India||Will Rhea Chakraborty be released from jail? Mumbai court’s verdict tomorrow||The special court in Mumbai will give its decision on bail pleas filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik on Friday. The court reserved its decision on the matter for tomorrow after hearing the pleas today.Rhea and Showik had approached the court under NDPS Act (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) after the Magistrate court rejected their bail requests on Wednesday.In her bail request, Rhea had stated that she is innocent and was falsely implicated in the case. It further claimed that Rhea “was coerced into making self-incriminatory confessions and by her application on September 8 the applicant has formally retracted all such incriminatory confessions”.Rhea was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday for her alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. In the remand application, the NCB has claimed that Rhea used to obtain drugs for Sushant and also used to “manage finances for drug procurement along with Rajput”.The actor and her brother have been booked under Section 27 A of the NDPS Act which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders. If found guilty, the two can face imprisonment not less than 10 years and can also be fined Rs 2 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-rhe-chakraborty-bail-plea-in-drug-case-court-decision-on-friday/story-hNNhPnq1hBjJs5R7VvE88O.html
10-09-2020||India||Centre asks states, UTs to test all symptomatic -ve cases of rapid antigen tests||With a view to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, the Union health ministry on Thursday directed all states and union territories (UTs) to compulsorily test all symptomatic negative cases of rapid antigen tests through RT-PCR tests in order to ensure no positive cases are missed. The states and UTs were also asked to immediately form a monitoring mechanism via a designated officer or team in every district and at the state level so as to follow up on such cases.All states and states and UTs have been urged to urgently establish a monitoring mechanism in every district (via a designated officer or a team) and at the state level to follow up on such cases, the ministry said. It added that these teams will study the details of the rapid antigen tests carried out daily in all districts and states to ensure that there are no delays in retesting of those people who are Covid-19 negative but are symptomatic. Also read: Close to 1 lakh daily cases push India’s Covid-19 tally to above 4.4 millionThe guidelines of both health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) state that all symptomatic (with fever, cough or breathlessness) negative cases of rapid antigen tests as well as asymptomatic cases that develop symptoms within two to three days of being tested negative should be be retested through RT-PCR tests.“In this background, the Union Health Ministry and ICMR have jointly written to all the states and UTs and urged them to ensure that the all symptomatic negative cases of RAT are mandatorily retested using the RT-PCR test,” the health ministry said. “This is necessary to ensure that such symptomatic negative cases do not remain untested and do not spread the disease among their contacts,” it said.The ministry pointed out that this exercise will also ensure early detection, isolation and hospitalization of such ‘false’ negative cases. Meanwhile, the ICMR has tested nearly 5.3 crore samples for Covid-19 out of which 11,29,756 samples were tested on Wednesday.  COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/pasBH579drIndia on Thursday logged 95,735 cases and 1,172 deaths due to the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the tally and death toll to 44,65,863 and 75,062 respectively. Active cases have climbed to 9,19,018 while over 34 lakh people have recovered so far.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-uts-to-test-all-symptomatic-ve-cases-of-rapid-antigen-tests/story-nO8RN8H9sezGfOgRbjOcNO.html
10-09-2020||India||In pictures: Rafale joins IAF’s 17 Squadron ‘Golden Arrows’||The five Rafale jets are inducted to the Indian Air Forces 17 Squadron ‘Golden Arrows’. The induction ceremony is underway with defence minister Rajnath Singh, French minister for armed forces Florence Parly, IAF chief RKS Bhadauria, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, and Defence Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar as main guests. Here are some pictures from the induction ceremony which is being conducted in Ambala: French minister for the armed forces Florence Parly arrived in Delhi and received the ceremonial guard of honour. Defence minister Rajnath Singh also held talks with Florence Parly in New Delhi after which they left for Ambala to join the induction ceremony. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and Air Force Chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria arrived at the Ambala Air Force Station to take part in the induction ceremony. Rajnath Singh, defence minister and his French counterpart observe the Sarva Dharma Puja ahead of induction. The Rafale aircrafts also performed sorties with Su-30s and Jaguars. Defence minister Rajnath Singh presented the induction scroll of Rafale fighter jets to Group Captain Harkeerat Singh, Commanding Officer, 17 Squadron ‘Golden Arrows’ of the Indian Air Force thus formally inducting the Rafale aircrafts into the Indian Air Force.Both defence ministers also addressed the guests present in the ceremony where the Florence Parly highlighted that Rafale is a state-of-the-art ‘combat weapon’ and has helped France tackle counter terrorism operations.Defence minister Rajnath Singh also highlighted how Rafale would be instrumental in guaranteeing peace and stability in the region. Following the ceremony the Rafale aircrafts were given a water-cannon salute to symbolize their entry into Indian Air Force’s fleet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pictures-rafale-joins-iaf-s-17-squadron-golden-arrows/story-nXPHXrBh3dLRVi8YfrfOVM.html
10-09-2020||India||Shiv Sena asks Fadnavis to introspect after CAG faults his flagship scheme||The Shiv Sena targeted former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis over the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India’s adverse remarks on Jalyukt Shivar-- the multi-crore flagship project undertaken by the Fadnavis government with an aim to develop water-sufficient villages-- and said that the scheme was “hollow” and “useless”.The CAG report, which was tabled in the state legislative assembly on Tuesday, stated that despite spending Rs 9,633.8 crore, the scheme had little impact on achieving water neutrality and raising groundwater levels.“Any scheme is always good on paper and its intent is also good. But the question is about transparency and effective implementation. When there is a problem (with the implementation of a scheme), then the rant about it turns out to be hollow and the expenses useless,” the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana. Also Read: Working to save trees near Sevagram Ashram in Maharashtra: Aaditya Thackeray“Precisely this is what happened in the case of Jalyukt Shivar scheme,” the Sena, which was part of the Fadnavis government between 2014 and 2019, added.The editorial added that had the previous government implemented the scheme effectively, then water supply would have reached several parts of Maharashtra. Also Read: Maharashtra education department forms committee to prepare report on NEPIn a veiled attack on the former CM, the editorial said that those who spoke about the scheme need to “introspect” now. “Those who released the Jalyukt balloon need to introspect why this balloon popped,” it said. “Now the CAG itself has put a question mark on the scheme’s success. What do those, who tom-tommed about the scheme, have to say about it now?” it asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-asks-fadnavis-to-introspect-after-cag-faults-his-flagship-scheme/story-DU1sCfo7D1dURVD7aGYjSM.html
10-09-2020||India||Pakistani soldier killed as India retaliates against LoC ceasefire violation in J-K||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire again using small arms and mortars along Line of Control (LoC) in many locations in Jammu and Kashmir Thursday morning, the Indian army said. “Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violations by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along the LoC in many locations. At about 0530 hours it was in Mankote sector, at about 1145 hours in Degwar sector and at about 1215 hours in Mendhar Sector in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir. The Indian army has retaliated befittingly,” defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said in Jammu.Earlier in the day, the Pakistani army acknowledged that one of its soldiers was killed in an exchange of fire with Indian troops across the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir late Wednesday. It alleged that the Indian army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation in Bedori sector along the LoC, targeting Pakistan army posts and the civil population. It claimed to have inflicted heavy losses on Indian troops.“Pakistan Army responded effectively. Reports of heavy losses on the enemy in terms of men and material. During exchange of intense fire, Havaldar Liaqat, age 39 years, resident of District Chakwal, embraced shahadat (died),”ISPR, the publicity wing of Pak armed forces posted on its website. ISPR also claimed that Pakistan Army troops shot down an Indian spying quadcopter in Chakothi sector along the LoC.“The quadcopter had intruded 500 meters on Pakistan’s side of the LoC. This is 11th Indian quadcopter shot down by Pakistan Army this year,” ISPR said.However, an Indian defence official said that Pakistani troops had initiated the unprovoked fire compelling Indian troops to retaliate.“The Pakistani army lost the soldier in retaliatory fire,” he said.Late Wednesday Pakistan had initiated unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC in Degwar and Malti sectors of Poonch drawing retaliation from Indian troops.Lt Col Anand said that Pakistani troops had opened fire around 5.25 pm on Wednesday and the intermittent exchanges lasted for a few hours. In the past couple of days Pakistani troops have also been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC in Khour sector of Akhnoor in Jammu district. On Wednesday also Pakistani troops opened fire in Khour sector at 6.15 pm and the exchanges lasted for over an hour. Pakistan has intensified ceasefire violations on the LoC amid India’s standoff with China in Ladakh..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-soldier-killed-as-india-retaliates-against-loc-ceasefire-violation-in-j-k/story-NEohXmL9ImFeoJFkONJlXM.html
10-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut calls Shiv Sena ‘Sonia Sena’, Uddhav Thackeray ‘a dynast’||Actor Kangana Ranaut continued her attack on the Shiv Sena on Thursday, accusing it of diluting its ideology to be in power and even called it “Sonia Sena”. In an indirect reference to Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the actor called him an “example of dynast”. However, so far, no senior leader from the Shiv Sena has reacted to the actor’s statements.Taking to Twitter, the actor launched an attack on Sena and Thackeray and said, “Because of these petty crimes that they do @Dev_Fadnavis ji must have suggested that BJP does alliance with them, one must never succumb to bullies, after loosing elections Shiv Sena shamelessly made milavat sarkar and turned in to Sonia Sena. (sic)”.In her following tweet, the actor added, “The ideology on which Shri Balasaheb Thackeray had built Shiv Sena, today they have sold that ideology for power and have become Sonia Sena from Shiv Sena. Don’t call the goons who broke my house in my absence a civic body. Don’t insult the Constitution in this manner.”In an apparent attack on Thackeray, the actor called him a dynast and questioned how many people will be silenced. “Your father’s good deeds can get you wealth, but you have to earn respect on your own. You can silence my voice, but my voice will multiply in thousands and lakhs. How many people will you silence? How long will you run from the truth? You are nothing but merely an example of a dynast.”Sena insiders said the party leadership has asked leaders to not wade into the controversy. “Only Sanjay Raut will speak on this matter, if required,” a senior party leader said. Raut, who was locked in a verbal spat with the actor for several days now, on Wednesday declined to comment on the ongoing issue. The Sena leader had said, “I was in Saamana office since morning, I am unaware of happenings outside.” In the late afternoon, Raut went to Matoshree, Thackeray’s suburban Bandra residence, for a meeting on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-calls-shiv-sena-sonia-sena-uddhav-thackeray-a-dynast/story-xM7L0d7PqtG6CYkNQdb0IO.html
10-09-2020||India||Serum Institute of India is still testing AstraZeneca’s shot after DCGI halts trials||The Indian company enlisted to manufacture a billion doses of AstraZeneca Plc’s experimental Covid-19 vaccine is pushing ahead with its own clinical trial even as safety concerns forced the British drugmaker to halt its tests.The Serum Institute of India said it received a notice from the Drug Controller General of India seeking information on the illness of a person participating in AstraZeneca’s trials in Britain. The regulator asked Serum to demonstrate why its clinical trial license should not be suspended until the safety of the vaccine is established, according to a report from the Press Trust of India.Serum said it was responding to the regulator’s queries, but was proceeding with its own human trials in India in the meantime.“The Indian trials are continuing and we have faced no issues at all,” Serum said in a statement on its official Twitter account. “We were going by DCGI’s direction and were not instructed to pause the trials. If DCGI has any safety concerns, we will adhere to their instructions and abide by the standard protocols.”DCGI couldn’t be reached for a comment.AstraZeneca paused its clinical trials worldwide this week as it investigates whether the illness seen in the participant happened by chance or as a result of the treatment. But Serum’s ongoing trial in India, where coronavirus infections are skyrocketing, illustrate how tradeoffs between caution and speed are in no way settled as companies race to bring a vaccine to market.US National Institutes of Health Director Francis Collins told a Senate committee Wednesday that AstraZeneca’s trial had been halted due to a “spinal cord problem.” If AstraZeneca’s review finds the adverse event is related to the vaccine, all the doses already manufactured will be thrown away, Collins said.AstraZeneca Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot told investors on a conference call Wednesday there had been no final diagnosis in the case, according to company spokeswoman Michele Meixell.Serum, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, signed on with Astra in June to produce the shot for low- and middle-income countries, and has been proceeding with its own human trials in India running parallel to Astra’s effort. Serum said it could not comment on the pause in Astra’s trials.The vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University has been considered one of the most likely contenders to reach the market in the near term, along with shots being developed by Moderna Inc. and the tandem of Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE. Astra and Oxford are seeking to enroll as many as 50,000 participants for late-stage trials under way in the US, the UK and other countries.Serum has not said how many patients it is seeking for its trials in India, where the number of new coronavirus infections discovered each day continues to grow. India’s outbreak this week became the world’s second-biggest behind the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vaccine-maker-is-still-testing-astrazeneca-s-shot-after-firm-halts-trials/story-X7Bl3nVpMh9yKXMWUYwUMP.html
10-09-2020||India||Rajasthan child body chief receiving threats from caste outfit over custody of minor||The chairperson of Rajasthan state commission for protection of child rights (RSCPCR) Sangeeta Beniwal has been receiving hundreds of threats in messages and calls from different parts of the country from members of a particular caste outfit over a case of a minor’s custody. These threats pertain to the case of a 12-year-old minor from Jodhpur city, who was allegedly left with a non-government organization (NGO) at the age of three by her mother, who, now, wants her custody, 9 years later, against the girl’s wish. “In 2011, a lady handed over her three-year-old daughter to the local unit of child welfare committee (CWC) stating she was incapable of raising her and requested them to take care of her daughter till she turns 18. As per the norms, before taking the custody of the girl, the CWC took an affidavit—signed a year later in May 2012--from the mother, after which, the girl was formally given to Navjeevan NGO to be raised,” said Beniwal. The RSCPCR chief added that the girl was currently studying at a school with the fees being paid by the NGO. “The girl is currently studying in class sixth in a good school, which is being paid Rs 50,000 every year by the NGO for her education,” Beniwal said. Suddenly after nine years, the girl’s mother, who works as a domestic help, returns in February and demands to take back the girl but the minor is refusing, she added. “In February this year, the mother of the girl requested to meet the girl, after which, the lady was granted permission to meet her daughter on a regular basis, but a few days later, the woman started threatening the NGO that it would face repercussions if the girl was not returned to her. The girl, however, refused to stay with her mother, following which, the woman mobilized some caste-based outfits for threatening the NGO guys,” Beniwal said. Also Read: At Rajasthan Congress feedback meet, slogans against minister, posters tornWhen the child body chief intervened, some members of the caste outfit mentioned above started threatening Beniwal through WhatsApp and sms texts and phone calls, saying that if the NGO didn’t hand over the custody of the girl, Beniwal would face repercussions. HT has seen some such messages sent to the RSCPCR chairperson. Beniwal says she is not giving in to threats. “I am not afraid of the threats. The future of the girl is the most important thing for the NGO and me,” she said, adding that she will file a complaint to the police on Thursday afternoon. Also Read: 716 fresh cases push Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally to over 96,000The minor says she is not comfortable with the idea of returning to her mother. “Also, I am not sure whether my mother, and the man she is living with, would be able to give me the quality education provided by the NGO. Where was my mother for the last several years?” the minor asked. Beniwal has requested the commissioner of police, Jodhpur city to tighten the security for the NGO and the girl. The mother of the girl said she would self-immolate if she doesn’t get custody of her daughter within two days. “I left my daughter at the Navjeevan Sansthan and I need justice. If the custody of my daughter is not given back to me, I would immolate myself,” the lady said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-child-body-chief-receiving-threats-from-caste-outfit-over-custody-of-minor/story-bGq9IkBzT7qIXYUawAtY7O.html
10-09-2020||India||Haryana farmers protest against farm sector ordinances, block NH-44 at Kurukshetra||Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union blocked national highway-44 near Kurukshetra in Haryana despite the presence of a heavy police force, deployed to foil the proposed protest rally by farmers and commission agents at Pipli grain market in the district.The police used mild force to disperse the farmers, who were trying to reach the venue of the rally challenging the prohibitory orders. Led by Bhartiya Kisan Union state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni, thousands of farmers, commission agents and mandi labourers were planning a protest rally at Pipli. The district administration, in response, deployed over a 1000 cops to stop the organization of the rally and also diverted traffic on all the roads leading to Pipli.The agitated farmers, prevented from entering Kurukshetra district, blocked traffic on NH44 going towards Ambala on the outskirts of Kurukshetra and shouted slogans against the use of police force.“The government wants to suppress our movement by citing coronavirus as an excuse but we will continue our fight against the anti-farmer decisions,” said BKU president Gurnam Singh Chaduni, while addressing the gathering that had blocked the national highway.Also Read: Ask depts to ensure no mass gatherings are held: Chandigarh adviser to Haryana chief secyHe said the government was forcing the farmers to hold protests by bringing ordinances in the name of bringing agriculture reforms.The farmers are against the three ordinances passed by the union cabinet, namely; the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, in June this year. While the government has said that the ordinances will create an environment where farmers and traders have a free choice of sale and purchase, farmers allege that with these ordinances, the government was planning to discontinue the MSP regime. Also Read: Delay in assent to Bills: Haryana Guv unsure about validation Bill to legitimise de-licensingThe district administration couldn’t prevent the disruptions caused by the protest despite adequate warnings served through the holding of village level meetings by farmers for the past one week with the purpose of mobilising a huge gathering on Thursday.Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Brar said steps were being taken to remove the blockade from NH44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-protest-against-farm-sector-ordinances-block-nh-44-at-kurukshetra/story-NTqSBW6jEZuuJB5P4SovWL.html
10-09-2020||India||‘Didi a barrier between people of Bengal and schemes for needy’: JP Nadda attacks Mamata Banerjee||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Thursday addressed a state executive meeting of the party’s West Bengal unit via videoconferencing, attacking Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and calling her a ‘barrier’ between the people of the state and ‘good schemes for the needy’.“Mamata didi becomes a barrier between the people of Bengal and good schemes for the needy”, the BJP chief said, adding that Ayushman Bharat, a Rs five lakh crore coverage for the poor, provided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has not been received by 4.57 crore eligible people in West Bengal.Nadda further accused the state’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) government of minority appeasement, remarking that while a lockdown was imposed in West Bengal on August 5-the day foundation stone of the Ram Mandir was laid in Ayodhya-there was no lockdown on July 31, on the festival of Bakrid.Talking about the alleged killings of BJP workers in West Bengal, Nadda said, “More than 100 workers of our party have been murdered here. If this is not jungle raj, then what is? But ‘champions of democracy’ sitting in Delhi will not say a word on this”.The BJP leader also accused TMC leaders and ‘land mafia’ of being behind the recent incident of vandalism at the Visva Bharati University.On the saffron party’s success in West Bengal in last year’s Lok Sabha polls, Nadda said, “In 2011, we had a 2% vote share in Bengal with four seats. In 2014, we got two seats but vote share rose to 18%. In 2019, we got a vote share of 40%. We have to continue at the same speed and in the coming elections, we’ve to defeat TMC”.The West Bengal assembly polls are scheduled to take place next year. The BJP, buoyed by its performance in the Lok Sabha polls, is looking to unseat CM Mamata’s TMC government, in power for two successive terms since 2011, and form the first BJP government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/didi-a-barrier-between-people-of-bengal-and-schemes-for-needy-jp-nadda-attacks-mamata-banerjee/story-RDfFP8uqIigXsPJjtjtB4J.html
10-09-2020||India||‘Induction of Rafale shows strong ties between India, France’: Top quotes from Rajnath Singh’s address at Ambala airbase||Five Rafale fighter aircrafts were formally inducted into the Indian Air Force’s 17 Squadron ‘Golden Arrows’ on Thursday. The induction ceremony held at the Ambala Air Force station was attended by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, his French counterpart Florence Parly, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and other senior officials. Earlier, Singh held a brief conversation with Parly at the Palam Air Force station in New Delhi where the two ministers discussed ways to further boost bilateral defence cooperation. Here are the top quotes from Rajnath Singh’s address: * Defence minister Rajnath Singh during the ceremony said that the induction of Rafale into the Indian Air Force (IAF) represents the strong ties between India and France adding that the strategic ties between the two countries have also strengthened. * The induction of these fighter jets is a big message to the entire globe especially to those eyeing India’s sovereignty, This induction is important considering the kind of atmosphere at created at our borders, the defence minister said. * Singh congratulated the IAF by saying that during the recent unfortunate incident at the border, the swift and deliberate action taken near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) shows the commitment of the air warriors. * The defence minister during the ceremony at the Ambala airbase also mentioned that the speed at which IAF deployed its assets at forward bases created a confidence that it is fully prepared to fulfil operational obligations. * “In my recent foreign trip, I put the point of view of India in front of the world. I also made everyone aware of our resolve to not compromise our sovereignty and territorial integrity under any circumstances. We’re committed to doing everything possible towards this,” Singh said. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/induction-of-rafale-shows-strong-ties-between-india-france-top-quotes-from-rajnath-singh-s-address-at-ambala-airbase/story-LWlAFE5PenFVYxMeUETa6H.html
10-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury as West Bengal Congress president and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Congress’ Bengal president pick sends clear message to Mamata BanerjeeWith the appointment of Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury as the president of West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee ahead of the crucial 2021 polls, the Congress high command has signaled an interest in further strengthening of ties with the Left and escalation of offensive against the ruling Trinamool Congress, say experts. Read moreCovid-19 deaths crossed 75,000 in India; around 1,000 fatalities each day in SeptemberIndia has been consistently reporting around 1,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths a day since the beginning of September and the cumulative death toll in the country due to the viral infection breached the 75,000 mark on Wednesday. Read moreCovid-19: Demand for local trains, Metro in Mumbai gets louder amid lockdownEven as Maharashtra continues to grapple with the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a growing demand among Mumbai residents to resume the Metro and suburban railway services, especially after the state allowed private offices to operate at 30% capacity from September 2. Read moreIPL 2020: There will be a ‘nice layer of leadership’ around Dinesh Karthik, says KKR head coach Brendon McCullumWhen Kolkata Knight Riders decided to part ways with former captain Gautam Gambhir in 2017, the biggest question mark was about who will would lead the franchise. It had to be a fresh start under someone who leads the franchise into a new phase. Read moreTriumph rides in Rocket 3 GT at ₹18.40 lakh, its most expensive bike in IndiaTriumph Motorcycles on Thursday launched the new Rocket 3 GT power cruiser in the Indian market starting at ₹18.40 lakh. It costs ₹40,000 higher than the regular Rocket 3 motorcycle which has been priced at ₹18.00 Lakh. Read moreShibani Dandekar calls Ankita Lokhande’s letter grotesque: ‘She never dealt with her own relationship issues with Sushant’Actor-singer Shibani Dandekar has once again stood in support of her friend Rhea Chakraborty, this time to defend her against Ankita Lokhande. Read moreHarbhajan Singh shares image of ‘modern thali,’ you may find it highly relatableHarbhajan, taking to Twitter, shared the image of a food platter commonly called ‘thali’ which is served across the nation with a combination of different food items. Read moreAstrazeneca claims Covid-19 vaccine trial pause may not be a setbackHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far, rise of cases in Maharashtra and Delhi, Astrazeneca’s Covid trial pause, AIIMS docs recommend lung transplant for recovered Covid patients, rule of six in Britain. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-as-west-bengal-congress-president-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xRIqZBIp7rDcojvIdCunxO.html
10-09-2020||India||Before big battle for Bihar, a JD-U vs RJD face-off in Delhi next week||Patna: First-time Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha is the joint opposition’s candidate for the Rajya Sabha’s deputy chairman elections scheduled next week, setting up a face-off between the RJD and its prime rival in Bihar, Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD-U, people familiar with the matter said.JD-U MP Harivansh, 64, has already been named by the National Democratic Alliance as its candidate for a second term as the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman. Harivansh was first elected to the post in 2018 when he, as a first time MP, defeated the Congress’ BK Hariprasad who fought as the joint Opposition candidate. Over the next two years, the ruling BJP is only stronger than it was, up from 73 seats in the 250-seat house to 87.The opposition’s decision to project RJD’s first-time MP Manoj Jha is seen as an effort to draw support from new quarters and, as one Congress put it, also send a strong message about opposition unity, irrespective of the outcome of the election. Jha entered the Rajya Sabha in Jha in April 2018. The opposition had initially debated fielding DMK MP Tiruchi Siva but later, settled for Jha, possibly with the Bihar assembly elections in mind where the Congress and the RJD are two major constituents of the much-depleted Grand Alliance. Also, there is a hope that some regional parties that may not support the Congress would lean towards the candidate from the party founded by Lalu Prasad Yadav.This would turn the RS deputy chairman post a RJD vs JD-U fight and an all-Bihar affair. Both Harivansh and Jha are RS MPs from Bihar. Manoj Jha, 53, insisted that the election wasn’t just between two parties.“It should not be seen as RJD vs JD-U as there are larger issues at stake relating to the health and well-being of the parliamentary democracy. It is not between two individuals. It is for a larger cause and it should be seen in that context,” said Jha Jha is expected to file his nomination on Friday (September 11), the last date for filing nomination. The election will be held on September 14, the day the monsoon session of the Parliament begins. Harivansh, who held the post of deputy chairman till the end of his term, has already filed his nomination.Manoj Jha’s name was proposed after the Congress decided to try for a larger opposition unity on the election of RS deputy chairman.“This is a good sign that the Congress is thinking of opposition cohesion going beyond its own party with a long-term goal. It will send a positive message to the opposition parties that Congress is ready to walk an extra mile,” said a senior Congress leader.A Delhi University professor, Jha has not completed even half his first stint in the Rajya Sabha, but is widely seen as a sharp critic of the centre and articulate politician, inside the House as well as on social media.“The policies of the Narendra Modi government have hurt the people of all strata across the country and it got further accentuated by the inept handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the political parties supporting the BJP also have to think and we hope they will during the forthcoming RS election for the post of deputy chairman,” said Congress leader Premchandra Mishra. For Jha to have a chance to scrape through, he would require support of Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and YSR Congress, as the NDA with 116 members, is much closer to the majority mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-big-battle-for-bihar-a-jd-u-vs-rjd-face-off-in-delhi-next-week/story-Xtk0Ou4zLmh87xQYkjUgNL.html
10-09-2020||India||51 passengers caught with ammunition at IGI airport in 2020: Police||At least 51 passengers who arrived at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport to catch their flights this year were carrying ammunition in their luggage, knowingly or unknowingly, police said. Police said all such passengers faced criminal proceedings under the Arms Act and were stopped from boarding their flights. On Thursday, police issued an advisory reminding passengers that carrying bullets was a non-bailable offence and requested them to thoroughly check their bags before proceeding for security checks.They said that in most cases, the passengers claimed they had borrowed the bags and were unaware of the bullets while packing their luggage. Delhi police records show that every year, there are about 100 such cases of bullets found in luggages. In a similar incident recently, police said, a 41-year old man from Gujarat, who had arrived at the Delhi airport to board a flight to Ahmedabad on Tuesday, was arrested after five bullets were recovered from his luggage. Police said the man had an arms license which was valid only in Gujarat and had forgotten to remove the bullets from his luggage. Deputy commissioner of police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said the passenger was a labour contractor. During his luggage scanning at Terminal 3, police found five bullets and two used bullet shells in his bag.“On questioning, he said he was not aware of the bullets in his bag. He even produced his licence but it was valid in Gujarat only. Hence, a case under Arms Act was registered against him and he was offloaded,” Ranjan said.The DCP said that till date, 51 such cases have been registered under Arms Act at IGI Airport in the current year.“Whenever a bullet is detected in luggage, as per the legal provisions, an FIR is registered against the passenger for illegal possession of ammunition and he/she has to face criminal proceedings before the court of law. He/she is also not allowed to continue with their journey,” the DCP said.Ranjan also exhorted passengers to be very careful while packing their luggage since carrying ammunition at the airport is a non-bailable offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/51-passengers-caught-with-ammunition-at-delhi-international-airport-this-year-police/story-NcUBpRssXLrZcluYqf2FpM.html
10-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh reopens Anganwadi centres to curb malnutrition among kids and pregnant women||Chhattisgarh has reopened the Anganwadis to curb malnutrition and to provide health and nutrition services to children and pregnant women after they were shut in March due to the coronavirus outbreak. There are 51,455 anganwadi centres in Chhattisgarh but those in containment zones will continue to remain closed. The agwanwadi centres resumed functioning on Monday. The National Health and Family Welfare Phase 4 survey has put the malnutrition level in the state at 37 per cent. “The state Women and Child Development department has written to district collectors, divisional commissioners and district programme officers to ensure preventive measures are in place,” an order in this regard issued by the state government stated. “The Aganwadis were closed since March 14 and workers were directly delivering dry ration to homes of beneficiaries. Even international agencies like WHO and UNICEF believe Covid-19 might result in rise in malnourishment and have suggested that effective steps be taken to check it. Taking this into consideration, anganwadis will be opened for a limited period daily to provide freshly-cooked food to children between 3-6 years of age and pregnant women. Besides, immunisation of children and health check-up of pregnant women can also be done,” a senior official said. “All precautions like thermal screening, personal hygiene etc will have to be maintained. Each centre must have just 15 people at one time. If any staff is found coronavirus positive, then the centre will be shut for three days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-reopens-anganwadi-centres-to-curb-malnutrition-among-kids-and-pregnant-women/story-JJyUrIOFsHKllpePmTsTSK.html
10-09-2020||India||Rafale jets inducted into IAF, will be part of ‘Golden Arrows’ squadron||The five Rafale aircraft which arrived on July 27 at Ambala Air Force Station were inducted to the Indian Air Force’s 17 Squadron ‘Golden Arrows’ on Thursday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh presented an induction scroll to Group Captain Harkeerat Singh, the Commanding Officer of the 17 Squadron of the ‘Golden Arrows’ of the Indian Air Force thus formally completing the induction of the 5 Rafale fighter jets into the squadron. Ambala: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh presents induction scroll of Rafale fighter jets to Group Captain Harkeerat Singh, Commanding Officer, 17 Squadron 'Golden Arrows' of the Indian Air Force pic.twitter.com/Vb19HhyPqtSpeaking during the induction ceremony, air chief marshal RKS Bhadauria, said, “The Rafale aircrafts along with the skills of the 17 Squadron of the ‘Golden Arrows’ will form a lethal combination and will challenge our adversaries.”The air chief marshal also lauded the Centre for strengthening the Indian Air Force fleet with the Rafale jets. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “The induction of Rafale jets into the IAF has also strengthened the Indo-French relations. We are facing new geostrategic challenges and our two democracies are working together to resolve these challenges.”ALSO WATCH | Rafale jets get water cannon salute; stunning air display held Defence minister Rajnath Singh said that the induction of the jets will ensure that India is able to maintain peace in the region and ensure stability. He said that the Indian Air Force’s deliberate and swift action near the LAC displays their commitment towards national security. French minister of armed forces said, “India will have an edge over its rivals in terms of security with the induction of these jets. The induction will also give a boost to the Make in India initiative.”She said that the induction of the aircraft is symbolic of the friendship between India and France. She also said that France also supports India’s candidacy at the United Nations Security Council. Parly further added, “These jets are combat-proven. These jets have helped France undertake counter-terrorism measures.”The Rafale aircraft were given a water cannon salute after the Sarva Dharma Puja which was attended by the dignitaries along with both the defence ministers and Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, air chief marshal RKS Bhadauria,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-aircrafts-inducted-to-17-squadron-golden-arrows-of-the-indian-air-force/story-Z8nik38mgS21bkxG4pu2QI.html
10-09-2020||India||Congress amps up attack on govt, launches online campaign #SpeakUpForJobs||The Congress party on Thursday launched an online campaign to attack the government over handling of the Covid-19 situation. The central theme of the party’s campaign is unemployment; it has alleged that job loss increased due to mishandling of the pandemic by the government.A host of Congress leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, tweeted with the hashtag #SpeakUpForJobs asking people to “speak for the country’s future”.“The policies of Modi Govt have caused the loss of crores of jobs and a historic fall in GDP. It has crushed the future of India’s youth. Let’s make the Govt listen to their voice,” Rahul Gandhi said in his tweet. The policies of Modi Govt have caused the loss of crores of jobs and a historic fall in GDP. It has crushed the future of India’s youth. Let’s make the Govt listen to their voice.Join #SpeakUpForJobs from 10am onwards. pic.twitter.com/mRUooQ1yjXIt was followed by tweets from the Congress party. “Lakhs of Indians are losing jobs everyday, whether it was in locked down India or unlocked India. All BJP does is silently watch on. The Nation will not stay silent, the Nation will #SpeakUpForJobs,” it said in one of the tweets. Lakhs of Indians are losing jobs everyday, whether it was in locked down India or unlocked India.All BJP does is silently watch on.The Nation will not stay silent, the Nation will #SpeakUpForJobs pic.twitter.com/fwOPMe5RnUIndia saw its economy contract by 23.9 per cent in the June quarter - the steepest fall in four decades. It was the worst performance among G20 nations, and significantly below expectations of most economists, as the stringent Covid-19-induced national lockdown created a double-whammy through both a supply and demand side shock.Businesses shut operations while consumers were forced to stay home.“Jobs are undre stress due to increasing privatisation, cut in governemnt expenses and bad economic policies of the BJP government. The government has stopped hiring for existing vacancies. We will have to speak up for the future of this country,” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted in Hindi.Goldman Sachs and Fitch Ratings on Tuesday forecast deeper-than-previously estimated economic recession for India in FY21 holding that limited fiscal support, fragilities in the financial system and a continued rise in coronavirus cases are hampering a rapid normalisation in economic activity.Investment bank Goldman Sachs anticipates India’s gross domestic product (GDP) to shrink 14.8% this fiscal against its earlier estimate of an 11.8% contraction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-amps-up-attack-on-govt-launches-online-campaign-speakupforjobs/story-rmfZHyzFeYDXqlVcgX4OZO.html
10-09-2020||India||Bombay HC tells Maharashtra to consider emergency parole to prisoners from other states||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to consider extending the benefit of emergency parole, being granted to certain prisoners in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, also to the prisoners who are from outside the state.A division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar directed the government to take a decision in this regard in 15 days.The directive came on a bunch of prisoners having their places of residences outside Maharashtra challenging their exclusion from the benefit of emergency parole and seeking a direction to the state government to reconsider the decision.Their lawyers pointed out to HC that the high powered committee (HPC), appointed by the state government, pursuant to March 2020 directions of the Supreme Court to decongest prisons for preventing spread of coronavirus in jails, has extended the benefit of emergency parole to certain categories of prisoners.The lawyers submitted that the convicts having their residences outside Maharashtra have been excluded by the HPC from the benefit primarily in view of the fact that due to travel restrictions prevailing at the relevant time, the convicts could not have reached their homes even if released on emergency parole.But now, they said, the Union ministry of home affairs had on August 22, 2020 written to the chief secretaries of all states that there are no restrictions on interstate or intra-state movement of people or goods, and urged the chief secretaries to ensure that no such restrictions are imposed locally.The lawyers submitted that in view if this changed circumstances the state government needs to reconsider the HPC decision as regards granting emergency parole to prisoners from other states.The HC said it was desirable that the changed circumstances were considered by the state government, and directed the government to take decision in the matter within 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-tells-maharashtra-to-consider-emergency-parole-to-prisoners-from-other-states/story-3mLDRgm4f8XV6a2zwZBsfL.html
10-09-2020||India||‘Sarva dharma puja’ performed as IAF formally inducts five Rafale fighters||A traditional ‘sarva dharma puja’ was performed at the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Ambala air base on Thursday ahead of the induction ceremony of the Rafale fighter jets into the force.  #WATCH Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Minister of the Armed Forces of France Florence Parly, witness the traditional 'Sarva Dharma Puja' at the Rafale induction ceremony, at Ambala airbase pic.twitter.com/0z74ECflJdDefence minister Rajnath Singh, his French counterpart Florence Parly, IAF chief RKS Bhadauria and Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat were among those who attended the induction ceremony. The French minister was, in fact, the chief guest at the event.The five Rafale fighter jets arrived in India on July 29, and will be a part of the 17 Squadron, also called the ‘Golden Arrows’, which is based at the Ambala air base. Their induction into the IAF assumes significance as it comes in the backdrop of the ongoing military standoff with China across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.31 more Rafale fighters will arrive in India as part of a deal signed between India and France in September 2016. The deal, worth over Rs 60,000 crore, is the biggest-ever defence deal signed by India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sarva-dharma-puja-performed-as-iaf-formally-inducts-five-rafale-fighters/story-V1Ph9fwGQUWFaiSpLrLDQM.html
10-09-2020||India||Husband of woman who accused Uttarakhand BJP MLA of rape skips police summons, faces action||The Dehradun police probing a case of blackmail and extortion against a 30-year-old woman who has accused a BJP MLA of rape, are considering legal action against her husband for failing to appear before them to record his statement despite several notices, a senior police officer said Thursday. The woman’s husband is a co-accused named in the case in which the woman has been accused of blackmailing and trying to extort Rs 5 cr from BJP MLA from Dwarahat Mahesh Negi last month. The case was registered on the complaint lodged by Negi’s wife Rita Negi. Both Negi and his wife are accused in a rape and criminal intimidation case registered on the directions of a local court on the petition of the woman who allegedly made the extortion bid.Arun Mohan Joshi, senior superintendent of police Dehradun said, “The woman’s husband has been informed several times by the police to come before the investigation officer to record his statement. But he didn’t show up.” “His statements are very important in the ongoing investigation despite that he is not coming to record them. Also, we have come to know that he has left the city to join duty without informing police. We are now thinking of taking action against him as per legal procedure,” said Joshi. The extortion and rape cases which came to light in August has turned into a major political issue between the ruling BJP and Opposition Congress. The woman had accused Negi of raping her for the last two years and also fathering her child. She has been demanding a DNA test of Negi and her child to prove her allegations. Negi has, however, refuted the allegations and termed it a conspiracy against him by Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/husband-of-woman-who-accused-uttarakhand-bjp-mla-of-rape-skips-police-summons-faces-action/story-T47wqhMvhMvG3sUcG1HxRK.html
10-09-2020||India||Bihar researcher finds anti-breast cancer property in red sandalwood seeds||A recent peer-reviewed study, done by a Bihar youth, claiming presence of anti-breast cancer properties in red sandalwood seeds has been published in a US journal. The success of the study, conducted on rats, using sandalwood seeds is said to be significant for its potential use in cancer treatment without harming the endangered tree. The study, done by 29 year old Vivek Akhouri, who did his masters in biotechnology from Magadh University in Gaya, was published last month by the SAGE Publishing, a US journal with publications on science, medicine, humanities and other nonfiction topics. The study with headline--Antitumour property of Pterocarpus santalinus seeds against DMBA-induced breast cancer in rats—was published in its journal of Breast Cancer: Basic and Clinical Research. Researches in the past have found sandalwood tree’s heartwood (the wood at the centre of the trunk) to possess anti-cancer property but Akhouri’s study claims that even the seeds of red sandalwood have anti-cancer properties, a significant finding since unlike heartwood, using seeds of red sandalwood do not damage the tree, classified as endangered species. “We found 49.5% regression in tumour size after inducing cancer cells in rats using dimethyl benzo anthracene, a chemical carcinogen, and orally inducing them daily for five weeks a single dose of red sandalwood seeds, collected from Simri village in Buxar district,” said Akhouri. “The other set of rats, which was given carcinogen and not administered the formulation, began to die after five weeks,” he said in response to a peer reviewer’s query why he did not continue the dose beyond five weeks to see if the cancer cells were completely decimated, before SAGE published the findings. “The potency of seeds, their requirement for cancer treatment and side-effects, if any, are still a subject of research and pharmacological study, which pharmaceutical firms have to undertake as part of pre-clinical and clinical trials before launch of any drug,” said Akhouri. Akhouri is now researching the pulp of Aegle marmelos (‘bel’ in common parlance), a fruit found throughout Tamil Nadu, Sri Lanka and Thailand, to establish it has better properties to reduce cancer tumour size. The study is co-authored by Manorma Kumari, professor, department of botany, Anugrah Narayan College, Patna, and Arun Kumar of the Mahavir Cancer Sansthan and Research Centre, Patna, where the research was undertaken.“We will isolate the active molecule from the seeds and go for patenting before approaching pharmaceutical firms for pre-clinical and clinical trials,” said Kumar. He added that their study was inspired by an earlier research on heartwood of red sandalwood trees by Li and colleagues of China in 2018. “The Chinese research had shown that the tree’s heartwood contains some compounds (sesquiterpenes of canusesnol K [1], canusesnol L [2] and 12, 15-dihydroxycurcumene [3], along with five others) which help in retarding the growth of cancer cells grown under ‘in vitro condition’ by up to 35.07% in case of liver cancer, breast cancer and cervical carcinoma,” said Kumar. Another study by Wu and colleagues of Taiwan in 2011 reported that the heartwood contains compounds (pterolinus B, pterolinus D, pterolinus Ha, pterolinus Hb and melanoxoin) that also inhibit the growth of liver and breast cancer cell grown under controlled conditions,” he said.“Since earlier studies were ‘in vitro’ (within laboratory) research, their findings cannot be compared with ours on Charles Foster rats,” added Kumar. Ashok Sharma, associate professor, department of biochemistry (laboratory of Chromatin & Cancer Epigenetics), AIIMS Delhi, termed the research a progressive step to establish Ayurvedic medicines worldwide. “Generally, plant-based molecules have less chance of side-effects as compared to allopathic drugs. However, we need to do pharmacological study to establish this fact before using red sandalwood seeds for their anti-cancer property,” Sharma said. He added that the scientific evidence of medical benefits of natural resources existed but the need was to publish it. The government of India was now promoting research and boosting the use of Ayurvedic medicines, as in management of coronavirus disease, he added. MM Singh, a former emeritus medical scientist of ICMR and ex-chief scientist and head, endocrinology division of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) - Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Lucknow, praised the findings. “The good thing about this research is that anti-cancer property has been found from natural resources without damaging the tree. The challenge, however, will be to source a large amount of seeds, given the increasing disease burden and the long-term therapy involved in cancer,” he said. “We need to increase the cultivation of red sandalwood trees and identify its active compound, which can then be synthesised in a laboratory,” added Singh. Also Read: With a recovery rate of 88.98%, Bihar ahead of other states on Covid-19 parametersThe Bihar government, however, has no plan to propagate the cultivation of red sandalwood. “Red sandalwood, common in south Indian states like Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, is not found in natural forests of Bihar. We do not have any immediate plan to propagate its cultivation. The best of red and white sandalwood require laterite soil (Bihar has Gangetic alluvial soil). However, some nurseries may have brought seeds of red sandalwood tree and sowed them for specific purposes,” said AK Pandey, principal chief conservator of forest, Bihar. Also Read: Beginning today, it’ll be raining projects for Bihar According to GLOBOCAN 2018, an online database providing estimates of incidence and mortality of cancer in 185 countries, breast cancer was the most common cause of cancer-related deaths among women in India, with an estimated 27.7% (1,62,468) of all new cancer cases among women and 23.45% (87,090) of cancer-related deaths in 2018. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already projected the disease burden to increase by 12% in the next couple of years. “The incidence of breast cancer has been rising in Bihar by almost 23.5% annually among females in the last five years,” said Dr Rita Rani, senior consultant oncologist and principal investigator for hospital-based cancer registry, Mahavir Cancer Sansthan project under the ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-researcher-finds-anti-breast-cancer-property-in-red-sandalwood-seeds/story-97Qf84QZY1i2XmSUDiJl5N.html
10-09-2020||India||Maharashtra’s SGNP, Tungareshwar sanctuary to get wireless communication network in 6 months||The Maharashtra forest department has proposed a wireless communication project for its frontline staff to enhance connectivity across Mumbai, Thane and Palghar forest areas.The move is intended to help monitor wildlife movement better and strengthen control of forest patches within the103 sq km Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai, the 85.7 sq km Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWLS) in Thane and Palghar districts, and improve supervision across fragmented forest patches leading up to the 304.81 sq km Tansa Wildlife Sanctuary in Thane district.According to the forest department’s plan, network stations (small control rooms) will be built at the highest point (altitude) mostly atop hills in Yeoor area of SGNP and near Tungar Phata in TWLS. They will be connected to the primary control room at the SGNP, Borivali office. Additionally, every beat officer and forest guard would be equipped with hand-held wireless handsets.The project is likely to be executed within the next six months, said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife-west). “The idea is to have one integrated system to connect each and every part of the national park which is currently inaccessible or does not have a mobile network. A survey is currently underway to determine the cost of the project and quantity of wireless devices required,” he said.Currently, a conventional system using mobile phones are used by the department to communicate and coordinate cases of wildlife crime, tree felling, encroachment, setting up of illicit alcohol breweries as well as control attacks on frontline officers inside forests but owing to negligible network inside forest ranges, the deployment of support staff or other provisions swiftly across problem areas leads to operation inefficiencies, said forest officers. “There have been several issues in protection due to the present system (using mobile phones) and there is a need to strengthen it,” said G Mallikarjun, chief conservator of forest, SGNP.“Similar to the joint communication (JC) strategy implemented by the Mumbai police, our attempt is also to relay information and data on wildlife movement, status of water bodies, poaching incidents etc. not just within forest ranges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region but connect to the Tansa valley landscape for overall corridor connectivity,” he said.All major tiger reserves in Maharashtra as well as Tansa and Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuaries already have the wireless communication project in place. “In some cases in SGNP and TWLS, forest officers have to rush from the scene of the incident to find a major road to find a network for reporting details. There have been isolated incidents of attacks on forest officers over the years as well, and this system will help increase their safety,” said Limaye.In May, the forest department began an exercise to monitor forest areas using drones in TWLS. The project is yet to be replicated across SGNP and peripheral areas. During the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, over 1,500 litres of illegally produced alcohol in barrels and units were destroyed in Yeoor range and destruction of close to 45 encroachments (illegal shanties) was carried out across SGNP-TWLS, the forest department said.According to environment group Vanashakti, petitioners in wildlife and habitat protection around SGNP before the Bombay High Court, close to 100 acres of forest patches within SGNP (Mumbai region) fell prey to encroachments, tree felling and other environment violations between March and June. “This system will bolster forest monitoring and empower frontline staff to keep poachers out. The lack of connectivity is being used to kill wildlife and destroy the habitat at the moment. This will clearly help eliminate such major issues,” said Stalin, director, Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-sgnp-tungareshwar-sanctuary-to-get-wireless-communication-network-in-6-months/story-TSwoQvKLBO2bLLO5VIzvdK.html
10-09-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths crossed 75,000 in India; around 1,000 fatalities each day in September||India has been consistently reporting around 1,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths a day since the beginning of September and the cumulative death toll in the country due to the viral infection breached the 75,000 mark on Wednesday. According to data from the HT dashboard, 75,055 Covid-19 patients have died until Thursday.The case fatality ratio (CFR) – the fraction of deaths among those who have tested Covid-19 positive – has stayed at 1.7%, despite the increase in the number of daily deaths because of the contagion.Also read: Covid-19 kills 24 police personnel in Bengal; nearly 8,000 test positive so farThe casualty figure is much lower than the global CFR of 3.2%. Countries such as the United Kingdom (UK) have reported a CFR of 11.7%, followed by Mexico (10.6%). “We do not know why the number of deaths in India is low. However, various theories abound. It could be because of previous infections of other coronaviruses or it could be due to universal immunisation that uses the BCG (Bacillus Calmette–Guérin) vaccine. Or, it could be because we have a higher proportion of younger people. The scientists are still looking for these answers,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, a professor of pulmonology at Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi. However, Dr Gupta believes that the CFR is unlikely to rise. “The number of deaths – and hence the CFR – is unlikely to go up. This is because the doctors now understand the disease better and have also standardised a treatment protocol,” he said. It is not just the number of deaths, but the number of cases and tests has also been increasing consistently. With over 1,600 laboratories across the country approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct the test, the country has been daily testing over one million swab samples consistently, except for weekends. On Thursday, India reported over 94,000 new Covid-19 cases. According to the data shared by the Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW), 60% of the total Covid-19 cases reported so far have been in only five states – Maharashtra (21.6%), Andhra Pradesh (11.8%), Tamil Nadu (10.8%), Karnataka (9.43%), and Uttar Pradesh (6.37%). These five states also account for 61% of the total active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-crossed-75-000-in-india-around-1-000-fatalities-each-day-in-september/story-1gYDLHQzbdHL3Yyh9Xc6vO.html
10-09-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi wants Badrinath to retain legacy as mini-smart spiritual city||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked for developing Badrinath shrine in Uttarakhand with a focus on the spiritual legacy of the famous pilgrimage, which is part of state’s popular Char Dham Yatra circuit.Modi made the suggestion during the presentation of the development master plan for Badrinath shrine. The presentation was made through video conferencing by Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj.According to government officials, during the meeting, Modi said the master plan for Badrinath shrine development should not be based on tourism but on its spiritual legacy. Under the master plan, to be implemented in an area of around 85 hectares, Devdarshini spot in the Badrinath shrine area will be developed along with construction of a museum and an art gallery and setting up of a light and sound show to showcase the ‘Dushavatar’ (or ten incarnations). The PM was told that the master plan was prepared keeping in mind the hilly terrain and target for its completion has been set for 2025. The Badrinath master plan was prepared after Modi requested the state government, in June this year, to plan Badrinath Dham’s development keeping the next 100 years in mind. In July, during another meeting to review the progress of Kedarnath reconstruction and development works, CM Rawat sought time from the PM to present the master plan for Badrinath.During the video-conferencing on Wednesday, PM Modi insisted on maintaining the religious and spiritual legacy of Badrinath shrine while implementing the master plan. He also said that a mini-smart spiritual city should be developed in the area. Prime Minister Modi also asked for developing home stay facilities in the area, linking the shrine with other nearby religious spots and special lighting arrangement at the entrance of the Badrinath shrine, in line with its spiritual character. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the locals were extending their cooperation for the development works at Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines.“Work is on for developing home stay facilities in nearby areas. Keshav Prayag, the confluence of Saraswati and Alaknanda rivers would also be developed. Vyas Gufa has special importance in Badrinath shrine area. Pilgrims would be informed about its religious and mythological importance,” he said. Also Read: SVANidhi Yojna gives new identity, opportunity: PM Modi to Madhya Pradesh street vendorsRawat added that availability of land won’t be a problem for implementing the Badrinath master plan. “Like in case of Kedarnath, work on development projects will be taken up for all 12 months of the year in Badrinath area,” he said State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said that the work on Char Dham road project and Rishikesh-Karnprayag rail line was in full swing. These projects, when completed, will make the pilgrimage to Char Dham shrines much easier, he said. Also Read:Tremendous growth in our bilateral ties: PM Modi after phone call with Saudi King SalmanOn Kedarnath reconstruction and development works, chief secretary Om Prakash said that the development of samadhi sthal (resting place) of Adi Shankaracharya,--an early eighth-century Hindu seer and the founder of the Vedanta school of philosophy-- was in full swing. He apprised the PM that the work on Aastha Path on Saraswati Ghat had been completed and the ongoing work on the two meditation caves near Kedarnath shrines would be completed by this month-end. Badrinath and Kedarnath, along with Yamunotri and Gangotri, collectively called Char Dham, are one of the most revered pilgrimages in the Hindu tradition and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Badrinath is located along the banks of the Alaknanda River in Chamoli district at a height of over 10,000 feet||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-wants-badrinath-to-retain-legacy-as-mini-smart-spiritual-cit/story-pdsGuAw13IFnXkqrokzKpK.html
10-09-2020||India||Close to 1 lakh daily cases push India’s Covid-19 tally to above 4.4 million||India on Thursday recorded 95,735 new cases of the coronavirus disease which pushed the overall tally to 44,65,863, according to Union health ministry data.The number of active cases stand at 9,19,018, while the number of patients discharged from the hospital has reached 34,71,783.The disease also claimed 1,172 lives in the last 24 hours, which pushed the overall death toll to 75,062, the health ministry data showed.The country is inching towards another grim milestone of 1,00,000 daily Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, it added 95,950 new cases of the disease, data compiled by HT from across the states showed. So far, no other country has crossed the one lakh-mark, or even came close to it.The health ministry, meanwhile, said on Wednesday that the country’s recovery rate has further improved to 77.77 per cent. It also said that 61 per cent of the Wednesday’s cases were reported from only five states.These states are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu, the ministry said.Health minister Harsh Vardhan said that the Covid-19 pandemic has taught the world the importance of protecting precious health gains, and stressed on investing in health and building a robust healthcare delivery system with special focus on rural areas.Representing India at the 73rd session of World Health Organisation (WHO) South East Asia Region on Wednesday, he highlighted the giant strides the country made under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protect the lives and livelihood of its citizens from the pandemic.“Data suggests that Covid-19 has already derailed a lot of our efforts and is taking us back to where we were 20 years ago. This is a stark reality and we need to take cognizance. On our part, we left no stones unturned to contain and mitigate the virus. I would say India has responded well to the challenges posed by the pandemic,” he said at the virtual session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/close-to-1-lakh-daily-cases-push-india-s-covid-19-tally-to-above-4-4-million/story-l3v8TQyNtkuUSCVZjqiMLP.html
10-09-2020||India||Covid-19 cases surge: Top 10 cities in India worst hit by the pandemic||India has, over the past few weeks, seen a constant spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)cases recorded in a single day. From around 75,000 in late August, the country is now recording more cases in 24 hours than the infection count of some of the worst-hit countries.On Wednesday, India recorded nearly 90,000 new cases and 1,115 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the tally and death toll to 4,370,129 and 73,890 respectively.Though authorities attribute this sudden rise in cases to aggressive Covid-19 testing across the country, experts fear India can witness a second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak.Here is a look at the top 10 cities which are severely affected by Covid-19:Delhi: The national capital, which had set an example in containing the spread of Covid-19 in India, has failed to limit the surge in daily cases. The city-state broke its own record on Wednesday after 4,039 cases were registered in the last 24 hours, which pushed the tally to over 2,00,000. Delhi had last seen the highest single-day spike on June 23 when 3,947 Covid-19 cases were recorded in a single day.Mumbai: The financial capital of the country had a moment of relief as the case curve had flattened in August. But the sudden spike in daily Covid-19 cases has again made Mumbai one of the worst-hit cities in India. 2,227 to be fresh cases were logged on Wednesday which pushed the city’s Covid-19 count to 1,60,744. Mumbai reported 15,227 cases in just the first nine days of September as against 30,474 in the entire August.Also read: Close to 1 lakh daily cases push India’s Covid-19 tally to above 4.4 millionChennai: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 tally is over 4,80,000 of which Chennai has been the biggest contributor. Chennai continued to report less than 1,000 cases for the seventh consecutive day. Bengaluru: Karnataka’s capital for the past few days has logged over 2,800 cases of the coronavirus disease in a single day. The state’s caseload, meanwhile, has crossed the 400,000-mark now. Bengaluru on Monday recorded its first case of a recovered patient getting infected again with Covid-19.Bhubaneswar: The city has been among the worst performers when it comes to Covid-19. In fact, Odisha is among the states which are areas of concern for the Centre. The state’s Covid-19 count crossed 135,000 on Wednesday after 3,748 new cases and 11 more deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Bhubaneswar recently turned into a Covid-19 hotspot and has been adding around 400 cases daily. The capital city is also facing a severe shortage of ICU beds.Jaipur: The capital city of Rajasthan is worst affected from the outbreak. The total Covid-19 cases Jaipur are over 13,000 while the death toll stands at 292 . Hyderabad: Hyderabad is adding over 300 cases of Covid-19 on a daily basis, pushing Telangana’s daily case count to nearly 3,000.Mohali: Punjab on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day spike of 2,137 Covid-19 cases after which the state’s infection tally reached nearly 70,000. Mohali added 319 cases to the overall caseload.Faridabad: The worst hit city in Haryana, Faridabad recorded 287 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Faridabad has the highest positivity rate which is over 31 per cent in urban areas and 22.2 per cent in rural areas.Indore: Indore on Wednesday reported 287 fresh cases of Covid-19 and five deaths, which took the city’s tally and death toll to 15,452 and 432 respectively.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-surge-top-10-cities-in-india-worst-hit-by-the-pandemic/story-LKwTBNm1skXADUzapHQLLJ.html
10-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kerala, coastal Karnataka to receive extremely heavy rainfall, warns IMD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy to extremely heavy rain warning for Kerala and coastal KarnatakaExtremely heavy rain is likely over many places in coastal and south interior Karnataka on Friday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. Very heavy rain is also likely over Kerala, coastal and south interior Karnataka between Thursday and Saturday. Read moreJal Shakti dept to put work sites in Uttar Pradesh under CCTV to monitor progressThe Jal Shakti department has decided to install CCTV cameras at the spots where construction of the sewage treatment plants (STP), check dams and ponds are underway in various districts of Uttar Pradesh to monitor the progress of the work from the Lucknow office. Read moreDelhi to see a hot and humid dayDelhi is likely to have another hot and humid day on Thursday with clear skies, bright sun and high moisture levels. This kind of dry weather is expected to last over the next few days. No rainfall activity is expected this week, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. Read more53-member ITBP team leaves for Gangotri-2 peak in UttarakhandA 53-member team of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) was flagged off for a mountaineering expedition to scale 21,620-ft-high Gangotri-2 peak in Uttarkashi district on Wednesday, said ITBP officials. The expedition is the first from ITBP in which female officers and jawans are allowed to join an expedition at the frontier level. Read moreNew York City restaurants can resume indoor dining at one-quarter capacity this monthNew York City restaurants will be able to resume indoor dining at 25% capacity at the end of the month, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Wednesday, relaxing one of last big COVID-19 limitations in the nation’s most populous city. Read moreIndians may have a bigger impact than ever on this IPL, writes Sanjay ManjrekarPL Deshpande, the brilliant Marathi writer, had noted that cricket is more a subject of conversation than a sport played on the field. He was so right. Just hear the IPL chatter going around. The “neutrals” are assessing every team, analysing their strengths and weaknesses specific to conditions in the UAE. The loyalists are pushing their case, how their team can win no matter what the conditions. Read moreAnkita Lokhande on Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest: ‘Should she have allowed a depressed man to consume drugs?’Ankita Lokhande has penned a note on Instagram explaining why she called Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest and act of “karma”. She has also shared a message for her haters, claiming that Rhea was at fault behind Sushant Singh Rajput’s alleged drug consumption, despite knowing about his mental condition. Read moreBasmati rice tote bag leaves people with lots of thoughtsAt one point or another most of us have carried tote bags while going out. While some of them are colourful, others have quirky quotes written on them. In other words, there are varieties of tote bags and now there’s a latest inclusion to that list. It’s a bag made using basmati rice sack and expectedly, people can’t help but wonder “Par kyun?”. Read moreBhagyashree’s ‘pampering skin routine’ is the perfect way to begin your morning | WatchMonsoons and our skins have never been the best of friends but Bollywood diva Bhagyashree recently revealed how we can try to bring them on good terms. Keeping fans hooked with beauty and fitness tips throughout this quarantine, Bhagyashree has now shared the perfect skincare routine and its benefits to not only keep your face clean but also moisturise and nourish it. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kerala-coastal-karnataka-to-receive-extremely-heavy-rainfall-warns-imd-and-all-the-latest-news/story-thlau8rCHyrmmWMSyjpevO.html
10-09-2020||India||6 BJP workers in Indore booked for violating prohibitory orders amid pandemic||The Madhya Pradesh police lodged three first information reports in Indore on Wednesday against six BJP workers including the party’s district chief for violating prohibitory orders by taking out processions amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The police action came after video clips went viral on social media in which a large number of women were seen participating in ‘kalash yatras’ purportedly organised by BJP workers in different parts of Sanver assembly constituency in the past few days. Sanver is one of the 27 assembly constituencies where bye-elections are due by the end of November.Minister for water resources Tulsi Silavat is expected to contest bypoll from Sanver to retain his position as the minister as he is not a member of the state assembly.Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Indore Harinarayanchari Mishra said, “One of the FIRs was lodged by Sanver police station against Rajesh Sonkar and Bhagwan Singh, another by the same police station against Subhash Chaudhary and Vinod and the third FIR was lodged by Chandravatiganj police station against Satish Malviya and Antar Dayal.” Rajesh Sonkar is the BJP district chief in Indore.The DIG said, “There is a ban on procession, gathering and all kinds of public programmes in view of Covid situation. The FIRs were lodged under section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). However, no arrest has been made so far in this connection.” Earlier, police had lodged an FIR earlier against 34 Congress workers on September 2 for organising a rally in the same constituency, under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). State Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “The police and administration should act in an impartial manner. They should take action against BJP workers and leaders in the same manner in which they acted against organisers of other programmes. The organisers of Kalash Yatra in Sanver should be booked under the National Security Act.” The BJP denied that it organised the kalash yatra.“BJP didn’t organise the Kalash yatra. It was organised by local people,” Sonkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-bjp-workers-in-indore-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders-amid-pandemic/story-boLTt9I9zaXFrAY6ktW87N.html
10-09-2020||India||Heavy to extremely heavy rain warning for Kerala and coastal Karnataka||Extremely heavy rain is likely over many places in coastal and south interior Karnataka on Friday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. Very heavy rain is also likely over Kerala, coastal and south interior Karnataka between Thursday and Saturday.An off-shore trough—an area of low pressure —is running between coastal south Maharashtra and north Kerala. The east-west shear zone, which denotes a change in wind direction and velocity, is running across peninsular India and a cyclonic circulation is lying over east-central Arabian Sea off coastal Karnataka.Also Read: Extended monsoon likely this year: IMDIMD is expecting heavy rains in peninsular India for the next three-four days due to these favourable conditions. The weather bureau has issued an orange category warning for parts of Karnataka and Kerala, Assam and Meghalaya on Thursday and Friday. The warning implies that disaster management authorities should be prepared for any heavy rain-related disasters such as flooding.The monsoon trough is lying to the north of its normal position (from Rajasthan’s Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal). A cyclonic circulation is also lying over Gangetic West Bengal and neighbourhood in the lower troposphere. Also Read: New generation of locusts may attack crops in UP after monsoonWidespread rain with thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over the north-east and adjoining eastern India. Heavy rainfall is expected at isolated places over sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days and over most north-eastern states during the next four-five days.A low-pressure area is likely to form over west-central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh (AP) coast around September 13. The weather phenomena will lead to rainfall distribution and the intensity is likely to increase over Odisha, coastal AP, Yanam in Puducherry, Telangana, Vidarbha and adjoining areas from September 12 onwards.In September, rainfall is likely to range between normal and above normal, as the four-month-long south-west monsoon prepares for a retreat, IMD had said on Monday. Rainfall is likely to be deficient at least until September 13 in most parts of the country, including north-west and central India, before intensifying after September 17, according to the IMD’s extended range forecast. Usually, the retreat of monsoon is slated to begin from September 17 when rain begins reducing across the country until a complete withdrawal by October 15.However, this year IMD’s extended range forecast shows extensive and heavy rains along the west coast between September 11 and 24 and then until October 1 over several parts of central India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-to-extremely-heavy-rain-warning-for-kerala-and-coastal-karnataka/story-9YoMuDBrj3LWHvRB5tViZP.html
10-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty bail plea hearing today: All you need to know||A special court in Mumbai will on Thursday hear bail plea filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was on Tuesday arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for allegedly arranging drugs for actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead in his flat in the city on June 14.The court will also hear plea filed by Rhea’s brother Showik, who was arrested on September 4 by the NCB for his alleged involvement in the case.From Rhea’s arrest to her bail plea hearing today, here’s all you need to know:• After spending Tuesday night at the NCB office, Rhea was on Wednesday moved to Byculla Jail, the only prison for women in Mumbai. Sheena Bora murder accused Indrani Mukerjea and Bhima-Koregaon case accused Sudha Bharadwaj, too, have been lodged here.• The 28-year-old actor moved special court after a magistrate court on Tuesday night rejected her bail plea. She has been booked under Section 27 A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.• While rejecting Rhea’s bail plea, the court sent her to judicial custody till September 22. Meanwhile, Showik and other accused have been sent in judicial custody till September 23. • She has been charged by the NCB with arranging drugs for the late 34-year-old actor. However, she herself has not been accused of using drugs. The agency arrested Rhea on Tuesday after three straight days of questioning from September 6-8. •If found guilty, she faces up to ten years in jail. •In her bail plea in the special court, Rhea has stated she is innocent and accused the NCB of ‘falsely implicating’ her in the case. It is also claimed that she was ‘forced into making self-incriminatory confessions’ on the day of her arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-bail-plea-hearing-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-RbrrcBExvQVXPoNj8McYiI.html
10-09-2020||India||Covid-19 patients will be allowed to vote in Odisha bypolls: Chief Electoral Officer||Covid-19 patients will be allowed to vote in the by-elections to the two assembly seats in Odisha, officials said on Wednesday.The decision was taken at a meeting between Chief Electoral Officer S K Lohani and the collectors and police chiefs of Balasore and Jagatsinghpur districts where the bypolls will be held, they said.Special arrangements shall be made for the Covid-19 affected voters during election like isolation centre and those voters would be allowed to cast their franchise at the last hour of poll, an official statement quoting Lohani said.The Election Commission on September 4 decided to conduct by-elections to fill all the 64 vacancies in different state assemblies of the country along with the assembly elections in Bihar by November 29, officials said.The two assembly segments in Odisha -- Balasore in Balasore district and Tirtol in Jagatsinghpur district -- are part of that list and will go to polls by that date, they said.The MLAs of these two seats died due to which the by- polls are necessitated. While the Balasore Sadar seat was held by the BJP, the Tirtol seat was won by the BJD in the last election.In the review meeting, it was also decided that the number of voters per booth will be capped at 1,000 to ensure social distancing, Lohani said.Polling stations that have more than 1,000 voters will be divided and auxiliary polling booths will be created by the District Election Officers (DEOs) in consultation with the representatives of the political parties, he said All persons associated with the by-elections must abide by the Covid-19 guidelines, use masks while coming to vote and follow the norms for hand sanitisation and social distancing in the polling stations, Lohani said.Noting that the by-election date may be declared by the Election Commission at any time, the CEO directed the DEOs to follow the guidelines related to Covid-19 while making arrangements for the polls.“Extensive awareness drive on mask wearing, hand sanitizing, social distancing and thermal screening of voters as well as polling personnel, appointment of Nodal Heath Officer at district and constituency level, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic during bye-election would be given top priority,” said Lohani.The CEO also undertook a detailed review of the preparatory activities for deployment and training programme of polling persons, vehicle arrangements, security arrangements, strong room, dispersal centre and counting halls. PTI AAM SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-will-be-allowed-to-vote-in-odisha-bypolls-chief-electoral-officer/story-bXg4shcPCUNowiChYScz2J.html
10-09-2020||India||Rafale jets to be inducted to Indian Air Force’s 17 Squadron Golden Arrows today||The Indian Air Force will formally induct the Rafale aircraft today at 10 am into the 17 Squadron ‘Golden Arrows’ at the Air Force Station in Ambala. Florence Parly, minister of the French Armed Forces and defence minister Rajnath Singh will be the chief guests of the event. Parly will also receive a guard of honour upon her arrival in Delhi. The event will also be attended by the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, Defence Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar, Dr G Satheesh Reddy, Secretary Department of Defence R&D and Chairman DRDO along with other senior officers. #RafaleInduction IAF will formally induct the Rafale aircraft in the 17 Squadron 'Golden Arrows' today at Air Force Station, Ambala.New bird in the arsenal of IAF. pic.twitter.com/cd6k54KJJ0Emmanuel Lenain, French ambassador to India and Eric Autellet, France’s air general will also participate in the induction ceremony. The ceremonial unveiling of the aircraft will be accompanied with the traditional ‘Sarva Dharma Puja’. The Rafale and Tejas aircrafts will also participate in an Air Display following which the Rafale aircraft will receive a water cannon salute. The first five Rafale aircrafts of the IAF arrived in Ambala on July 27. Eric Trappier Chairman and Chief Executive of Dassault Aviation will also be present in the ceremony.The Indian and French delegation are also scheduled to hold bilateral meeting after the ceremony. (with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-to-be-inducted-to-indian-air-force-s-17-squadron-golden-arrows-today/story-nBIdRLlABg6rDY9ydCfqQJ.html
10-09-2020||India||Jal Shakti dept to put work sites in Uttar Pradesh under CCTV to monitor progress||The Jal Shakti department has decided to install CCTV cameras at the spots where construction of the sewage treatment plants (STP), check dams and ponds are underway in various districts of Uttar Pradesh to monitor the progress of the work from the Lucknow office.Jal Shakti minister, Mahendra Singh on Wednesday reviewed the rural water supply project, Namami Gange and ground water development projects through video conferencing.He directed the officers to install cameras at the spots where STPs are being constructed under the Namami Gange project in Mathura, Ramnagar, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Etawah, Kasganj, Firozabad, Kanpur and Prayagraj. The cameras will be linked with the Lucknow office for monitoring the work. CCTV cameras will be also installed at all check dams and ponds constructed in various districts for monitoring from the state office, he said.He directed the officers to complete the Atal Bhujal Yojana launched in 10 districts on priority basis. The rural water supply projects launched in Bundelkhand, Mirzapur and Sonbhadra districts should be also completed on schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-shakti-dept-to-put-work-sites-in-uttar-pradesh-under-cctv-to-monitor-progress/story-LyKOFZmhP6FToh6tK3fLHO.html
10-09-2020||India||India inches closer to 100,000 daily Covid-19 case mark||India added 95,950 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, data compiled by HT from across the states showed, setting yet another grim record and taking the nation closer to the 100,000 daily cases benchmark that no other country in the world has ever come close to crossing. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe latest numbers put total cases at 4.46 million and 1,152 new casualties recorded over the past 24 hours took the death toll to 75,062. In terms of infections, India is second only to the United States’s 6.5 million. In terms of deaths, India is third with the US having recorded over 194,000 fatalities and Brazil over 128,000.Maharashtra, the country’s second most populous state, continues to add the highest numbers (23,577 on Wednesday). Andhra Pradesh (10,418) was the only other state with infections in four digits, followed by Karnataka’s 9,540. Karnataka, however, added the second highest number of fatalities (128), behind Maharashtra’s 380. Experts and government officials have recently made appeals to people to maintain necessary precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining distance, with the festive season beginning next week fast emerging as a major worry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-inches-closer-to-100-000-daily-covid-19-case-mark/story-niqHnCcbul4jSx56VTqnIJ.html
10-09-2020||India||Officials suspect OIL engineer working at Baghjan well could have died due to electrocution||An Oil India Limited engineer, working at the Baghjan natural gas well site which has been on fire since June 9, died on Wednesday. Officials suspect that he died due to electrocution. The deceased engineer was identified as Arnab Kishore Bordoloi, 25. “Bordoloi, who was working with some equipment at the well site, suddenly fell down and lost consciousness. He was provided emergency health care at the site and was taken to Assam Medical College Hospital in Dibrugarh where he was declared dead,” OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarikia said. “The reasons of the death will be known after post-mortem. This is a very tragic incident and has created a pall of gloom in OIL. A team from OIL is carrying out inspection at well site to find out possible reasons for this accident,” he added. Another OIL official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the reason for the death is most likely electrocution as the incident took place when an electrical cable was being tested after connecting to a generator set to provide power for welding job at the well head. The gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district had a blowout on May 27 and caught fire on June 9. While the well was capped last month, efforts to douse the fire have failed so far. This is the third casualty at the site. On June 9, two OIL firefighters who were attempting to control the blowout died when the well suddenly caught fire. On July 22, three foreign experts engaged by OIL to control the blowout had sustained burn injuries at the well site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-engineer-working-at-baghjan-gas-fire-site-dies-electrocution-suspected/story-AeQ5irrjAYk1hDd6Zxf0vL.html
10-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Maharashtra is the state, province, or region worst affected by Covid-19 in the world. The western Indian state, the most industrialised in the country, home to India’s commercial capital Mumbai, saw 943,772 cases of the coronavirus disease till Tuesday night, according to the HT dashboard. If it were a country, Maharashtra would be at No 5 in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases.But it isn’t the sole Indian state in a listing of the top provinces by cases. Andhra Pradesh, with 517,094 comes in at #6; Tamil Nadu, with 474,940 cases at #7, and Karnataka, with 412,190 cases at #9. Uttar Pradesh, with 278,473 cases is just outside the top 10, at number 11.India is now adding more cases a day (even when a seven-day average is taken) than any other country — more cases a day than China has seen in the entire run of the disease, although that country’s numbers are inexplicably low and the pandemic’s run there remarkably different from its trajectory in every other country in the world. Geographical area and population link the three countries worst affected by the coronavirus disease, the US, Brazil, and India. And it is inconceivable that China, which is third in terms of geographical area, and first in terms of the population, and where the viral infection began (in Wuhan), has seen only 85,000 cases. A previous edition of this column (Dispatch 119, published on July 31) looked at some possible answers to this mystery.But we don’t need to go as far as China for a mystery. This writer, for instance, needs travel only around 30km for one — Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state with 225 million people. If it were a country, it would be either the fifth or the sixth most populous one in the world. It has conducted almost 30,000 tests per million — which means it has tested around 3% of its population, a proportion that is not insignificant. Yet, it has seen only 278,483 cases of Covid thus far (till Tuesday night). Its overall positivity rate is 4.11%. Its case fatality rate is 1.45%, lower than India’s. And this is a state with among the worst social indicators in the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt isn’t that Uttar Pradesh’s positivity rate (number of people testing positive to number of tests) has reached this level after traversing the usual curve this metric does — it has pretty much stayed at the same level. The highest it ever reached on a seven-day average (since it started testing at least 1,000 samples a day) was 6.4%, and the lowest 2.1%.Interestingly, the trend seen in Uttar Pradesh isn’t very different from that in many African countries (most have social indicators comparable to the Indian state). Africa’s relatively low number of cases and deaths, experts say, can only partly be explained by under-reporting of cases, or gaps in death registries. Scattered antibody tests that have been carried out around the continent show that there has been significant exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus in many African countries — with a test in Kenya highlighting a prevalence of around 20%.Two theories are doing the rounds as possible explanations for Africa’s remarkable numbers. One revolves around the continent’s relatively younger population. The median age in many African countries is in the early 20s. The median age in Uttar Pradesh is also in the early 20s, among the lowest in India. The other is that populations in many African countries may have been exposed to other coronaviruses, even other infectious diseases, giving them greater immunity to Sars-CoV-2. The same can be said of Uttar Pradesh’s population. There is, of course, a third theory. That Africa’s numbers are just a temporary aberration and that, eventually, countries in the continent will start seeing Covid-19 infection curves similar to those seen in Europe, the US, and Latin America. That could be true of Uttar Pradesh as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-IC02roMQoqgypwribieY5O.html
10-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED interrogates Kerala CPI(M) secretary’s son for 11 hours||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday grilled Kerala CPI (M) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri for more than 11 hours in connection with the sensational gold smuggling and Bengaluru drug haul cases. He was let off after the marathon interrogation but officials who are part of the multi-agency probe said he was not given a clean chit and will be summoned again. When he was summoned, Kodiyeri sought a week’s time but the ED has turned down his request and asked him to be present before it immediately. Trouble began for Kodiyeri after Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau in which he mentioned his name. He said Bineesh Kodiyeri, second son of Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, had helped him a lot in his “business venture”. His name also figured prominently in the call list of Mohammad. A day before his arrest (August 28) both had talked several times, the leaked call list showed. Later, Bineesh admitted that he knew Mohammad and helped him in opening a hotel in Bengaluru, but he was not aware of his alleged drug dealings. But later the ED found that two shell companies floated by Kodiyeri, “B Capital Solutions” and “B Capital Forex”, were allegedly involved in many shoddy deals. Floated in 2015, both firms had failed to file tax returns and other formalities and the ED suspects these firms were floated for alleged money laundering and hawala transactions. During investigation, the ED has also found that there is close link between the smuggling and psychedelic drug cases. Earlier in the day opposing the bail application of three other accused in smuggling case the ED said there was a close link between the two cases. It also said it needs to question 20 more people including some influential personalities in connection with the gold smuggling. There are reports that Mohammad allegedly played a key role in smuggling drugs like LSD and MDMA into Kerala and he was close to many film actors. Officials now suspect that he was also instrumental in bringing Russian musician Vasily Markelov aka Psykovsky who was arrested from a star hotel in Kochi in 2015 during a rave party. The musician was allegedly found possessing a psychedelic drug named “Russian Secret,” believed to be a concoction of substances like hashish and marijuana. Later, the NCB found that the sample seized from the musician was tampered before it was sent to chemical examination. The seized drug later turned out to be “milk powder”. There were also reports that a person who gave a statement to the police mentioning Mohammad’s role was later forced to change his statement. The music event was conducted by a Bengaluru-based event management group. Many names cropped up then but later the case was hushed up. Meanwhile, the NIA has raided a gold ornaments manufacturing unit in Coimbatore in neighbouring Tamil Nadu and detained its owner J Nandagopal. It also seized gold ornaments and cash from the unit. Some of the arrested had told the agency that a portion of the smuggled gold was brought there to convert into ornaments, a senior official said. The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg gold was seized from a consignment in the name of the United Arab Emirates consular office in Thiruvananthapuram. And the drug surfaced on August 28 after the arrest of Anoop Mohammad and two others. Now the investigating agencies feel there is a strong link between the two cases. A rape and cheating case is pending against Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s elder son Binoy Kodiyeri in Mumbai. A former bar dancer in Dubai hailing from Maharashtra had filed a police compliant against him alleging rape, cheating and breach of trust. A court in Mumbai had ordered him to undergo a DNA test to prove the woman’s charge that he fathered her child. When this case cropped up the party came to Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s rescue saying “parents can’t be blamed for a grown up’s doings”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-ed-interrogates-kerala-cpi-m-secretary-s-son-for-11-hours/story-fjWwGIwiQrOn96czqSdImI.html
10-09-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan to dial Uddhav Thackeray over oxygen supply issue||Madhya Pradesh chief minister (CM) Shivraj Singh Chouhan will dial his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray over the latter’s decision to limit the outsourcing of oxygen outside the state.In view of the increasing number of Covid patients, the Maharashtra government, in its order dated September 7, has directed the oxygen production units in the state that 80% of their production will be used only for medical treatment and it will be supplied to hospitals within its territory, said an official. As per the order, the production units in Maharashtra can divert only up to 20% of oxygen generated to industrial use, said the official. He said at least 15 districts of Madhya Pradesh, including Indore and Bhopal, have oxygen supplied from oxygen production units in Maharashtra besides the local supply.Indore and Bhopal are big Covid hotspots and the number of patients is increasing by the day across the state. Maharashtra government’s decision came when the state government in Madhya Pradesh was considering increasing 3700 beds with oxygen and 564 ICU beds in the state. Home minister Narottam Mishra said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will talk to Maharashtra CM in regard to supply of the oxygen.”State home minister said plants in Madhya Pradesh will be told to increase capacity, underscoring coronavirus patients will not suffer.“Treatment of the Covid patients will not be affected. We will ensure there is an increase in production of oxygen in the plants in MP by increasing their capacity and we may consider reducing the use of oxygen in the Industrial sector to meet the demand if need arises,” Health minister Prabhuram Chaudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-to-dial-uddhav-thackeray-over-oxygen-supply-issue/story-wmEutAiOOzy9vFkeDOudDP.html
10-09-2020||India||Another testing high as Covid-19 cases breach 200k in Delhi||Delhi on Wednesday conducted a record number of daily tests for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and consequently reported its highest single-day cases as the tally of infections in the city crossed 200,000, making it the only city in India to breach this mark.The Capital – the first Covid-19 hot spot city in the country to control the spread of the virus, but which has seen an increase in the number of cases in the past two weeks – reported 4,039 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 201,174.The Delhi government conducted a record 54,517 tests for Covid-19 on Wednesday. This was the sixth time in seven days that the city set a new record for daily tests, a statistic that highlights the magnitude of the increase in testing. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith 11,101 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered the most accurate method of diagnosing Covid-19, Delhi also set a record for the highest number of single-day RT-PCR tests. The previous record was set a day ago, when Delhi conducted 9,944 such tests. Delhi’s resurgence of cases had prompted Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 26 to announce the ramping up of testing to 40,000 daily samples to track, and isolate as many cases as possible. As of Wednesday, the Capital has reported nearly 40,430 more infections than Mumbai, which has the second highest number of infections and 56,579 cases more than Chennai on the third spot. In total, Mumbai has reported 160,744 cases and Chennai has 144,595 infections till Wednesday night. All figures are according to the health bulletins issued by their respective state authorities. At the same time, however, Delhi has tested 100,198 per million of its population as compared to 40,032 in Maharashta and 73,252 in Tamil Nadu (updated individual figures of Mumbai and Chennai are not available).These three metropolitan cities, which were the initial hot spots of the virus in the country, remain the ones with the biggest concentration of infections (and deaths).To be sure, the district of Pune has more cases (212,563), than these three cities. However, only 119,291 of those are from the city of Pune and the remaining are from surrounding areas such as Pimpri-Chinchwad that fall outside of city boundaries.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet on Tuesday: “Today, Delhi reported the highest number of cases – 4,039. But it also conducted the highest number of tests – 54,517 against 15,000-20,000 tests till last week. If we were conducting the same number of tests (as last week), today’s cases would be fewer than 1,500. So, don’t be scared by the number of cases.”On the back of the increased testing, the positivity rate in the city has again started dropping. Of the tests conducted on Wednesday, 7.4% came back positive. The average positivity rate, which had dropped from a peak of 31.4% in mid-June to 5.7% at the end of July, had been climbing again and was at 9% on September 1. In the past week, this has dropped to 8.2%. Overall, 10.6% of all tests done in Delhi have come back positive.Experts said the dropping positivity rate is a good indicator for the city despite the rise in cases.“A good indicator to see if a government is testing enough is to look at the positivity rate in the city. If the positivity rate is increasing then that means that there is increased transmission of the virus in the community. In Delhi’s case this has been going down recently, which is a good sign. I will be happy if this drops below 5% for a period of two week, which is what the World Health Organization said is the threshold to show that the transmission of the virus is under control,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-testing-high-as-cases-breach-200k/story-TVCECTiXaHTNa5X4wO55sJ.html
10-09-2020||India||India bulks up amid provocation by China’s People’s Liberation Army||The Indian Army has rushed its front-line tanks and infantry combat vehicles (ICVs) to strategic heights held by its soldiers on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, in response to intimidating military moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the theatre, where conflict is below the threshold of a shooting war but could take any trajectory, top government officials told HT on Wednesday. The PLA is parading its tank squadrons, mechanised infantry squads, and thousands of soldiers in the area in a show of strength to threaten the Indian Army after it swiftly occupied key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on August 29, the officials said, requesting anonymity. The Chinese PLA has deployed 5,000 to 6,000 soldiers in the area, and the armed forces are fully prepared to deal with any contingency, they added.Also read: Bridging the power gap with China“The PLA lines up 20-30 tanks, ICVs and thousands of soldiers almost on a daily basis in the Spanggur area. It’s nothing but posturing and we would be concerned if the military elements were not visible and hidden in the undulating folds of the land,” a top official said. China has deployed sizeable military assets in the eastern Ladakh theatre, including 50,000 troops, 150 aircraft, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems, with India matching the neighbour’s every move. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, the officials said. “Indian soldiers are barely a few hundred metres from Chinese troops on Finger 4,” they said. “If the military capabilities were to be measured, the combat ratio is 1:1. If China brings in more reinforcements, so will we. The Galwan Valley skirmish showed them that they have to pay a price for their actions. If China wants to start a war, there will be a price to pay on both sides,” the officials said. “A shooting war doesn’t erupt overnight. A lot of actions happen before that — war of words, firing, skirmishes, smaller conflicts and other pinpricks. We haven’t reached that stage yet. While we don’t think China wants to start a war, nowhere are we underprepared,” the officials said.The movements come at a time when Indian foreign minister S Jaishankar is due to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow on Thursday to seek a diplomatic resolution for the impasse.The Indian Army on Tuesday said Chinese troops fired into the air on September 7 to intimidate its soldiers holding dominating heights near a strategic mountain pass in eastern Ladakh during a failed attempt to close in on a forward position controlled by India, with bullets flying at the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) for the first time in 45 years. The last recorded incident when bullets were fired at the LAC was in October 1975, when the PLA ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead. Twenty Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of PLA troops were killed on June 15 in a seven-hour conflict in Galwan Valley, but no shots were fired in that deadly skirmish.Experts said the situation along the LAC was volatile and things could go bad. “The key to how things will go forward from here is whether there is a breakthrough in the talks. While both sides don’t want a shooting war, local dynamics on the ground sometimes have a life of their own. That is the real danger when thousands of soldiers are facing off,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).The Indian Army controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the most significant heights being held by India on Rezang La and Reqin pass where the PLA is making desperate attempts to regain lost ground. The army has marked the perimeter of the positions held by it with barbed wire and it would not hesitate to retaliate if the PLA attempts to cross that red line, the officials said. “During talks, the PLA stresses there should be no night movement and mountain manoeuvres but does exactly the opposite on the ground. What is happening in the Ladakh theatre is being controlled by their top leadership and cannot be attributed to the exuberance of local commanders,” the officials cited in the first instance said. In the northern bank of Pangang Tso, before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4, the army would patrol right up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers 4 and 8 are eight km apart. The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4. Top Indian and Chinese commanders are likely to hold a meeting soon to reduce military tensions in eastern Ladakh. Both sides are currently working on finalizing the date for the meeting between corps commander-ranked officers who have met several times but failed to break the deadlock. “We want talks at the military and diplomatic talks to succeed. The sense we got from the recent meeting between the Indian and Chinese defence ministers in Moscow was that the Chinese don’t want a war...But why are Chinese opening so many fronts, we don’t understand,” the officials said. The latest tensions in eastern Ladakh come days after defence minister Rajnath Singh asked China -- in a face-to-face meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe in Moscow -- to strictly respect the LAC, not make attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, and work with India for complete disengagement from all friction areas in the sensitive sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bulks-up-amid-provocation-by-pla/story-cIuI9efmjTlErTkUlpNrkN.html
10-09-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 cases cross 4k for first time but drop in positivity rate||On Wednesday, Delhi tested over 54,000 samples for Covid-19, setting a new record for the highest number of tests in a single day in the national capital, as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on the day sought suggestions from state government hospitals on increasing the number of beds, especially in intensive care units.With 4,093 new infections on Wednesday — the highest single-day spike ever recorded in the city, the total number of cases in the city also crossed the 200,000-mark.In Wednesday’s meeting with state health officials, Kejriwal also took stock of the city’s testing strategy, after which the state health department issued an order that removed the need for a prescription to get tested for Covid-19. He urged all government officers, doctors and health care workers to encourage as many people as possible to get tested. As per Wednesday’s daily health bulletin, 54,517 samples were tested for Covid-19. Of these, 11,101 tests were conducted using the RT-PCR method — a record number for tests that are considered ‘gold standard’ for Covid-19.“If any hospital is experiencing any issues, they can directly reach me and I will extend all possible help in this regard,” Kejriwal told medical superintendents of Delhi government hospitals during the meeting, according to an official familiar with the matter.He directed all medical superintendents to further improve facilities in government hospitals. “Increasing the number of beds in hospitals was also discussed. But, it was concluded that there was no immediate need to augment the number of dedicated Covid beds in Delhi since over 8,500 beds were vacant as on Wednesday. To be sure, the chief minister has asked all medical superintendents to suggest ways in which beds can be increased — with a focus on ICU and ventilator beds,” a senior government official, who asked not to be named, said on condition of anonymity.Click here for full Covid-9 coverageOf the 14,212 Covid hospital beds in the city as on Wednesday evening according to the Delhi Corona app, over 8,500 were vacant on Wednesday. However, over half the Covid-19 ICU beds in the city were occupied. After the meeting, special secretary (health) Udit Prakash Rai issued an order simplifying testing in the Capital, and encouraging more people to get tested. “In continuation of various measures undertaken by the Delhi government to augment Covid-19 testing and to ensure that it is more accessible than ever, it has been decided that henceforth there will be no requirement of a prescription from a qualified medical practitioner for Covid-19 testing in Delhi,” the order read.Cases in Delhi rose rapidly through May and June, and started dropping by the end of June. After a steady drop in cases for around three weeks (the seven-day average of daily cases dropped to 983 as on August 4), new cases hit an upward trajectory mid-August. As on Wednesday, there are 201,174 cases in the city. Delhi had, as on Wednesday, recorded an average 3,086 cases a day over the past seven days.Kejriwal on Wednesday also directed heads of all private labs in Delhi against denying anybody a Covid-19 test. He also directed ambulance services that no calls from patients be refused and that patients be transferred to hospitals if needed, as soon as possible. “The Corona app should display all information regarding the number of beds and ventilators well-within time to prevent panic among patients. Officers should ensure that all state and central government SOPs be enforced strictly, and there should be no complacency regarding the same,” the chief minister said at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cases-cross-4k-for-first-time-but-drop-in-positivity-rate/story-yPedtZX1NjCCpBYyKwBOFP.html
10-09-2020||India||Supreme Court sends Maratha quota matter to larger bench||The Supreme Court on Wednesday imposed an interim stay on quotas in jobs and education to Marathas and referred the matter to a larger bench that is likely to examine if the controversial 2018 law, which breached the 50% apex-court mandated cap in caste-based reservation, was legal. The three-judge bench order, which evoked sharp reactions from political leaders in Maharashtra, said admissions under the quota in post-graduate courses will remain unaltered. The matter will now be placed before Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde, for constitution of a larger bench. The decision came on petitions challenging the Maharashtra State Reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act (SEBC Act) of 2018 that fulfilled a decades-old demand by the dominant community after a state government panel found the Marathas socially and economically backward. The law originally provided 16% quota but in June 2019, the Bombay high court trimmed the quantum of the quota to 12% in education and 13% in jobs, as recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission. In its order, the high court upheld the legislation’s constitutional validity and said the 50% cap can be breached in exceptional circumstances, and if the quota was based on quantifiable data. Soon after, petitioners moved the top court and contended that the law breached the 50% reservation threshold prescribed in the 1992 Indra Sawhney vs Union of India case. As that case was decided by a bench of nine judges, various parties sought reference of the case to a bench of 11 judges to conclusively settle the issue. Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Maharashtra, said, on August 26, that the case will have to be heard by a Constitution bench as it involved substantial legal questions relating to reservation threshold. Senior counsel Kapil Sibal, appearing for an applicant supporting the law, had also demanded an 11-judge bench. “The matter has to go before a 11-judge bench. 50% criterion was evolved through judicial decision making. 85 percent (people) in Maharashtra belong to backward classes,” Sibal told the bench on August 26. He also submitted that reservation in 28 states exceed the 50% threshold after the Parliament introduced 10% reservation to Economically Weaker sections (EWS) by amending the Constitution in 2019. In Maharashtra, many politicians said they were taken aback by the decision. Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan said the decision was “unexpected and shocking”. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) called it a “black day” for Marathas. “The MVA [Maha Vikas Aghadi] could not ensure the reservation held ground before the Supreme Court,” state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil told reporters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-sends-maratha-quota-matter-to-larger-bench/story-BUUNZwMrVyRj3SJj0BLf5N.html
10-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro tokens might return once the pandemic is over, focus on smart cards: DMRC chief||Delhi Metro officials on Wednesday said that return of tokens for travelling in the train is likely after the Covid-19 pandemic is over even as the attempt is to phase it out with time. “Tokens are planned to be brought in use after the pandemic is over, but it is “our attempt to slowly phase it out” and have more smart cards in use,” DMRC chief Mangu Singh told news agency PTI.The metro services in the national capital resumed on Monday this week after a 169-day suspension due to disease outbreak. The resumption of metro services has been carried out in a graded manner with the opening of Yellow Line services on the first day. On Wednesday, Blue Line and Pink Line resumed services with restricted timings after being closed for 171 days, and on Thursday, Red Line, Violet Line and Green Line are slated to be made operational again.The 65.35km Blue Line connects Dwarka Sector 21 and Vaishali/Noida Electronic City, and the 57.58km-long Pink Line connects Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar. The services for people across Delhi-NCR have continued in two shifts, from 7am to 11am and from 4pm to 8pm. The Yellow Line, which was the first corridor to be thrown open to the public on Monday, recorded a total ridership of 26,900. “The DMRC will be running 35 trains on the Red Line, which will make 413 trips during the morning and evening hours on Thursday. Similarly, 40 trains will make 344 trips on the Violet Line and 20 trains will make 268 trips on the Green Line,” Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-metro-tokens-might-return-once-the-pandemic-is-over-dmrc-chief/story-1GSynwifO9AqAbI9TKE90I.html
10-09-2020||India||BJP, Shiv Sena lock horns over support to Kangna Ranaut||After the Mumbai civic body demolished parts of an office owned by actor Kangana Ranaut, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) backed the film star in the midst of a raging political debate on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena said the BJP’s support to Rananut was a conspiracy against Mumbai as well as the state. Sharad Pawar, a leader of Sena ally Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), said there was no need to take Ranaut seriously.Devendra Fadnavis, a former chief minister and a BJP leader, termed the Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s action against Ranaut’s office as “state-sponsored terrorism”. “While one cannot support the statement made against Mumbai police or Maharashtra (by Ranaut), one cannot support such action by the government...Until yesterday, this construction was legal. You take action and point to illegalities only because someone spoke about you. Then what about other illegal constructions in the city?” he asked in a video message.Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Pawar said he had no information about the legality of the construction in question. “I read about it only in the newspapers. It won’t be appropriate to comment on this without having proper information. Illegal work is not a new thing in Mumbai. However, BMC’s action in the backdrop of the ongoing situation (when Rananut is locked in verbal spat with the Sena) allows people to raise doubts over it. BMC officials have their own rules and may have found it appropriate to take the action,” he said.“We are giving too much importance to the people making such statements. One must understand the impact of such statements on the people at large,” Pawar added.The Sena, meanwhile, took on the Union home ministry for providing Y-plus security to actor Ranaut two days ago, calling it an insult to Mumbai and its police. In an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Wednesday, the party alleged that the BJP’s support to the actor looked like a “conspiracy”.“There is always a danger to Mumbai because those who support disrespect to ‘Mumbadevi’ are sitting in Delhi and in Maharashtra’s assembly…First, defame Mumbai, then weaken it. Make Mumbai completely bankrupt and then, one day, separate it from Maharashtra. It is clearly seen that these steps are being taken again,” the Saamana editorial said.The Sena mouthpiece added that the Maharashtra unit of BJP should not have supported the ones who referred to the chief minister in a disrespectful manner.Vivekanand Gupta, an advocate and a BJP leader, said: “BMC cannot demolish any property in view of the Covid-19 situation.” He added that the Bombay high court, on March 26, put a restriction on carrying out demolition drives during lockdown and that the scope of the order was extended till September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-sena-lock-horns-over-support-to-actor/story-qb2nC3vgqngCBEuTcTnj9M.html
10-09-2020||India||Serum Institute gets notice for not taking AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine trial pause into cognizance||India’s central drug regulator has issued a show-cause notice to Serum Institute of India (SII) for failing to inform it about UK-based pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing global clinical trials of the Oxford vaccine candidate for Covid-19 in the US, UK, Brazil.and South Africa and also for not submitting a casualty analysis of the “reported serious adverse events”.Drugs Controller General of India Dr V G Somani has asked SII why the permission granted for conducting phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country should not be suspended till patient safety is established.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Serum Institute of India Pvt Ltd, Pune, till now has not informed the Central licensing authority regarding pausing the clinical trial carried out by AstraZeneca in other countries and also not submitted casualty analysis of the reported serious adverse event with the investigational vaccine for the continuation of phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the subject vaccine in the country in light of the safety concerns,” said the show-cause notice.‘In view of the above, I, Dr V G Somani, Drugs Controller General of India and Central Licensing Authority hereby give you an opportunity to show cause as provided under rule 30 of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, why the permission granted to you August 2 shall not be suspended till patient safety is established,” it read.The DGCI sought an immediate reply saying else “it shall be construed that you have no explanation to offer and action deemed fit will be taken against you”.“We are going by DCGI’s direction and so far were not told to pause the trials. If DCGI has any safety concerns, we will follow their instructions and abide by the standard protocols,” said SII in a statement.The Pune-based vaccine major had got DCGI nod to conduct Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, which was developed in partnership with the University of Oxford.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-regulator-issues-notice-to-serum-institute/story-w0jLm9mv3WhyeuDwRa95UJ.html
10-09-2020||India||Kangana-Shiv Sena face-off escalates with BMC demolition||The Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday demolished parts of an office owned by Kangana Ranaut, who then hit out at Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray in a rare confrontation between a member of the film industry and a political party that also unfolded in angry street demonstrations and a courtroom battle. The drama began around 10am after a team of 30 workers and officials of the BMC reached Ranaut’s office in Bandra’s Pali Hill and began the demolition of some areas inside and on the exterior of the premises, which the agency said was built illegally. A lawyer representing the 33-year-old actor, whose run-ins with the Maharashtra government in the aftermath of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June have taken an acerbic turn this month, approached the Bombay high court challenging a BMC notice that gave her 24 hours to reply to allegations of zoning law violations.Also read: Kangana Ranaut hits out at ‘Fancy feminists, Bullywood activists’, says ‘You deserve the treatment you get from me’The court ordered the demolition to stop. “The manner in which BMC proceeded to commence demolition work prima facie does not appear to be bonafide (in good faith) and smacks of malafide (dishonest intentions),” a division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and RI Chagla said after a 55-minute hearing over video conference.By then, much of the demolition had already taken place. Section 354A of the MMC Act, 1888, authorises BMC to demolish an illegal construction if a response is not satisfactory. Ranaut, who had sought seven days to respond to the BMC’s notice, denies any illegal construction.Throughout the day, Ranaut directed a tirade at the state government, first in a series of tweets likening the demolitions to “fascism” and “death of democracy” as she took a flight from Manali to Mumbai, where hordes of angry Shiv Sena workers protested at the airport. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta appalled at demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s office: ‘What kind of gunda raj is this?’“My home was demolished today; your arrogance will crumble tomorrow. Remember, this is the wheel of time. It keeps changing,” the actor said in a video message addressing Thackeray late in the afternoon. In the video, she also said she realised the pain of Kashmiri Pandits, who had to leave their homes, after the demolition drive on her premises. “Not only on Ayodhya, I will also make a film on Kashmir,” she said. Arvind Sawant, Shiv Sena parliamentarian and party spokesperson, denied commenting on Ranaut’s video clip. “Only Uddhavji, or if required Sanjay Raut, or will speak on this matter,” a senior party leader said. Raut could not be reached for comments. The acrimony between the government and the actor stems from her criticism of the Mumbai police and the state’s handling of the Rajput death investigation. The remarks prompted Raut to advise the actor not to return to Mumbai, prompting a series of tit-for-tat responses that at one occasion involved the MP using expletives for the actor, who in turn referred the country’s financial capital as “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir” and “Pakistan”.The controversy has taken larger political tone, with the Congress accusing her of carrying forward the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s political agenda. Ranaut got Y-plus security from the BJP-ruled Centre two days ago in the midst of her spat with Sena leaders, a decision that the Maharashtra government termed “surprising” even as the actor thanked home minister Amit Shah on Twitter.On Tuesday, the state ordered a probe into allegations that she consumed drugs. The building at the heart of the fresh controversy is Manikarnika Films Private Limited office, located in Bungalow Number 5, a ground plus two-storey structure, in the plush Bandra area. Ranaut bought it in 2017 for Rs 200 crore.According to civic officials, it has existed in their records since the 1970s and Ranaut made illegal alterations to it. The row first broke out on Monday after a BMC team visited Ranaut’s office and carried out an inspection. The next day, BMC issued pasted the show-cause notice on the gate of the property. According to Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui, BMC officials on Wednesday carried on with the demolition work, which finally ended around 12:30pm, even as the court hearing was underway. The HC was expected to take up the matter again on Thursday afternoon. “We carried out demolition work over structural violations...After the demolition process, further action will be taken legally,” said Vinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s H west ward covering Bandra. Another BMC official, who did not want to be named, said, “We have taken the action legally, and we will inform the court on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-shiv-sena-face-off-escalates-with-bmc-demolition/story-CXGtvPoCfQiVSpg9n0pRoK.html
10-09-2020||India||AstraZeneca pauses trials after ‘unexplained illness’||UK-based drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc. voluntarily suspended global trials of its experimental Covid-19 vaccine after one volunteer developed an unexplained illness on Wednesday, which experts say may delay the discovery of a vaccine, but wouldn’t necessarily set back international efforts to develop one.“This is a routine action which has to happen whenever there is a potentially unexplained illness in one of the trials, while it is investigated, ensuring we maintain the integrity of the trials,” AstraZeneca spokesperson Michele Meixell said in a statement. Shares of AstraZeneca tumbled more than 8% in after-hours US trading following the announcement. Shares of rival vaccine developers rose with Moderna Inc. gaining more than 4%, and Pfizer around 1%. AstraZeneca’s vaccine candidate, which has been developed with researchers from the University of Oxford, had been in the most advanced stage multi-country trials when the abrupt suspension was announced. Trials of the vaccine, called AZD1222, were underway at different stages in the UK, US, Brazil, South Africa and India, where it has partnered with Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). Trials have also been planned in Japan and Russia. SII plans to continue with its 2-3 trials in India once it gets approval from the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) “We can’t comment much on the UK trials, but they have been paused for further review and they hope to restart soon. As far as Indian trials are concerned, it is continuing and we have faced no issues at all,” SII said in an emailed statement. Vaccine trials were paused after a participant in the UK was diagnosed with transverse myelitis, an inflammation of the spinal cord usually caused by infections. The data will be reviewed by the DSMB, which is a panel of independent experts that monitors potential harmful effects of from experimental drugs and vaccines during clinical trials. “A clinical trial being paused is uncommon but it has happened before in other clinical trials. There will now be an investigation by the adverse events committee of the trial to see if this is causal or coincidental. Since transverse myelitis is known to be caused by viruses, this demands a thorough review, including tests for other viruses. Till a clear determination is made, the trial has to be suspended,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. Dr Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, said the pause was a result of routine precaution and not a major setback.“The suspension of the trial is because of just one unexplained illness. This is required by safety guidelines while the case is analysed further. Just one person having unexplained illness is not something that should make us worry unduly about vaccine safety,” said Dr Agrawal. Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor in the department of gastrointestinal sciences at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, agreed : “It is not a major setback as clinical holds on trials do happen to protect participants out of an abundance of caution. The DSMB will assess the data and look at relatedness to the vaccine and then take a call on how the trial should go ahead,” said Dr Kang. Investigating whether an adverse effect is or is not be related to the vaccine must be done to establish its safety. “The trials can be resumed only if the cause of the adverse event is unrelated to the vaccine. You can compromise on efficacy and produce a vaccine that has 70% efficacy, but you can’t take a chance with 100% safety,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medial Sciences, New Delhi, which is one of the dozen sites for the Indian Council of Medical Research-Bharat Biotech Covaxin, which began Phase 2 trials this week. “One adverse reaction among a few thousands could potentially mean many thousands getting sick when billions get vaccinated. Compromising on safety can potentially kill the Covid-19 vaccine programme as doubts about safety would lead to people refusing to get vaccinated when we do have a vaccine, which would be counterproductive,” said Dr Guleria. Even misplaced fear of adverse reactions can lead to people refusing to get vaccinated, as seen in the recent past against vaccines to protect against Measles Rubella (MR), human papillomavirus (HPV) against cervical cancer, and polio, among others. Several governments, pharmaceutical and biotech companies, and not-for-profit organisations and international partners are racing against time to develop an effective vaccine to stop the spread of Covid-19. Thirty-four experimental vaccines are undergoing clinical evaluation, and 145 are in preclinical evaluation stages within nine months of the virus being identified. Eleven candidates, including Astra Zeneca’s vaccine, are in late-stage trials, according to the World Health Organisation’s draft landscape of Covid-19 candidate vaccines on September 8. Nine leading US and European vaccine developers on Tuesday pledged to “uphold the integrity of the scientific process as they work towards potential global regulatory filings and approvals of the first Covid-19 vaccines.” The companies included AstraZeneca, Moderna, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Plc., Novavax Inc, Sanofi SA and BioNTech SE. Apart from SII’s vaccine, two other experimental Covid-19 vaccines are in or entering late-stage trials in India. The first doses of the Phase 2-3 trials of the Indian Council of Medical Research-Bharat Biotech experimental vaccine Covaxin were given on Tuesday while Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D vaccine has successfully completed Phase 1 and progressed to Phase 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrazeneca-pauses-trials-after-unexplained-illness/story-h6ZqxY8hpAFMdI5z3VQJwJ.html
10-09-2020||India||Amid border row, India’s Jaishankar to meet his Chinese counterpart today||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi are set to come face-to-face at least three times in Moscow on Thursday, with the focus on a bilateral meeting that is being seen as key to reducing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Jaishankar and Wang will participate in a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on Thursday morning, to be followed by a luncheon meeting of foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping. The day will be capped by the bilateral meeting, the first between Jaishankar and Wang since the standoff in Ladakh sector began in May. The two leaders spoke on phone on June 17, two days after the deadly clash in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. Ahead of his departure for Russia on Tuesday, Jaishankar emphasised the need for political contacts to reduce tensions and end the stalemate in the disengagement process along the LAC. The standoff goes against all understandings on border management dating back to 1993 and the serious situation calls for “very deep conversations...at a political level”, he said. Also read: Bridging the power gap with ChinaWang will hold bilateral meetings and attend the luncheon meeting for the Chinese, Russian and Indian foreign ministers, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a news briefing in Beijing. Asked specifically about the bilateral meeting between Jaishankar and Wang, he declined to go into details. “During [the SCO] meeting...Wang Yi will discuss with foreign ministers of other member states of the SCO cooperation amid Covid-19 and exchange views on major international and regional issues,” Zhao said. The RIC meeting between Jaishankar, Wang and their Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov assumes significance as Moscow has pushed for dialogue between New Delhi and Beijing to ease the border tensions. Given its good ties with India and China, Russia also doesn’t want to be forced into taking sides, experts said. Roman Babushkin, the Russian deputy chief of mission, said on Tuesday his country wasn’t directly mediating between India and China but was “focusing on the creation of a positive atmosphere through SCO, Brics and RIC for practical cooperation”. He added: “Any kind of dialogue would be better than escalation.” The SCO charter has no scope for discussing bilateral disputes, though the grouping is a “comfortable platform” for building common ground and mutual trust, he said. Babushkin noted that defence minister Rajnath Singh had met his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe on the sidelines of another SCO meeting in Moscow last week. Russia, he said, will encourage outcomes that give impetus to further de-escalation and disengagement. “We are very hopeful that, sooner rather than later, India and China would find a mutually acceptable solution for the border crisis,” he said. The latest face-off on the south bank of Pangong Lake, during which shots were fired along the LAC for the first time in 45 years, have complicated efforts to lower the temperature along the disputed border. The Chinese side has been rattled by India’s proactive action of taking a string of strategic heights since the weekend. India has said Chinese troops tried to close in on a forward position on Monday and fired in the air when they were dissuaded. The Chinese side pushed back again on Wednesday, with people familiar with developments saying Indian troops had “illegally” crossed the LAC, “made provocations” and were the “first to open fire without justified reason”. Experts believe the meeting between Jaishankar and Wang is unlikely to result in an immediate breakthrough, though it could set the stage for further political engagements to end the standoff. Jaishankar is the longest serving Indian envoy to Beijing, where he served for four-and-half years from 2009, and has known Wang for a long time. Wang Dehua, a South Asia expert at Shanghai Municipal Centre for International Studies, said: “After Chinese defence minister Wei Fenghe and his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh’s meeting in Moscow, the meeting of the foreign ministers is of great significance as it is conducive to ease the tension along the border while helping to reset relations. Perhaps, it will prompt an early meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-india-china-meet-today/story-py91GfZdwUaFMZNsfsDJfL.html
10-09-2020||India||Global CO2 emissions to fall by up to 7% in 2020 due to Covid-19||Global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions are likely to fall by 4% to 7% in 2020 due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown and associated slowdown, according to a United in Science 2020 report released by UN secretary general Antonio Guterres on Wednesday.During the peak of Covid-19 lockdown in early April, the daily global CO2 emissions dropped to 2006 levels falling by 17% compared to 2019. By early June however daily fossil fuel CO2 emissions returned to within 5% below 2019 levels.The exact decline in CO2 emissions this year will depend on the trajectory of the pandemic and government responses to address it, the report said.The Energy Review 2020 by the International Energy Agency released in April also had similar estimates. It had said that global CO2 emissions are expected to decline by 8%, or almost 2.6 gigatonnes (Gt), to levels of 10 years ago due to massive fall in energy demand and economic shock this year. Such a year-on year reduction in CO2 emissions would be the largest ever, six times larger than the fall recorded after the 2008 financial crisis and twice as large as all previous reductions since world war II.But this dip in CO2 emissions hasn’t made any impact on global CO2 concentrations. Independent experts said the Covid-19 lockdown should be a learning for the world on how it could reduce emissions in coming years but ensuring that the economy is not disrupted.The world is set to see its warmest five years on record and is not on track to meet the Paris Agreement targets to keep global temperature increase well below 2 degree C or at 1.5 degree C above pre-industrial levels, the report drafted by multiple agencies including World Meteorological Organization, Global Carbon Project, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission said on Wednesday.Atmospheric CO2 concentrations made new records in 2020. For example, benchmark stations in the WMO Global Atmosphere Watch (GAW) network reported CO2 concentrations above 410 parts per million (ppm) during the first half of 2020, with Mauna Loa (Hawaii) and Cape Grim (Tasmania) at 414.38 ppm and 410.04 ppm, respectively, in July 2020, up from 411.74 ppm and 407.83 ppm in July 2019.“Greenhouse gas concentrations - which are already at their highest levels in 3 million years - have continued to rise. Meanwhile, large swathes of Siberia have seen a prolonged and remarkable heatwave during the first half of 2020, which would have been very unlikely without anthropogenic climate change. And now 2016–2020 is set to be the warmest five-year period on record. This report shows that whilst many aspects of our lives have been disrupted in 2020, climate change has continued unabated,” said WMO Secretary-General, Professor Petteri Taalas.The Emissions Gap Report of 2019 referred to by the United in Science report has said that the cuts in global emissions required per year from 2020 to 2030 are about 3% to meet the 2 degree C target and more than 7% per year on average to meet the 1.5 degree C goal under the Paris Agreement.The average global temperature for 2016–2020 is expected to be the warmest on record, about 1.1 degree C above pre-industrial levels and 0.24 degree C warmer than the global average temperature for 2011-2015, the report added.The Covid 19 pandemic has had significant impacts on the global observing systems, which, in turn, have affected the quality of forecasts and other weather, climate and ocean-related services, the report said.“This has been an unprecedented year for people and the planet. The Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted lives worldwide. At the same time, the heating of our planet and climate disruption has continued apace. Never before has it been so clear that we need long-term, inclusive, clean transitions to tackle the climate crisis and achieve sustainable development,” UN Secretary-General António Guterres has said in the foreword of the report.Climate scientists said a temporary fall in emissions will not make a difference to atmospheric CO2 concentrations. “Carbon dioxide has a long life-time. So even if we stop all emission right now, the CO2 in the atmosphere will remain for several hundreds of years. Around 40% of the CO2 emitted now will remain even after 100 years, and 20% will remain even after a thousand years. This is why a temporary reduction in daily emissions has not changed the climate scenario. The damage is already done. What we are trying to do is stop it from worsening further,” explained Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.“Covid-19 led lockdowns across geographies resulted in temporary reduction in emissions, which will have very little impact on long term CO2 trajectory. We should take this period as a learning and continue to keep the emissions down over coming years under the slower than expected demand and through aggressive transition to cleaner and sustainable forms of energy such as renewables,” said Sunil Dahiya, analyst, Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-co2-emissions-to-fall-by-up-to-7-in-2020-due-to-covid-19/story-MqZbfdpC7VR9mAfr3wXmvO.html
10-09-2020||India||First Indira Gandhi Chair for environmental sciences set up||The Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust on Wednesday set up the first Indira Gandhi Chair in Environmental Sciences in collaboration with Bengaluru-based National Institute of Advanced Studies to commemorate two of the former prime minister’s passions — ecology and science. “I recall that she (Indira Gandhi) established the ministry of environment in November 1980 and she remained its cabinet minister until her death four years later,” Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said at the launch. “All through her tenure in this position distinguished scientists served as secretaries in the ministry.” Sonia Gandhi also added that Indira Gandhi was drawn to the natural habitat. “Throughout her life Indira Gandhi was fascinated by and drawn to Nature in all its aspects. ..The Silent Valley decision is perhaps the most telling example,” said Gandhi, referring to a decision by the former PM in 1983 to call off a hydroelectric project in the national park in Kerala. She also emphasised the personal commitment of Indira Gandhi to protect wildlife, preserve forests and combat air and water pollution. “A number of conservation programmes for endangered species, in which we now take pride, were conceived of and launched because of her personal concern and involvement. And when the world had not yet discovered the value and virtue of environmental protection, she was the only Prime Minister to address the first ever UN Conference on the Human Environment at Stockholm in June 1972,” Sonia said. “Today, more than ever before, we need that courage and resolve,” she added. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was also present at the launch. “Her years as Prime Minister are peppered with path-breaking initiatives in the realm of science and technology. While ISRO was already in fledgling existence and the cooperative milk movement had started earlier, it was she who pushed the space programme and the white revolution to new heights. Who can forget the moment when Rakesh Sharma, the first Indian astronaut, told her that from outer space, India appeared to him as “sare jehan se achcha”,” he said. He added that environmental sciences were “gaining in urgency as we witness global warming and numerous environment-related challenges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-indira-gandhi-chair-for-environmental-sciences-set-up/story-FAJDGlU6Er0GedRHq9zJ5H.html
10-09-2020||India||RBI seeks exemption from data protection law||The Reserve Bank of India has sought exemption from the country’s proposed Personal Data Protection Law for its regulatory, policy, and supervisory functions, and also does not want financial data of individuals to be classified as sensitive personal data, according to people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because the law is yet to be finalised. “We would request that the monetary, regulatory and supervisory functions of the RBI as well as its role as the operator of payment systems may be exempt from the purview of the Bill,” the central bank said in a note, the contents of which have been reviewed by HT. And treading financial data as sensitive personal data may may have a “dampening effect” on India’s efforts at financial inclusion, it added. Both are in keeping with international norms.For instance, the UK and Europe’s data protection laws exempt central banks from their purview, and also do not classify financial data as sensitive personal data; only biometric and health data, and such things as sexual orientation, religious beliefs, union membership and political opinion are classified as sensitive personal data in these countries. The latter require special and extra security while processing. Indeed, in its note, RBI has cited the exemption provided to the Bank of England from the UK’s personal data protection act and a similar exemption to the central bank in Malaysia: “We would request that the monetary, regulatory and supervisory functions of RBI as well as its role as the operator of payment systems may be exempt from the purview of the Bill.”A banker said that RBI routinely deals with lots of data on banks and financial institutions in its role as a regulator and supervisor. It has data on senior bank employees; it has data on the clients of banks; and much of this is needed to ensure compliance, prevent frauds, and ensure the smooth running of the system, this person added, asking not to be named. The banking regulator has also gone a step further and suggested that instead of the Central government, “sectoral regulators be given the power to classify personal data as critical.” Any critical data, according to the proposed act, can be processed only in India. Objecting to classification of financial data as sensitive personal data , RBI’s note maintained that this would lead to higher compliance and explicit consent, which “would translate to increase in costs for providing services to customers. Financial inclusion efforts rely on lower service charges for offering basic banking services. The increase in costs would compel banks to increase the charges associated with offering banking services.”RBI’s note also pointed out that countries such as the UK, France, Germany and Italy do not make such a classification. Privacy experts said the RBI cannot legally claim an exemption from the obligations that stem from the 2017 Supreme Court ruling as the Puttuswamy judgment, which upheld privacy as a fundamental right for Indian citizens. “What the bill does is flesh out that right in terms of the actual actions that need to be done. Even if the PDP (personal data protection) bill does not apply to them, they can still be held liable under the Puttuswamy judgment,” said Rahul Matthan, partner-lawyer at the law firm Trilegal and author of Privacy 3.0.“Provisions of the PDP bill are clarificatory in nature to explain principles of minimisations and proportionality,” he added.The Personal Data Protection bill, introduced in Indian Parliament in 2019, aims to create the first legal framework to protect privacy of the country’s citizens after it was held as a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in 2017. In the digital landscape where data is the key asset, the bill lays down the obligations of entities or data fiduciaries handling personal data and the rights that the owners of the data (termed as data principals). In the bill, financial data, in addition to biometrics and information about health, gender, genetics etc, is defined as sensitive personal data on which certain strict rules on consent, processing and storage apply. For instance, any entity dealing with sensitive personal data has the onus to prove that consent was obtained in an informed manner and that it will have the legal obligation in case the consent is withdrawn by the data principal. The banking regulator underlined that the data retention period mandated by the bill is not in alignment with the RBI circulars on data storage. These mandate that if processing is done abroad, payment data should be deleted from the systems abroad and brought back to India within 24 hours.“For cross-border transactions, RBI has allowed storage of copy of payment data abroad. In case of banks, especially foreign banks, RBI has also allowed storage of banking data abroad. But the provisions of the bill do not enable such storage,” the note said.Pointing out that Clause 33(2) empowers the Centre to classify personal data as critical and mandate its processing exclusively within India, RBI argued, “This will take away Reserve Bank’s power to say what data can be stored and processed in India.”Seeking exemptions for its functions from the proposed legislation, RBI pointed out that it works towards the grater objectives of ensuring monetary and financial stability, strengthening banking and non-banking system and regulating payment process. “The personal data collected by RBI is incidental to the functions and not for deriving any commercial gain,” it said.It also said that data is collected by regulated entities and not directly by RBI and as “data fiduciaries, the entities themselves would have met the obligations towards data principals.”It further stated that as the owner and operator of RTGS and NEFT, India’s key payment routes, “it would not be practical for RBI to give notice, obtain consent etc, in carrying out the payment system actively.” RBI has suggested that clauses may be amended to exclude regulatory statues such as RBI Act, the Banking Regulation Act, Payment and Settlement System Act from the overriding reach of the data protection law.The bill does have exemptions that allow personal data to be processed for protecting national security, pursing investigations and complying with court orders, and for journalistic purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-seeks-exemption-from-data-protection-law/story-kwQzNs614s0C56VK6HTCJP.html
10-09-2020||India||‘Couple in love’ garlanded with shoes, paraded in UP village: Cops||Twelve people were arrested in Kushinagar district of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday after a man and a woman were made to wear a garland of shoes and paraded in a village there over an alleged affair, the police said.The incident took place in the Hata police station area of Kushinagar and a video of it surfaced on social media, they added.The man and the woman who resided in the same locality were supposedly in love, said police, adding that the family members of the woman opposed the relationship. When the man came to meet the woman on Monday night, her family caught hold of him and locked him up in a room, the police added.The ‘sabhasad’ (representative of the ward) is among those taken into custody, superintendent of police (Kushinagar) Vinod Kumar Mishra said.“A video of Hata area of the district went viral on social media which shows that a woman and a man were made to wear a garland of shoes and with blackened faces they were paraded in the village. Police have taken cognisance of the matter and 12 people, including the ‘sabhasad’, have been taken into custody,” he said.“Police are interrogating them. Strict action will be taken against the culprit,” the SP added.The representative of the local ward Hamid Ansari allegedly directed his associates to beat them, blacken their faces and forced them to march in the lanes of the locality. During interrogation, Ansari gave information about his associates and local residents involved in parading the couple, said station house officer (Hata police station) Gyanendra Kumar Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-in-love-garlanded-with-shoes-paraded-in-up-village-cops/story-wqAythdOh4I4aQOw0AKLAP.html
10-09-2020||India||Pick Lok Sabha deputy speaker, says Opposition||A day after the Congress proposed fielding a joint opposition candidate for the post of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson, opposition parties have started demanding that the Lok Sabha fill the post of deputy speaker, a position lying vacant since the Narendra Modi government came to power for its second term in May 2019. Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Chowdhury wrote a letter to speaker Om Birla and Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien penned a blog criticising the Modi government for not appointing a deputy speaker. “According to constitutional mandate the seat of the Deputy Speaker of Lok Sabha should be filled either by election or consensus as early as may after a new Lok Sabha is constituted,” Chowdhury wrote in the letter, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT. Chowdhury noted that the Rajya Sabha is on the verge of electing a deputy chairman, emphasising that it was an “opportune moment” to elect the deputy speaker of the lower house.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government has not yet indicated if it wants to appoint a deputy speaker during the monsoon session that begins on September 14 with a packed schedule of legislative business and debates. O’Brien attacked the government for the delay in the appointment. “What does one say when a government with a comfortable majority has managed to do something which hasn’t been done since 1952 – take 450 days to elect a Deputy Speaker? That is six months more than what has ever been taken,” he wrote in his blog. O’Brien pointed out that the post of deputy speaker “usually is given to the principal opposition party in the Lok Sabha.”“This trend started in the 6th Lok Sabha of 1977 when the then Prime Minister Morarji Desai of the Janata Party offered the post to the Opposition, making Godey Murahari of the Congress the Deputy Speaker. The post has also been given out to allies in the 7th Lok Sabha of 1980 and the 8th Lok Sabha of 1984,” O’Brien pointed out.The Trinamool leader also lashed out at “the BJP’s aversion to letting the Opposition create any space for itself in parliament.”“It gets worse with every passing session. Question Hour has been cancelled with sloppy excuses being made. Zero Hour in the forthcoming monsoon session has now been reduced from 60 to 30 minutes (might as well rename it Zero Half Hour!). Many other parliamentary practices and precedents have been set aside by an arrogant government which is slowly weakening every great institution,” O’Brien wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pick-rs-dy-chairperson-says-oppn/story-pGnpUjgEIXWa9Mkc3fofGL.html
10-09-2020||India||To enhance combat potential, IAF to formally induct Rafale jets in Ambala today||The Indian Air Force will formally induct the Rafale fighter jets at the Ambala air base on Thursday in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart Florence Parly, the IAF said in a statement on Wednesday. Five Rafales of the 36 ordered by the IAF arrived at the Ambala airbase on July 29, ending the IAF’s agonizing wait for new fighter jets to sharpen its combat potential. While IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and other senior officials welcomed the Rafales and the pilots on their arrival, a formal induction ceremony is being held now. These Rafale jets are part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the ‘Golden Arrows’. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, defence secretary Ajay Kumar and Defence Research and Development Organisation chief G Satheesh Reddy are among the dignitaries attending the ceremony. Dassault Aviation chairman Eric Trappier will also be present. Rafales are manufactured by Dassault Aviation. “At Ambala, the programme will include ceremonial unveiling of the Rafale aircraft, a traditional ‘Sarva Dharma Puja’, air display by Rafale and Tejas aircraft as well as by the Sarang helicopter aerobatic team,” the IAF statement said. After the ceremonial events, the Indian and French delegations will hold a bilateral meeting, it added. The next batch of three to four Rafale jets is expected to reach Ambala from France in October followed by a third batch in December, officials said. All deliveries will be completed by the end of 2021. India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016. India’s new Rafale fighters will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of the air force and prove to be a game changer with their advanced weaponry, high-tech sensors, superior radar for detection and tracking of targets and ability to carry an impressive payload, experts previously told Hindustan Times. The Rafale weaponry includes Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles --- weapons that allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-enhance-combat-potential-iaf-to-formally-induct-rafale-jets-in-ambala-today/story-xAqd6K0n7pX2BNlogvcSWL.html
10-09-2020||India||Kashmir poised for a saffron surge||As the monsoon recedes over North India, the flatlands in Pampore, the picturesque part of South Kashmir ringed by the Khrew mountain range, buzzes to life with farmers readying their fields for the saffron crop that flowers by mid-October. Their hopes for a high yield and better prices are already blossoming this season thanks to the state-of-the-art Spice Park at Dusoo in the saffron hub of Pulwama district. The centre will receive its first lot of fresh flowers from the fields this season. The produce will be put through a cold chain for scientific drying, processing and grading before the centre facilitates farmers to e-trade their geographical indication or GI-tagged produce on a pan-India portal. The newly commissioned facility is the first of its kind in Asia and marks a ground-breaking shift for Kashmir’s centuries-old saffron trade in which the harvest was traditionally sun-dried at home by farmers and sold in markets through middlemen. CHANGE IS IN THE AIR Pulwama, the land of saffron, annually produces 80 quintals of high-quality produce with a turnover of Rs 120 crore-Rs 140 crore. As the most expensive spice, the market price of one gram of top grade saffron can vary between Rs 250-Rs 300. Typically, a grower gets half of that as the middlemen control the market. This April, Jammu and Kashmir got the GI tag for home-grown saffron. The GI tag is a code given to a certain product that has a specific geographical location or origin. Come November and Kashmir’s saffron trade will change radically. “The GI-tag will put a stamp of originality on Kashmiri saffron and significantly enhance the farmer’s marketing reach and fetch them a far better price in the national and international markets,” says Pulwama deputy commissioner Dr Raghav Langer. Farmers too are looking forward to the change in the offing. “The GI-tag and e-auction will be a game changer,” says Abdul Majeed, chairman of the J&K Saffron Growers Development and Marketing Cooperative Association, an umbrella body representing 37,000 families into saffron cultivation. “It will benefit both farmers and consumers.” IT’S ADVANTAGE FARMERS The Rs 40-crore park has been set up as part of the National Saffron Mission, a centrally-funded Rs 410-crore project launched in 2010 to rejuvenate saffron cultivation in Kashmir. Abdul Rashid Illayee, the project manager of Spice Park, says Kashmiri saffron is considered best because of its colour, aroma and flavour. “Before the GI-tag, the saffron from Iran and Spain used to be sold under the Kashmir brand to the disadvantage of local farmers,” he said. The Spice Park can store two metric tonnes of flowers for 48 hours. After the flower’s stigma, which forms the saffron, is separated, the farmers’ produce will be coded, dried scientifically and tested in the laboratory on eight quality parameters. So far, 250 saffron growers have registered for the e-auction of their packaged GI-tagged produce to pan-India buyers. SEAL OF AUTHENTICITY The Spice Park has applied for accreditation to provide farmers access to international markets. “The traditional drying methods at the farmers’ end invariably caused contamination and loss of quality but all that will now change for the better,” says Illayee. “Saffron growers will now be able to directly sell their produce through the e-auction portal that fetches them a much better price. The GI tag is a seal of authenticity,” says Dr Inam-ur Rasool, in-charge of the e-auction. Officials say that the J&K government will fix the base price for the bidding. “Even after bidding, the base price can go up and brokers who used to take growers for a ride, will get eliminated,” says Dr Rasool. FROM RED TO SAFFRON Prior to the National Saffron Mission, Pampore’s signature crop was in the red. The rain-fed saffron belt has seen a steady decline from 5,000 hectares to 3,000 hectares in the last two decades. The reasons range from recurring droughts, absence of an irrigation system, growing urbanisation and commercial pressures on the prime saffron land on the Srinagar-Jammu highway. Due to slump in profits, many farmers switched from cultivating the delicate crop to apple orchards. Over the past decade, the project has focused on standardisation of seed (bulbs), scientific packaging and subsidised drip irrigation. This has helped rejuvenate the saffron crop and increase the area under cultivation to 3,700 hectares. Pulwama alone accounts for 3,200 hectares. BETTER YIELD EXPECTED Majeed, one of the big saffron cultivators, says most of the work under the mission is complete. “We are awaiting the testing of drip irrigation. The pipes have been laid and 104 bore wells dug, however, the irrigation system hasn’t been connected with the supply line. Once that’s done, production will increase manifold and drought won’t impact this crop,” he says. Pulwama chief agriculture officer Mohammad Qasim Ghani says that the National Saffron Mission has been extended for two years. The results are tangible in terms of the yield. “Last year, Pulwama produced 12 tonnes of saffron. This time, due to good rainfall last month, it is likely to touch 16 tonnes,” says Ghani. All eyes are on the Spice Park as Kashmir’s saffron is poised to reap rich dividends on the back of new paradigms of quality and marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-poised-for-a-saffron-surge/story-6Lkfur36bLOnMX2D3UcX4H.html
10-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik’s bail plea to be heard by Mumbai court today||A special court in Mumbai will hear the bail applications of Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik on Thursday, the actor’s lawyer said on Wednesday. Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday for her alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Chakraborty was produced before a local court in Mumbai after her arrest on Tuesday. The court rejected the actor’s bail plea and sent her to judicial custody till September 22. After her arrest, Chakraborty was taken for a medical check-up and Covid-19 test, following which she spent the night at NCB’s office in south Mumbai and was shifted to Byculla jail on Wednesday. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s unseen videos recorded by Rhea Chakraborty go viral. WatchThe NCB has claimed in the remand application that Chakraborty used to procure drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput. The agency has also claimed that Chakraborty also used to “manage finances for drug procurement along with Rajput”.Chakraborty was arrested after three days of questioning by the NCB which has already arrested her brother Showik, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and his house help Dipesh Sawant.Rhea Chakraborty has also been under the scanner of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) for different angles in the probe, including siphoning of funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rhea-chakraborty-s-bail-plea-in-mumbai-court-tomorrow/story-NWOtcZk4LtwVFlT0iqVLXP.html
