11-09-2020||India||Khalistan push exists only due to Pak backing: Expert||TorontoThe idea of a breakaway Sikh nation is a fantasy that exists only due to the backing of Pakistan to Khalistan extremists, says the author of an explosive report detailing Islamabad’s role in fomenting terrorism in Punjab.Veteran Canadian journalist Terry Milewski, who wrote the report Khalistan: A Project of Pakistan, also asserted that the so-called Referendum 2020 will only be voted on by those who are already separatist elements and thus may result in skewing the outcome.“I believe that without Pakistan they (Khalistanis) wouldn’t have much to live for. It would be all rhetorical, all performative, with no substance,” Milewski told HT in an interview.“This thing isn’t real, it’s just a fantasy. Pakistan gives them something, gives the Khalistanis an illusion that their dream might become a reality,” said Milewski, who spent decades with Canada’s national broadcaster CBC, including years as a prime time news host.Milewski said his objective behind bringing out the report at this time was because the Punjab Referendum 2020, organised by the separatist group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), is scheduled for November.He pointed out that election results in India have clearly shown that Khalistan has little popular support, and that even within the Sikh community in Canada, the vast majority will not participate in the process.However, that will ensure the results of the referendum are skewed in favour of those that actually support Khalistan. “The problem is, it’s a referendum of the people that support the referendum,” he said.The results, however insignificant they may be, “is designed to rally supporters” of a waning Khalistan cause, he added.Milewski’s report was released by the think tank MacDonald-Laurier Institute (MLI) in Ottawa. It places the focus sharply upon Pakistan’s role in the Khalistan issue, which it fanned since the 1970s and continues to till this day.It traces the origins of the Khalistan project to Zulqikar Ali Bhutto, Pakistani prime minister in the early 1970s. It was fomented further by military dictator Zia ul Haq. The report also points to the links of Canadians involved in the movement to Pakistan, including the visits of Talwinder Singh Parmar there.Parmar is considered the mastermind behind the bombing of Kanishka, the Air India flight 182, in June 1985, which claimed 329 lives and remains the worst incident of terrorism in Canadian history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khalistan-push-exists-only-due-to-pak-backing-expert/story-11iW4lfEQ9Sbhb0o7m0AYM.html
11-09-2020||India||Hyderabad doctors perform first-ever double lung transplant for Covid-19 patient||Doctors at Hyderabad-based Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) on Friday claimed to have performed India’s first-ever double lung transplant surgery on a Covid-19 patient.The patient, Md Rizwan alias Monu, 32, from Chandigarh, received lungs from a brain-dead person in Kolkata. Upon recovery, he was discharged from the hospital on Friday. “Post discharge, the patient needs close monitoring, bio bubble environment and careful drug control for at least six weeks,” Dr Sandeep Attawar, who led the team of doctors in the surgery, told reporters.Dr Attawar, a thoracic organ transplantation surgeon at KIMS, said Rizwan was admitted to the hospital last month with severe sarcoidosis that later led to fibrosis of the lungs. As the condition of the patient deteriorated rapidly, a double lung transplant was the only permanent option for cure, he said.Also read: Sonia Gandhi reconstitutes Congress; Azad, Ambika Soni dropped as general secretaries“Such patients are extremely sick, undernourished and bed-ridden before the transplant. In the case of Rizwan, the situation worsened when the patient contracted Covid-19 while awaiting his double lung transplant. Due to Covid-19, his oxygen requirement increased from 15 litres to 50 litres per minute in the past eight weeks,” he said.Fortunately, a match to his lungs was found in a person who was declared braindead in Kolkata. The harvested lungs were airlifted to Hyderabad to save Rizwan’s life. “The procedure was complex and had little scope for errors. Only a timely transplant of lungs helped save the patient,” Dr Attawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-doctors-perform-first-ever-double-lung-transplant-for-covid-19-patient/story-xf0AQKxsvhnKwwzhdbJ2CL.html
11-09-2020||India||In reference to China, India and US discuss ‘destabilising actions’ in region||India and the US of Friday discussed efforts to counteract “recent destabilising actions” in South Asia - a reference to Chinese aggression along the border in Ladakh - and the broader Indo-Pacific region.“The two sides discussed a range of bilateral, regional, and multilateral issues, including combating Covid-19, counterterrorism, India’s membership on the UN Security Council, support for good governance and sustainable development in the Indo-Pacific region, and efforts to counteract recent destabilising actions in South Asia and the broader Indo-Pacific region,” the state department said in a release on the intersessional meeting of the US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue. The 2+2 is a format of dialogue established between the defence and foreign ministers or secretaries of the two countries.The third annual minister-level meeting is scheduled for later this year.Chinese aggression along the border has figured in India-US talks and discussions frequently, and it has been strongly condemned by the Trump administration as well as lawmakers from both parties.The US officials pledged to continue working with their Indian counterparts to advance the US-India partnership for the benefit of both countries, the region, and the world and “looked forward to preparing for the ministerial dialogue later this year,” said the US statement issued after the virtual meeting on Friday.Officials from the two sides welcomed the opportunity to discuss the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, noting increased closeness and cooperation across bilateral ties, the department said.They also “agreed to further strengthen” consultations through United States-India-Australia-Japan Quadrilateral, or Quad, mechanism.The US underscored the importance of India’s status as a Major Defence Partner, growing military-to-military cooperation, and other defence priorities, the state department added.The US side was represented by principal deputy assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asian Affairs Dean Thompson and principal deputy assistant secretary of defence for Indo-Pacific security affairs David Helvey. The Indian delegation was led jointly by Vani Rao, joint secretary (Americas) in the external affairs ministry and Somnath Ghosh, joint secretary (international cooperation) in the defence ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-reference-to-china-india-and-us-discuss-destabilising-actions-in-region/story-dJuaj32d5xdoP3rlnkZgdL.html
11-09-2020||India||Forest ranger paying wages for road work killed by Maoists in Chhattisgarh||A forest ranger in Chhattisgarh was allegedly hacked to death by Maoists in Bijapur district of Bastar division on Friday, police said. He was 49.As per Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P, the incident took place at around 3 pm when ranger Rathram Patel had reached Kondronji village under Jangla police station limits, about 45 km away from Bijapur town, to pay wages to villagers for road construction work in the forest area.Police said that the Maoists abducted the ranger and took him to school in the village and then killed him with a sharp edged weapon.Patel was posted at the Indravati Tiger Reserve as Ranger of Bhairamgarh forest range and was a resident of Balodabazar district which comes under Raipur division.Soon after the incident, SP Bijapur reached the spot. Police have registered a case in this connection and investigation is underway.Police said that around 15 militia cadres of Maoists were involved in the attack on the officer.“Two forest guards, who accompanied Patel, managed to flee the scene when the Maoists attacked him with sharp weapons,” police said.A police team reached the spot and recovered the body, the IG said, adding that a search operation has been launched for the Maoists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-ranger-paying-wages-for-road-work-killed-by-maoists-in-chhattisgarh/story-3QLM2grn8E9C3wS2nHXpQO.html
11-09-2020||India||Amid border tensions with China, IAF’s Central Air Command chief holds crucial meeting with Uttarakhand CM||Amid ongoing border tensions with China, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Central Air Command, Air Marshal Rajesh Kumar met chief minister Uttarakhand Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday evening. Kumar and CM Rawat discussed the requirement of land for Advanced Landing Ground (ALG) and setting up air defence radar facilities in the state. According to the statement released by the CM’s office, Air Marshal Kumar, while discussing the requirement of land for the aforementioned requirements with CM Rawat, stated that considering the present circumstances, establishing air defence radar systems and air-strips in a border state like Uttarakhand is vital. Air Marshal Kumar said, “Like the states of North East India, establishing radar facilities in state’s bordering districts of Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Uttarkashi will help the IAF”. During the meeting, the senior IAF officer, who was accompanied by two other IAF officers, also urged the CM for the “expansion of Pantnagar, Jolly Grant and Pithoragarh airports and provide land for Choukhutia airport in the state”. Also read: India-US statement panned Pak over terror. China rushes to its defenceIn response, CM Rawat assured him all possible support from the state government to its requirements including land for ALG and radar facilities. “On the demand for the land of ALG and radar facilities, the CM said the appointment of nodal officers at IAF and government level will jointly earmark the land as per the requirements as soon as possible,” the statement stated. “The people of Uttarakhand have always been contributing to the armed forces and will be more than happy to support the IAF in its requirements here,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-border-tensions-with-china-iaf-s-central-air-command-chief-holds-crucial-meeting-with-uttarakhand-cm/story-l790YoHfU0FOerYQx5S56M.html
11-09-2020||India||Visually impaired man sells home-made snacks after losing job to Covid lockdown||A visually impaired man in Ahmedabad took to streets to sell home-made snacks after he lost his employment due to lockdown imposed as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 pandemic. “I’ve learnt how to be ‘Aatmanirbhar’. I was determined to not depend on others. Many people supported me,” Thakkar Ashwin told ANI. The man, along with his wife Geeta, started cooking home-made savoury snacks and selling it on the streets to help earn money to take care of his and his family’s livelihood.Many people in the country lost their jobs due to the lockdown imposed in March end as India started to report Covid-19 cases. The Indian economy, too, took a major hit. India on Wednesday reported nearly 90,000 new cases and 1,115 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the tally and death toll to 4,370,129 and 73,890 respectively.Over the last few weeks, India has seen a constant spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)cases recorded in a single day. According to the ministry of health and family welfare, 60 per cent of the daily recoveries where reported from 5 states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.Around 354,2663 people recovered from Covid-19 in India on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visually-imparied-man-sells-home-made-snacks-after-losing-job-to-covid-lockdown/story-7Lec1mCsVNQgdru0YlBWpK.html
11-09-2020||India||J-K Lt Guv launches Integrated Grievance Redress and Monitoring System||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday announced the start of public grievance redressal called JK i-grams (Jammu and Kashmir integrated grievance redress and monitoring system) in Srinagar, Jammu and Reasi on a pilot basis.Speaking at a press conference here, Sinha said, ‘We have taken an important step. We are starting public grievance redressal called JK i-grams (Jammu & Kashmir integrated grievance redress & monitoring system) in Srinagar, Jammu & Reasi on a pilot basis. It will be in place in every village before October 2.”“Jammu and Kashmir will be the first Union Territory (UT) to be linked with Centre’s CPgram,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-lt-guv-launches-integrated-grievance-redress-and-monitoring-system/story-JDsaiaKT5eHSbX13ANLmaJ.html
11-09-2020||India||Biplab Deb lays foundation stone for Tripura’s first Special Economic Zone||Sabroom, 130 km from Agartala, will emerge as the gateway to South Asia and will be the northeast region’s commerce capital, said Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Friday while laying the foundation stone for the state’s first special economic zone (SEZ).“Nearly 5,000 jobs are expected to be created through the SEZ. The SEZ will help in export and import. Sabroom will become the gateway to South Asia and the commerce capital of the northeast region with the SEZ and a second Integrated Check Post soon,” said Deb at the ceremony.Union Minister Piyush Goyal, through a video message, praised the initiative, saying that the Central government, ministry of railways and the Tripura government are working together to develop the state.The SEZ is being built at an estimated cost of Rs 635 crore and would focus on food processing, rubber, bamboo and textile sectors.It would be would be set up at Sabroom’s Paschim Jalefa village, which is close to Bangladesh’s Chittagong Port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biplab-deb-lays-foundation-stone-for-tripura-s-first-special-economic-zone/story-JL6nKG77lCPjkajNPS7ngP.html
11-09-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi reconstitutes Congress; Azad, Ambika Soni dropped as general secretaries||In a major shake up, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday reconstituted the party’s working committee as she appointed new faces and dropped several senior leaders. The Congress chief also formed a special committee to assist her in party matters.Congress appointed new general secretaries and state in-charges of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), whereas senior leaders such as Ghulam Nabi Azad, Motilal Vora, Ambika Soni, Mallikarjun Kharge and Luizinho Falerio were dropped from their posts as general secretaries.However, Azad and Soni, will continue in the reconstituted working committee. The party also reshuffled the Central Election Authority. The CEA now consists of Madhusudan Mistry as the chairman and members Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani, Arvinder Singh Lovely.Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala was appointed as the new general secretary for Karnataka, whereas Jitendra Singh was appointed for Assam.Ajay Maken was appointed as the new general secretary for Rajasthan.Ghulam Nabi Azad was one of 23 leaders who had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi, requesting for a complete overhaul of Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-major-shift-sonia-gandhi-reconstitutes-congress-ghulam-nabi-azar-ambika-sonia-dropped-as-general-secretaries/story-jZRLTeyhhS4ovyWCSJzSPJ.html
11-09-2020||India||Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanna Galrani’s police custody extended in drug case||A court in Karnataka has extended the police custody of Kannada actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanna Galrani and four others in the Bengaluru drug racket case till Monday. Ragini Dwivedi was arrested on September 5 and had been remanded in police custody till Friday, while Galrani had been arrested on Tuesday.Even as Ragini’s lawyer argued that since his client was already in police custody for a week and had told them whatever she knew, the public prosecutor sought the custody of all arrested for six more days.Stating that the accused had not been cooperative, police sought further custody of them for further interrogation. The judge finally ordered that all of them would continue to be in police custody for the next three days.Meanwhile, the Central Crime Branch police said that they had arrested alleged drug peddler Pratheek Shetty who is listed as accused No.15 in an FIR filed in the Cottonpet police station. He is the seventh person among the 15 named in the FIR who have been arrested.Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday that the ED was also looking into the financial angle and whether hawla transfer of money was involved in the drug and substance abuse case. “While CCB will continue its investigation, the ED is reviewing matters that come under its purview as drug transactions have financial implications with foreign connections too.”In the continued statewide crackdown on drug peddlers, the Shivamogga district crime intelligence bureau in a joint operation with Shikaripura rural police on Friday said that they have seized 27.5 kg of Cannabis. The two accused, Nageshwara Rao and Swami Rao, are said to be absconding even as a case against them has been registered under the NDPS act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ragini-dwivedi-sanjjanna-galrani-s-police-custody-extended-in-drug-case/story-BRXP25DbQXHuvM8pPa1WyM.html
11-09-2020||India||No lockdown in Punjab on September 13 for NEET 2020 exam||Ahead of NEET 2020 on September 13, the Punjab government on Friday announced that there would be no lockdown on this Sunday to ensure NEET 2020 candidates do not face any inconvenience. On Wednesday, the government announced partial relaxation of its weekend lockdown norms, restricting lockdowns only on Sundays till September 30. This Sunday, there will be no lockdown, the government has clarified. However, shops selling non-essential items will remain closed on this Sunday as well.At present, the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities is prohibited between 9.30 pm to 5 am within municipal limits of all cities of Punjab throughout the week.Essential activities, interstate and intrastate transport, transport of goods, movement of passengers arriving at the state or departing from the state are allowed.Shops or malls, except those dealing in essential commodities, are allowed to remain open till 9 pm from Monday to Saturday but would be closed in all cities on Sunday.Ban all social, political, religious gatherings, protests, and demonstrations will continue to remain in force.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-in-punjab-on-september-13-for-neet-2020-exam/story-TcINJHzXdMxTOYWTFdztwM.html
11-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Fugitive Nirav Modi will not get fair trial in India, says former SC judge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Nirav Modi won’t get fair trial in India’: Ex-SC judge Katju tells London courtFugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi will not get a fair trial in India if extradited to face charges of major financial offences, former Supreme Court judge Markandey Katju claimed on Friday while deposing as a defence witness in the Westminster Magistrates’ Court. Read moreMP incurred loss of Rs 9,500 crore due to heavy rainfall, floods: CM ChouhanMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said that torrential rainfall and floods during the last week of August resulted in a loss of Rs 9,500 crore to the state adding that the same was communicated to a central team which arrived in MP on Thursday to assess the damage. Read moreAs priests contract Covid-19, uncertainty looms over opening of Jagannath templeWith 167 of the 2,000 sevayats or priests of the 12th century Jagannath temple in Puri infected by Covid-19, the opening of the temple to public now seems to be shrouded in uncertainty. On August 31, the state government had decided that none of the religious places in the state will be opened till September 30. Read moreKim Jong Un showed off headless body of his executed uncle | All you need to know about Jang Song ThaekIn his latest revelation about mystery-shrouded Pyongang, US President Donald Trump has told Bob Woodwoard, who is writing a book on Trump, that Kim Jong Un had ordered the killing of his uncle, Jang Song Thaek, and the headless body of Jang was displayed to senior North Korean officials. Read moreIPL 2020: Would back Ambati Rayudu to take Suresh Raina’s place in CSK - StyrisAt a time when there is a lot of talk around the replacement of Suresh Raina in the Chennai Super Kings squad, former New Zealand all-rounder Scott Styris picked Ambati Rayudu to bat at No.3 for CSK in IPL 2020. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law backs Ankita Lokhande: ‘Please don’t take the jibes made by paid PR seriously’Vishal Kirti, brother-in-law of Sushant Singh Rajput, has extended support to Ankita Lokhande amid her war of words with Shibani Dandekar. Shibani had accused Ankita of encouraging the ‘witch-hunt’ against Rhea Chakraborty, the prime accused in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Read moreUbisoft is bringing back Prince of Persia with a full-scale remake and it has a special India connectionMost gamers will remember the iconic Prince of Persia game that was launched in 1989. Over the years the franchise has undergone a range of improvements and upgrades but now, for 2021, it’s getting a full-blown rehaul. Read moreShahid Kapoor’s post-cycling selfies are setting coronavirus lockdown fitness goalsShahid Kapoor has always been a fitness fanatic, whether its ensuring he is always ripped in his real life or following some seriously crazy diets for his onscreen roles. The actor and his wife, Mira Rajput Kapoor, have often been spotted (before the lockdown) heading together to the gym. Read more‘How’s X AE A-XII?’ Elon Musk is asked. His puzzled reaction has caught people’s attentionEver since his birth in May, X AE A-XII, singer Grimes and Tesla CEO Elon Musk’s son, has made headlines thanks to his name. The unique moniker sparked countless reactions - from people genuinely wondering how to pronounce it to many sharing memes, the name has been the talk of social media. Read moreWatch| ‘You don’t demolish Dawood’s house’: Fadnavis slams Sena over Kangana case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-fugitive-nirav-modi-will-not-get-fair-trial-in-india-says-former-sc-judge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-b6P2ZCKCBCXArBGa8CW8RN.html
11-09-2020||India||ED questions Kerala minister in gold smuggling case||Two days after the CPI(M) state secretary’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri was cross-examined, the Enforce Directorate (ED) on Friday questioned Kerala Higher Education Minister KT Jaleel in the sensational gold smuggling case.The minister appeared before the ED in Kochi in a private vehicle and the questioning continued for about three hours. A top official said some of his statements were contradictory and he will be summoned again for more clarity.The opposition Congress and BJP have urged chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to sack the minister immediately. “It is a shame for the state. It seems the CM is waiting for his arrest. This is the first time such an incident is taking place,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.The minister maintained that it was not a questioning and he will co-operate with the ongoing probe. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is yet to react over this.Trouble began for Jaleel after phone call records of Swapna Suresh, main accused in the gold smuggling case, were leaked to the media. The minister’s phone number figured prominently in the list. Soon after the list surfaced, the minister had called a press conference in Malappuram and said he called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate.This clarification invited more trouble for him as he is not supposed to accept any funds or freebies without the consent of the ministry of external affairs, experts said, adding it was a clear violation of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA).During the investigation, the customs found that a heavy consignment came on March 4 in 31 bags, weighing more than 4,000 kg and they were taken to Malappuram. The minister admitted he took these packets to his constituency but said they were religious books.The ED and customs officials said even if those were books, his action was a clear violation of the FCRA and there were many discrepancies in his claims also.“Out of 31 packets that came only one packet was opened. Rest are lying in two religious institutions in my constituency. Let any agency probe, my hands are clean,” the minister had said criticising the media trial.Former diplomats said no country usually exports religious books and special permission was needed for such imports, adding he can be booked for violating these norms.The customs had seized 30 kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. Later the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and at least four other central agencies are part of the probe now.The NIA has arrested 30 persons in connection with the case.The Enforcement Directorate had submitted a statement in a court in Kochi on Wednesday saying Bengaluru drug haul and gold smuggling cases were closely linked. Key accused in the drug case, Anoop Mohammad, had taken the name of Bineesh Kodiyeri during questioning and claimed he was his close “business partner”. Kodiyeri said he helped him in setting up a hotel and he was not aware of his drug dealings. There are also reports the Narcotics Control Bureau probing the Bengaluru haul will question Kodiyeri soon. The ED also reportedly found that the Communist leader’s son owned properties worth crores of rupees and many firms as benami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-questions-kerala-minister-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-lfpVInPLsiy1EWea7dEtkO.html
11-09-2020||India||Up, close and musical with Malini!||Folk singer and exponent of Beneras gharana Malini Awasthi is said to have made best use of her time by meticulously working on expansion of music. “Till date I have released seven folk albums but eventually the ongoing Covid phase gave me an opportunity to do my kind of music and songs. All my earlier albums had fine commercial numbers but the songs I have done recently are particularly close to my heart,” said the Padma Shree awardee. The ‘Dil Mera Muft ka’ (Agent Vinod) singer said, “I have been a very busy artiste. It has been a 15-year-long journey with stage shows, lectures, events, workshops and more. Leave alone six months; I never had an opportunity to stay home at stretch of six days. The lockdown gave me a complete rest and immense time to be creative and musically fulfilled. Malini shot for three of her songs before the lockdown out of which two have been released. “All my latest songs were recorded in Lucknow due corona crisis but nevertheless they have come out beautifully. I composed ‘Baba Neeimiya ka Ped…’ which we shot at Residency and Kudiya Ghat. I launched it on Father’s Day and dedicated it to my father. The song has already crossed two million views.” Her second song ‘Preet Main na Dhoka Dhadi…’ was originally sung by Bhojpuri artiste Mohd Khalil some 50 years back. “We wanted to capture the spirit of Chowk and thankfully were able to show the beauty and heritage of Old City. It too garnered a great response on social media.” Malini’s next is a romantic ghazal penned by Ahmed Faraz, ‘Zindagi se Yehi Gila Hai Mujhe, Tu Bahut Der se Mila Hai Mujhe…’ which she has dedicated to her husband. On a lighter note she shared that the lockdown made her a beautician, editor, technician as well as producer and director.After ‘Janta Curfew,’ Malini wrote-composed and sang ‘Mil Kar Use Harana Hai’ which was tweeted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and went viral. “My second song on migrant labourers, ‘Jaan ko jokhim mei dal kar chale kaun se desh…Pardesi Bhaiya’ is very close to me as a musician. Besides, I did some multi-artiste songs including (Amitabh) Bachchanji ‘Guzar jayega’,” she said. Malini did FB live show ‘Mulakat Malini Ke Saath’ for 51 days in a row. “Every day we took new topic which ranged from school, childhood, Covid warriors and more. Besides, I did literary live session with prestigious universities all over India including. Virtual concerts including one for Fiji High Commission on I-Day eve with Vishwa Mohan Bhatt also kept me all busy.” Of late, Malini recorded a song of Irish band U2 which has been recreated by Salim-Sulaiman and Karsh Kale. She has also sung for an ad jingle and a film song.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/up-close-and-musical-with-malini/story-Zx7K3GLhD6AVaZHMV34RRK.html
11-09-2020||India||‘Fix reasonable ambulance rates for Covid-19 patients’: SC to states||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered states to fix a reasonable charge for ambulance services that ferry Covid-19 patients.A three-judge bench, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, also asked states to follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) framed in this regard by the Central government in March.“States should follow the SOP and take appropriate measures for augmenting the capacity of ambulances,” said the bench, which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah.The petition filed by an NGO, Earth, had prayed for increasing the number of ambulances by requisitioning private one in order to meet the increased demand in view of Covid-19.The petition had also highlighted shortage of ambulances in several parts of the country and the price hike in ambulance services due to the high demand.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, told the court that it had already issued an SOP covering the issues raised in the petition.Justice Shah, however, pointed out that many states were not implementing the SOP.“I can say for Ahmedabad. They (patients) are at the mercy of these people (ambulance service providers) who charge Rs 7,000 to 10,000 for the ambulance,” he remarked.The SOP laid down the procedure for guiding and training the ambulance drivers and technicians in transporting the Covid-19 patients. It is also provided for monitoring the functioning of the ambulances and laid down protocols for cleaning and decontaminating ambulances.The petitioner pointed out that the Centre’s SOP does not cover the pricing aspect.The top court therefore asked states to fix a reasonable cap with respect to the price for ambulance services besides following the SOP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fix-reasonable-ambulance-rates-for-covid-19-patients-sc-to-states/story-jGnmQq1R9nUN6Habq1L1xH.html
11-09-2020||India||As priests contract Covid-19, uncertainty looms over opening of Jagannath temple||With 167 of the 2,000 sevayats or priests of the 12th century Jagannath temple in Puri infected by Covid-19, the opening of the temple to public now seems to be shrouded in uncertainty.On August 31, the state government had decided that none of the religious places in the state will be opened till September 30. However, any hopes of the Jagannath temple, the most famous religious shrine in Odisha, opening in October have been squashed away with several servitors or priests of the temple getting infected. Though the infection in Puri and among the servitors of Jagannath temple was under control during the lockdown, it has been on a steady rise since mid-July after the relaxation of lockdown norms. Though the daily average of Covid-19 cases in Puri did not exceed 20, the district has been recording an average of 200 cases a day. On Friday, the district reported case positivity rate of 20 which is almost 3 times of Odisha’s daily positivity rate.Also read: Kim Jong Un showed off headless body of his uncle | All you need to knowHowever, it is the rising infection among the temple servitors that has become a cause of concern for the district administration. “The servitors live close to each other and that’s one reason for the rise in infection. Many of them have co-morbidity conditions like diabetes and hypertension and that is a matter of concern to us,” said Puri district collector Balwant Singh.Officials in the Puri CDMO office said of the 1,371 servitors who have been tested for Covid-19, 167 have tested positive. Of the 167 who have tested positive, 5 have succumbed to death. “The disease is quickly spreading among servitors as they are frequently coming in contact with each other. The rituals of the temple can’t stop and even if a servitor is infected, he has to come if there is no substitute for him available at the temple,” said Siddheswar Mohapatra, a senior servitor and member of the temple managing committee.Nearly 75 servitors perform about 90 different kinds of rituals daily at the temple and are entitled to get a portion of the total offerings. The temple has 119 categories of servitors who perform different duties as per the ‘Record of Rights’ of the temple.Janardhan Pattajoshi Mahapatra, who heads the Chhatisa Nijog, the most powerful body of servitors in the temple, said as Covid-19 infections rise among servitors, it may not be possible to open the temple before January.“We all are feeling scared. Many of our servitor brothers have co-morbidity conditions. Unless the infection is completely gone, we can’t take a risk. Once the temple opens and devotees start swarming the infection may just jump exponentially,” said Mohapatra.Binayak Dasmohapatra, another senior servitor, said if the temple remains shut for a couple of more months it would be difficult for many servitors to run their family. “We are getting monthly assistance of Rs 2,000 from the temple administration. But it is not enough to run large families of ours. We are also feeling disspirited whenever we go to the temple as there are no devotees. For the Lord, the devotees come first. It’s a testing time for all servitors,” said Dasmohapatra.During the Rath Yatra and Bahuda Yatra of Lord Jagannath in June, around half a dozen of the servitors tested positive after the SC allowed the festival to happen with strict Covid-19 guidelines. However, the Rath Yatra could be conducted successfully by isolating the infected servitors.Two days ago, a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed in the Orissa High Court seeking cancellation of the state government order issued restricting/closing religious places/places of worship for the public. Calling the order as illegal, arbitrary, unreasonable and unfair, the petitioner said if malls, fitness centres, gyms, yoga centres, liquor shops can be opened to the public, then there was no reason in stopping the devotees of Lord Jagannath from entering his temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-priests-contract-covid-19-uncertainty-looms-over-opening-of-jagannath-temple/story-HC4MKJy5PuO21k5foMeyuO.html
11-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh holds high-level meeting on situation in eastern Ladakh: Report||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and top military brass on Friday deliberated on the five-point agreement reached between India and China on de-escalating tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, government sources said.The deliberation was attended by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh among others, they said.The meeting also carried out a comprehensive review of the security scenario in eastern Ladakh in view of fresh confrontation by two sides in the southern bank of Pangong lake earlier this week, the sources said.“The meeting discussed the agreement reached between the two countries,” said a source.In the meeting, Gen Naravane briefed about the combat readiness of the Army to deal with any eventualities besides elaborating on plans to keep the forces in the high-altitude region during harsh winter months.India and China reached a five-point consensus to resolve the four-month border row in eastern Ladakh that included quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions and taking steps to restore “peace and tranquillity” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The agreement was finalised at two-and-half-hours of “frank and constructive” talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on Thursday evening on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet.The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a tense standoff in multiple areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May. Shots were fired across the LAC on Monday for the first time in 45 years with the two sides accusing each other of firing in the air.The fresh confrontation further intensified the standoff and triggered a massive military build up by both sides in almost all friction points along the LAC, the de-facto border between the two countries.In the last few days, the Army further bolstered its dominance over a number of strategic heights overlooking key Chinese-held positions around Pangong lake area.  The sources said additional reinforcements have been made in hill tops and strategic locations around Pangong lake to keep a hawk-eye vigil on Chinese-held position of Finger 4.The mountainous spurs in the area are referred to as Finger. China has been holding onto Finger 4 to 8 on the north bank of Pangong lake, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-holds-high-level-meeting-on-situation-in-eastern-ladakh-report/story-JGOr3KQYn4GAlYTxUNJCBN.html
11-09-2020||India||Swami Agnivesh passes away at 80, was suffering from liver disease||Social activist Swami Agnivesh, who was critically ill and was hospitalised due to liver cirrhosis early this week, passed away on Friday. He was 80. Agnivesh, a former MLA from Haryana, founded Arya Sabha, a political party based on the principles of the Arya Samaj. Also Watch | Swami Agnivesh passes away: Rahul Gandhi, Shabana Azmi, others pay tribute  बंधुआ मुक्ति मोर्चा के संस्थापक और आर्य समाज के क्रांतिकारी नेता स्वामी अग्निवेश जी का आज निधन हो गया।स्वामी जी का निधन आर्य समाज सहित पूरे देश के लिए अपूरणीय क्षति है।मेरी विनम्र श्रद्धांजलि। pic.twitter.com/7DKO1aIc2iVery saddened by the passing away of #Swami Agnivesh due to multi organ failure.Influenced by Liberation Theology he worked to rescue and rehabilitate bonded labourers and was a force to reckon with in the eighties . RIP pic.twitter.com/zHprQjWlZt Swamiji, Agniveshji a true ascetic wth Values of Truth, Non Discrimination Passed left us 6.55 p.m. todayBelieving in Non Violence, Human Rights & Dialogue, above all Constitutional Values he ws violently attacked, & brutally by guess who? #SwamiAgnivesh @JohnDayal @swamiagniveshOn Tuesday, he was admitted to the Institute of Liver and Billary Sciences in New Delhi, and was on ventilator. He was being monitored by a multi-disciplinary team of doctors. On Friday morning, his condition deteriorated and he suffered a cardiac arrest .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swami-agnivesh-passes-away-at-80-was-suffering-from-liver-disease/story-pV46Ai8Gn6yE5psv6Mse2K.html
11-09-2020||India||‘China to hand over 5 missing Arunachal men tomorrow’: Kiren Rijiju||The five youths from Arunachal Pradesh who had strayed across the border to the Chinese side earlier this month would be handed back to India on Saturday, informed union sports minister Kiren Rijiju.“The Chinese PLA has confirmed to the Indian Army to hand over the youths from Arunachal Pradesh to our side. The handing over is likely to take place anytime tomorrow, i.e. 12 September, 2020 at a designated location,” Rijiju, who represents BJP from Arunachal West seat, tweeted on Friday evening.The five youths from Tagin tribe, who used to work as porters for Indian Army, had gone missing on September 2 reportedly from Sera-7 on the Indian side of the McMohan line bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet autonomous region (TAR) of China. Following their disappearance, a brother of one of the youths posted on social media that they had been ‘abducted’ by PLA. The same accusation was made by Tapir Gao, BJP MP from Arunachal East and Congress MLA from Pasighat Ninong Ering in their tweets. Responding to a hotline message sent by Indian Army, China’s People’s Liberation Army had informed on Tuesday that the youths have been found on their side and their condition was fine. “By persistent efforts of India Army, 5 hunters of Upper Subansiri, who had crossed over LAC on 2 September, will finally return on 12 September. PLA will hand them over to India in Damai, China at 0930 hrs morning,” tweeted Lt Col Harsh Wardhan Pande, PRO (Defence), Tezpur, Assam on Friday evening. The disappearance of the youths and the allegation of their ‘abduction’ by PLA had added to the heightened tension between both countries.On Monday, China’s state affiliated Global Times tweeted quoting Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian: “China has never recognised so called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’, which is China’s south Tibet region, and we have no details to release yet about question on Indian Army sending message to PLA about five missing Indians in the region”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-to-hand-over-5-missing-arunachal-men-tomorrow-kiren-rijiju/story-n6Ashfoh1B7s040wXbpXcI.html
11-09-2020||India||‘27 days remain for Lalu Yadav to complete half sentence in fodder scam case’: HC||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday discovered that Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad was still running 27 days short of completing half of the sentence in one of the fodder scam cases in which he was convicted and awarded to five years of imprisonment in January 2018.The bench comprising Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh, therefore, adjourned hearing on Yadav’s bail plea for October 9 on the request of his counsel Kapil Sibal.Former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav, who has been undergoing treatment in custody at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, moved the bail application on the ground that he had already completed half of the sentence in the aforesaid case realted to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 33.13 crore from Chaibasa treasury over fictitious spends on fodder and other expenses for cattle.Yadav had suffered a major jolt in the fodder scam case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi held him guilty in the first of six cases against him. The conviction got him five years in prison, disqualification from Parliament and a ban on contesting elections. He was given bail by the Supreme Court in December that year.Also read: Bal Thackeray feared Sena will become Congress, Kangana shares videoThe former Bihar chief minister’s trouble renewed again after December 23, 2017, when he had been convicted in three other fodder scam cases in quick succession. Since then, he has been in jail.Of these three cases, he had secured bail in one of them last year on the ground that he had served half of the 3.5 years imprisonment awarded to him. In the second case, he has filed the aforesaid bail application on similar ground.Opposing his bail plea, the CBI contended that Yadav’s custody, in this case, was yet to commence as he had not completed the full custody in previous cases. It pointed out the provision of Section 427 of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC) arguing that the court never ordered that sentences awarded to him in different fodder scam cases would run concurrently.“In absence of any such order, Prasad’s custody in subsequent cases would start only after completion of the sentence of previous cases as per Section 427 of the CrPC,” CBI’s counsel and assistant solicitor general Rajiv Sinha contended.However, senior lawyer Kapil Sibal, representing Yadav, argued that the CBI had not raised this point with respect to bail applications filed by any of the fodder scam convicts earlier.In his earlier case also, the agency didn’t raise this contention and the court granted bail to him on completion of half sentence, Sibal argued.The bench, however, after calculating the period of custody served by Yadav in this case, found that 27 days were still left to cover half of the five years sentence. On Sibal’s request, it adjourned hearing for October 9.After spending the initial two months from December 2017, to February 2018, in Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, Lalu Prasad Yadav had developed health complications in March 2018 and was moved to the hospital. Since then, he never returned to jail.After a steep surge in Covid-19 cases in August, he was moved from the RIMS paying ward to the hospital’s director’s bungalow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-days-remain-for-lalu-yadav-to-complete-half-sentence-in-fodder-scam-case-hc/story-11c510kGygLjTdRhELIeMN.html
11-09-2020||India||‘Corona is gone’, says Bengal BJP chief at public rally. Then rebuts himself||“Corona is gone”, declared BJP’s Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh at a public rally in South Bengal on Thursday, adding that it was done to block BJP rallies. The shocking comment has come at a time at a time when the country has seen record jumps in daily Covid-19 cases. In a clarification on Friday, the leader said his speech on corona was taken “out of context” and in a reversal of stance said “corona is still here”.As the video of Ghosh’s earlier statement went viral, pat came a barb from the Trinamool, accusing him of valuing vote bank politics “above human lives”.“Corona is gone. Didimoni (Mamata Banerjee) is just pretending and imposing lockdown so that the BJP can’t hold rallies,” said Ghosh while addressing a gathering at Nadia in south Bengal on Thursday. The West Bengal government had imposed lockdown on six days in August. In September, three days of lockdown were announced out of which the final one on September 12 has been cancelled because of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test on Sunday. “While the whole of India is still fighting tirelessly against the deadly #COVID19 pandemic, @DilipGhoshBJP announces “Corona is Over”! Evidently, he values vote bank politics much above human lives. The wit of @BJP4Bengal President is horrifying!” the TMC tweeted on Friday. Till September 10, West Bengal had recorded 1,93,175 cases with 3771 deaths. There are more than 23,000 active cases in the state. While Ghosh had made the statement at a gathering in Nadia, the party’s president JP Nadda had accused Mamata Banerjee administration of timing the Covid-19 lockdown to coincide with the launch of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 and earlier lifting it for Eid. “By imposing the lockdown, she [Banerjee] crushed the wishes of crores of people. It is a different matter that the lockdown was lifted [for] Eid on July 31…This is a politics of appeasement. This politics of vote bank appeasement needs to be exposed,” Nadda had said in his address to BJP workers via video-conferencing yesterday.The TMC had countered it, saying that imposing lockdown or cancelling it had nothing to do with a program that is held outside the state (Ayodhya is in Uttar Pradesh). “Lockdown is imposed or cancelled based on administrative convenience and on the advice of experts,” Saugata Roy, TMC lawmaker had said. A day after his Covid-19 remarks, Ghosh however said that he was quoted out of context and that Covid-19 is still there. “My speech was 25 minutes long. Only a few seconds were taken and I was quoted out of the context. Covid-19 is still there and the TMC can’t tackle it. But I stand by my statement that the TMC is imposing lockdown for political gains,” he said on Friday. This is, however, not the first time that Ghosh has courted a controversy. In November 2019, a video went viral in which Ghosh had said that milk of Indian cows is laced with gold and that’s why it was yellowish in colour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-is-gone-says-bengal-bjp-chief-at-public-rally-then-rebuts-himself/story-D8KcvmmiZei5JKsJDIvMCI.html
11-09-2020||India||Delhi Mohalla Clinics begin Covid-19 testing after 2 pm||In order to scale up testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) further, the Delhi government has directed its Mohalla Clinics to start conducting tests from Friday after the daily consultations get over at 2 pm. The clinics will function as testing centres between 2 to 5 pm every day in addition to the 3,00 dispensaries and Delhi government hospitals that already conduct the tests.HT was first to report on September 2 that the government plans to conduct tests at Mohalla Clinics to scale up testing to achieve the target of 40,000 tests a day. Delhi has now overshot the target with over 58,000 samples tested on Thursday.“In order to augment the Covid-19 testing drive, it has been decided to initiate Covid testing at all AAMC (Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics) from 2 pm to 5 pm on all working days with immediate effect. All CDMOs-cum-mission directors are requested to ensure that AAMC empanelled staff is trained for testing procedure including training for doffing/donning,” read the communication by Dr Shelley Kamra, state nodal officer, Mohalla Clinic cell.Also read: Health ministry to document data on post-Covid complications among recovered patientsCurrently, there are 450 Mohalla Clinics in the city. Unlike government hospitals and dispensaries, where the staff are either government employee or hired as ad-hoc, these clinics are run by private empanelled doctors and staff who are paid on per-patient basis.Similar incentives will be given to the staff running the testing centres. According to the communication by Dr Kamra, a copy of which is with the HT, a doctor will be paid Rs 30 per person tested and entered in the ICMR portal, an assistant will be paid Rs 30, a pharmacists Rs 15, a multi-task worker Rs 15, and a data entry operator will be paid Rs 10 per patient.The CDMOs will be responsible for ensuring the availability of PPE kits, support for disposal of bio-medical waste and thorough sanitisation of each centre after testing to prevent the infection from spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-mohalla-clinics-begin-covid-19-testing-after-2-pm/story-XcLb7fkBj801OGgVJczE0K.html
11-09-2020||India||Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi to remain in police custody till September 14||The police custody of Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi along with Sanjjana Galrani, Ravishankar, Rahul Tonse, Niyaz and Loum Pepper has been extended till September 14, according to ANI.Ragini, who is one of the 12 people named in an FIR filed at the Cottonpet police station, was arrested in a drug case by the Bengaluru Central Crime Branch.The accused in the matter have been charged under various sections of IPC including 120b (criminal conspiracy) and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act of 1985 under sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B, and section 29.Before Ragini’s arrest on September 4, the police had raided her residence.The other people named in the FIR include Prashant Ranka, Vaibhav Jain, Aditya Alva, Simon, Prashant Babu, Ashwin and Vinay apart from a Sengalese national Loum Pepper. The Sengalese national is said to have been the main supplier of drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-actor-ragini-dwivedi-to-remain-in-police-custody-till-september-14/story-ZKO6kfbRjkAdkkaMj0P4YK.html
11-09-2020||India||Delhi slum demolition: Don’t evict dwellers without alternative housing, Maken appeals to SC||Congress leader Ajay Maken on Friday challenged the Supreme Court’s August 31 order for the demolition of slums along railway tracks in Delhi, calling it “inhuman”. Maken pleaded that no slum dweller should be evicted without alternative housing as per the Delhi Slum & Jhuggi Jhopri (JJ) Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015. The policy provides for the rehabilitation of slum dwellers before such demolitions. Maken’s lawyers have sought an urgent listing the plea as the Railways has issued demolition notices for 48,000 slum clusters with plans to carry out the demolition drive from Friday to Monday.Also Read: Life a struggle, can’t SC rethink decision, ask residents of Delhi slums along railway linesThe Supreme Court’s order barred any court in Delhi from issuing a stay on the eviction proceedings after Railways complained of political interference in the past over the removal of slums and gave the Railways three months for the completion of the proceedings. Justice Arun Mishra, who has since retired, led the three-member bench that passed the order. Chief Justice of India SA Bobde will have to constitute a new bench to hear Maken’s application.Maken said the order violated the principles of natural justice as the affected slum dwellers were not heard individually or collectively. He added the order violated a ruling of the court’s Constitution Bench in Olga Tellis v Bombay Municipal Corporation (1986), which held there can be no justification for denying slum dwellers living on pavements or public properties an opportunity to be heard.Also Read: When Covid-19 enters India’s slumsThe direction ordering that no court shall grant stay amounted to “grave obstruction in the Right to Access to Justice”, the plea said. It highlighting the consequences of the order. “The order itself is inhuman and against public policy as lakhs of children, women and elderly, currently residing in the large slum clusters alongside the railway tracks, will be left without a roof on the streets….even a small percentage of the displaced population if affected by COVID-19, then the same will prove to be a recipe for disaster.”The plea said the Centre and Delhi administration kept the court in the dark about the protocol for evicting slum dwellers, which the Delhi high court approved on March 18, 2019 in response to a petition Maken filed. The municipal corporations, Delhi government’s Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, Railways, and Union urban development ministry prepared the protocol.The protocol said all slums in Delhi that came into existence prior to January 1, 2006, and hutments built there before January 1, 2015, shall not be demolished without providing alternative housing.Maken said the 48,000 slum clusters sought to be demolished have been in existence for 30-40 years and are home to over 240,000 people.The high court last year noted that those living in the slums contribute to the city’s social and economic life by working as sanitation workers, garbage collectors, domestic help, rickshaw pullers, laborers. It added they provide a wide range of services indispensable to a healthy urban life and hence they have the right to housing.Maken said the railways accepted the Supreme Court’s judgment and did not file an appeal against it. He added it has now circumvented the high court ruling by directly approaching the Supreme Court without mentioning the norms laid down for the demolitions.“Even the Master Plan for Delhi 2021 provides for in-situ rehabilitation of slum dwellers wherever possible and relocation of slum dwellers in other cases. The Rajiv Awas Yojna, renamed as the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, also aims towards slum-free India by 2022 and the scheme also provides for either in-situ rehabilitation or relocation in exceptional cases,” Maken’s plea said. “These facts were not brought to the notice of the Court before passing the August 31 order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-slum-demolition-don-t-evict-dwellers-without-alternative-housing-maken-appeals-to-sc/story-ha2Hoc4H9iBotTVLNO0oBM.html
11-09-2020||India||Balasaheb’s biggest fear was one day Shiv Sena will become Congress, says Kangana Ranaut, shares old interview||Amid the ongoing tussle between Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and Shiv Sena, the actor on Friday shared an old interview of Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray and asked how he would have felt today, had he seen his party’s situation. Balasaheb’s biggest fear was that some day his party would become Congress, the actor wrote. Great Bala Saheb Thakeray one of my most favourite icons, his biggest fear was some day Shiv Sena will do Gutbandhan and become congress ⁦@INCIndia⁩ I want to know what is his conscious feeling today looking at the condition of his party ? pic.twitter.com/quVpZkj407In the video interview, shared by Kangana, Balasaheb can be heard saying that he didn’t believe in elections or democracy. “Because I am there the party has survived. Otherwise, it would have become congress,” Balasaheb said in the interview.“Great Bala Saheb Thakeray one of my most favourite icons, his biggest fear was some day Shiv Sena will do Gutbandhan and become congress @INCIndia I want to know what is his conscious feeling today looking at the condition of his party,” Kangana tweeted.Balasaheb Thackeray founded Shiv Sena in 1966 as a right-wing, regional, Marathi political party.In a swipe at the Congress, which is part of the Maha Vikas Agadhi government in Maharashtra, Kangana asked party president Sonia Gandhi to take note of the treatment that she is being subjected to. “Can you not request your Government to uphold the principles of the Constitution given to us by Dr. Ambedkar? You have grown up in the west and lived here in India. You may be aware of the struggles of women. History will judge your silence and indifference when your own Government is harassing women and ensuring a total mockery of law and order. I hope you will intervene,” the actor tweeted.The tussle began after the actor compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir and Sena leaders reportedly threatened her. She came to Mumbai on September 9 with Y plus security provided by the Centre. On the very same day, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation razed ‘illegal’ portions of her Bandra office, which took the ongoing fight a notch higher. However, the Maharashtra government said it had no role in BMC action.Meanwhile, Kangana Ranaut’s mother Asha Ranaut thanked Union home minister Amit Shah for providing security to Kangana though the family had no BJP connection. The family had long Congress connections, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balasaheb-s-biggest-fear-was-one-day-shiv-sena-will-become-congress-says-kangana-ranaut-shares-old-interview/story-BxaZrJoSiAOE6u7JIgrU7I.html
11-09-2020||India||Rajasthan govt to work on action plan for introduction of cheetahs||The Rajasthan government will prepare an ‘action plan’ to explore the possibility of introduction of cheetah, the fastest animal on the planet, in the state, officials said.A committee of experts set up by Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WW) has zeroed in three states - Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat - where cheetah population could be re-introduced. For that, the WII needs to conduct feasibility studies.On Thursday, a WII proposal to conduct the study in Rajasthan was taken up for consideration in the state wildlife board. A presentation was also made by WII scientists on why Rajasthan has possible sites for reintroduction of cheetah and its potential to have the animal.“After finalizing the action plan, a decision would soon be taken on the WII proposal,” Rajasthan forest Minister Sukhram Vishnoi.In February this year, the Supreme Court had allowed the introduction of cheetah under the project which was initiated by then environment minister Jairam Ramesh in 2009.Also read: Supreme Court allows introduction of African Cheetah in IndiaCongress MLA from Sangod (Kota) Bharat Singh, who was present at the meeting, said the Central government has permitted the re-introduction and conservation of cheetah which could be brought from Africa.“The states who could take the initiative and have potential and suitable sites are Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. They can get cheetah which could be associated with the development and promotion of tourism,” Singh said. Singh said at the meeting, the WII representative mentioned two sites - one each in Jaisalmer and Kota - for cheetah introduction, said Singh.“Shahgarh Bulge in Jaisalmer was among the top sites identified in 2010 by an expert panel constituted by the central government to reintroduce cheetah in India,” said a forest department official.Shahgarh Bulge in Jaisalmer was among the top three sites identified in 2010 by the expert panel. The other two sites - Kuno Palpur and Nauradehi - were in Madhya Pradesh.As 10 years have passed since the last assessment was done, experts said Shahgarh Bulge needs to be re-assessed for prey population viability to sustain cheetahs and the ability of the habitat to sustain these animals in the long run.“Shahgarh now has animal population which needs to be relocated if the site has to be considered for introducing cheetah. The then government had reservation over the site and had written to the Central government saying the region has oil deposits and was very close to Pakistan border,” said the official.The WII experts also said that apart from Shahgarh Bulge, relocation sites can also be explored at other places in Barmer and Jaisalmer districts. “With Rajasthan being the biggest state geographically and the availability of dry and plain grassland, the state has the maximum potential,” said an expert who was not willing to be quoted.Divya Bhanu Sinh, member of the expert committee formed by Central government in 2010 and author of ‘The end of a trail: The cheetah in India’ book, said, “The Wildlife Institute of India surveyed possible sites to introduce cheetah where one was Shahgarh Bulge in Jaisalmer; and other two in Madhya Pradesh – Kuno Palpur and Nauradehi”.Kunal Palpur was selected as the site for the introduction of cheetahs and the environment ministry had given its permission to the Madhya Pradesh government to import nine cheetahs in different batches from Namibia for translocation into Kuno Palpur wildlife sanctuary at Sheopur where the last cheetah was hunted in the 1950s.But before the process to import cheetahs could start, the project was challenged in the Supreme Court on the ground that the sites selected were not viable for cheetah re-introduction. The apex court stayed the project and formed an expert committee to examine all aspects. In February, it finally approved the project.MK Ranjitsinh, who headed the expert committee, said that the cheetah’s re-introduction is an interesting project not only for India but for the entire world as such long-distance relocation of big animals in wild has not happened. “As cheetah was native to India till the 1950s, them adopting to hot and humid temperature of the country would not be very difficult. But, we need a proper wildlife management plan of habitats for that,” he said.Cheetahs roamed about India’s grasslands till the 1950s when they were hunted to extinction in the country. Iran has a sub-species of the Asiatic cheetah but has refused to share them with India, forcing the government to look for the African ones. The Asian and the African species separated between 30,000 and 60,000 years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-to-work-on-action-plan-for-introduction-of-cheetahs/story-dhAN5IBkgOiDm1Ltqr5dII.html
11-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut must get justice: Ramdas Athawale demands compensation, meets Maha Guv||The Union minister Ramdas Athawale has demanded compensation for actor Kangana Ranaut after BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) carried out a demolition drive at the actor’s Mumbai office recently. The minister met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on Friday and demanded that Kangana Ranaut gets compensated for the damages caused to her property due to BMC’s demolition drive.“I met Maharashtra Governor today over the issue of demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s property in Mumbai and demanded that she should get compensation for the loss. The way BMC carried out demolition at her property is wrong. She must get justice,” Athawale said, according to ANI.The Maharashtra Governor on Wednesday had called on Ajoy Mehta, special advisor to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, to discuss the matter. During the meeting, Koshiyari expressed his displeasure over the demolition incident, as per reports.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials demolished portions of Ranaut’s property, alleging structural violations, a day after issuing her a notice. The actor is in a middle of a controversy after she compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and criticised the city police.Athawale on Thursday met Ranaut at her residence in Mumbai. The minister said that BJP or RPI will welcome Ranaut if she decides to join either of the parties However, Kangana has no interest in joining politics, Athawale said after his meeting.“Kangana Ranaut said she is not interested in politics but is interested in ensuring unity in society. She said that in her upcoming film she is playing the role of a Dalit and that caste system should be abolished,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-must-get-justice-ramdas-athawale-demands-compensation-over-demolition-meets-maha-guv/story-x4pBRPsa1PRVRQP0fWVknI.html
11-09-2020||India||PM Modi remembers 9/11 anniversary along with two important events for India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday recalled two important events that mark this day for India -- the birth anniversary of Acharya Vinoba Bhave and Swami Vivekananda’s famous address in Chicago -- and said both great men have a lot to teach the entire humanity.In his tweets, Modi also noted that the world remembers 9/11 (September 11) for the dastardly terror attack on this day in the USA and said if humans had walked on the path of Bahve’s slogan of ‘Jai Jagat’ and Vivekananda’s nineteenth century message of universal brotherhood, the destruction that followed would not have occurred.  “Today, on 11th September we in India mark two important milestones.  The Jayanti of Acharya Vinoba Bhave. The day Swami Vivekananda delivered his outstanding address in Chicago. These great men have a lot to teach the entire humanity,” Modi said.Paying tribute to Bhave on his 125th birth anniversary, the Prime Minister said, “In 1918 Mahatma Gandhi wrote about Bhave that ‘I do not know in what terms to praise you. Your love and your character fascinate me and so also your self-examination. I am not fit to measure your worth’.” Modi added that Vivekananda’s address in 1893 perfectly demonstrated the spirit of India’s ethos and the values that are an integral part of our land, as he urged youngsters to read the text of his address. He also tagged a link to the address.  “The world remembers 9/11 for the dastardly attack on this day in USA. If only humankind had walked on the path of ‘Jai Jagat’ given by Acharya Vinoba Bhave & Swami Vivekananda’s message of Universal Brotherhood given in 1893, the destruction that followed would not have occurred,” the Prime Minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-remembers-9-11-anniversary-along-with-two-important-events-for-india/story-T4iXp2HThpwNE1mXnfDWKO.html
11-09-2020||India||‘To succeed, I had to get into grind of auditions…’||Actor Bhupendra Jadawat is glad that finally things are happening for him though not as quickly as he would like them to. “I wanted to be an actor always and wanted to learn the craft from scratch. I joined a theatre group in Jaipur as I belong to a small place near the city of Kota, and later, joined the National School of Drama for a three-year acting course. “That’s how things started for me before I reached Mumbai and formed my own theatre group, did plays, followed by my screen debut,” said the young actor over the phone.Talking about his theatre group, Bhupendra said, “After my NSD course, I reached Mumbai. I knew that no background works in Mumbai and I was all game to get into the grind of auditions. I started looking for work and did a few commercials. Then, together with three of my batch-mates, I formed a theatre group ‘The Red Mark’ and came up with our first play ‘Man Mana Square.’ The real debut happened for Bhupendra when he got a call for a parallel lead in an OTT film, “When I got a call for the film ‘Class of 83’ I was all excited as it was a big production film. After reading my part my excitement knew no bounds and I got the role of ‘Shukla’ in the Atul Sabharwal directorial. Playing a cop was quite complicated for me. After getting to know that it was an SRK production, it became a larger-than-life project for me. We were trained for two months, we had to prepare ourselves keeping the 80s era in mind. Today, I’m thrilled with the kind of response our film has received. Soon you will see me doing more OTT series as well as films,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/to-succeed-i-had-to-get-into-grind-of-auditions/story-mdGy87ZwuAm8jSyhXBElUM.html
11-09-2020||India||CBI arrests civil aviation security official in bribe case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials have arrested a senior official of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security for demanding and accepting bribe, a CBI spokesman said on Friday. The accused official has been identified as Umesh Kumar Verma, an assistant director at the BCAS.The spokesman said that the official had accepted bribe worth Rs 5,000 from the complainant. A case under section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the official.“He had demanded Rs 10,000 for granting entry passes to the employees of the complainant who were engaged in providing manpower services at the Jammu airport,” the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-civil-aviation-security-official-in-bribe-case/story-rCTg1u8MSJAxllbMu9DD9I.html
11-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro to resume normal operation timing from tomorrow||From Saturday, September 12, all trains on all lines of Delhi Metro will resume the pre-Covid timing of the operation from 6 am to 11 pm. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation resumed its services on September 7 in a phase-wise manner. On September 12, the gradual opening will be completed with the reopening of the Airport Express line. On September 13, DMRC will run trains from 6 am despite it being a Sunday when trains generally start at 8 am. The graded resumption of metro services would be done linewise with specific timings in three stages as follows. #MetroBackOnTrack pic.twitter.com/8QgvgTCZCjHere is how DMRC reopened in a phase-wise manner:1. In stage one, Yellow Line and Rapid Metro in Gurugram started their operations on September 7. The timing was 7 am to 11 am and 4 pm to 8 pm.2. On September 9, Blue Line and Pink Line resumed their services. The morning and evening time schedule remained the same.3. On September 10, Red Line, Green Line, Violet Line resumed services according to the stipulated timing.4. In stage two, Magenta Line and Grey Line resumed operations from September 11. Two hours extra have been added in this stage. The morning time is between 7 am and 1 pm. The evening running time is from 4 pm to 10 pm.5. In stage three, which will begin from tomorrow, all lines will be operational from 6 am to 11 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-metro-to-resume-normal-operation-timing-from-tomorrow/story-1NdeNZKMzwBPix8RF6TVkO.html
11-09-2020||India||Health ministry to document data on post-Covid complications among recovered patients: Report||The Union health ministry has initiated an exercise to document data on complication being faced by the recovered Covid patients, a news report said on Friday.To obtain data, the NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control) will likely carry out a survey by conducting telephonic conversations with the recovered patients in India using existing database, PTI reported.The ministry has already drafted a format for gathering the information on post-Covid-19 complications, the report said citing sources.Around 354,2663 people recovered from Covid-19 in India on Friday. According to the ministry of health and family welfare, 60 per cent of the daily recoveries where reported from 5 states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh contributed the most daily recoveries as both logged over 14,000 and 10,000 recoveries respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-to-document-data-on-post-covid-complications-among-recovered-patients-report/story-lKPCrT0T9l0N6wOFIuBRFM.html
11-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Five states account for 60% of daily recoveries and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.5 states account for 60% of daily recoveries from Covid-19: CentreThe Union health ministry on Friday said that 60 per cent of the daily recoveries from the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in India are coming from five states namely Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh adding that these states also account for 57 per cent of new cases. Read moreHow Jaishankar-Wang’s 5-point consensus works out depends on one man | AnalysisWhen Chinese foreign minister Huang Hua met Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on June 29, 1981, the two agreed that unless the boundary question is settled, it would be difficult to maintain friendship and goodwill between the two neighbours. Read moreRhea Chakraborty denied bail: NCB says probe at crucial point, actor to move high courtA special court in Mumbai on Friday rejected the bail petitions of Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drugs case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Read moreDGCA seeks report from IndiGo for violating social distancing norms on a flight with Kangana Ranaut aboardThe aviation regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), has sought a report from budget carrier IndiGo on alleged violation of safety and social distancing norms related to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic by mediapersons on board a Chandigarh-Mumbai flight, where actor Kangana Ranaut was one of the passengers, on September 9. Read moreNo connection with Kangana Ranaut, says NCP chief Sharad PawarThe NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday clarified that he has no connection with the building that houses Kangana Ranaut’s office in Mumbai that was partially demolished by the BMC recently after the actor’s controversial comments. Read moreBengaluru: South Western Railway increases platform ticket price by 400 per centThe South Western Railway has increased the price of the platform tickets by 400 per cent, taking the present price of Rs 10 to Rs 50 in what is being called as a temporary measure to stop crowding in the station area. Read moreMadurai businessman puts up life-sized statue of wife at home after her deathA Karnataka industrialist, about a month ago, installed a lifelike statue of his wife who died in a car crash in 2017. Pictures of the sculpture and the man’s gesture went viral all over the Internet. Now, another man has paid tribute to his wife by installing a life-sized statue of her at his home. Read moreHans Op de Beeck’s ‘Garden of Whispers’ art installation sheds light on the refugee crisisA renowned Belgian artist by the name of Hans Op de Beeck created a ‘quintessentially site-specific’ work of art in the 13-century gothic church of the ‘Convent of the Jacobins’, in Toulouse, France. Created for the ‘Printemps de Septembre Festival’, this multi-sensory, immersive art installation is called ‘The Garden of Whispers’. Read moreMilind Soman’s classy look in black leather jacket will leave you crushing on him all over againQuarantine has made one and all gush over their throwback pictures from past trips and Bollywood actor Milind Soman could not be left behind. Sending fans into speculation with his cryptic message on social media, the Indian supermodel set temperatures soaring with his bad boy look in a black leather jacket. Read more Watch: Kangana Ranaut attacks Sonia Gandhi, says ‘history will judge your silence’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-five-states-account-for-60-of-daily-recoveries-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5jSxfzSUFSYxc4Y0IAcCWM.html
11-09-2020||India||AgustaWestland case: CBI seeks sanction to prosecute ex-CAG, 4 IAF officers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has sought prosecution sanction from the Union government against former defence secretary and Comptroller and Auditor General of India Shashi Kant Sharma, former Air-Vice Marshal Jasbir Singh Panesar, and three other Indian Air Force (IAF) officers in connection with the alleged Rs 3,727-crore AgustaWestland chopper scam, people familiar with the development said. Sharma was Joint Secretary (Air) in the ministry of defence when the contract for supplying 12 VVIP helicopters was under consideration, and when operational requirements (OR) for the deal were being finalised. The contract – alleged violations and kickbacks in the deal became one of the biggest controversies during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime -- was given to Anglo-Italian firm AgustaWestland in February 2010. Sharma was later India’s defence secretary, between July 2011 and May 2013, and then CAG till 2017. This is the first time his name has come up in connection with the case.Also read: AgustaWestland VVIP chopper case: ED raids premises linked to businessman Shravan GuptaThe words “JS Air” – an apparent reference to the designation Joint Secretary (Air) -- appeared repeatedly in Italian court judgments in the matter, as part of a note written by British middleman Christian Michel, who allegedly arranged kickbacks to politicians and officials in India. “As JS (Air), Sharma was part of key meetings in the defence ministry,” said a CBI official when asked about the prosecution sanction. He declined to give any other details, while confirming the request was made in writing to the defence ministry. HT has seen the request document. The details of the alleged role played by Sharma in the case are not clear at this time.Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act makes it mandatory for CBI to seek a prosecution sanction from the concerned department before filing a charge sheet against a government official.“I had a long unblemished service record of over forty years and nobody can blame me for any malafide action or decision. I strongly and firmly deny any such frivolous allegation,” Shashi Kant Sharma told HT. A second CBI officer, who asked not to be named, contended that Panesar and the three IAF officers played important and questionable roles in the purchase and testing of the AW-101 helicopters. More details of Panesar’s alleged role are not known at this time.The three officers against whom sanctions have been sought from the defence ministry include deputy chief test pilot SA Kunte, Wing Commander Thomas Mathew, and Group Captain N Santosh. The three officers have retired.Panesar and the three officers could not be reached. The office of the former air vice-marshal did not share contact details.The second CBI officer added that a supplementary charge sheet, detailing the alleged roles played by Sharma, Panesar, Kunte, Mathew and Santosh, is ready and will be filed as soon as the government accords sanction. The charge sheet will also detail the role of about a dozen other officials and individuals that amount to conspiracy and violation under the prevention of corruption act, he added. On Michel, the CBI supplementary charge sheet will explain how he paid bribes to Indian officials to influence the decision in the favour of AgustaWestland, and later destroyed the trail, said the second officer.Michel was extradited to India in December 2018 and is currently lodged in Tihar jail. CBI filed its first charge sheet in the case in September 2017, naming former IAF chief SP Tyagi; former Air-Vice Marshal JS Gujral; former AgustaWestland CEO Bruno Spagnolini; former Finmeccanica chairman Giuseppe Orsi; Michel and his two associates, Guido Ralph Haschke and Carlo Gerosa; SP Tyagi’s cousin Sanjeev Tyagi; and Delhi-based lawyer-middleman Gautam Khaitan. They have all denied any wrongdoing. According to a note, allegedly written by Michel sometime in 2008 at his London office, 30 million euros were to be distributed among Indian bureaucrats, politicians, and air force officers. The note used abbreviations of designations under the heads “AF” (which, investigators allege, meant air force), “BUR” (bureaucrats, according to sleuths), “POL” (politicians) and “Fam” (believed to be SP Tyagi’s family). The note mentioned that 6 million euros were for “AF”, 8.4 million euros for “BUR”, 3 million euros for “Pol” and 15-16 million euros for “Fam”. Several of the abbreviations under the header were revealed by Guido Haschke to Italian investigators, according to court documents. The Italian court’s 2016 judgment in the case – it sentenced Orsi and Spagnolini – said that Haschke admitted to these expenses incurred by Michel on the Indian military, bureaucracy, and politicians. Spagnolini and Orsi were acquitted later by an appeals court in Milan in September 2018.The CBI claimed in its first charge sheet (HT has seen a copy) that, in 2004, officials at Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), Special Protection Group (SPG) and air force and ministry of defence officials, agreed to change the mandatory service ceiling of the helicopters from 6,000 meters to 4,500. This, it alleged, ultimately benefitted Anglo-Italian firm AgustaWestland. CBI also says it has established a “money trail” of 62 million euros (around 415 crore) out of suspected 67 million euros (Rs 452 crore) in bribes allegedly paid to Indian officials through middlemen. The irregularities in the award of contract to AgustaWestland led to estimated loss of 398.21 million euros (around Rs 2,666 crore) to the Indian government in the 556.262 million euros (Rs 3726.9 crore) contract, according to CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agustawestland-scam-cbi-seeks-prosecution-sanction-against-former-cag-shashi-kant-sharma-four-iaf-officers/story-J0Jp9wf9se0SCoShND0jtJ.html
11-09-2020||India||Manipur man, who reunited with family after 40 years, found dead near his village||A man from Manipur, who was reunited with family in 2018 after he went missing for 40 years, was found dead at a bridge near his native village, sources said on Friday.The man was identified as Khomdram Gambhir Singh, 72, a resident of Khumbong Mamang Leikai in Manipur’s Imphal West district, and was spotted by the joggers who passed the area early on Thursday morning, sources said.“We received the information about the incident on Thursday morning,” a police officer stationed at Patsoi police station under Imphal West district said. A team of police rushed to the spot followed by a team of mobile forensic team along with concerned officials for necessary procedure, the official added.At the request of Gambhir’s family and subsequent submission of a declaration, no case was registered in connection with his death, the sources said.Also read: Bihar medical aspirant shoots self while taking selfie with father’s pistolGambhir, a former member of paramilitary Manipur Rifles, had disappeared from his locality in the late 1970s. He was finally traced to the streets of Mumbai in April 2018 after a video of him singing a Hindi song in Mumbai’s Bandra locality was surfaced online.A warm welcome greeted the old man on his remarkable return to his native place on April 19, 2018, after the Manipur police team coordinated with their Mumbai counterpart. Since then, Gambhir had been staying with his younger brother. According to family sources, Gambhir had once expressed the desire to go out of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-man-who-reunited-with-family-after-40-years-found-dead-near-his-village/story-j2LkYCE4OhFG4Ic6rEmtaL.html
11-09-2020||India||Implement amendments on Panchayati Raj in J&K, urges body of village heads||Ahead of third phase of government’s ambitious “Back to Village (B2V)” programme, All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference (AJKPC), an umbrella organization of Panchayat representatives of J&K, has reiterated its long pending demand for full implementation of all the provisions of 73rd and 74th amendments of Constitution in J&K.Addressing a press conference here, Anil Sharma, president AJKPC along with other senior office bearers of the organization, renewed their demand for full implementation of 73rd and 74th Amendments of the Constitution in J&K.Sharma said, “Successive regimes of J&K have delayed and rejected the demand for implementation of these provisions on the pretext of Article 370 but it is unfortunate that even the present government of J&K UT is being reluctant in implementing these important provisions for strengthening the urban and rural local bodies”.He accused the bureaucrats of hatching a conspiracy to undermine local bodies so that these ‘Babus’ continue to remain relevant and keep control over them.Sharma said it is more than a year since Article 370 was repealed but it is a sorry state of affairs that even as on date these important provisions of the Constitution have not been implemented in J&K.He said that the 73rd amendment and 74th amendments of Constitution of India were adopted by Parliament in 1992 and 1993, respectively, but Article 370 was a barrier that did not allow their implementation in J&K and that caused huge loss to grassroots level democracy.“After revocation of Article 370 and Article 35-A there was jubilation amongst the elected panches, sarpanches and councillors as they were expecting real empowerment through special laws for giving more powers to these grassroot level democratic institutions but the dreams had been shattered as nothing concrete was done in this regard so far,” he added.Sharma said that the solution to at least 70 percent problems of Jammu and Kashmir lies in autonomous, empowered and powerful democratic institutions at micro level and that can be assured only through immediate implementation of 73rd and 74th amendment of Constitution in the UT so that all funds directly reach to local bodies without any interference of the bureaucrats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implement-amendments-on-panchayati-raj-in-j-k-urges-body-of-village-heads/story-JeceAqC7UlYFGRhh1qJfbI.html
11-09-2020||India||State failed in defending Maratha quota in Supreme Court: Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra chief minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said that the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government in the state failed in effectively defending Maratha reservation before the Supreme Court. He said that the state government should have focused more on the legal matter and should now take the development as a lesson for future planning. He also said that approaching Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde to vacate the stay is the only option left before the state.“Tamil Nadu and our situation is the same. Despite that, while referring to the constitutional bench, the apex court didn’t stay the reservation declared by them but in our case, it was stayed. We need to see where we lacked in explaining the case effectively before the apex court,” Fadnavis said while speaking to reporters in Delhi on Friday.“The only way left before us is to approach the Chief Justice of India and request him to vacate stay on Maratha reservation as there is no difference between our case and that of Tamil Nadu. The state should also request him to club both the cases,” he added.The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the Maratha quota in jobs and education while referring it to the constitutional bench. It is being seen as a major setback to the MVA government and the Opposition leaders are blaming the government for that. The state government is also planning to file an appeal against the three-bench judgement.Responding to former revenue minister and senior leader Eknath Khadse’s allegations that Fadnavis dislodged him from electoral politics as he was the main contender for the post of the chief minister in the state, Fadnavis said Khadse was forced to resign from his position over allegations of purchase of plot of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), a state-run corporation, by one of his family members. The case was filed against him following directives of the Bombay high court.“There is no need to create confusion among people as Khadse ji was forced to resign in MIDC land purchase case and not in Manish Bhangare case, as he claims. The retired judge who probed the allegations submitted a report to the state but by then, a corruption case was filed against him following directives of the high court. This is also the reason the report could not be tabled before the state legislature. People will know the reality once the report is made public,” Fadnavis clarified.Fadnavis also said that the matter between him and Khadse will be sorted out by discussion. “Khadse ji is our senior leader and if he is unhappy we will sit together and resolve the issue. After all, it is a family matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-failed-in-defending-maratha-quota-in-supreme-court-fadnavis/story-TtVUW8cKDsztpJEMpaseiM.html
11-09-2020||India||South Western Railway increases platform ticket price in Bengaluru by 400 per cent||The South Western Railway has increased the price of the platform tickets by 400 per cent, taking the present price of Rs 10 to Rs 50 in what is being called as a temporary measure to stop crowding in the station area.The new ticket prices are applicable to Kranitveera Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station, Bengaluru Cantonment and Yeshwanthpur railway stations.Platform tickets are issued for those who are not travelling but are with the passengers. During the initial phases, railways stopped the sale of platform ticket altogether. But now with the gradual acceleration in the railway services, platform tickets are allowed for people accompanying disabled passengers, students to the stations. The price has been hiked to keep unnecessary crowding at abeyance, the South western railway said.From September 12, seven pairs of new trains will start from Bengaluru division, in addition to the special trains already running.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-south-western-railway-increases-platform-ticket-price-by-400-per-cent/story-xtyemKOtMSnFhO1Wn7ONkJ.html
11-09-2020||India||‘No quarantine for those who leave state and return within 96 hours’: Assam govt||As per a new directive by the Assam government, those travelling outside the state but returning within 96 hours won’t have to undergo quarantine for 10 days as required earlier.“A person who travels to any location outside Assam and returns to the state within 96 hours of departure will not be required to undergo quarantine of 10 days,” the order issued by the state health and family welfare department stated on Thursday. The order signed by principal secretary (health) Samir Kumar Sinha stated that certain conditions will have to be fulfilled for the guidelines to be effective. They include mandatory rapid antigen test (RAT) on return. If the test result comes positive, the person shall undergo home isolation or treatment at Covid Care Centre or hospital as per the protocol. Also read: PIL says patients dying as Assam hospitals refuse admission; HC defers hearingIf the test result is negative, swab samples will be taken for RT-PCR test and the person will have to stay in isolation (by giving an undertaking that they would follow all safety norms) till the result of the test is available. “The person will strictly comply with hygiene and social distancing norms during the stay outside Assam,” the order read. In a separate order, the department also decided to provide Rs 5,000 to families of such Covid-19 patients who died from the virus and their last rites could not be performed by their family. The order would apply to such families who do not receive the body or are unable to bear the cremation expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-quarantine-for-those-who-leave-state-and-return-within-96-hours-assam-govt/story-niGjAzu0AvS2fAEP9SfQKL.html
11-09-2020||India||India, China differences remain despite five-point consensus on easing tensions||Sharp divergences remained between India and China on the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) even after the two sides framed a five-point roadmap for easing tensions on the disputed border and speeding up the disengagement of troops. The two sides reached an agreement on the five points during talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow on Thursday night. The points include dialogue aimed at quick disengagement, maintaining proper distance between troops of the two sides and easing tensions, abiding by all agreements and protocols on border management, and working on new confidence-building measures once the situation eases. Also Read: How Jaishankar-Wang’s 5-point consensus works out depends on one man | AnalysisWang was quoted by a Chinese foreign ministry statement as acknowledging that it is normal for two major neighbours such as India and China to have differences and that bilateral ties have come “to a crossroads”, though there is no challenge that can’t be overcome if both sides keep moving in the right direction. These remarks marked a slight shift from China’s stance in recent weeks, including during defence minister Rajnath Singh’s meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe on September 4, of holding the Indian side entirely responsible for the standoff. Also Read: India-China joint statement stresses need for more confidence buildingIn other areas, however, sharp differences persisted between the two sides, and experts noted that both countries hadn’t made any mention of the restoration of the status quo on the LAC as it existed in April or set any timeframe for completing the disengagement and de-escalation. The Chinese foreign ministry’s statement also said that the Indian side “does not consider the development of India-China relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question”, but this was dismissed by people familiar with developments. The people, speaking on condition of anonymity, noted that Jaishankar had emphasised even before the meeting that “the state of the border cannot be delinked from the state of the relationship”, and that he had repeated this at the talks with Wang. Also Read: India, China agree on 5-point plan for resolving border standoff: Here’s what you need to knowDuring the meeting, Jaishankar made it clear recent incidents in eastern Ladakh had “inevitably impacted the development of the bilateral relationship”, said one of the people cited above. “While the Indian side recognised that a solution to the boundary question required time and effort, it was clear the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas is essential to the forward development of ties,” the person added. The people also challenged the Chinese statement’s assertion that the “Indian side believes that China’s policy toward India has not changed”, saying the Chinese side is yet to provide a satisfactory explanation for the massing of troops and equipment in violation of all existing border agreements, which has created new flashpoints along the LAC. The Chinese statement cited Wang as outlining China’s “stern position” on the situation and emphasising the need to “immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions” and to “move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed”. The people cited above reiterated that Indian troops hadn’t crossed the LAC and it was the Chinese troops that had fired in the air during the latest face-off on September 7 on the south bank of Pangong Lake. “We are committed to a resolution though peaceful dialogue but it is the Chinese side that has repeatedly resorted to aggressive military actions and posturing,” a second person said. Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash is among those who remain sceptical about the Chinese side’s intentions and willingness to deliver on the commitments made during Thursday’s meeting. “The India-China joint statement on border disengagement somehow doesn’t inspire. The Chinese don’t seem to have agreed to restore status quo ante. There are no timelines,” he said. “The understanding on quick disengagement is vague at best. It will be a miracle if these commitments are honoured,” Prakash added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-differences-remain-despite-five-point-consensus-on-easing-tensions/story-RK4g93VyPFo85llQS5O5GI.html
11-09-2020||India||PIL says patients dying as Assam hospitals refuse admission; HC defers hearing||Leader of opposition in Assam assembly and senior Congress leader, Debabrata Saikia, has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in Gauhati high court against hospitals in the state for allegedly refusing treatment to patients who fail to produce Covid-19 negative reports. Citing several newspaper reports of how patients in need of critical and immediate medical care have died in the state due to hospitals’ refusal to treat them without Covid negative certificates, the petitioner stated it was a violation of fundamental right of citizens. “Such people include accident-related critically injured cases, in which urgent medical care is vital and of paramount importance. Resultantly, many people succumbed to their injuries sustained during the accidents,” the PIL stated. The plea claimed that even pregnant women are not admitted to hospitals without furnishing a Covid-19 negative certificate and cited four instances of patients dying due to lack of medical care.The petition stated that such actions by hospitals were in violation of a directive issued in April by the union health ministry asking hospitals not to insist on Covid test before providing services and not to deny essential critical services to those in need. The PIL states that the actions of the respondents—government of India, Assam government and the state health and family welfare department--were malafide and violated fundamental rights of the petitioner as guaranteed under articles 14 and 21 of the constitution. Also Read: Infant dies at Panchkula hospital, family allege medical negligenceIt requested the court to direct the authorities to ensure admission of all patients in hospitals without production of non-Covid certificates. It also requested magisterial inquiries into any such deaths caused due to non-admission of patients and punishment for the culprits as per law apart from adequate compensation to families of the deceased. The PIL, filed on August 14, was heard by a division bench comprising chief justice Ajai Lamba and justice Manish Choudhury on September 8 through video conference. Also Read: FIR lodged against makers of audio clip on Mohali Civil Hospital: Dayalan“At this juncture, when approximately 1 lakh cases a day of Covid positive patients are being detected, we would not like to take up the issue,” the bench stated in its order while listing the matter for October 19. Last month, a 36-year old woman in Tinsukia district, who suffered a brain stroke, died after several hospitals including a government hospital allegedly refused to treat her since the family couldn’t produce a Covid negative certificate for the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-claims-patients-dying-as-assam-hospitals-refuse-admission-hc-defers-hearing/story-dJmy7Yyw7djo0L8Dv9nRpL.html
11-09-2020||India||5 states account for 60% of daily recoveries from Covid-19: Centre||The Union health ministry on Friday said that 60 per cent of the daily recoveries from the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in India are coming from five states namely Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh adding that these states also account for 57 per cent of new cases. “Nearly 57 per cent of the new cases are reported from only five states. These are the same states that are also contributing 60 per cent of the new recovered cases,” the ministry said.Out of the 60 per cent of daily recoveries- Maharashtra added (20.1 per cent), Tamil Nadu (14.2 per cent), Andhra Pradesh (9.9 per cent), Karnataka (8.7 per cent) and Uttar Pradesh (6.5 per cent).Total recoveries on Friday climbed to 354,2663 with nearly 71,000 being registered in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh contributed the most daily recoveries as both logged over 14,000 and 10,000 recoveries respectively. Meanwhile, out of the total 96,551 cases added in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra added more than 23,000 cases and Andhra Pradesh added more than 10,000 cases. The active Covid-19 cases now stand at 943,480. The ministry also pointed out that nine states Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Assam, Odisha and Chhattisgarh - account for 74 per cent of the total active cases. Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnatka contribute more than 48 per cent of the country’s active cases. Out of the 1,209 deaths due to Covid-19 added in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra has reported 495 deaths followed by Karnataka with 129 deaths, whereas Uttar Pradesh has logged 94 deaths, the ministry added. Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that a total of 54,097,975 samples have been tested for Covid-19 out of which 1,163,542 samples were tested on Thursday. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-account-for-60-of-daily-recoveries-from-covid-19-centre/story-xFdTE8OEISQq1gaVC6UdaN.html
11-09-2020||India||NEET 2020: Delhi Metro to start trains from 6 am this Sunday||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation will begin its services from 6 am this Sunday. “This Sunday, 13th September, Metro operations will start at 6:00 AM on all sections. Starting next Sunday, 20th September, regular timings as per earlier time table with services starting at 8:00 AM on Phase 3 sections (on Sundays) will continue,” DMRC tweeted. This Sunday, 13th September, Metro operations will start at 6:00 AM on all sections. Starting next Sunday, 20th September, regular timings as per earlier time table with services starting at 8:00 AM on Phase 3 sections (on Sundays) will continue. #MetroBackOnTrackThe DMRC resumed its services in several phases starting from September 7, after it got the nod from the ministry of home affairs. For almost six months, metro services were shut owing to Covid-19-related lockdown.This will be the first Sunday after Delhi metro resumed its services this week, which coincides with NEET-2020 exams.Generally, services used to start at 8 am on Sundays before the lockdown. The schedule will continue from September 20 as well. The timing change is only a special arrangement for September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-2020-delhi-metro-to-start-trains-from-6-am-this-sunday/story-fC3j7IMk7O6CM9Lpkci7zH.html
11-09-2020||India||After VHP and Ayodhya seers, Akhada Parishad backs Kangana Ranaut||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, locked in a bitter faceoff with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, has received support from the Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP)—the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country.Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri has described Kangana Ranaut as a “brave and courageous daughter of the nation” who has busted the racket involving Bollywood personalities and the drug mafia. “The fearless voice of the actor against nepotism and domination of a particular community in Bollywood, besides the nexus existing between the film industry and the drug mafia has caused ripples. The mafia and state government are both in fear and simply hitting out at her,” said Giri.“This is the reason why the Uddhav Thackeray government has demolished Kangana Ranaut’s office and acted in simple retaliation aimed at suppressing her voice,” he added. Ranaut’s office was demolished by the Brihanmumbai municipal corporation (BMC) on Wednesday, alleging departure from the sanctioned plan. The demolition has been criticized by many including the leader of opposition in Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis, who alleged it was done in haste and was a case of selective targeting.Akhara Parishad president said that Kangana was being targeted by the high and mighty for revealing dirty secrets.“However, the Maharashtra high court has given a huge relief to Kangana by granting a stay on the demolition operations. The bravery, with which she has faced drugs and Bollywood mafia in Sushant Singh murder case, has made many people angry and she is being targeted at their behest,” Giri said.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut’s mother thanks Amit Shah for support, says family was Congress loyalist but will support BJP nowThe demolition case is being heard in Mumbai high court, which has set September 22 as the next day for hearing.Mahant Narendra Giri added that the law and order situation in Maharashtra was very bad.“Even in the lynching case of two saints in Palghar, the Maharashtra government has not taken any action. The Akhada parishad has demanded a CBI inquiry in the Palghar case but the state government has failed to act,” he added.Also Read: Babita Phogat supports Kangana Ranaut, asks why ‘award wapsi gang of Bollywood’ is silentThree policemen were recently dismissed from service for dereliction of duty in the lynching case. The state CID is currently probing this matter and 150 people have been arrested so far for their alleged involvement in this case.Giri further said that in this battle of Kangana Ranaut, all saints and the countrymen were with her. He also thanked Himachal Pradesh and the central governments for giving security cover to Kangana. Also Read: BJP MLA writes to Amit Shah over Kangana Ranaut, alleges Dawood angleOn Thursday, seers of Ayodhya and the Vishva Hindu Parishad accused the Maharashtra government of shielding those involved in anti-social activities and said that Uddhav Thackeray was no more welcome in the temple town of Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-vhp-and-ayodhya-seers-akhada-parishad-backs-kangana-ranaut/story-JZ1T5vGoOovF24oBMiebVJ.html
11-09-2020||India||How Jaishankar-Wang’s 5-point consensus works out depends on one man | Analysis||When Chinese foreign minister Huang Hua met Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on June 29, 1981, the two agreed that unless the boundary question is settled, it would be difficult to maintain friendship and goodwill between the two neighbours.More than 39 years later, the People’s Liberation Army and the Chinese foreign ministry appear to be on different pages. The PLA is hard at work in its single-minded effort to reach to the Green Line defined by a 1959 map by then Chinese Premier Chou En-Lai while the foreign ministry is talking about building bilateral economic ties, which over the years, did strongly tilt towards Beijing.Much as State Councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi tried to gloss over a near war-like situation in Ladakh during his two-hour-long meeting with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, the fact is that the 1981 parallel track policy of working to build on harmonious ties even as the two countries sort out the boundary issue has not paid any dividends to India.ALSO WATCH | India, China formulate 5-point peace plan during Jaishankar & Wang Yi meet Instead, India has lost territory since then, letting 65 patrolling points defined by the China Study Group in 1976 turn into the de facto Line of Control (LAC) in Ladakh. The patrolling points are well within the Indian perception of the LAC but the movement of the Indian forces to these points has been curtailed by the presence of Chinese troops, face-offs with PLA patrolling parties and on occasions, the harsh weather and mountainous terrain.As Wang and Jaishankar arrived at a five-point consensus in Moscow to first disengage, and then de-escalate in Ladakh, the Communist Party of China mouthpiece Global Times continued to play up its war-mongering editorial.Also Read: India, China troop disengagement in Ladakh is first step before de-escalation“If India wants peace, China and India should uphold the LAC of November 7, 1959. If India wants war, China will oblige,” the tabloid, considered an extended arm of the Chinese government, says. It claims that India does not want to implement the 1959 LAC as it is holding a grudge for its failure in 1962 war.It is this 1962 mindset that pervades the regime of Xi Jinping. President Xi, who evidently sees himself as a true successor to Mao Zedong, decided to target India in 1962 by creating an impression that India was out to occupy Tibet.The aggressive line projected by the party’s mouthpiece is totally at odds with what State Councillor Wang Yi’s stand at his meeting with Jaishankar where the Chinese side did not appear to acknowledge the role that the PLA had played to spike tensions. As one diplomat put it, it was as if the build-up and the friction in Ladakh was an act of God.Given the Chinese expansionist plans to make unilateral cartographic changes in Ladakh, the disengagement process will not be easy as the PLA wants to reach the 1959 Green Line and push Indian Army troops beyond the self-designated line. This is completely in violation of the 1993 Peace and Tranquillity Accord, which talks about mutual and equal security on the border for both sides.Under the circumstances, India will have to wait for PLA Commander-in-Chief and President Xi Jinping to give instructions to his western theatre command troops to go back to barracks if Beijing is seriously interested in rolling back the aggression. While the Chinese political mindset has not changed since 1962, the Indian mindset changed in 2014. Beijing must take this into account before making the next move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-jaishankar-wang-s-5-point-consensus-works-out-depends-on-one-man-analysis/story-HYCOYdtJro5ytg2NtP3ouL.html
11-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty denied bail: NCB says probe at crucial point, actor to move high court||A special court in Mumbai on Friday rejected the bail petitions of Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drugs case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Special judge GB Gurao, presiding over cases under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) act, also rejected the bail applications of four other accused in the case. All the accused are in judicial custody.Here is what NCB and Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyers said:* Special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande, appearing for NCB, welcomed the decision. * Sarpande said the court, while rejecting the bail pleas, has accepted the contentions of the prosecution that the investigation is at a crucial stage, according to news agency PTI.* Rhea’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said they would decide further course of action after reading the court order.* “Once we get a copy of the order passed by the special NDPS court, we will decide next week on further course of action and about approaching the Bombay High Court,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.* Rhea had claimed in her bail plea that she was falsely implicated in the case. She had also retracted her statement recorded by NCB when she was questioned for three days, claiming that the agency had coerced her into making self-incriminating statements.* NCB had strongly opposed their bail pleas and said that Rhea knew that Rajput was consuming drugs, but she continued procuring and making payments for drugs.* The agency had said that although the quantity of banned drugs seized in the case was small, it was still a commercial quantity and worth Rs 185,200.* “Rhea Chakraborty and Showik Chakraborty financed and arranged drugs for Rajput and at his instructions,” the NCB had said in its affidavit responding to the bail pleas.* NCB added that as per the statement given by co-accused and Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant, he used to procure drugs from other accused in the case on the instructions of Rajput and Rhea.* “The financial transactions were handled by Rhea and sometimes Rajput. Dipesh Sawant used to procure drugs along with co-accused Samuel Miranda (former house manager of Rajput) for Sushant Singh Rajput’s consumption,” the affidavit said.* NCB had further said that if the accused are released on bail, they may tamper with evidence and try to intimidate key witnesses in the case.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-denied-bail-ncb-says-probe-at-crucial-point-actor-to-move-high-court/story-dv8s4SxB1Y41LhNjNyQ4YM.html
11-09-2020||India||Do not block oxygen supplies for Covid-19 patients, Centre tells states||Noticing that several states are restricting oxygen supplies under the pretext of border curbs, which are not in place in Unlock 4, the Union health ministry has asked urged all state government to restrain from the practice. It is the responsibility of every state to ensure that every hospitalised Covid-19 patient receives oxygen, the health secretary wrote to the states and the Union Territories In the fourth phase of Unlock, which commenced from September 1, there is no border restriction anywhere in the country. But it has come to the knowledge of the health ministry that the states are exercising some provisions under various acts and also mandating the manufacturers/suppliers located in the state to restrict their oxygen supplies to only the hospitals of the state, the letter said.Medical oxygen is an essential public health commodity, the letter said adding that any impediment in the supplies of medical oxygen may critically impact the management of patients suffering from Covid-19 disease in other parts of the country. Moreover, some of the major oxygen manufacturers/supplies already have existing supply agreements with hospitals in various states with a legal obligation to fulfil such agreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-block-oxygen-supplies-for-covid-19-patients-centre-tells-states/story-nmH3FoYOPZuHdFFhrVRmfP.html
11-09-2020||India||Two Indian Army personnel injured in LoC explosion||Two Indian Army personnel, including a Major, were injured in an explosion along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Jammu division’s Rajouri district on Thursday, officials said. “A major and a JCO (junior commissioned officer) were injured when they inadvertently stepped on to a landmine along the LoC in Nowshera sector on Thursday morning. They were on a patrol in a forward area,” said a defence official. Also Read: Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC yet againThe injured have been shifted to Command Hospital in Udhampur for treatment. They are stable, he added. Usually, landmines, which are light in weight, drift away during monsoon and pose a threat to the security personnel on patrol duty. Pakistan-based terrorists with the assistance of Pakistani Army also plant such landmines on Indian soil in a bid to grievously hurt Indian security forces along the LoC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-indian-army-personnel-injured-in-loc-explosion/story-BGW61MHuSjbdpGuLO7REzI.html
11-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut’s fan arrested in Kolkata for threatening Sanjay Raut||A man believed to be a fan of Bollywood actor Kangana Raut was arrested from south Kolkata late on Thursday night for allegedly making threat calls to Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, police said. “The man identified as Palash Bose, a resident of Tollygunge, was arrested by a team of Mumbai Police. He would be produced at the Alipore court today for transit remand,” said a senior Kolkata Police officer who is aware of the developments. Kangana Ranaut and the Shiv Sena leader were engaged in a war of words over Mumbai police’s handling of the death case of Sushant Singh Rajput. During the exchange, Ranaut alleged she was being threatened by the Sena leader and likened Mumbai to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), following which, Raut warned her against returning to Maharashtra. Bose had allegedly threatened the Shiv Sena MP with “dire consequences”, following which the Mumbai Police contacted the city cops and arrested the man.Also Read: In Sena Vs Kangana Ranaut, Ayodhya seers’ message for Uddhav ThackerayRaut is not the only politician to have received threats following the acrimonious exchange with Kangana, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh, too, have received threats, including some from underworld.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut’s mother thanks Amit Shah for support, says family was Congress loyalist but will support BJP nowKangana Ranaut fans are upset with Sanjay Raut’s alleged intemperate comments against Ranaut and also against the Mumbai civic body for demolishing a portion of her office in Bandra alleging illegal alterations to the sanctioned plan. Several fans have been venting their ire against the Maharashtra government on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-s-fan-arrested-in-kolkata-for-threatening-sanjay-raut/story-z8yQKxwKPPYxY2vAoc80uM.html
11-09-2020||India||Bhave, Vivekananda have a lot to teach humanity: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday recalled two important events that mark this day for India -- the birth anniversary of Acharya Vinoba Bhave and Swami Vivekananda’s famous address in Chicago -- and said both great men have a lot to teach the entire humanity.In his tweets, Modi also noted that the world remembers 9/11 (September 11) for the dastardly terror attack on this day in the USA and said if humans had walked on the path of Bhave’s slogan of ‘Jai Jagat’ and Vivekananda’s nineteenth century message of universal brotherhood, the destruction that followed would not have occurred.  “Today, on 11th September we in India mark two important milestones.  The Jayanti of Acharya Vinoba Bhave. The day Swami Vivekananda delivered his outstanding address in Chicago. These great men have a lot to teach the entire humanity,” Modi said.Paying tribute to Bhave on his 125th birth anniversary, the prime minister said, “In 1918 Mahatma Gandhi wrote about Bhave that ‘I do not know in what terms to praise you. Your love and your character fascinate me and so also your self-examination. I am not fit to measure your worth’.”  Modi added that Vivekananda’s address in 1893 perfectly demonstrated the spirit of India’s ethos and the values that are an integral part of our land, as he urged youngsters to read the text of his address. He also tagged a link to the address.   “The world remembers 9/11 for the dastardly attack on this day in USA. If only humankind had walked on the path of ‘Jai Jagat’ given by Acharya Vinoba Bhave & Swami Vivekananda’s message of Universal Brotherhood given in 1893, the destruction that followed would not have occurred,” the prime minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhave-vivekananda-have-a-lot-to-teach-humanity-pm-modi/story-zaJguk8TDYKO112y1nTWSP.html
11-09-2020||India||Extreme rains lead to more rural farmer suicides than droughts: Study||Not only drought but flooding or even extreme rainfall leading to excess water availability is linked to higher cases of suicides among those above the age of 15 years in rural areas, a new study has suggested.In an analysis of 9,456 suicides between 2001 and 2013 in randomly selected rural areas, the researchers found that compared to normal growing seasons, the percentage of deaths due to suicide increased by 18.7% during extremely wet cropping seasons and by 3.6% during extremely dry cropping seasons.The study led by Robin A Richardson at department of epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University with researchers from department of epidemiology, biostatistics, and occupational health, McGill University in Canada and IIT Gandhinagar used data from Million Deaths Study (MDS), which monitored the causes of death between 2001 and 2013 among approximately 8.5 million individuals living in randomly selected rural ‘small areas.’The researchers limited rural areas selected to those with less than 5,000 population, and a density of less than 1,000 per square mile and where more than 25% of male population was engaged in agricultural work.Water availability was measured with the standardized precipitation evapotranspiration index (SPEI), derived by taking the difference between precipitation amount and potential evapotranspiration during a specified time period.The team calculated SPEI values using temperature and rain data for districts for the entire growing period from June 1 to March 31. The team found that the most common modes of suicide were poisoning (40%), hanging or strangulation (37%), and burning (10%). Non-suicide deaths saw very minor changes during the same period indicating that they were not linked to extremes in water availability.“To our knowledge, no studies before ours have investigated the link between suicide and water availability at both extremes. We found, perhaps surprisingly, extremely wet conditions more strongly associated with suicide than extremely dry conditions. Our results were robust to a number of sensitivity analyses,” the study to be published in Science Direct’s environmental research journal in November (the abstract is already published online) has concluded.Also Read: Maharashtra government to connect farmers with 1,370 market-based value chains“Very wet conditions can be very damaging to crops because of limited means to mitigate conditions. Extreme drought can be offset by irrigation, extremely wet conditions – such as flooding or torrential rain can result in conditions that are less easily mitigated and are more damaging to crops,” said Vimal Mishra, associate professor, civil engineering, IIT Gandhinagar and co-author of the study.Statistics collected from the national crime records bureau (NCRB) find that bankruptcy and indebtedness are the top causes of suicide among farmers and cultivators. Poor crop yield can be devastating for those engaged in subsistence agriculture.“This study looks at how climate change impacts agriculture. Farmers are directly dependent on the environment. There are three categories of people who are particularly vulnerable, those in flood prone or rain fed areas; small and marginal farmers; socially disadvantaged groups like women and Dalits. Climate change is a reality and we are seeing both flash floods and flash droughts. There is extreme rain in a few days followed by no rain for several days. This causes the lives of marginal farmers to go upside down. Insurance mechanisms should serve those affected and PM Kisan should be available to all categories of agricultural workers,” said Ramanjaneyulu GV, executive director, centre for sustainable agriculture, Telangana who read the study.Also Read: Congress condemn police action against farmers in KurukshetraAccording to “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region” a report of the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES), released earlier this year, from 1950 onwards, there has been a significant rising trend in the frequency and intensity of extreme heavy rain events over central India, along with a decreasing trend in the moderate rain events.A study published in Nature journal in 2017 by Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology has concluded that there has been a three-fold rise in extreme rains along the west coast and central India during 1950 to 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extreme-rains-lead-to-more-rural-farmer-suicides-than-droughts-study/story-Pk9BZ6A5QZGtuny9q5qJMO.html
11-09-2020||India||Five Cs for students in 21st century: PM Modi’s top quotes on school education||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday addressed a conclave on school education in the 21st century, which was organised under the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 by the ministry of education as a part of the ‘Shiksha Parv’.He addressed the conclave on its second and final day, through video conferencing.Here are some quotes from the Prime Minister’s speech:NEP a medium to fulfil aspirations of new IndiaAddressing the event, the Prime Minister called NEP 2020 a medium to fulfil new hopes and necessities of a new India. He added that the policy was devised after four to five years of hard work by people from every region, genre and language. He added that the work on it was still in progress.Engage, explore, experience, express and excelPM Modi stressed on the importance of promoting easy and new ways of learning, which he called methods of ‘New Age Learning’. These, he said, were engage, explore, experience, express and excel.Five Cs of the 21st centuryTalking about the ‘skills of the 21st century,’ Modi said that students have to move forward with these skills. These, he said, are critical thinking, creativity, collaboration, curiosity and communication.Marksheet has become ‘mental pressure sheet’Speaking about the pressure to score well in exams, PM Modi said parents always ask their children about their marks but never about what they have learned. He questioned how a marksheet can be a parameter of children’s mental development.Mathematical thinking and scientific temperamentHe spoke about the need to develop mathematical thinking and scientific temperament in children. “Mathematical thinking does not only mean that children solve mathematical questions, but this is also a way of thinking,” he said.Language is a medium of education, not education itselfOn the issue of medium of instruction, PM Modi said language is a medium of instruction and not the whole education itself. He said any language in which a child can learn, should be the medium of instruction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-cs-for-students-in-21st-century-pm-modi-s-top-quotes-on-school-education/story-TFls5U0wdRhMHVTOmxKpAK.html
11-09-2020||India||News Updates from Hindustan Times: Bhupender Yadav-led panel backs virtual courts beyond Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Virtual courts can aid in distributive justice by ensuring accessibility and affordability: Bhupender YadavA department-related standing committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice headed by Bhupender Yadav, a member of the Rajya Sabha (RS) and the national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Friday suggested that virtual court proceedings should be allowed to continue beyond the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic as well. Read moreIndia, China troop disengagement in Ladakh is first step before de-escalationIndian and Chinese military commanders will meet in the next few days to discuss comprehensive disengagement from all friction points in Ladakh as the first step towards de-escalation. Read moreRahul Gandhi again questions government on Chinese aggression in LadakhCongress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been repeatedly questioning the Centre on the issue of Chinese aggression across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, on Friday took to Twitter to once again take a jibe at the government. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘The likes of Hardik Pandya and Kieron Pollard will struggle at this year’s IPL’Former Pakistan captain Ramiz Raja feels that despite their ability to bat well against spin, the likes of Hardik Pandya and Kieron Pollard – both of whom play for the four-time IPL champions Mumbai Indians – will struggle on the surfaces of the UAE. Read moreShibani Dandekar’s Wikipedia page vandalised after her criticism of Ankita LokhandeVJ Shibani Dandekar’s Wikipedia page was vandalised after she attacked actor Ankita Lokhande over latter’s criticism of Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty. The information on her page was distorted and replaced with derogatory statements. Read moreSubsidy scheme under Delhi Electric Vehicle policy to roll out next weekLaunching the policy last month, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said it aimed at registration of around five lakh electric vehicles in the city in the next five years. Read moreGreta Thunberg calls for immediate focus of news on wildfires raging across the US West Sweden’s teen climate activist, Greta Thunberg, drew social media users’ attention on the US West wildfires as they doubled in size between Wednesday and Thursday as per the Oregon officials. Read moreCouple hosts gender reveal on Burj Khalifa, video goes viralThe Internet is filled with videos of such gender reveals which are extravagant and unusual. This influencer couple in Dubai, named Anas and Asala Marwah, however, took that to a whole new level and a video of the event has now gone crazy viral. World’s tallest tower, Burj Khalifa, lit up to reveal the gender of their second baby. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bhupender-yadav-led-panel-backs-virtual-courts-beyond-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-b7OQ95ZZ2iEtdNYC2skGEJ.html
11-09-2020||India||Covid-19 symptomatic candidates may not be allowed to take exams, says revised SOP | All you need to know||Symptomatic candidates who insist on taking an exam may not be allowed to do so, the Union health ministry has said in its revised guideline on the conducting of examinations.NEET 2020 is scheduled to be held on September 13. NEET (Advanced), college and university final year examinations are also being held across the country, and will be over by September 30.Here is all you need to know about the revised SOP1. Only asymptomatic students and staff will be allowed inside the examination halls with proper precautionary measures.2. Previously, the ministry said symptomatic candidates can take the exams under isolation. But now the decision to whether allow them or not has been left with the examination conducting authorities.3. According to the new SOP, the symptomatic candidates should be referred to the nearest health centre and given an opportunity to undertake the examination through other means. 4. In general course, they will not be allowed inside the examination hall. The authorities, in this case, are supposed to arrange alternative date for the examination, when the candidate is declared physically fit. 5. However, all examination centres will have an isolation room for symptomatic candidates until medical advice on whether they can take the exam or not arrives.Other guidelines regarding examination centres in the containment zones, candidates and staff belonging to containment zones remain same. For pen and paper-based tests, like NEET, sanitisation of hands prior to the distribution of question papers or answer sheets is mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-symptomatic-candidates-may-not-be-allowed-to-take-exams-says-revised-sop-all-you-need-to-know/story-rqiCUir3EH1j07KCBMqinO.html
11-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty could move high court next week after bail plea rejected||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer said on Friday they would decide about moving the Bombay High Court next week after a local court in Mumbai rejected her bail plea. She has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) over drugs charges linked to its probe into the Sushant Singh Rajput case.The special court rejected the bail plea of Rhea, her brother Showik and other accused----Abdul Basit, Zaid Vilatra, Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda--in the case.“Once we get the order copy. We will decide next week on the course of action on approaching the high court,” Satish Maneshinde said, according to news agency ANI.Rhea had said in her plea that she was innocent and falsely implicated. Both Rhea and her brother have been booked under section 27A of the NDPS act, which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders.The defence raised the issue of applicability of charges of Section 27A of the NDPS Act against the two. In Rhea’s plea, the defence stated, “The allegations against the present accused would at the most make out a case of purchasing small quantity of drug, which is in essence a bailable offence. There is not a shred of evidence to connect the applicant with financing any illicit traffic or harbouring any offender, and hence the ingredients of Section 27A of the NDPS Act are not made out in present facts and circumstances.”The defence also alleged that even though the role attributed to Rhea and her brother Showik is identical to that of another accused, Kaizan Ebrahim, NCB selectively invoked charges of Section 27A only against Rhea and Showik. Ebrahim was released on provisional cash bail on the very first day of his remand by the magistrate court, the defence pointed out.The pleas were opposed by the prosecution, claiming that all the persons accused are connected and each case cannot be looked at in isolation. The agency said that the quantity of the entire contraband seized from all the accused persons, as per law, becomes commercial, in which case, the offence is non-bailable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-could-move-high-court-next-week-after-bail-plea-rejected/story-n0AkLuM3BdPhtvc7El1UYP.html
11-09-2020||India||Marksheet is ‘pressure sheet’ for students, ‘prestige sheet’ for families: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 will give a new direction to the 21st century India and its goal is to remove the pressure on students to get marks in examinations.“Can a test, a mark sheet, be a parameter for children’s learning or their mental development? Today the truth is that marksheet has become a mental pressure sheet for students and prestige sheet for families. NEP’s goal is to remove this pressure,” PM Modi said while addressing a national conclave on school education.PM Modi said marks and marksheet have so far dominated learning-based education in India, adding that the students have to be ready themselves with skills to cope with the 21st century.“These will be: critical thinking, creativity, collaboration, curiosity, communication. We have to increase easy and innovative methods. Our experiment should be the core of new-age learning. Engage, explore, experience, express and excel,” he said.The Prime Minister stressed that NEP 2020 was just the beginning of the long process and its success would be determined by its effective implementation in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marksheet-is-pressure-sheet-for-students-prestige-sheet-for-families-pm-modi/story-lrqNSNhbxbxenauqjO5VoN.html
11-09-2020||India||Pak needs to take irreversible action against terror groups: Indo-US joint statement||India and the US have called on Pakistan to take “immediate, sustained and irreversible action” to ensure that Pakistani territory isn’t used for terror attacks and to speedily bring to justice the perpetrators of the 2008 Mumbai and 2016 Pathankot attacks.The two countries also underscored the need for concerted action against all terrorist networks, including al-Qaida, Islamic State, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and Hizbul Mujahideen (HM).Also read: US keeps India on ‘do not travel’ list over pandemicThese issues figured in the 17th meeting of the US-India Joint Working Group on Counter-terrorism and the third session of the Designations Dialogue held virtually on September 9-10, according a joint statement.Both sides denounced the use of terrorist proxies and strongly condemned cross-border terrorism in all its forms. They also exchanged views on threats posed by United Nations (UN)-sanctioned terrorist entities, the statement said.“The two sides underlined the urgent need for Pakistan to take immediate, sustained, and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under its control is used for terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such attacks, including 26/11 Mumbai and Pathankot,” the statement said.The 2008 Mumbai attacks, which were carried out by a 10-member team of the LeT from Pakistan, left 166 people dead, including six US nationals.Pakistani security agencies arrested seven men, including LeT operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, for allegedly planning, financing and supporting the attacks but there has been little progress in their trial in a counter-terrorism court.The 2016 Pathankot attack, blamed on JeM, targeted an Indian Air Force (IAF) base and resulted in the death of seven Indian troops.During the dialogue, India and the US also shared information about their priorities and procedures for pursuing sanctions and designations against terror groups and individuals, particularly in light of recent legislative changes in India, the statement said.There was a joint commitment to strengthen cooperation on information-sharing and other steps to disrupt the ability of international terrorists to travel, in line with the provisions and obligations outlined in UN Security Council Resolution (UNSC) 2396.Officials of the two sides highlighted their efforts to address some of the world’s most pressing counter-terrorism challenges, including countering the financing and operations of terrorist organisations, countering radicalisation and terrorist use of the internet, cross-border movement of terrorists, and prosecuting, rehabilitating, and reintegrating returning terrorist fighters and family members.The two sides also discussed mutual legal and extradition assistance, and bilateral law enforcement training and cooperation.The US reiterated its support for the people and government of India in the fight against terrorism.Mahaveer Singhvi, joint secretary for counter-terrorism in the External Affairs Ministry (MA), and Nathan A Sales, the US State Department coordinator for counter-terrorism, led the two delegations in what the statements described as a “far-reaching conversation on counter-terrorism cooperation”.The two sides also resolved to continue close coordination on “this important element of the comprehensive global strategic partnership” between India and the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-counter-terror-talks-seek-pakistan-action-against-perpetrators-of-terror-attacks/story-nxe03Ad4DpVLSbjrDYQMCL.html
11-09-2020||India||Let virtual courts continue post pandemic, recommends parliamentary committee||A parliamentary panel has recommended continuation of virtual courts in certain categories of cases like appeals and final hearings with the consent of the parties involved even after the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it will pave way for cheaper and faster means of delivery of justice as a court is more a service than a place. Also Read: Virtual courts can aid in distributive justice by ensuring accessibility and affordability: Bhupender YadavIt has suggested permanent virtual proceedings for appellate tribunals like Telecom Dispute Settlement Appellate Tribunal, Intellectual Property Appellate Tribunal, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, etc. “This will cut down the cost and increase the efficiency in disposal of the cases without being unnecessarily being adjourned. Virtual courts can deliver faster results with fewer resources. They can also reduce commute time to courts and waiting time at the courts,” the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice said in an interim report submitted to Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday.The report underlined digital justice is “cheaper and faster”. The panel added it addresses locational and economic handicaps, ensures the safety of vulnerable witnesses providing testimony besides expediting processes and procedures.The Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Bhupender Yadav-led panel said virtual courts are an improvement over traditional ones “as they are most affordable, citizen-friendly and offer greater access to justice”.Court proceedings have been held digitally for over five months to adhere to social distancing norms as part of the measures to check the spread of the pandemic. The Supreme Court late last month notified standard operating procedures (SOPs) to govern physical court hearings which were expected to commence soon. The physical hearings of matters are expected to initially begin only in three courtrooms, the SOPs said. The court was expected to take a call on how many lawyers and litigants will be permitted inside the courtroom, depending on the capacity and physical distancing norms.Physical hearings of cases in the Supreme Court were suspended on March 23 in view of the pandemic. The apex court has been hearing cases via video conferencing since then. The top court issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only urgent cases will be taken up for hearing through video conferencing.The panel’s recommendations have come even as various Bar councils have questioned the efficacy of the digital proceedings and pointed out the limitations of the infrastructure required for them. They have said digital proceedings favour tech-savvy advocates besides depriving opportunities to many lawyers to change the course of arguments based on the changing dynamics of a case during hearings.In their submissions to the panel, the councils said over 50% of advocates, mostly at the district and lower levels, do not own laptops or computers and lack the skills required for virtual proceedings.The report maintained virtual courts and hearing cases through video conferencing have gained immense ground during the pandemic and will remain a new reality and new normal. It added virtual courts will promote access to justice since litigants in remote areas will be able to access the Supreme Court without spending money on travel to Delhi. “Litigants need not leave their work to attend court as they can access proceedings from their home or office. It facilitates a lawyer to argue in any court in India. A lawyer can argue in one court in the morning and be present in another court later in the day. It thereby creates a level playing field between the affluent and less well off.”The panel has suggested necessary amendments to the law to give legal validity to virtual courts and their proceedings so that they are not questioned before courts.As many as 13 out of the 25 high courts in the country have introduced and enabled electronic filing of cases. But the district and subordinate courts at many places have been lagging behind due to lack of infrastructure and experience in handling and transitioning to virtual hearings.The committee acknowledged the difficulties in the report and said massive investments would be required to put in place the infrastructure necessary to support the digitised hearings. It has suggested the feasibility of new financing approaches like the public-private partnership model for the purpose.The committee said the transfer of certain categories of cases from regular to virtual courts will reduce the pendency of cases. “[The] Committee feels that the present system should be allowed to continue on an experimental basis with the consent of all parties for certain categories of cases like Appeals etc and final hearings where the physical presence of the parties/counsels is not required and online virtual hearing alone is sufficient. The expenditure involved in the establishment of a large number of Tribunals /Courts can be cut down sizeably. This will also reduce the crowd in the court and cut down other litigation costs and overheads,” the report said.The report said that virtual courts will make court services accessible to all. “No member of the general public should be disadvantaged by locational or economic handicaps or otherwise. The Committee is of the opinion that Digital Justice is cheaper and faster. People living in remote and far-flung areas can also take part in Court proceedings.’The committee said one of the principal benefits of virtual courts will be that they will expedite processes and procedures which would otherwise be protracted and laborious. “Virtual Courts can deliver results faster and with fewer resources. Virtual Courts help in concise, pointed, and focused arguing by lawyers making the system faster,” the report said.The panel said there is no mechanism currently to segregate simple cases from complex ones involving cumbersome procedures and multiple witnesses. “The principle of Proportionate Justice requires that the expense, speed, complexity, and the extent of combativeness of any case should be proportionate to the substance and scale of that case. Petty cases should be dealt with swiftly in a reasonable timeframe. Such cases should not require cumbersome procedures.”Virtual courts, the report said, can address this issue. The committee concluded that physical courts alone will not be sufficient. It added virtual courts will have to be integrated into the country’s legal ecosystem. As a first step towards this, the judiciary should identify cases that can be heard by virtual courts, it suggested.“The Committee is of the view that all such matters where personal presence may be dispensed with can be transferred from regular Court establishments to Virtual Courts. ...Virtual adjudication will bring massive benefits across the system,” the committee said.It also recommended extending virtual courts to cover arbitration hearings. “For instance, if national and international arbitrations are allowed to be conducted through Virtual Courts, there will be hardly any requirement for real-time travel to distant locations. ...this move will unlock the Courts and also mitigate the inconvenience of attending Courts as long-distance travel can be dispensed with and proceedings become less expensive as well.”The other recommendations include setting up of E-Sewa Kendras at all court complexes, speedy execution of National Broadband Mission, the introduction of computer courses for law students, and developing an indigenous software platform to ensure data privacy and safety. The panel has also suggested providing a Wide Area Network facility, adoption of machine learning, artificial intelligence, etc for a transformational change in the dispensation of justice.“The Committee believes that ‘Justice delayed is Justice denied’ but ‘Justice hurried is also Justice buried’. The Committee is of the view that Virtual Courts is a mechanism that will strike a balance between these two extremes and extend expeditious Justice to the litigant public without compromising quality. The Committee feels that transfer of certain categories of cases from regular Court establishments to Virtual Courts will reduce the pendency of cases which has been clogging the wheels of Justice for decades,” the report said.Yadav referred to virtual courts in countries like the US and Singapore and said they have also done a lot of work on aspects like the conduct of remand matters virtually to prevent the movement of prisoners between courts and jails. “We have effectively used virtual courts during the lockdown period wherein more than 1.8 million cases were registered across the country, of which nearly 800,000 have been disposed of.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-virtual-courts-post-pandemic-parliamentary-committee/story-v3zw0wuA2ua3fcI0qG5H4H.html
11-09-2020||India||Virtual courts can aid in distributive justice by ensuring accessibility and affordability: Bhupender Yadav||A department-related standing committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice headed by Bhupender Yadav, a member of the Rajya Sabha (RS) and the national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Friday suggested that virtual court proceedings should be allowed to continue beyond the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic as well. The panel said virtual proceedings can be extended permanently to various appellate tribunals such as Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT), Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB), and National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) etc located across the country, which do not require personal appearances of the parties and advocates. In an interview to HT, Yadav spoke about the need for virtual courts and what interventions are needed on the ground to make them work. Edited excerpts: Are virtual courts here to stay? There is no alternative to physical courts. Courts are a place for administration of justice. Virtual courts provide services in terms of filing of documents, presenting evidence and other procedural mechanisms. It can at best be called a supplemental toolkit for speedy and effective dispensation of justice by reducing the pendency of cases. The idea is to find a balance between dispensation of justice, pendency of cases and giving speedy justice to the public. There were concerns expressed by the Bar Council of India (BCI) and Delhi High Court Bar Association that virtual courts may leave out many litigants who are poor with no access to the internet. How have you addressed that? It is true that a majority of advocates and litigants, especially from the rural parts of the country, do not have adequate infrastructure such as computers, laptops and high-speed internet connection required for virtual hearing of cases. This problem spans across accessibility, connectivity and want of skill and knowledge quotients. The main challenge is to bridge the divide in terms of accessibility, connectivity and skill-set required to use digital platforms. To address these issues, many steps such as establishment of e-seva kendras in the HCs and in district courts to provide assistance and information to lawyers and litigants and facilitating e-filing have been taken. Also Read: ‘Govt’s focus is on giving services to those in need’, says BJP’s Bhupender YadavDid the committee borrow ideas about virtual courts from other countries? From technological advancement the earliest reference of virtual courts is found in other parts of the world and countries such as the United States of America (USA) and Singapore have used them. We have also done a lot of work on this aspect like conducting remand matters through virtual courts to prevent movement of prisoners between courts and jails. We have effectively used virtual courts during the Covid-19-induced lockdown period, where more than 18 lakh cases were registered across the country, of which nearly eight lakhs have been disposed of. So, we will use the technology for the administration of justice in our case as well. In the absence of a vaccine for Covid-19, there is a perception that the pandemic is here to stay. Courts being places where social distancing norms are hard to practice; how does the committee plan on striking a balance between virtual and regular hearings? We are amid a pandemic but certainly have to resume our normal functioning. There is no denying that technology is very effective in ensuring transparency and good governance. After the 1990s, our laws have developed more on the regulatory mechanisms framework. Especially with the coming of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and other such laws have helped us improve our ease of doing business rankings. We have to strike a balance between effective dispensation of justice and expedited disposal of cases. Thus, under Phase II of e-court projects we propose to have dedicated central video conferencing infrastructure for courts, advocates, strengthening of e-filing infrastructure and many other things. But in all this, lawyers are essential stakeholders and they will be part of every consultative and decision-making process. Also Read: JP Nadda to chair meeting of Bihar BJP MPs, senior leaders to finalise assembly poll strategyHigh pendency rates in courts are a long-standing concern. Do you see a role for virtual courts here? Justice delayed is justice denied, but justice hurried is also justice buried. I believe that virtual courts can be an effective medium to balance between these two extremes and provide expeditious and quality justice. We can transfer certain categories of cases to virtual courts to effectively reduce the pendency of overburdened physical courts. Virtual courts can aid us in distributive justice by ensuring accessibility and affordability and location and economic factors should not be an impediment for those people living in remote and far-flung areas from access to justice. The virtual courts would also help achieve our national commitment of achieving sustainable development goal (SDG) targets such as access to justice for all..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-courts-can-aid-in-distributive-justice-by-ensuring-accessibility-and-affordability-bhupender-yadav/story-7bEtsBqqWL2kjTxMqTh8zK.html
11-09-2020||India||With 96,551 new Covid-19 cases, India’s tally goes past 4.5 million mark||India reported a record 96,551 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 1,209 deaths between Thursday and Friday morning, taking the country’s tally past 4.5 million, the Union health ministry data showed on Friday.The country reported 96,551 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday morning after logging 95,735 cases on Thursday.With 1,209 deaths in the last 24 hours, the country’s death toll due to the viral disease currently stands at 76,271. The number of recovered and active cases are 3,542,664 and 943,480 respectively. This means that while the country’s recovery rate is a healthy 77.64%, the fatality rate is 1.67%.Active cases, meanwhile, contribute 20.68% of the country’s total number of Covid-19 cases.India is currently the world’s second worst-affected country after the United States and is ahead of Brazil. It is also the only country to have recorded more than 80,000 and, later, over 90,000 cases in a single day, since the outbreak of the pandemic.The country is currently in the fourth stage of ‘unlock,’ which began on September 1 and will end on September 30. The ‘unlock’ stage started from June 1, after four strict phases of nationwide lockdown from March 25-May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-96-551-new-covid-19-cases-india-s-tally-goes-past-4-5-million-mark/story-RoBvONEocMPlA62o6yE1jM.html
11-09-2020||India||BJP MLA writes to Amit Shah over Kangana Ranaut, alleges Dawood angle||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Uttar Pradesh, Nand Kishore Gurjar, has written to home minister Amit Shah requesting him to upgrade actor Kangna Ranaut’s security to Z plus and to dismiss Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government for allegedly ‘illegally’ demolishing Ranaut’s office in Mumbai. Ranaut was provided Y-plus category security cover by Centre on recommendation of Himachal Pradesh government after the actor, who is originally from Mandi in the Himalayan state, said she had been threatened by Shiv Sena of physical harm when she returned to Mumbai. Claiming there was a serious threat to actor’s life, the BJP MLA from Loni assembly segment of Ghaziabad district alleged that Ranaut’s office was demolished by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on the instructions of mafia don Dawood Ibrahim. The MLA, however, did not substantiate his allegation. Also Watch l ‘You don’t demolish Dawood’s house’: Fadnavis slams Sena over Kangana case “The BMC hasn’t bothered to look into various illegal properties but has acted against Ranaut,” he said in his missive, which also demands arrest of Maharashtra CM apart from dismissal of the coalition government led by Thackeray.“I too have received threat calls from Pakistan and various Islamic countries ever since I raised my voice against streaming of a web series. There is a need to order a probe by NIA into the nexus Maharashtra government has with the underworld,” Gurjar said in his letter, which also referred to Uddhav Thackeray as a ‘dummy’ chief minister.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut kicks off her day with motivational post, childhood pic: ‘Never let your mind dominate your feelings’ The theory of underworld’s involvement in Kangana case gained ground following alleged threatening calls made to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Watch: ‘Don’t drag my name’: Adhyayan Suman over Kangana Ranaut’s alleged drug linksThe BJP MLA’s letter highlights the political divide over Kangana Ranaut’s public statements, including the one likening Mumbai to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, which has pitched Uddhav Thackeray’s Shiv Sena and the Maharasthra Congress against her. The coalition partners in the state’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government have alleged that Kangana is being used as a proxy by the BJP to defame Mumbai police.The BMC had demolished Kangana Ranaut’s office in a posh Bandra locality alleging it violated the sanctioned plan. Ranaut has accused BMC of carrying out vendetta at the behest of the state government. Bombay high court is also hearing Ranaut’s plea against BMC in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-writes-to-amit-shah-over-kangana-ranaut-alleges-dawood-angle-in-case/story-Rp9uKXvT3rCg5WbO97VI9O.html
11-09-2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC yet again||Pakistani troops opened heavy fire in Mankote sector of Poonch district, south of Pir Panjal range, on Friday. Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said, “At about 0830 hours (8.30 am), Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and then shelling with mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector. Indian Army is retaliating befittingly.”Pakistan Army had also targeted forward areas, along the Line of Control (LoC), in Poonch district on Thursday. Two shops and two houses were partially damaged in Balakot sector. “On Thursday, Pakistan Army first targeted Mankote sector around 5.30 am, then Degwar sector at about 11.45 am and Mendhar Sector at about 12.15 pm. Indian Army retaliated befittingly,” said Col Anand. A Pakistani soldier, Havaldar Liaqat, 39, was killed in India’s retaliatory fire on Thursday.Also Read: Cache of arms recovered in Kashmir’s Baramulla, 2 JeM terrorists arrested in KupwaraOn Wednesday evening, Pakistan had violated ceasefire in Degwar and Malti sectors in Poonch district.Pakistan has violated ceasefire over 3,200 times this year so far. In 2019, Pakistan had violated the truce deal 3,168 times, while the number was 1,629 in 2018.Meanwhile, Lt Gen BS Raju, General-Officer-in-Command of 15 Corps, on Thursday said that the army has alerted all formations to keep a check on any flying object seen along the LoC. Also Read: Pakistani soldier killed as India retaliates against LoC ceasefire violation in J-KOn June 20, the border Security force (BSF) had shot down a Pakistani drone in Hiranagar sector of Kathua and recovered arms and ammunition. Sources said the consignment was meant for terrorists in Kashmir. An M-4 US-made semi-automatic rifle, 60 rounds in two magazines and seven M67 grenades were found attached to the drone, which had a winch mechanism to drop the consignment and fly back to Pakistan.The drone itself weighed around 17.5 kilograms and the consignment weighed around five or six kilograms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-yet-again/story-7VvEIVBfjqKYYLpZ8oHE4K.html
11-09-2020||India||India, China troop disengagement in Ladakh is first step before de-escalation||Indian and Chinese military commanders will meet in the next few days to discuss comprehensive disengagement from all friction points in Ladakh as the first step towards de-escalation. This is the crucial outcome of a terse meeting between external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi.“The immediate task is to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all friction areas so that there are no untoward incidents in future. The final disposition of the troop deployment to their permanent posts and the phasing of the process is to be worked out by military commanders on the ground. That de-escalation should follow comprehensive disengagement was agreed to by State Councillor Wang Yi,” said a senior government official.Also read | India forging key ties, with an eye on ChinaWhile state councillor and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi wanted the bilateral ties to continue on a parallel track with on-going border friction in East Ladakh, he had no answers to probing questions from EAM Jaishankar who asked him about the immense build-up by People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in occupied Aksai Chin. At present, the PLA has deployed more than 50,000 men, 150 aircraft, tanks and missiles to pressurize Indian Army on the LAC. .china_wrap {width:auto; border:dashed 1px #999; padding:10px; font-family:"Open Sans", sans-serif; font-size:120%; background-color:#E5E5E5}.china_headline {width:auto; margin-bottom:5px; font-size:160%; font-weight:bold; letter-spacing:-1px}.china_subheadline {width:auto; margin-bottom:5px; font-size:120%}.china_space {width:auto; margin:15px}.clrboth {clear:both; margin:5px}According to authoritative government sources, Jaishankar made it very clear to councillor Wang that positive bilateral ties in the past two decades were due to peace on the border and the PLA build-up had a direct implication on the relationship between two countries. “Jaishankar put across to Wang that good things in bilateral relations were due to peaceful borders, just as the relations will deteriorate if the borders are not quiet,” said a senior official.Although state councillor Wang could not explain the sudden PLA build-up in the area in contravention with the 1993-96 agreement, he only talked about thinning of troops in the depth areas.Also read | India bulks up amid provocation by China’s People’s Liberation Army“The five-point joint statement are the issues on which the two sides agreed for disengagement on the border. The statement issued by the Chinese foreign ministry is their perception of the dialogue which was not agreed to by the Indian side. EAM Jaishankar said that the two sides should abide by the past agreements and protocols to make the border peaceful,” said an official from Moscow.However, EAM Jaishankar was candid enough to tell his Chinese counterpart that there was no point of thinning troops in the depth areas when the front-line troops are at each other’s throats. The two ministers will now go back to the respective political leadership to get directions issued that comprehensive disengagement from all friction points will be the first step towards restoring peace to the border. “Given the upgrade of Chinese infrastructure in border areas as compared to India, the mutual disengagement is a must before thinning in-depth or else the PLA will occupy dominant heights on Line of Actual Control (LAC) faster than Indian Army,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-disengagement-in-ladakh-is-first-step-before-de-escalation/story-VXKk8JRpU8rM8JK4Mulj3L.html
11-09-2020||India||ICMR publishes first sero survey results; 6.4 million were likely Covid-19 infected around May||India had 6.4 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients by early May when samples were collected for the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) first national sero-survey to detect prevalence of the viral disease, according to the findings that were published three months after the results were first made public in June. In percentage, the national prevalence was found to be 0.73%. The worst-affected were those between the age group of 18 and 45 years, as 43.3% had developed antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. While Covid-19 patients in the age group between 46 and 60 years accounted for 39.5% of the sampled individuals. Altogether, 30,283 households were surveyed and 28,000 individuals had enrolled for the study. “Population-weighted sero-prevalence after adjusting for test performance was 0.73 %. Males, who were living in urban slums and with high-risk of exposure to potentially infected persons, were associated with sero-positivity. A cumulative 6,468,388 adult infections were estimated in India by early May,” said the findings. A total of 151 (0.5%) individuals reported contact history with a Covid-19 patient and 70 (0.3%) reported that they were tested for the viral infection before the survey. From May 11 to June 4, a randomly sampled, community-based survey was conducted in 700 villages and wards, which were selected from 70 districts in 21 states of the country. The samples were categorised into four strata based on the incidence of reported Covid-19 cases. The survey had enrolled 400 adults per district from 10 clusters and an adult per household. Serum samples were tested for Immunoglobulin G (IgG), a type of a long-lasting antibody, using the Covid-19 Kavach ELISA detection kit. The sero-prevalence ranged between 0.62 and 1.03% across the four strata of these districts. The published paper shows that the IgG antibodies against the viral infection start appearing by the end of the first week after the onset of the symptom and most cases are IgG positive by the end of the second week, according to the researchers. The findings were published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-publishes-first-sero-survey-results-6-4-million-were-likely-covid-19-infected-around-may/story-FAKW5iR14gZ4OgFqa8f8xN.html
11-09-2020||India||India, China agree on 5-point plan for resolving border standoff: Here’s what you need to know||India and China agreed on five points to guide their approach to the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), including the disengagement of troops and easing of tensions, following talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meet in Moscow on Thursday. Here are the five points1. Both sides should take guidance from the consensus of the leaders on developing India-China relations, including not allowing differences to become disputes.2. The current situation in the border areas is not in the interest of either side and therefore the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions. Also Read: Should quickly disengage, say Jaishankar-Wang in joint statement on border row: Read full statement3. The two sides shall abide by all the existing agreements and protocols on China-India boundary affairs and maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas and avoid any action that could escalate matters. 4. The two sides will continue communications through the Special Representatives mechanism, and meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on border affairs will continue. 5. As the situation eases, the two sides should expedite work to conclude new confidence-building measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-agree-on-5-point-plan-for-resolving-border-standoff-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-ZoxC1MNSZcQxIRN467YE0K.html
11-09-2020||India||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat seeks focus on jobs for migrants, urban labourers||Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has expressed concern at the plight of migrant labourers and said much has to be done to get them employment during his three-day visit to Uttar Pradesh’s industrial city of Kanpur.Bhagwat arrived in the city late on Wednesday night before meeting Sangh leaders on Thursday. He took their feedback on the implementation of ongoing welfare programmes run by the organisation.He said that RSS workers should work for labourers in urban areas and farmers in the rural areas.“We have to imbibe a sense of Atmanirbharta (self reliance) in society,” Bhagwat was quoted as saying by Sangh workers who attended the meeting.He reminded RSS workers that their work was for the good of society and not for self or publicity.Also Read: PM Modi to address conclave on school education under National Education Policy-2020 on FridayHe also sought the details of the welfare work being done by the RSS in Kanpur- Bundelkhand region while citing several examples of RSS initiatives during the ongoing Covid 19 pandemic.He also asked workers to align efforts with social organisations and religious bodies such as gurudwaras for greater impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-seeks-focus-on-jobs-for-migrants-urban-labourers/story-TEMXWdDrffpgudOOLRzeHO.html
11-09-2020||India||‘When exactly will you get our land back’: Rahul Gandhi again questions government on Chinese aggression in Ladakh||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been repeatedly questioning the Centre on the issue of Chinese aggression across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, on Friday took to Twitter to once again take a jibe at the government.“The Chinese have taken our land. When exactly is GOI planning to get it back? Or is that also going to be left to an Act of God?” the former Congress president asked on Twitter.The Chinese have taken our land.When exactly is GOI planning to get it back?Or is that also going to be left to an 'Act of God'?He was referring to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s recent remark that Covid-19 was an ‘act of God’ which may result to contraction of the economy this fiscal.Gandhi’s tweet comes after external affairs minister S Jaishankar met his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Thursday evening on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit in Moscow. At the meeting between the two leaders, India and China reached a five-point consensus on easing border tensions in Ladakh.Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh, too, had met his Chinese counterpart, General Wei Fenghe, in the Russian capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-exactly-will-you-get-our-land-back-rahul-gandhi-again-questions-government-on-chinese-aggression-in-ladakh/story-DtHpFAmAjvy0Yxbucm6uWP.html
11-09-2020||India||60% Covid cases limited to 5 states, says health ministry||Nearly 60% of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India are from five states, according to the Union health ministry. Maharashtra alone has contributed 23,000, and Andhra Pradesh 10,000 to date.The number of active cases in the country stands at 919,018. Close to 75% of the active cases are in the nine worst hit states. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh presently contribute about 49% of the active cases. Maharashtra is leading the tally with about 250,000 cases, whereas Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh follow with about 97,000 cases each.On an average, at least 1,000 deaths also continue to get reported each day, with about 1,172 deaths reported on Thursday from across the country. With that, the number of deaths in the country has reached 75,062 and the death rate is at 1.68%. About 70% of the total deaths are being reported from five states.“The infection and deaths are limited to certain states and the government is making all efforts, including rushing central teams for assistance on ground, to assist in the worst affected states,” said the ministry.The five worst affected states in terms of Covid-19 related deaths are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh.The first death due to Covid-19 in India was reported on March 12 from south India.Meanwhile, Covid recoveries in India have also seen a steady growth, with at least 100% increase in patients recovered and discharged in the past three weeks, from about 1.6 million on August 13 to about 3.4 million recoveries on September 10.Speaking during the 73rd session of WHO South East Asia Region on India’s public health measures to prevent and contain spread of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, Union health minister Harshvardhan had, on Thursday, outlined the pre-emptive and proactive measures undertaken by the Indian government much before the epidemic reached the country.The measures included issuing of travel advisories, creation of facilities for quarantine of persons returning from countries that reported Covid -19 cases, issuing of guidelines for community level surveillance and also scaling up of testing facilities, and tracking and testing of all suspect cases. He also talked about establishment of the three tier health infrastructure in the form of Covid Care Centres, and Dedicated Covid Health Centres for asymptomatic and mild to moderate cases, and Dedicated Covid Hospitals for serious and critically ill patients.“India has increased domestic production capacity of personal protection equipment (PPE), ventilators and other medical items required for treatment of Covid-19 patients which has resulted in India’s resilience in the health sector. India has developed guidelines for infection prevention and control, testing protocol, clinical management and bio–medical waste management as well as the guidelines to be followed by Covid-19 and non-Covid health facilities,” he said.India focused on three key interventions that has resulted in the rate of growth of positive cases and deaths to one of the lowest in the world. The measures include scaling up testing in a short span of time, effective clinical management, and providing non-Covid essential health care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-covid-cases-limited-to-5-states-says-health-ministry/story-NG3k5eA9Ja4MaJQFs4AgmO.html
11-09-2020||India||Maoist carrying Rs 1 lakh bounty surrenders in Chhattisgarh||A Naxal, carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, surrendered before authorities along with an improvised explosive device (IED) in Chhattisgarhs Dantewada district on Thursday, a police official said.The rebel, Kosa Kawasi, who was active as a janmilitia commander under the Katekalyan area committee of Maoists, turned himself in before police officials at the Kuakonda police station, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava told PTI.The 21-year-old also handed over a 5kg IED to the police, which was given to him by his senior colleagues to plant in the area to target security forces, he said.Kawasi was allegedly involved in at least four Naxal- related incidents, including triggering IED blasts and murdering a villager, in the last three years, Pallava said, adding he was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head.He was mainly tasked with arranging materials, including detonators, used in making IEDs and extorting money from villagers, he said.Elaborating on reasons for his surrender, Kawasi, in a statement, said he was disillusioned with the “hollow” Maoist ideology.At the same time, he was influenced by the LonVarratu (term coined in local Gondi dialect which means ‘return to your village’) campaign being run for ultras by the police in Dantewada, Pallava said.He was given an encouragement amount of Rs 10,000 and will be provided facilities as per the state government’s surrender and rehabilitation policy, the SP said.Under the ‘LonVarratu’ initiative launched in June, the police have been putting up posters and banners in native villages of Naxals who carry cash rewards on their heads in Dantewada.The posters mention the names of rebels and appeal to them to give up arms and join the national mainstream.So far, 108 Naxals have surrendered under the drive, the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-carrying-rs-1-lakh-bounty-surrenders-in-chhattisgarh/story-PaKSJwaJ1ataWYLHl3CjnK.html
11-09-2020||India||CBI books 2 firms for defrauding banks of over Rs 150 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered two separate cases against two companies for allegedly cheating two public sector banks of several crores of rupees. In the first case, a Mumbai-based private company M/s Spanco Ltd and its directors have been booked by the probe agency on a complaint from the Central Bank of India for causing an alleged loss of Rs 103.27 crore to the bank. “It was alleged that a fraud was perpetrated in the Central Bank of India, by a Mumbai-based private company and other accused. It was further alleged that the accused entered into a conspiracy with each other and diverted the loan amount to its group company and further transferred to personal accounts of the promoter and his family members. They cheated the Central Bank of India to the tune of Rs 103.27 crore,” said RK Gaur, spokesperson, CBI. Also Read: Jagan Reddy seeks CBI probe into temple chariot burning incident at AntarvediThe agency conducted searches at four locations in Mumbai on Thursday, including at the office and residential premises of the accused, leading to the recovery of incriminating documents, it claimed.In the second unrelated case, a company identified as Mayfair Leisures Ltd and its office-bearers have been booked for allegedly cheating the Bank of India (BoI) of Rs 54 crore. The company had applied for a loan of Rs 63 crore from BoI for managing and operating a five-star hotel in Vadodara, Gujarat. Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also seized Mayfair Leisure’s properties in 2018. CBI has claimed that the company cheated BoI of Rs 54 crore through forgery and a criminal conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-2-firms-for-defrauding-banks-of-over-rs-150-crore/story-3q6twHsP7g6OnOiq6T2TgO.html
11-09-2020||India||Monsoon to pick up over peninsular, west-central India: IMD||The withdrawal of monsoon from extreme north-west India is unlikely to begin in the next two weeks, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its weekly forecast on Friday.IMD had said on Monday that though there were indications that monsoon would begin withdrawing from western parts of Rajasthan in the week ending September 18, the withdrawal would be prolonged this year as intense rains were expected after September 17.Also Read: Several senior leaders may skip monsoon session due to Covid-19In the weekly forecast released on Friday, IMD scientists said the withdrawal process was unlikely to begin as the Westerlies continue to be strong.North-east and peninsular India are likely to record above normal rains in the next couple of weeks. West-central India is likely to record above normal rainfall between September 18 and 24. Two low-pressure areas are likely to develop in the next two weeks. The first one will develop near the northern Andhra Pradesh (AP) coast around September 13, which will move along Telangana, Vidarbha, and other parts of Maharashtra bringing in heavy rainfall. Another low-pressure area is likely to develop over west-central Bay of Bengal around September 17 accompanying another spell of heavy rainfall.Drastic rainfall reduction was recorded until September 11. Most parts of the country remained dry except for the southern peninsula. Dry spell over north-west India led to maximum temperatures, as Bikaner in western Rajasthan recorded 39.4 degrees Celsius (C) on September 9.“We have no signal of monsoon withdrawal yet,” said Anand Sharma, the IMD scientist, who presented the weekly weather forecast.“Rainfall will increase over peninsular India over the next few days. From Kerala and Karnataka, rains will shift to AP and then to Maharashtra. Rainfall in September is likely to range between normal and above normal, as the four-month-long south-west monsoon prepares for a withdrawal. A low-pressure area is likely to develop around September 13, which will bring rain and then we are expecting another low-pressure area to develop around September 17. There will be more rainfall in the week ending September 24. Rains are likely to pick up in the second half of September,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.In September, monsoon rain until 9th of the month is 29% deficient across the country.However, rainfall was 35% excess over peninsular India during this period. On the contrary, the rainfall was 24%, 30% and 54% deficient over east and north-east India; north-west; and over central India, respectivelyMonsoon rain since June 1 is 7% excess over the country.Also Read: Monsoon revival likely over weekend in Mumbai, IMD issues heavy rain alertRainfall is 22%, 15% and 0% excess over the southern peninsula; central; east and north-east India, respectively.But rainfall is still 11% deficient over north-west India.Rainfall is likely to be deficient at least until September 13 in most parts of the country, including northwest and central India, before intensifying after September 17, according to the IMD’s extended range forecast. Usually, the retreat of monsoon is supposed to begin from September 17 when rain begins reducing across the country followed by a complete withdrawal on October 15. But this year IMD’s extended range forecast shows extensive and heavy rains along the west coast between September 11 and 24 and then until October 1 over several parts of central India..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-pick-up-over-peninsular-and-west-central-india-imd/story-1rTlmr9bptl9EJ6VaJ10cP.html
11-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: Petition in SC over data protection in UPI platforms and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesPlea in Supreme Court over data protection in UPI platformsThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) have permitted Amazon, Google and Facebook/ WhatsApp to participate in the unified payments interface (UPI) ecosystem without scrutiny and in violation of UPI guidelines and RBI regulations, Member of Parliament (MP) Binoy Viswam said in a petition before the Supreme Court, claiming that this was putting sensitive financial data of Indians at huge risk. Read moreAndroid 11 (Go edition) for entry-level phones announced, here’s what’s newGoogle announced the rollout of Android 11 earlier this week. It has now unveiled the latest iteration of its Android Go platform, Android 11 (Go edition). Google launched Android Go back in 2018 and the OS touched its 100 million active user mark earlier this year. Read moreHow will BCCI save this domestic season from peril?The Indian Premier League, so lucrative and pivotal for BCCI’s finances, gets underway in the UAE next weekend after a five-month delay due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more‘How to fight coronavirus?’ Delhi Police’s post has the answerPolice forces around the nation have been using their social media presence to spread important health information. This post by the Delhi Police is no different and conveys an essential message in a witty way regarding how one can prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Read moreRadhika Madan explains why it is important to speak up for Rhea Chakraborty: ‘Justice is yet to be served’Pataakha actor Radhika Madan has shared a widely circulating post about why supporting Rhea Chakraborty doesn’t indicate disrespecting late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. She said that she wants justice for the Chhichhore actor but is also left heartbroken on seeing Rhea being “treated inhumanly”. Read moreNargis Fakhri dances at golden hour in a Bohemian maxi dress and we can’t take our eyes offFloral fashion and girl-next-door styles are here to stay as Bollywood divas simply can’t have enough of them. Those looking to upgrade their impeccable wardrobe this fall season can take a leaf out of Rockstar actor, Nargis Fakhri’s book or rather social media posts. Read more‘Don’t drag my name’: Adhyayan Suman over Kangana Ranaut’s alleged drug linksKangana ranaut’s ex-boyfriend Adhyayan Suman spoke on alleged drug links. “I was giving an interview when I came to know that my name is coming up. I was scared and I felt very disappointed for my name being dragged. I have had my struggle, I am working hard, please don’t drag my name here. I was ridiculed when I came out in 2016 and spoke my heart out. I have been hounded by media, please don’t drag me into this. I have fought depression and I don’t deserve this,” he said. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-petition-in-sc-over-data-protection-in-upi-platforms-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tdqPAJlwxWaQXyzALxYgLM.html
11-09-2020||India||6.4 million Covid-19 cases were estimated in India by early May, says first national serosurvey report||An estimated 6.4 million or over 64 lakh cases of Covid-19 were estimated in India by early May, the much-awaited findings of the country’s first national serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, said.The survey report said 0.73% or 64,68,388 adults were exposed to SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease.The national serosurvey was conducted from May 11 to June 4 on 28,000 people, whose blood samples were tested for IgG antibodies using Covid Kavach ELISA kit.Also, seropositivity was found to be the highest in the 18-45 age group (43.3%), followed by the 46-60 age group (39.5%). It was found the lowest among those aged over 60 (17.2%).“The findings of our survey indicated that the overall seroprevalence in India was low , with less than 1% of the adult population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 by mid-May 2020,” the survey report said.“The low prevalence observed in most districts indicates that India is in early phase of the epidemic and the majority of the Indian population is still susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection,” the report further stressed.Based on the overall seroprevalence of 0.73% and the reported number of Covid-19 cases, it was estimated that for every RT-PCR confirmed case of Covid-19, there were 82-130 infections in India.As part of the survey, a total of 30,283 households were visited from 700 clusters in 70 districts. The stratification of the districts as zero cases (15 districts), low (22), medium (16) and high (17) was done on the basis of the reported number of Covid-19 cases as on April 25.India is the currently the second worst-hit country after the United States with a total of 44,65,863 Covid-19 cases thus far.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-4-million-covid-19-cases-were-estimated-in-india-by-early-may-says-first-national-serosurvey-report/story-LtxRYdILJQ2wvXjK6RsyWI.html
11-09-2020||India||FCRA registration to Golden temple pathbreaking move: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said the government’s decision to allow the Golden Temple in Amritsar to receive foreign funds is a pathbreaking move and it will once again showcase the outstanding spirit of service of the Sikh community.On Wednesday, the Home Ministry approved registration of Sri Harmandir Sahib under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, allowing it to receive foreign funding.Golden temple in Amritsar is also known as Sri Harmandir Sahib.“The decision on FCRA at the Sri Harmandir Sahib is a pathbreaking one which will once again showcase the outstanding spirit of service of our Sikh sisters and brothers,” Shah tweeted.He said Prime Minister Narendra Mod is blessed that ‘Wahe Guru ji’ has taken ‘Seva’ from him.“Sri Darbar Sahib’s divinity gives strength to us. For decades, the Sangat worldwide was unable to serve there. Modi Government’s decision to allow FCRA to the Sri Harmandir Sahib deepens the connect of Seva between the Sangat globally and the Sri Darbar Sahib. A blessed moment!” he said.The FCRA registration has been given in the name of the ‘Sachkhand Sri Harmandir Saheb Sri Darbar Saheb Punjab Association’, a body set up in 1925.Union Food Processing Minister and Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal thanked Shah for granting the FCRA registration to the Golden temple.“Happy to share that MHA has granted approval under FCRA to Sri Harmandir Sahib. This will enable the shrine to receive ‘sewa’ from all over the world & go a long way in propagating Gurusahab’s philosophy of ‘sarbat da bhala’. I’m grateful to @AmitShah Ji for making this possible,” she tweeted on Wednesday.The FCRA registration will be valid for a period of five years, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fcra-registration-to-golden-temple-pathbreaking-move-amit-shah/story-ZzoQP48uJOqlk7AVO2jYYJ.html
11-09-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court over data protection in UPI platforms||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) have permitted Amazon, Google and Facebook/ WhatsApp to participate in the unified payments interface (UPI) ecosystem without scrutiny and in violation of UPI guidelines and RBI regulations, Member of Parliament (MP) Binoy Viswam said in a petition before the Supreme Court, claiming that this was putting sensitive financial data of Indians at huge risk.Viswam, a Rajya Sabha MP belonging to Communist Party of India (CPI), contended that RBI and NPCI are compromising interests of Indian users by allowing “non-compliant foreign entities” to operate its payment services in India in violation of right to privacy of millions of Indians who use online payment platforms.“Although these entities are based in United States of America and take Indian data abroad, in the absence of any strong scrutiny and responsibility, the data shared on their platform is at very high risk of being misused,” the petition filed through advocate Sriram Parakkat said. Viswam sought formulation of regulations in order to ensure that data collected on UPI platform is not exploited or utilized by the participants in any manner other than for processing the payments. He also prayed that directions should be issued to Google India, Amazon Pay (India) and WhatsApp to ensure that data collected by them on UPI platform is not shared with their parent company or any third party.“Recently, for such allegations, CEOs of these foreign entities were directed to testify before the Judicial Committee of US Congress . During the hearing, US Congress members raised concerns about mishandling of data by the big tech firms,” the plea said.The Supreme Court is already seized of a case relating to non-compliance with data localization norms by Whatsapp. Another petition filed in February by legal think tank, Good Governance Chambers challenging expansion of Whatsapp into the digital payments systems in India through UPI is also pending before the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-over-data-protection-in-upi-platforms/story-NIYg1zRyhJ2UCGOO1xAKsL.html
11-09-2020||India||PM Modi to address conclave on school education under National Education Policy-2020 on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the conclave on ‘School Education in 21st Century’ under the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 at 11 am on Friday, through video conferencing.The Ministry of Education is organising the two-day conclave, which started on Thursday, as a part of the ‘Shiksha Parv’, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement.PM Modi had also delivered the inaugural address at the ‘Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under NEP-2020’ on August 7 and addressed the ‘Governors’ Conference’ on the policy on September 7.The ‘Shiksha Parv’ is being celebrated from September 8-25 to felicitate teachers and take the New Education Policy forward. Various webinars, virtual conferences and conclaves on several aspects of the NEP are being organised across the country, the PMO said.The government has said that the NEP-2020 is the first education policy of the 21st century, which was announced 34 years after the previous NEP in 1986. The NEP-2020 is directed towards major reforms at both the school and higher education level. The new NEP aims at making the country an equitable and vibrant knowledge society. It envisions an India-centred education system that will contribute directly to transforming the country into a global superpower, the government has said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-conclave-on-school-education-under-national-education-policy-2020-on-friday/story-x1lrapvcpS2xKgxclvK7ON.html
11-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The US has seen two peaks in its Covid-19 case numbers; Europe is beginning to see its second wave, seemingly bigger than the first (in terms of daily cases) in France and Spain, but smaller in Germany, Italy and the UK. India continues to see a strong and steady increase in daily case numbers — it is yet to reach its peak as active cases near a million, and daily cases, 100,000.Globally, the infection seems to be slowing — that could change if the second wave gathers momentum in Europe, and the US sees a third wave (it likely will) — with the number of cases growing by just 9.2% in August, compared to 64% in July. The number of cases in India in August grew 75%, compared to 183% in July.It is clear from the two tables accompanying this column that countries around the world have progressively become better at saving lives. That shouldn’t come as a surprise.There were missteps by both China and the World Health Organization (WHO) when the virus first emerged in Wuhan. In March and early April, when the disease was raging through Europe, and the US was seeing its first wave, no one was even aware that the disease could be transmitted by air. A group of scientists would write of this to WHO in early July. Not all of the symptoms now associated with the virus were known. And some experts believed that Sars-CoV-2 exclusively affected the respiratory system. Over the months, our understanding of the virus, how it affects the human body (and which systems of the human body), how it travels and infects people, and the therapies and medicines that can help infected patients with severe symptoms fight the disease, have all evolved.There are studies that show that the use of Remdesivir on early-stage patients and steroids such as Dexamethasone on late-stage ones helps. Countries have also built up capacity of critical care units with oxygen and ventilators — both imperative for patients with severe symptoms who may not be able to breathe on their own.Plasma therapy has been shown to work in some cases, although more research is needed before its efficacy can be established beyond doubt. Drugs used to treat autoimmune disorders have shown promise in some cases (and some scientists say Covid-19 itself should be treated as an autoimmune disease; I wrote about this in a previous instalment of this column, Dispatch 140 on August 25).In many parts of the world, the median age of those infected has dropped, and many of the infections are mild ones — both increase the chances of recovery. Indeed, even in India, as testing increases, most new cases are of patients who either have mild symptoms or none at all.Now, a team of researchers from Yale has discovered, according to a paper on pre-print server medRxiv, that there is something common to most hospitalised patients who subsequently need to be moved to critical care units for assisted breathing or ventilator support (or who eventually succumb to the disease). The study covered 3,300 patients and discovered, using a machine-learning algorithm that most of them whose illness turned severe had a strong signature of a certain neutrophil — on Day 1 of hospitalisation. Neutrophils are a type of white blood cell and are part of the body’s immune system. “Using a machine learning algorithm, we identified a prominent signature of neutrophil activation, including resistin, lipocalin-2, HGF, IL-8, and G-CSF, as the strongest predictors of critical illness. Neutrophil activation was present on the first day of hospitalisation in patients who would only later require transfer to the intensive care unit,” the researchers write in the paper, which is yet to be peer reviewedThey add that the signature was even a predictor of higher mortality.Prior knowledge of which Covid-19 patients could see their condition deteriorate may help save more lives. Lives lost and lives saved should be the only metrics that really matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-BcdY7h2WZkxhj9xbXLG7cJ.html
11-09-2020||India||Odisha forest officer dives into pond to salvage smuggled timber||An Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer of Odisha dived into a village pond to recover priceless sal timbers worth Rs 4 lakh even as scores of villagers resisted his attempt at salvaging the smuggled log.Dhamdhere Dhanraj Hanumant, a 2016-batch IFS officer and now divisional forest officer of Nayagarh forest division on Monday evening was tipped off about large sal logs being smuggled into Dhushma village, a den of notorious timber smugglers.He informed the forest ranger and asked him to rush to the spot and verify. When he called back to say that the logs had been taken away, he asked him to follow the drag marks on the road as the villagers drag the logs using buffaloes. “He said the drag marks were not there. When I personally went to the village, I saw the marks disappearing near a pond. I told my staff to enter the pond and recover the logs as they would be there. But no one was ready to go. They were scared as a few years ago the timber mafia had killed a forester and injured five forest officials. So there was fear among our staff who said the local villagers would gherao them,” said Hanumant.By 10 pm the local villagers had gathered and insisted that Hanumant and his staff can’t enter the pond at night as it was illegal. “Most of the people of the village are notorious timber smugglers. They told me it was night time and you can’t enter our pond just like that. You can come in day time. I told them that I don’t care if it is day or night as they have illegally cut the timber from Barbara and Gochha forest bordering the neighbouring Khurda district. When I entered the pond, the logs were submerged. Seeing me enter, my staff also joined me. We recovered around 200 cubic ft of sal timber worth Rs 4 lakh,” said the officer. The sal logs were 3 ft in girth and around 100 years old.Even after seizure of sal logs, the villagers tried to drag the seized timbers but the presence of police force prevented the attempt. However, not a single villager could be booked as the names of the offenders are yet to be known. The DFO said he suspected at least 15 persons of the village could be involved.Hanumant agreed that the protection of forest may not be happening as it should be. “There are lacunae from Nayagarh and Khurda side. The timber smugglers are cutting and dragging inside the jungle for 12-14 km. They have mastered the skills of cutting and dragging. Though we have reduced smuggling by employing more squads, we still have lots to do,” said the agriculture graduate from GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology in Uttarakhand.Sandeep Tripathy, Odisha’s principal chief conservator of forest, said Hanumant showed leadership quality in salvaging the smuggled timber. “We expect all our forest staff to be as dedicated as him. We have been stressing on foot patrolling by our ground staff to check timber smuggling across forests in the state,” said Tripathy.Though tree cover of Odisha has increased by 655 sq km as per the 2019 forest survey report compared to 2017, timber smuggling continues to be a major headache of Odisha forest department. Last week, the president of a forest protection committee in Keonjhar was caught while trying to smuggle sal wood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-forest-officer-dives-into-pond-to-salvage-smuggled-timber/story-hFioryGHkWbWlZpGBJWjbJ.html
11-09-2020||India||Several senior leaders may skip monsoon session due to Covid-19||Many senior lawmakers are likely to give the much-awaited monsoon session of Parliament a miss, on account of fears of exposing themselves to the coronavirus disease even as Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha authorities are doing everything they can to ensure a safe session. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, according to his office, will attend the inaugural day of the session on September 14 but might be uncertain for the remaining part of the session, which goes on till October 1, as his doctors have strictly advised him against leaving his home. Singh is 87. Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already decided that some of her MPs who are old or suffer from ailments will not attend Parliament. Trinamool’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay will not come to Delhi but will guide the MPs from Kolkata.Bandopadhyay, whose official bungalow in Delhi has been devastated due to rains, said: “Our leader is very cautious about our health. She told me not to go to Delhi in this situation.” According to Trinamool officials, two of its MPs who are former UPA ministers—Sisir Adhikary and Choudhury Mohan Jatua — may also skip this session. Adhikary is 78 and Jatua, 82.Rajya Sabha officials said that the Trinamool has also officially informed the secretariat that two of its MPs from the Upper House would not come.Congress leaders added that former defence minister AK Antony, 79, may not attend the House daily but be there on some days. Similarly, Congress leader and former UPA minister Vayalar Ravi, 83, too may not attend the house every day. Meanwhile, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has left for the US for a routine health check. Both Antony and Ravi are members of the Rajya Sabha. The average age of Lok Sabha MPs is 54 and that of Rajya Sabha MPs, 63. Older people, especially those with co-morbidities, and men are at greater risk from Covid-19. Men account for 85.6% of Lok Sabha MPs and 89% of Rajya Sabha MPs. Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu have started personally overseeing all preparations. On Thursday, Birla spent a few minutes in the gallery of the Lok Sabha to supervise how MPs will participate in the proceedings.As a matter of abundant caution, Birla has decided that not many physical copies of papers will be available in the chamber and MPs will mark their attendance in an app and not physically sign in a log book.It has been also decided that not all ministers will be required to lay their documents in the House and that on behalf of his ministerial colleagues, the parliamentary affairs minister will lay the papers.“Adequate arrangements have been made to ensure that the session is held in a smooth manner by ensuring compliance with all Covid-19 related health and safety guidelines,” Birla said on Thursday.While many Opposition leaders and experts have criticised the decision to scrap Question Hour, Birla said: “Parliament represents the hopes and aspirations of our countrymen and even in the present scenario and it will fulfil its constitutional responsibility of ensuring accountability of the government.” There will be seating arrangements for 257 members in the Lok Sabha hall and 172 members in the Lok Sabha galleries. Arrangements have been made for seating 60 members in the Rajya Sabha hall and 51 members in Rajya Sabha galleriesAll lawmakers, officials and journalists covering Parliament will be required to undertake RT-PCR tests before coming to Parliament. Facilities to conduct tests have been set up across the capital and Birla has also ensured that no visitors will be allowed in the complex. “Even the private assistants to MPs and ministers can’t go inside the main parliament building. Government officials who come to parliament can’t bring their car inside,” Birla said.Meanwhile, as tests are underway among parliament officials, senior officials added that about 50 House officials have been tested positive for Covid. “They have been sent into isolation and their offices are thoroughly cleaned and sanitized. We are not taking any risk,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-senior-leaders-may-skip-monsoon-session-due-to-covid/story-x2eCIvBOBTvWjv1QorIyYK.html
11-09-2020||India||India nears a grim landmark in Covid-19 cases||India on Thursday added 99,181 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as it continued to set new global records for daily cases, inching closer to the sombre threshold of 100,000 cases in a day.The total number of cases in the country touched 4,559,710, data compiled by HT from across the states on Thursday night showed.The virus’ spread has been accelerating in the world’s second-most populous country, with worrying trends emerging, particularly due to the persistently rising number of active cases. At 945,771 on Thursday night, this number inched towards the million mark — a level breached only by the United States that continues to lead in terms of total infections seen till date.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEarlier in the day, the global death toll crossed 900,000. Of this, 76,303 are in India, even though the country has logged a relatively lower case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.7% – the proportion of those who died among confirmed cases – compared to the global average of 3.2%.In the seven-day period between September 3 and September 10, India reported 90,195 new Covid-19 cases every day on average. Two months ago (for the week ending July 10), this number was 24,566 cases a day, and it was 58,742 daily infections a month ago for the week ending August 10.In contrast, even when the pandemic was at its peak in the United States (end of July), this number never crossed 70,000 cases a day. US is the worst-hit country in the world with over 6.5 million cases.The national doubling rate – the number of days it takes for a given number of infections to double – has not improved in the last two weeks and has hovered around 32 days. One of the key reasons for the continuously rising daily cases is that the pandemic has shown no signs of relenting even in the country’s worst-hit regions. States such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka (at the 1st, 2nd and 4th spot with 990,795; 537,687; and 430,947 cases respectively) continue to drive the number of daily cases. A little under half (45%) of all infections in India in the last week have come from just these three states. In fact, three out of every four infections in the country in the last week have come from 10 states.Daily cases have also hit a new peak in the last two weeks in Delhi, which was one of the only major hot spot states to have brought the outbreak under control. The capital reported 4,308 new cases on Wednesday, albeit on the back of a record number of tests: 58,340.Higher testing has also been one of the key reasons for this rapid rise in cases throughout the country. On average, the country has tested more than a million samples a day through the past two weeks, and this trend is continuously increasing.However, despite the increase in testing, many major states continue to have high positivity rates, a factor that experts said was alarming. The positivity rate shows how widespread the virus is in a region. Nearly a quarter (24%) of all tests in Maharashtra have been positive for Covid-19 in the last week, in Andhra Pradesh more than 15% of all tests have come back positive and for Karnataka this number was around 13%. The high positivity rates in these states indicate that infection numbers there may not be dropping soon, and that they are still not testing adequately. The majority of the cases has been coming from rural areas in the last month where health care challenges, from testing to treatment, are much more significant, HT reported on August 26. The trend is very different from what was seen in the initial months of the pandemic, when the cases were largely in the urban areas.Experts said that the larger focus of the governments, despite the rapid increase in cases, has to remain on keeping the mortality as low as possible. “It is not surprising that the number of cases is increasing day by day. The infection has now spread to most parts of the country and we cannot contain it any longer. The cases will keep going up till a peak is reached. However, this peak will be different for different places. Now, many cases are being reported from smaller cities and rural areas that had not been affected previously. The important thing is to focus on reducing the mortality,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor in the department of community medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“India has a three-tier health care system, with most rural areas having access to a primary health care centre, wellness centre, or a sub-centre. These centres are usually run by paramedical staff and not doctors. And while 80% of Covid-19 patients require no medical attention at all, the remaining need high attention with proper monitoring or ICU (intensive care unit) admission. This cannot be done at primary health care centre. Plus, 70% of our healthcare is provided by private hospitals concentrated in larger cities. So, I expect the mortality to increase a little with the disease affecting rural areas,” he added. (With inputs from Anonna Dutt)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/99k-india-nears-a-grim-landmark/story-xJQAVdrgUnCiuCQ0J05lUM.html
11-09-2020||India||India, China ministers meet for key talks in Moscow amid tension on border||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi met for crucial talks in Moscow on Thursday evening with hopes of making a breakthrough in the face of a spike in tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after both countries amassed more troops in the Ladakh sector. The two leaders were in the same room twice earlier in the day – first for a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), and then for a luncheon meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping – before they began their bilateral talks a little after 8pm Indian time. The meeting continued for almost two hours, people familiar with developments said. There was no word from the external affairs ministry on the bilateral meeting, which was seen as crucial for ending the impasse in the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC after five rounds of talks each by military commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs since June. However, in marked contrast to the studied silence from the Indian side on the meetings in Moscow, China’s state-run media kept up its propaganda even as the talks between Jaishankar and Wang were underway. Before meeting Jaishankar, Wang held a bilateral meeting with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi. A readout from the foreign ministry in Islamabad quoted Qureshi as saying that Pakistan “stands firmly behind China on core issues of its national interest”. Qureshi also said that “India’s expansionist and unilateral actions, particularly since 5 August 2019, have been imperilling regional peace and security”, according to the readout. India did not immediately issue a statement .There have been face-offs between India and China on the south bank of Pangong Lake after Chinese troops carried out what were described as provocative military movements to change the status quo during August 29-30. The latest face-off occurred on September 7, when Chinese soldiers fired in the air after they were dissuaded from closing in on an Indian forward position – the first time guns were used at the LAC since 1975. Since then, both sides have further strengthened their military presence in the region by moving in additional troops, tanks and other weaponry. The Chinese side, however, has been rattled by India’s proactive move of positioning its troops on several strategic heights to prevent further land grabs on the south bank of Pangong Lake. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly virtual media briefing that both sides are in “regular touch” through military and diplomatic channels to resolve the border situation, and this was also the consensus when defence minister Rajnath Singh met his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe on the margins of another SCO meeting in Moscow last Friday. India’s position continues to be the resolution of the border standoff through peaceful negotiations, Srivastava added. A joint statement on the RIC foreign ministers’ meeting said Jaishankar, Wang and their Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov exchanged views on strengthening trilateral cooperation and topical issues of international and regional importance in the spirit of mutual understanding, friendship and trust. They noted that “common development and cooperation of the three countries is conducive to promoting global growth, peace and stability”, according to the statement. They also reiterated their “support for inclusive multilateralism and respect for universally recognised principles of international law”. Lavrov officially handed over chairmanship of RIC to Jaishankar during the meeting. But China’s nationalist Global Times tabloid tweeted a photo released by the National Defense Journal that shows PLA troops patrolling an area along the disputed border and noted slogans in Mandarin on a cliff read “never to yield an inch of our beautiful rivers and mountains”. The tabloid also posted a link to an editorial in a tweet that said: “Facts have proven Indian nationalist forces yield to coercion, but not to persuasion. They very much need another lesson in failure before believing China’s commitment to long-term border peace is not weakness.” In yet another tweet, Global Times cited analysts as saying that if the “China-India foreign ministers’ meeting fails to reach a positive result, or the two sides cannot execute the reached agreement at the front line, this could be a dangerous signal that China and India are unlikely to solve the crisis peacefully”. Hu Xijin, the editor of the tabloid, said in a tweet that if Indian troops “don’t withdraw from the southern bank of Pangong Tso Lake, the PLA will confront them all winter long”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-ministers-meet-as-tensions-soar/story-xN4bFPZGJdTpDFqKgeWPRK.html
11-09-2020||India||RJD leader quits, Lalu says ‘you aren’t leaving’||PATNA: Senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh resigned from the party on a bitter note on Thursday, more than two months after quitting as its national vice president, stoking speculation that he could join the ruling Janata Dal ( United) ahead of upcoming assembly polls in Bihar. Singh, 74, sent a handwritten resignation letter addressed to RJD chief Lalu Prasad. The veteran socialist leader is undergoing treatment at the Intensive Care Unit unit of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi for some recent ailments. Copies of the letter were distributed to media outlets by his aides. Attempts to reach him on the phone through his close aides in Delhi were unsuccessful. “ Yes, Raghuvansh ji has resigned from the RJD. It is confirmed ,” said Ashok Singh, an aide to the former member of Parliament.Hours after Singh quit the party, RJD chief Lalu Prasad responded in a statement issued by the party. “One letter written by you is circulating in the media. I cannot believe it. Me, my family and the RJD family want to see you recover soon. We will talk after you recover. You are not going anywhere. Just mind it,” Yadav said. The RJD chief ‘s statement underlines how the RJD is still making last ditch attempts to mollify Singh and keep him in the party. RJD state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary declined to comment on Singh’s exit. In his letter, Singh expressed his pain over leaving the party, underlining his socialist background, loyalty to and long association with the RJD chief. “ I have stood solidly behind you for 32 years after the death of Jannayak Karpoori Thakur. But not anymore. I have received lots of affection from the party, supporters and people. Forgive me,” he wrote. The exit of Singh is seen as a setback for the RJD, which has been trying to patch up with the five- term Vaishali MP and prominent Rajput face after he opposed the imminent induction of another former MP, Rama Singh. Rama Singh also is a strong Rajput leader from Vaishali. Singh, who held the rural development ministry in the first term of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, steering its flagship rural jobs guarantee scheme, has been upset with the RJD leadership for many reasons, including the denial of a Rajya Sabha berth after he lost the 2014 and 2019 parliamentary polls. The appointment of another Rajput leader and former MP, Jagdanand Singh, as RJD’s state president last year did not go down well with Singh, who also opposed the RJD’s decision to project of leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Lalu Prasad’s son, as the CM face. People familiar with the situation in RJD said the veteran socialist’s decision to quit the party has much to do with the likely induction of Rama Singh in the coming days;he may have realised that staying put in the party could undermine his stature in his own home turf and in the party hierarchy, the people said, requesting anonymity. Singh’s decision to exit from the RJD triggered speculation about his next course of action. The political grapevine is abuzz that he may join the JD(U) and could be offered a Rajya Sabha berth or made a member of the legislative council from the governor’s quota in the coming days. There is also speculation that Singh could be made chairman of the Bihar legislative council. Awadhesh Narain Singh is acting chairman of the council. The possibility of Singh joining the National Democratic Alliance was evident from the reactions of JD(U) and its partner in the Bihar government, the Bharatiya Janata Party BJP).Senior JD(U) leader and MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh, alias Lallan Singh, said: “ RJD could not give respect to one of the prominent socialist leaders of Bihar though the party talks big about protecting the dignity of masses. I salute Singh for leaving the RJD, which is stuck in the quagmire of arrogance and corruption,” he said. BJP’s state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said Singh was a very respected leader of the state but had been insulted by the RJD. “ Singh commands respect across all parties. But the veteran socialist was insulted by the RJD, which used him for long and then dumped him.” D M Diwakar, a political observer and former director of the A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies in Patna, said the veteran socialist was unlikely to leave the RJD, noting that his resignation had not been accepted and Lalu Prasad had made a fervent appeal to his old-time colleague to stay in the party. “I still feel Raghuvansh would go nowhere and stay in the RJD. This I say because Raghuvansh has played principled politics all his life and raised issues, no matter if it has offended the party’s top leaders. He is not one who believes in opportunistic politics and there is no party which is free from certain shortcomings or faults,” Diwakar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-leader-quits-lalu-says-you-aren-t-leaving/story-RMHd6K8yuCgMmOTSTUttfI.html
11-09-2020||India||Retest symptomatic patients negative in rapid tests: Govt||The Union health ministry on Thursday again directed states to mandatorily retest using the confirmatory reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, all people with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) symptoms who test negative in rapid antigen tests -- a move aimed at addressing the inadequacies of the latter. The ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have jointly written to states after complaints were received that in some states , symptomatic patients testing negative in an antigen test were not being retested using a molecular test such as RT-PCR , increasing the risk of transmission. “…the Union Health Ministry and ICMR have jointly written to all the States/UTs and urged them to ensure that all symptomatic negative cases of RAT (Rapid Antigen Test) are mandatorily retested using the RT-PCR test. This is necessary to ensure that such symptomatic negative cases do not remain untested and do not spread the disease among their contacts,” the health ministry said in a statement. An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response in the body in the form of production of antibodies against a disease, and detecting its presence through an antigen-based test determines a current infection. These tests are quick, usually providing results within the hour, making them ideal for use in containment zones, airports and railway stations, and public places where the constraint is time. Unfortunately, many Indian states have been using them indiscriminately. These tests provide a high proportion of false negatives -- a term that means people infected by the virus are shown as uninfected. Abbot Laboratories recently launched an accurate antigen test but it is not available in India. The use of confirmatory RT-PCR tests will “ ensure early detection and isolation/hospitalization of such false negatives. It has also been reiterated in the joint letter that while the RAT is being used to increase access and availability of testing in the field, RT-PCR remains the gold standard of COVID tests,” the ministry added in the statement. States have also been asked to urgently establish a monitoring mechanism in each district, and at the state level, with a designated officer or a team, to follow up such cases.“These teams shall analyse details of RAT conducted on a daily basis in the Districts and State and ensure that there are no delays in retesting of all symptomatic negative cases. The aim of States/UTs should be to ensure that no potentially positive case is missed out. They have also been advised to undertake an analysis on a regular basis to monitor the incidence of positives during the RT-PCR tests conducted as a follow up,” the ministry said in its statement. The contents of the statement are essentially a reiteration of an existing guideline -- one that many states flout with impunity. Accoridng to an ICMR guideline, all symptomatic patients testing negative in Rapid Antigen Tests, or those who test negative in such a test and develop symptoms within 2-3 days, must necessarily be retested through an RT-PCR test.“The idea is to minimise the percentage of missed positives to effectively curb disease transmission. To be able to control the disease better, it is important to pick up all infected at the early stages of the disease. The letter has gone jointly to states to reiterate the need to follow up rapid antigen testing guidelines adequately,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.A senior virologist in a government laboratory, who didn’t want to be named, says, “I won’t recommend antigen test, as a first line of screening test as no positives should be missed. In this case you have a possibility of missing at least 15-20% of the positive cases.”“False positives are still ok as you may be overestimating a disease, but there shouldn’t be any false negatives as that would essentially mean the disease is being underestimated. If symptomatic negative individuals are confirmed through an RT-PCR there still be a percentage of asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic (patients) who won’t be tested and will be missed,” the virologist added.According to ICMR, antigen based testing comprises about 30-40% of all tests performed for Covid-19 diagnosis currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retest-symptomatic-patients-negative-in-rapid-tests-govt/story-ZSYJKlKX4jJzICj7z2AvmN.html
11-09-2020||India||Court order on bail pleas of Rhea Chakraborty, brother likely today||A special court constituted to try cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act is expected to pronounce its order on bail pleas filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and three others on Friday. Special judge GB Gurao heard the submissions made by the lawyer of the Chakrabortys and the special public prosecutor. The bail applications of four other accused were also heard. The court then adjourned the matter till Friday. After being questioned for three consecutive days, Chakraborty was arrested by NCB on Tuesday in connection with the agency’s probe into a drug angle in the death of her boyfriend and actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. A magistrate’s court remanded Chakraborty to 14-day judicial custody. Apart from Chakraborty and Showik, NCB has arrested Rajput’s house manager, Samuel Miranda, and a member of his personal staff, Dipesh Sawant. The agency has also arrested Bandra residents Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar for alleged drug peddling. Rajput, 34, was found dead at his Bandra flat on June 14. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s unseen videos recorded by Rhea Chakraborty go viral. WatchOn Thursday, Atul Sarpande, the special public prosecutor appearing for NCB, opposed the bail plea of all accused on the ground that the probe was at a crucial stage and releasing the accused on bail may hamper the investigation. Chakraborty and Showik financed and arranged drugs for Rajput and at his instructions, NCB said in its affidavit filed in response to their bail pleas. Sawant used to procure drugs along with co-accused Miranda for Rajput’s consumption, the affidavit said. In her plea, Chakraborty said she was innocent and falsely implicated in the case. The 28-year-old actor said she was coerced into making “self-incriminatory” confessions by NCB and that she was withdrawing them. Among other offences, she has been charged under Section 27A of the NDPS Act, which pertains to punishment for financing illicit traffic. The section carries minimum rigorous imprisonment of 10 years, which may be extended to 20 years. Chakraborty’s plea said “the allegations against the present accused would at the most make out a case of purchasing small quantity of drug, which is in essence a bailable offence. There is not a shred of evidence to connect the applicant with financing any illicit traffic or harbouring any offender and hence the ingredients of Section 27A of the NDPS Act are not made out in present facts and circumstances”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-order-on-bail-pleas-of-rhea-brother-likely-today/story-PJAEbghL2WHc4wizgnnCtI.html
11-09-2020||India||Charges of harassment by Kangana false, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished parts of an office owned by actor Kangana Ranaut after it found substantial changes were done on the premises in deviation from the sanctioned plan, the Shiv Sena-controlled civic agency told the Bombay high court in an affidavit on Thursday. BMC also said the actor’s allegations of harassment and mala fide action by BMC were false and unwarranted.The civic body’s action against Ranaut’s office in Bandra’s Pali Hill on Wednesday triggered a controversy with the actor approaching the high court seeking relief. Her plea argued that the demolition process was initiated in a hurried manner with ulterior motives. A division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and RI Chagla stayed the demolition process — by then the drive was almost complete — and sought to know how the civic body entered the premises when the owner was not present. Ranaut returned to Mumbai from her home state of Himachal Pradesh later that day.In its affidavit, BMC said the actor did not disclose at least 14 alterations in her petition and only sought an urgent stay on the demolition activity. Section 354A of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act, 1888, authorises BMC to demolish an illegal construction 24 hours after issuance of a notice seeking a reply. If the response is not satisfactory, a competent officer is authorised to act. Ranaut was issued a notice on Tuesday. She had sought seven days to respond. The affidavit said BMC officials followed all procedures for inspecting the site with proper permissions. When the court pointed out that Ranaut’s petition was filed in haste, advocate Rizwan Siddiqui admitted to the same and sought permission to amend the petition. He submitted that he also wanted to put on record various facts and communications, which his client had with the concerned BMC ward office over two years. The court permitted the same. The court directed Siddiqui to make the amendments and file a rejoinder to the BMC affidavit till Monday. It directed BMC to file its affidavit on the amended petition and posted the matter for hearing on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-charges-of-harassment-false/story-z7QKA7s5F6riIX30qvdvYK.html
11-09-2020||India||Supreme Court asks AG Venugopal to be amicus curiae in Bhushan case||The Supreme Court on Thursday requested attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal to assist the court as Amicus Curiae in the 2009 criminal contempt of court case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his remarks to a magazine that past Chief Justices of India (CJIs) had been corrupt. The request was made after this was suggested by Bhushan’s lawyer.Amicus Curiae, which literally translates as friend of the court, is a neutral lawyer appointed by the court to assist it in cases which require specific expertise.Bhushan’s lawyer Rajiv Dhavan told the court on Thursday that AG Venugopal should be heard as the Amicus Curiae in the case considering the fact that it involves pertinent legal issues relating to whether or not allegations regarding conduct of a judge can be made in the public or not.In a different contempt case concerning Bhushan, Venugopal, on August 25, told the court that several former SC judges have referred to corruption in the judiciary and asked the bench, which had already found Bhushan guilty of contempt in its August 14 judgement, to let him off with a warning. Earlier, on August 20, the AG mentioned a 1987 speech he delivered on the judiciary, where he referred to rumours of corruption and nepotism in the judiciary before the court in the same case, before he was cut short by the bench.On Thursday, a three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar asked the court registry to furnish a copy of the records of the case to the AG’s office and posted the case for further consideration in October.The case against Bhushan has its genesis in an interview given by the activist lawyer to Tehelka magazine in which he claimed half of the previous 16 CJIs were corrupt. Senior advocate Harish Salve brought this statement to the attention of the court, based on which contempt action was initiated against Bhushan in November 2009.The case was listed by the top court before a bench headed by justice Arun Mishra on July 24, 2020, more than eight years after it was last heard.Bhushan refused to apologise for his statement, but offered an explanation to the court on his controversial remark. The apex court, on August 10, rejected Bhushan’s explanation and decided to proceed with the case and hear it in detail.When the case was heard on August 17, the court said that certain larger legal issues need to be settled, including whether allegations of corruption against judges can be made by way of public statements and the procedure to be adopted when such allegations are raised against the conduct of a sitting judge.On August 25, Bhushan’s counsel requested that the case should be placed before a Constitution bench since it involves substantial legal issues.The three-judge bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari could not, however, take the case to finality because justice Mishra retired from office on September 2.The matter, thereafter, came to be listed before a new bench, which besides justice Khanwilkar also comprised justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna.When the case came up before the new bench on Thursday, senior counsel Dhavan appeared on behalf of Bhushan and submitted that AG Venugopal had earlier expressed his willingness to assist the court.The top court , on August 31, imposed a fine of Rs. 1 on Bhushan in the other contempt of court case initiated against him for tweets criticizing the Supreme Court and current CJI, SA Bobde. Bhushan refused to tender an apology in that case too despite opportunities offered by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-ag-to-be-amicus-curiae-in-bhushan-case/story-L5JYX9wtPLx1uTpsJ8RP9K.html
11-09-2020||India||Railways to procure AI-based cameras for thermal temp screening of passengers||Indian Railways has begun work on procuring thermal cameras for deployment at railway stations across its network for thermal temperature screening of passengers for Covid-19 via Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based surveillance cameras after it scrapped a previous tender amid allegations of favouring a Chinese firm.Railways has already begun installing the cameras in some zones. The cameras can detect the body temperature of passengers and help in detecting and denying boarding to those with symptoms of the coronavirus disease.“Central railways has begun using thermal cameras already. About two dozen symptomatic passengers were detected through it and were denied boarding. The fresh tender will open on Friday. We plan to induct the AI based cameras across all zones as more trains begin operations,” an Indian Railways official said on condition of anonymity.Railways in July scrapped a tender for thermal cameras meant for Covid-19 surveillance after Indian firms alleged that the specifications favoured a Chinese company, Hindustan Times had first reported on July 1. In June, Railtel, the railways’ telecom arm, had issued the tender for thermal temperature screening by AI-based surveillance cameras.The company soon decided to issue a fresh tender after the controversy. “RailTel has floated an expression of Interest( EOI) for finalizing partner for provision of thermal scanning solution in customer premises. The EOI is scheduled to be opened tomorrow and parter will be selected later after due diligence by nominated committee. In the proposed EOI, one partner for each region of RailTel will be identified to offer thermal scanning solution. The selected partner will supply equipment as per purchase orders received from RailTel customers in future,” a spokesperson for RailTel said.The development in June came in the backdrop of a tense military standoff between India and China along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh.Indian firms had alleged that the AI technology - DeepInMind - which was specified in the tender was a proprietary feature of Chinese firm Hikvision, a company partly owned by the Chinese government. The specifications for the cameras include temperature screening with facial recognition and mask detection, simultaneous temperature screening of multiple persons, detecting whether people wear masks and sounding timely alarms on people without masks.While the initial tender for these cameras issued on June 9 excluded a crucial specification called “black body” temperature -- the ability of cameras to accurately measure temperatures emitted by a person to say whether a he or she has fever or not - and the DeepinMind technology specification, they were included in the revised tender issued on June 23.Hindustan Times had on November 10 last year reported that the national carrier was planning a complete overhaul of security at railway stations through the use of facial recognition technology backed by artificial intelligence.It also plans to link the facial recognition system (FRS) with existing databases such as the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) to identify criminals prowling railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ryls-to-procure-ai-based-cameras-for-thermal-temp-screening-of-passengers/story-JS4baSLwZk9ZxnEV56pfbN.html
11-09-2020||India||BJP supporters’ group registers under US law||An overseas group of Bharatiya Janata Party supporters announced on Thursday that it registered with American authorities under a US law that requires groups to disclose any ties with a foreign political entity, a move that came amid reports that it may be under investigation for election interference -- a claim that it rejected. The Overseas Friends of BJP (OFBJP) said it “voluntarily” registered under FARA or the Foreign Agents Registration Act, which makes it mandatory for any foreign principals engaged in political activities to declare their engagement and financial transactions.As per the FARA website, the Act enacted in 1938, “requires certain agents of foreign principals who are engaged in political activities or other activities specified under the statute to make periodic public disclosure of their relationship with the foreign principal, as well as activities, receipts and disbursements in support of those activities. Disclosure of the required information facilitates evaluation by the government and the American people of the activities of such persons in light of their function as foreign agents. The FARA Unit of the Counter-intelligence and Export Control Section (CES) in the National Security Division (NSD) is responsible for the administration and enforcement of FARA.”For the mission and objective of the BJP as the foreign principal, the OFBJP said in the registration form: “Advocating for welfare social policies, self-reliance, robust economic growth, foreign policy driven by a nationalist agenda, and strong national defense for India.”Adapa V Prasad, one of the three signatories of the registration form, denied the registration was compelled by a US investigation of the organisation as had been contended by some. “OFBJP has voluntarily registered under FARA with DOJ, he said, adding: “OFBJP is not under any investigation,” he added.A response was awaited from the department of justice to a request from Hindustan Times to confirm or deny an investigation was under way.The announcement came shortly after Pieter Friedrich, a US-based researcher specialising in South Asia, tweeted that the US chapter of the OFBJP is reportedly under investigation by Justice Department. Friedrich claimed the OFBJP-US mobilised 1000s of Indian-Americans to travel to India to campaign for the BJP and is reportedly under investigation by the Justice Department.Vijay Chauthaiwale, who heads the Foreign Cell of the party too denied the allegations. He said the OFBJP-US did a self evaluation and following consultations with legal experts chose to voluntarily register under FARA. “There is no financial transaction between the party (BJP) and OFBJP-US. They however carry out messaging for the BJP in the US; organise programmes for visiting leaders, etc.”Chauthaiwale also lashed out at Friedrich and said “where is the proof that it is under investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-supporters-group-registers-under-us-law/story-3JyaB1X8LBwdJihcdK9KpN.html
11-09-2020||India||SII halts Oxford vaccine trials after global pause||Pune-based pharma firm Serum Institute of India (SII) said on Thursday it has paused the India trials for the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Oxford and AstraZeneca, a day after the United Kingdom-based developers announced a global halt of the human experiments because a patient developed a potentially serious condition. SII’s move came hours after India’s drugs regulator issued a show-cause notice to the company for failing to inform it about the suspension of the global trials of AZD1222 (as the vaccine candidate is called) , which is largely seen as the front runner in the race to develop a vaccine for Covid-19 , and is being tested around the world. Till Wednesday, SII said it would go ahead with the trials since no adverse reactions were seen in India. AstraZeneca said late on Tuesday it paused trials in the US, UK, Brazil, and South Africa following reports of a UK participant developing an unexplained severe adverse reaction.This prompted a notice from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), which asked SII to explain why its permission for phase II and phase III trials should not be withdrawn for failing to report an adverse reaction. In response, SII said in a statement on Thursday: “We are reviewing the situation and pausing India trials till AstraZeneca restarts the trials. We are following Drugs Controller General of India’s instructions and will not be able to comment further on trials…”“Normally if there has been a serious adverse event reported from any of the trial sites then safety concerns need to be allayed. It may or may not be vaccine induced but that needs to be investigated, and patient safety established,” said an official in the drugs control department, not wanting to be named. “Serum Institute of India Pvt Ltd, Pune, till now has not informed the Central licensing authority regarding pausing the clinical trial carried out by AstraZeneca in other countries and also not submitted casualty analysis of the reported serious adverse event with the investigational vaccine for the continuation of phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the subject vaccine in the country in light of the safety concerns,” according to the show-cause notice issued by DCGI’s Dr VG Somani. The DCGI sought an immediate reply to the notice saying else “it shall be construed that you have no explanation to offer and action deemed fit will be taken against you”. The Pune-based vaccine manufacturer got DCGI’s permission on August 2 to conduct Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, which was developed in partnership with the University of Oxford. SII is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of vaccines in terms of capacity and its role is crucial in building supplies when a vaccine is finally approved.The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimps and genetically modified. The first dose of the vaccine as part of the phase II, III human trials to check its efficacy began at Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University Medical College and Hospital in Pune last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-halts-oxford-vaccine-trials-after-global-pause/story-HO58UdO32gIVU5siUlv8aL.html
11-09-2020||India||Former Supreme Court judge Katju to depose in Nirav Modi extradition trial today||Former Supreme Court judge, justice Markandey Katju, will depose before a court in the United Kingdom on Friday as a witness for fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi in the case relating to the latter’s extradition to India.Justice Katju, who served as a judge of the apex court from April 2006 to September 2011, confirmed to legal web portal Livelaw that he will testify before London’s Westminster Magistrate’s court through video conference.Nirav Modi, an accused in the USD 2 billion Punjab National bank Fraud case, is contesting extradition charges initiated by India in the UK.Katju, who also served as chairperson of Press Council of India after he retired from the Supreme Court, told Livelaw that he will oppose the Indian government’s case for extradition of Modi, who he claimed is unlikely to get a free and fair trial in India.He also said that the judiciary in India is not independent but rather subservient to the executive, highlighting Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s public comments against Nirav Modi as proof of the fact that Nirav Modi’s trial in India would not be impartial.Prasad had said in May 2020 that the Congress party was trying to shield Nirav Modi through former Bombay high court judge Abhay Thipsay, who joined the Congress party in 2018. Thipsay had appeared as an expert witness at the request of Nirav Modi’s defence team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/katju-to-depose-in-nirav-modi-extradition-trial-today/story-XmyMPtYPeEH3V5jXv28ShI.html
11-09-2020||India||India forging key ties, with an eye on China||New Delhi: The standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) has spurred India’s efforts to forge greater cooperation on security issues, connectivity and trade with other countries that are equally concerned about China’s aggressive actions across the region.While a lot of attention has been focused on the response of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad – which brings together India, Australia, Japan and the US – to China’s actions, India has been quietly working with other key players such as Japan and Indonesia to build on cooperation across the Indo-Pacific.On Thursday, India and Japan announced they had signed the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA), a pact for reciprocal provision of supplies and services between their defence forces with an eye on security across the Indo-Pacific. Also read: Strategic Paris-Delhi-Canberra axis gets off to a flying start amid China tensionThe development is significant as India is only the sixth partner with which Japan has signed such an agreement, after Australia, Canada, France, the UK and the US, and in light of the Japanese Constitution’s commitment to pacifism. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said it was significant that India now has concluded logistics support agreements with all the members of the Quad. India and Australia signed the Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) in June during a virtual summit. “This increases the scope for interoperability between the navies of all the members of the Quad, and basic standard operating procedures are in place, especially for them to operate in a region such as the Indian Ocean,” Patil said. On the same day that the agreement with Japan was signed, India, Australia and France held their inaugural senior officials’ trilateral dialogue, with the focus again on convergences in the Indo-Pacific and enhanced cooperation in maritime issues. France thus became the first European power to formally partner with India on a mechanism focused on the Indo-Pacific. Not many are aware that France has good reasons for this focus on the Indo-Pacific – the presence of 1.5 million French citizens on island territories, and its exclusive economic zone of more than 11 million sq km, the second largest in the world, with 93% or 9 million sq km m in the Indo-Pacific. France has also been at the forefront of countries that have backed India in its current border standoff with China. French defence minister Florence Parly, who was in India on Thursday for the induction of the first batch of Rafale combat jets into the Indian Air Force, said in an interview that “no country can use the fait accompli policy” even as she pushed for disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC. Also read: Can count on us, France tells India as Rafale fighters take to the skiesParly also noted that the induction of the Rafale jets meant India “will have an edge over the entire region to defend itself and protect its people”. In the pipeline are the maiden virtual meetings of the foreign and defence ministers of India, Australia and Indonesia. The meeting of the foreign ministers could happen within this month, and once again the focus will be working towards a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. As in the case of the trilateral dialogue between India, Australia and France, these upcoming meetings too will work toward increased cooperation through regional organisations such as the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) and the 22-member Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA). Patil noted that external affairs minister S Jaishankar has pointed out that India’s foreign policy options will revolve round working with other countries that have similar interests. “After the 9/11 attacks on the US, president George W Bush had talked about establishing a coalition of the willing instead of relying on other formal mechanisms and coalitions. We are in an era when such interest-based partnerships are a reality,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-forging-key-ties-with-an-eye-on-china/story-71T0PFAX19rWNN7Y2eUjmL.html
11-09-2020||India||‘RT-PCR must for all symptomatic Covid-19 negative patients’: Health ministry tells states||To ensure that no positive case of Covid-19 is missed, the Union health ministry on Thursday again directed states to mandatorily retest all symptomatic negative cases of rapid antigen tests through the confirmatory reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.The ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have written to states after complaints were received that in some states negative symptomatic cases through rapid antigen-based tests (RAT) were not being confirmed through an RT-PCR based test, raising the risk of disease transmission at a greater rate.“…the Union Health Ministry and the ICMR have jointly written to all the States/UTs and urged them to ensure that all symptomatic negative cases of RAT are mandatorily retested using the RT-PCR test. This is necessary to ensure that such symptomatic negative cases do not remain untested and do not spread the disease among their contacts,” the health ministry said in a statement.Also read: SII halts Oxford vaccine trials after global pauseAn antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response in the body in the form of production of antibodies against a disease. Detecting its presence through an antigen-based test determines any present infection.“This will also ensure early detection and isolation/hospitalization of such false negatives. It has also been reiterated in the joint letter that while the RAT is being used to increase access and availability of testing in the field, RT-PCR remains the gold standard of Covid-19 tests,” it added.The states have also been asked to urgently establish a monitoring mechanism in each district and at the state level with a designated officer or a team to follow up such cases.“These teams shall analyse details of the RAT conducted daily in the districts and states and ensure that there are no delays in retesting of all symptomatic negative cases. The aim of States/UTs should be to ensure that no potentially positive case is missed out. They have also been advised to undertake a regular analysis to monitor the incidence of positives during the RT-PCR tests conducted as a follow-up,” the statement read.Also read: ‘Why not increase this number’ - SC on special courts for tainted lawmakersAs per the ICMR guidelines, all symptomatic (fever, cough or breathlessness) negative cases of Rapid Antigen Tests, and asymptomatic negative cases of RAT that develop symptoms within 2 to 3 days of being tested negative, must necessarily be retested through an RT-PCR test.“The idea is to minimise the percentage of missed positives to effectively curb disease transmission. To be able to control the disease better, it is important to pick up all infected at the early stages of the disease. The letter has gone to states to reiterate the need to follow up rapid antigen testing guidelines adequately,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.The ICMR approved the antigen-based testing for Covid-19 diagnosis in India on June 14, since then it has been instrumental in ramping up testing across the country as part of government’s ‘test, track and treat’ strategy to control the spread of the viral infection. However, experts in the field of virology also say that it is important to get the confirmatory test done using RT-PCR as the test is more accurate.A senior virologist in a government laboratory, who didn’t want to be named, said, “I won’t recommend antigen test, with its low sensitivity, as a first line of screening test as no positives should be missed. In this case, you have a possibility of missing at least 15-20 percent of the positive cases.”“False positives are still okay as you may be overestimating a disease, but there shouldn’t be any false negatives as that would essentially mean the disease is being underestimated. If symptomatic negative individuals are confirmed through an RT-PCR, there will still be a percentage of asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic cases who won’t be tested and will be missed,” the virologist added.According to the ICMR, antigen-based testing comprises about 30-40 percent of all tests performed for Covid-19 diagnosis currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rt-pcr-must-for-all-symptomatic-covid-19-negative-patients-health-ministry-tells-states/story-BK2PShnUoZrM3kaRmNZr5O.html
11-09-2020||India||RS deputy chair’s post: Oppn may field Manoj Jha against Harivansh||Several opposition parties have decided to field Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha for the September 14 election to the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson’s post against Harivansh of the Janata Dal (United), people familiar with the development said.Harivansh, who was Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson until his term ended in April, will be the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate. The contest between Jha and Harivansh is interesting given that they belong to two main rival parties in Bihar and the election to the deputy chairperson’s post in the Rajya Sabha comes ahead of upcoming assembly polls in the state. Jha will file his papers on Friday, the last date for filing the nominations, in the presence of senior leaders of various opposition parties, said a Congress leader, one of the people cited above, requesting anonymity.Apart from the RJD, the parties supporting him are the Congress, the Samajwadi Party, Trinamool Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Shiv Sena, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Kerala Congress (M), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Indian Union Muslim League. The Aam Aadmi Party is also likely to support Jha because it had reservations about backing a Congress candidate. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, the Congress party’s deputy leader in the Upper House Anand Sharma, its chief whip Jairam Ramesh and leaders from other parties, including the Trinamool Congress, Left parties, DMK and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), will accompany Jha when he files his nomination papers on Friday, said the Congress leader cited above.. The Congress, an ally of the RJD, has maintained that it will not let the post of deputy chairman go uncontested and had proposed that opposition parties put up a joint candidate in the September 14 election despite the NDA having a clear edge. In the 245-member House, the BJP-led NDA’s strength is 116. There is one vacancy in the Upper House. The Congress had initially approached the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) to suggest a name but the southern party was not keen to put a candidate. It then requested the RJD to allow Jha to contest the election. The Congress had been confident that the DMK would let Tiruchi Siva contest the election. The RJD leadership accepted the proposal and named Jha as the joint opposition candidate against JD(U)’s Harivansh, who was re-elected to the Upper House from Bihar soon after his retirement in April. In August 2018, after the retirement of PJ Kurien of the Congress, Harivansh was elected the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson. As the NDA candidate, he defeated BK Hariprasad of the Congress. While Harivansh secured 125 votes, Hariprasad won 105 votes. On Thursday, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar telephoned his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik and sought his party’s support for Harivansh. Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal (BJD), with nine members in the Rajya Sabha, had supported Harivansh in the last election as well. NDA floor managers are trying to reach out to the opposition parties to build a consensus to ensure that Harivansh is elected unanimously, said the Congress leader cited above..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-deputy-chair-s-post-oppn-may-field-manoj-jha-against-harivansh/story-JU15kJSoTZVzjICIaKACoI.html
11-09-2020||India||Govt considering series of measures to boost economy||The government is considering a series of measures to boost the economy, including offering up to Rs 3 lakh crore in incentives spread over six years to create global supply chains in some sectors, tariff protection to key industries, further relaxation in foreign investment rules, and schemes aimed at the urban unemployed, four people familiar with the plans said.  Various expert groups in the government are working on specific fiscal incentives and policy reforms that are expected to take effect from the third quarter (October-December) of the current financial year to accelerate growth, the people added, asking not to be identified. India’s gross domestic product (GDP) contracted by a record 23.9% in the quarter ended June 2020, making the country the worst performer among major economies that have all been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.“These are ongoing reform measures and should not be confused with a mega stimulus package. There is no immediate proposal to announce a second stimulus. In May this year the government announced a ₹20 lakh crore Atamnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Initiative) package, which is already in the works. Some announcements are expected soon that will complement it,” one of the four people, a government official in an economic ministry, said. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled relief and economic stimulus measures between May 13 and May 17 this year under the Rs 20.97 lakh crore Atamnirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan package , which also included monetary measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).A second person said the government is expected to save about ₹3 lakh crore in the next five to six years by limiting export incentives under Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS), and this money can be used for focused development of global value chains in sectors such as automobiles, auto components, electronics, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, textiles, food processing, white goods and speciality steel.“The production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme is approved by an empowered group of secretaries and the matter will soon be placed before the cabinet for its approval,” added this person, who has direct knowledge of the matter. The government is phasing out MEIS, an export incentive scheme, as it has ballooned disproportionately without creating export competitiveness, he said. The scheme incentivises large investments and has worked for India in the mobile manufacturing sector. Also read: FY21 may see worst ever decline in GDPThe government is also considering providing duty protection to select domestic industries from imported finished goods, particularly from China. This could, however, be within the bound rate of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) for a period of five to six years under a phased manufacturing programme (PMP) . The scheme is aimed at sectors such as plastics, furniture and toys, the second official said, listing sectors where exports, especially from China, have hurt Indian industry. In order to attract FDI in infrastructure and transportation sectors, the government may also announce a series of policy measures in some sectors. This will include private participation in running about 150 passenger trains, over two dozen airports, greenfield steel plants, agricultural infrastructure, renewable power projects, waterways and tourist sites, a third person said.The fourth person said the government is focusing on inclusive economic growth. “A large part of the ₹20 lakh crore stimulus package announced in May was focused on providing relief to the poor. It has immensely helped the rural poor, especially with their active involvement in MGNREGS [Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme]. There is a thinking that a similar employment guarantee scheme could be framed for the urban poor,” added this person. Experts expect the government to rationalise fiscal incentives and policy reforms to maximise economic gains as it cannot immediately afford another mega stimulus because of a precarious financial position -- the fiscal deficit has already crossed 103% of the budgeted estimated for the entire 2020-21 financial year.“Another fiscal stimulus may come only after a thorough assessment of the ground situation – availability of Covid-19 vaccine and de-escalation of tension at the border,” the first person said.But experts unanimously suggested demand-side measures to boost consumption. Nilaya Varma, co-founder and CEO of consulting firm Primus Partners, said: “The government has limited fiscal space as the borrowing target is already over ₹12 lakh crore in the current financial year. Within the limitations, while the government has introduced various supply-side initiatives, it is imperative to balance demand-side measures.” DK Aggarwal, president at the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said schemes such as PLI and PMP will certainly attract foreign investments as well as motivate domestic entities to expand their production, but more demand-side reforms are required to lift sentiment and encourage businesses to invest.“The focus needs to be upon increasing consumption expenditure by the government, implementation of ₹111 lakh crore allocated for the NIP [National Infrastructure Pipeline] for next five years... government expenditure through various welfare schemes, and upliftment of the underprivileged through direct benefit transfers, among others,” he added“Urban poor have been significantly impacted due to... Covid-19 and therefore require notable policy attention. At this juncture, similar scheme(s) on the lines of MGNREGS would go a long way to provide employment opportunity to the urban poor, sustenance income in their hands along with social safety,” Aggarwal said.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner of consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said: “The government now plans to expand the PLI to other sectors in addition to electronics. These steps are definitely welcome; however, it needs to balance it with a few demand-side measures. Especially in a low-interest rate regime, the consumption would be generally low. The latest data as well clearly indicates that the demand in urban areas is very poor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-incentives-on-anvil-to-boost-economy/story-Z9FslJFHitNLBXEtfh4sTK.html
11-09-2020||India||5 Rafale fighters formally inducted in combat fleet||Ambala: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that the induction of Rafale fighter jets into the Indian Air Force was a game-changer for the country’s security, and a strong message to those who challenged India’s sovereignty, even as IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said the warplanes could not have joined the combat fleet at a more opportune time considering the current security scenario.The comments, made during a ceremony at the Ambala airbase to mark the formal induction of the Rafale fighters, come amid military tensions between Indian and China in the sensitive Ladakh sector.French defence minister Florence Parly said the Rafale jets would give India a military edge in the region.Five of the 36 Rafales ordered by India from France reached Ambala -- India’s oldest air force base -- on July 29 but a formal induction ceremony was held on Thursday. These Rafale jets are part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the Golden Arrows. Also read: Can count on us, France tells India as Rafale fighters take to the skiesThursday’s ceremony marked the full operational induction of the Rafale jets into the IAF, Bhadauria said. “They have already flown and familiarised in our operational environment [after their arrival] and undergone intense integrated training with other combat fleets including firing of advanced weapons…They are good to go and deliver,” the IAF chief said. The Rafales have even flown in the Ladakh sector and the country’s eastern region, officials said, requesting anonymity. In her speech, Parly said the induction of Rafale into the IAF was a symbol of strong ties between India and France, describing the bilateral relationship as “rock solid and time tested.” She said France supported India’s bid for a permanent seat in the UN Security Council. The French defence minister assured India of timely delivery of remaining 31 fighter jets. She said France was totally committed to the Make in India initiative that has been a reality for the French industry for several years particularly in defence sector like in submarines. “We are fully committed to the Make in India initiative as well as to the further integration of Indian manufactures into our global supply chains,” she said.She added that Make in India has been a reality for the French industry for several years, particularly for defence equipment like submarines. “Many French companies and design offices are now established in India and now I hope that others will come to offer their support and services,” she said.The Rafale weaponry includes Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles, and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles -- weapons that allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges. The IAF chief said after the planes landed on July 29, the Golden Arrows squadron “has been really busy and in an overdrive to operationalise” the Rafales. The Rafale fighters will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of the air force with their advanced weaponry, high-tech sensors, superior radar for detection and tracking of targets, and ability to carry an impressive payload, experts and officials said. The defence minister reiterated India’s resolve to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity under any circumstances, with the statement coming against the backdrop of threatening military moves by China in the eastern Ladakh theatre. “The induction is significant in the context of the recent security developments prevailing along our borders…or if I may say created on our frontiers [by adversaries],” Singh said. “The intentions of military are as strong as it can be... Strengthening our defence is aimed at achieving international peace and stability and we do not want to take any step that can endanger international peace. We have the same expectation of our neighbours and other countries of the world,” he said. The next batch of three to four Rafale jets (out of a total of 36 aircraft) is expected to reach Ambala from France in October followed by a third batch in December. All deliveries will be completed by the end of 2021. “Rafale means gust of wind in French or even burst of fire. In military terms, India will acquire a world-class capability that will give it incredible sovereignty. And in strategic terms, the Rafales will give India an edge over the entire region to defend itself,” Parly said, calling the jet a powerful military aircraft.The jets have been specially tailored for IAF. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include a helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers and cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases.“The full range of missions and the capability enhancement this fleet brings to IAF is even more impressive,” Bhadauria said.Before the ceremonial unveiling of the Rafale, a traditional “Sarva Dharma Puja” (multi-faith prayer) was performed at the Ambala airbase which was home to the humble biplane a century ago. The line-up of events included a fly-past by Rafales, Sukhoi-30s and Jaguars, solo displays by the Rafale and the Tejas light combat aircraft, and some breathtaking manoeuvres by IAF’s Sarang helicopter stunt team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-rafale-fighters-formally-inducted-in-combat-fleet/story-P1whVzOl9GPU4nS4O0e2dL.html
11-09-2020||India||Nearly 7 die by suicide in Delhi every day: NCRB||New Delhi: The number of people who died by suicide in Delhi because of mental illness rose by more than two-and-a-half times in 2019 compared to the previous year, although overall suicides because of various health reasons dipped significantly, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).The absolute number of suicides stayed constant – 2,526 in each year, with “family problems” remaining the number one cause. Family problems relate to quarrels in families, relatives not doing well in their lives, etc.The data does not capture the number of suicide attempts. Nearly seven people died by suicide every day on average, much more than the fatalities in road accidents, which left four persons dead every day in 2019.This is the latest data available for suicides in the Capital; Delhi Police doesn’t share suicide statistics. Mental illness was attributed as the reason for 47 suicides in Delhi last year, a 161% jump from 18 such deaths in the year before that. The number of women in both years remained constant at six, while the number of men who died by suicide because of mental illness rose from 12 to 41.In comparison, suicides due to illnesses of all kinds – such as mental, critical and prolonged physical illness.-- dipped by 48%, from 218 to 130. In 469 (18.5%) of all 2,526 suicides, the NCRB couldn’t ascertain the cause.Psychologists could not point to any specific reason behind the trend, even as they contended that NCRB may not have been able to capture the exact data. “If a person did not seek medical treatment for his or her mental illness despite suffering from it, it is not going to be counted as that,” said psychiatrist Samir Parikh, who is the director of Fortis National Mental Health Programme.Unemployment and educationUnemployment was a factor that led to more suicides in 2019 than the previous year. At least 118 people died by suicide on turning jobless, a 20% jump from 98 such deaths in 2018. Also, the number of suicides by jobless people rose from 611 in 2018 to 677 in 2019. Overall, a vast majority of people who died received only a basic education and earned little money, showed the data.Over 80% of the suicides were by people who had studied only up to Class 12, and more than 61% were people who earned less than Rs1 lakh annually. Nearly 10% of all suicides were by daily wager labourers.Rajat Mitra, a clinical psychologist, attributed the relation between poor financial/educational backgrounds and suicides to a sense of “despondency and gloom”. “This class of people tend to feel a sense of hopelessness and lack of options in their lives. It hurts their self-esteem and leaves them with suicidal tendencies,” said Mitra.He said that a possible solution to this problem was to cultivate the culture of entrepreneurship among such people. “They need to be able to pick up skills to earn a livelihood and the government needs to step forward to encourage them to start their own venture,” said Mitra.Relationship issuesRelationship issues -- be it marriage, family, love affairs or relationships outside marriage -- were the reason for 1,007 dying by suicide, nearly 40% of all suicides. However, suicides related to marriages dipped from 233 to 123.But there were more in the list who recently lost their partners – either due to death or separation. Thirty widows and widowers died by suicide in 2019, up from 10 in the year before that; and the number of people who were recently separated from their partners went up from 31 to 93 in the corresponding period.Hanging was the method used in three out of every four suicides, followed by poison in 6.76% of the cases. Mitra said that most people don’t realise that hanging or even other suicide methods often do not kill people and instead leave them with other injuries, which sometimes last a lifetime.A study by the American Association of Suicidology showed that only one in every 25 suicide attempts in the US ended in death.Until July 2018, suicide was criminalised under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 309, and made punishable with a year in jail, or a fine or both. But the Mental Healthcare Act of 2017 (which came into force from 2018) restricted its application and said that unless proved otherwise, a person who attempts suicide is to be presumed to be under severe stress.A senior Delhi Police officer said that the IPC Section 309 was now pressed in rare cases. “If an apprehended suspect, for example, tries to bang his head against the wall with an intention of getting away, we book them under this section,” said the officer who didn’t want to be identified. Eish Singhal, the Delhi Police spokesperson, said that the process followed now is to carry out an inquest proceeding after a suicide to ascertain if it was due to pressure or harassment by anyone. “We look for suicide notes, for statements of relatives of the victims, and to understand if someone had abetted the suicide,” said Singhal.Fear worse this yearWhile the data for this year is not still available, there have been a number of instances when people have died by suicide either after getting infected by Covid-19 or due to financial impact of the pandemic.Mitra feared that suicide figures this year could be significantly higher than in previous years. “People have lost their jobs and their businesses have taken a hit, but right now they are living off their savings. Once they begin getting a sense of the loss and their savings start drying up, the situation could get bad,” said Mitra.He said that such affected people need to acknowledge the loss, look for entrepreneurship opportunities and realise that they can always bounce back. “They must take inspiration from the times of the partition when so many people lost everything, but built up as entrepreneurs to recover,” said Mitra.Parikh said India needs a suicide prevention policy and more and more suicide helplines. “In the long run, we need to impart life skills in schools so that people can cope with such situations,” he said.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-7-die-by-suicide-in-delhi-every-day-ncrb/story-9zE5PAjZSwfwHoUU34RPfL.html
11-09-2020||India||‘I’m afraid they’ll take revenge’: Judge who pronounced verdict in Jaipur bomb blast case cites threat to security||Retired judge Ajay Kumar Sharma, who had pronounced the judgment in the Jaipur bomb case, has written to the director-general of police (DGP), requesting him to maintain the security provided to him. Sharma cited security threat to him and said that he has observed some suspicious activity around his residence. HT has obtained a copy of the letter.“Before and after the judgment, my family and I were provided security of four guards and two personal security officers (PSOs) which is still in place. I have heard that the police line is removing the security provided to me,” read the letter written by Sharma.In the letter, the retired judge said that he has observed some suspicious activity around his residence. “I have seen people roaming around my house. Some were on motorcycle and clicked my pictures twice,” he said. Referring to the four convicts in the Jaipur bomb blast case, Sharma said that the terrorist group is a very dangerous one and any incident can take place with him or his family.“I am not financially sound that I can keep personal security guards. My only fault is that I gave death sentence to four dreaded terrorists and I am afraid that the groups to which they belong will take revenge. Hence, the responsibility of me and my family is on the police and the state government. The intelligence bureau report also indicates that terrorist groups can take revenge. The High Court is yet to confirm the death sentence. My family and I have serious threat from terrorists,” Sharma said in the letter.He also gave the example of Justice Neelkanth Ganjoo, who was killed in November 1989. Ganjoo had pronounced death sentence to Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) terrorist and founder Maqbool Bhatt.“We have received a letter from the IB and we are assessing the security of retired judge Ajay Sharma,” said Anand Shrivastava, commissioner of police, Jaipur city.On December 17, 2019, the special dealing with Jaipur bomb blast cases had convicted four people for the worst terror attack in Jaipur — nine bombs that ripped through the walled city on May 13, 2008, killing 71 and injuring hundreds. On December 20, the four convicts were sentenced to death by the then judge of the court Ajay Kumar Sharma. Sharma had convicted Mohammad Saif, 32, Mohammad Sarvar, 36, Saif-Ur-Rahman alias Saif-ur-Rahman, 36, and Salman, 34 for murder, attempt to murder, voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means, conspiracy and under relevant sections of the Explosive Substances Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. One of the accused, Shahbaz Hussain alias Shahbaz, was acquitted.The eight locations targeted in the blasts were Manak Chowk police station, Badi Chaupad, Kotwali police station, Tripoliya Bazar, Chandpole Hanuman temple, National Handloom in Jauhari Bazar, Chhoti Chaupad and Sanganeri Gate Hanuman temple. All locations were within a radius of 2 kilometres radius. The trial in the eight cases – one for each of the eight locations – began in December 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-m-afraid-they-ll-take-revenge-judge-who-pronounced-verdict-in-jaipur-bomb-blast-case-cites-threat-to-security/story-rFNXPcBEOldtWqloch6jiI.html
11-09-2020||India||Nadda attacks Banerjee, says Bengal lockdown timed to coincide with Ram temple launch||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda on Thursday accused West Bengal Mamata Banerjee chief minister of timing the Covid-19 lockdown in the state last month to coincide with the launch the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 and earlier lifting it for Eid.“By imposing the lockdown, she [Banerjee] crushed the wishes of crores of people. It is a different matter that the lockdown was lifted [for] Eid on July 31…This is a politics of appeasement. This politics of vote bank appeasement needs to be exposed,” Nadda said in his address to BJP workers via video-conferencing.Also read: Congress’ Bengal president pick sends clear message to Mamata BanerjeeThe West Bengal government imposed a state-wide lockdown on seven non-consecutive days in August to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.The BJP has been upbeat over its prospects in the 2021 West Bengal assembly polls since its performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Its vote share in the state increased to over 40% in 2019 from a mere 2% in the 2011 assembly polls. The BJP won 18 out of West Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats to emerge as the second-largest party after ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state.The BJP has repeatedly targeted the TMC government over its “vote bank politics” in the state, where Muslims account for 27% of the population. In 2017, the BJP targeted the TMC for imposing restrictions on idol immersion during Durga Puja celebrations as it coincided with Muharram. Muharram is the first month of the Islamic calendar when Muslims take out processions to mourn the killing of the Prophet’s grandson, Hussain, and other members of his family in the Battle of Karbala in the seventh century.Nadda credited “blessings the BJP got from people in Bengal” to the party’s rise in the state, with an increase in vote share from 2% in 2011 to 18% in 2014 and over 40% in 2019.“…This is how we have to proceed and throw out the TMC. Mamata Banerjee knows the ground beneath her feet has shifted. She knows people are ready to welcome the Lotus [BJP’s electoral symbol] in West Bengal.”Nadda accused Banerjee of blocking the implementation of schemes like Ayushman Bharat that benefit the poorest of the poor. “Nearly 45 million people in West Bengal have been deprived of up to Rs 5 lakh [500,000 insurance cover] that the scheme offers,” he said.Nadda said the state government has not even shared the list of farmers eligible to get three instalments of Rs 2,000 in their accounts under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme annually. “She has not let the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana [crop insurance scheme] be implemented in West Bengal …is it not her duty to worry about the fate of farmers? She changed the name of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana [housing scheme]... the money is coming from the Centre but she has put her stamp on the scheme. “Nadda said Banerjee was not even sharing Covid-19 data. “They stopped a team that had come from Delhi to collect data even as dead bodies remained unattended. This is anti-humanism of Mamata Banerjee.”He referred to political killings in the state and said politics of criminalisation is being encouraged and people are being intimidated. “…But in the elections, it is the very same people who will raise their voice and send you home and bring the BJP to power.”TMC lawmaker Saugata Roy rejected Nadda’s comments as communal statements. “Enforcing lockdown or cancelling it has nothing to do with a programme that was held in another state. Lockdown is imposed or withdrawn by a government based on administrative convenience and on the advice of experts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-attacks-banerjee-says-bengal-lockdown-timed-to-coincide-with-ram-temple-launch/story-BAJ9xqI17Oxtxn7ju2RvRP.html
