12-09-2020||India||Nitish, Nadda hold Bihar seat talks||Seat-sharing talks between ruling alliance partners Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) began on Saturday for the upcoming Bihar elections due in October-November, according to functionaries aware of the developments.A delegation led by BJP president JP Nadda interacted with Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is also the JD(U) national president, at the CM’s official residence in a meeting that lasted 45 minutes.  The BJP team comprised its Bihar election incharge, Bhupendra Yadav, and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, among others, according to officials aware of the matter. Later in the day, Nadda reiterated that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), of which the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) too is a part, will fight the elections “unitedly”. His remarks came against the backdrop of a growing buzz on perceived differences between the JD(U) and the LJP.“People of Bihar have already made up their mind. Now, we have to decide how we are going to change Bihar,” Nadda said. According to NDA functionaries, CM Kumar voiced his displeasure at statements by the LJP president Chirag Paswan, who has been critical of the JD(U) of late, during his meeting with Nadda. A BJP leader, who did not want to be named, said it was just an “initial round of talks” and that the final formula will be worked out after discussions with the LJP, which was not part of Saturday’s dialogue. “We want a respectable accommodation,” said a LJP leader, requesting anonymity.In 2015, the JD(U) and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) contested the elections together on 101 seats each as part of the opposition grand alliance. Their partner, the Congress contested, 41 seats in 243-member assembly.On the other hand, the BJP contested 157 seats, LJP 42 seats, and Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) 21 seats. The HAM, which later severed ties with the NDA, recently made a comeback.“The alliance of BJP-JD (U)-LJP and HAM-S is very strong,” Sushil Modi said on Saturday.Meanwhile, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren met RJD president Lalu Prasad in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on Saturday and said they will fight the Bihar polls together. Soren spent more than an hour with Prasad at RIMS Director’s bungalow, where the RJD leader is staying. The RJD is a partner in the coalition government headed by Soren in Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-nadda-hold-bihar-seat-talks/story-h3f0KL4xB5VHQK6z4UF5qN.html
12-09-2020||India||Bhushan seeks right to appeal in contempt ruling||There is a chance of “arbitrary, vengeful, and high-handed decisions” in contempt cases where the apex court is the aggrieved party, but also the “prosecutor, the witness, and the judge,” raising the fear of bias, lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan said in a plea filed Saturday, seeking the right of appeal for himself and for others convicted in original contempt cases. Bhushan was convicted and on August 31 fined Re 1 for his tweets against the judiciary which were deemed contempt by the apex court. The plea, filed by lawyer Kamini Jaiswal , sought that a person thus convicted could appeal and be heard by a “larger and different” bench of the court. While Bhushan has said the right to appeal against conviction somes under Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty), and that it flows from the principle of natural justice, the procedural change being sought will also pave the way for him to appeal his conviction in the contempt case. Original criminal contempt cases are those which are heard directly by the Supreme Court in the first instance. In such cases, if a person is convicted, he or she is left with no further remedy as the Supreme Court is the highest court in the country.Bhushan has prayed that in such a case, the convicted person should get the right to an intra-court appeal, i.e. a larger bench of the Supreme Court — different from the bench which convicted the concerned person — should hear an appeal against such a conviction.“The right to appeal against conviction in original criminal cases is a substantive right under Article 21 and flows from principles of natural justice. The absence of such a right thus violates (right to life under) Article 21,” the plea said.Moreover, contempt proceedings are one in which the injured party is the Supreme Court itself and it acts as the prosecutor, the witness and the judge, thereby raising fear of inherent bias, the petition said. Thus, there is a need for intra-court appeal, it added.If an intra-court appeal cannot be allowed, review petitions filed against orders of conviction by Supreme Court in original criminal contempt cases should be heard in open court by a different bench, Bhushan prayed.The Supreme Court recently held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his tweets criticising the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. The court had on August 31 imposed a token fine of Re 1 as a punishment.Another contempt case against Bhushan, initiated by the top court in 2009 for his remarks that some past Chief Justices of India were corrupt, is also pending before the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhushan-seeks-right-to-appeal-in-contempt-ruling/story-57TS3V2rhPNvaUfQhM2vOO.html
12-09-2020||India||DGCA warns of ban for photography||Mumbai: An airline’s service on a particular route can be banned for two weeks if it fails to act against crew or passengers in case someone violates rules such as the ban on photography mid-air, the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) said on Saturday as it took note of an incident on an IndiGo Airlines flight where members of the media began video recording mid air.The flight on which the violations occurred took off on September 9 and had among its passengers actor Kangana Ranaut, who has recently been in the middle of a public spat with the Maharashtra government. Crews of several TV channels followed the actor on the Chandigarh-Mumbai flight and were seen jostling for her attention while still in the cabin once the aircraft landed at its destination.Shortly after the incident, the DGCA sought a report from the airline, which on Friday said the passengers did not obey their cabin and cockpit crew who repeatedly requested them to maintain social distancing and switch off video recordings.“As per rule 13 of the Aircraft Rules 1937, no person shall take, or cause or permit to be taken, at a government aerodrome of from an aircraft in flight, any photograph except in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of a permission... This permission is, however, not applicable when such aircraft is landing, taking off or on ground at a defence aerodrome. In spite of these regulations, it has been noted that at times, airlines have failed to follow these stipulations primarily because of lack of diligence on their part. Needless to say that such deviations result in compromise in maintaining the highest standards of safety and therefore, is not to be allowed,” said the DGCA order following the airline’s report. The order added that they have decided that in such violations on a scheduled passenger aircraft, the schedule of the flight for that particular route will be suspended for a period of two weeks from the next day and will be restored only after the airline has taken all the punitive action against those responsible for the violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-warns-of-ban-for-photography/story-1BfidReWWC5Qudmqm9YXeO.html
12-09-2020||India||Sonia, Rahul to visit U.S. for her check-up, will miss start of Parliament||New Delhi: Congress president Sonia Gandhi, accompanied by her son and Congress MP, Rahul Gandhi, left for abroad on Saturday for a routine health check-up, party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said. While Sonia Gandhi is expected to miss much of the 18-day monsoon session of Parliament — which begins on Monday — due to her visit to the US, Rahul Gandhi is expected to miss a few days at the least, according to a leader who did not want to be named. “Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi is travelling today onwards for a routine follow up & medical check-up, which was deferred due to the pandemic. She is accompanied by Sh. Rahul Gandhi. We take this opportunity to thank everyone for their concern & good wishes,” Surjewala said in a tweet. The Congress functionary, who requested anonymity, said Rahul Gandhi will return in a few days in order to attend the monsoon session, and that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will then join her mother. Before leaving, Sonia Gandhi on Friday carried out major organisational changes, reconstituted the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and her team of office bearers, and also formed a special panel to help her in organisational and operational matters till the next session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), to be held within six months. Apart from Surjewala, the committee to assist Sonia Gandhi comprises of AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal and Mukul Wasnik. She also chaired a meeting of the party’s parliament strategy group on Tuesday. It was decided in the meeting that the Congress will raise the issues of India-China border standoff, the Covid-19 situation across the country, the impact of lockdowns, the current state of economy, GST compensation to states, job losses, agrarian distress and restoration of Question Hour during the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-rahul-to-visit-u-s-for-her-check-up-will-miss-start-of-parliament/story-lbuBhHcVhlAY5Dbpf0eW8O.html
12-09-2020||India||‘23 Maoists were killed in Minpa encounter which took place in March’: Bastar Police||Bastar Police claimed that a total of 23 Maoist cadres were killed in Minpa encounter which took place in March this year between Maoists and security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district of Bastar division.Inspector-General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P, issued a press release on Saturday and claimed that the recent letters of communication between Maoist leaders, recovered from an encounter on September 8, suggest that a total 23 Maoists were killed in Minpa encounter.On March 21, in an encounter with police near the jungles of Minpa village of Sukma, total 17 security forces were killed. Two days after the encounter, the Maoists released a press note and claimed that three of their cadres also got killed in the encounter.Also read: Jharkhand CM meets Lalu Yadav, says ‘will contest Bihar polls together’“On September 8, a joint operation was launched by Sukma police from Bheji and Elarmadgu camp towards Pentapad-Entapad jungle area based on an intelligence input about the presence of CPI Maoist cadres of Konta/Kistaram Area Committee. After the encounter, we recovered a few letters from the spot. The security forces, while translating one of the letters addressed to a senior cadre from South Bastar Division in Gondi dialect, learnt that the Maoists suffered huge casualties of 23 cadres during the Minpa encounter which took place on March 21, 2020. A couple of days after the encounter, the Maoists claimed through a press release that only three Maoists of PLGA Battalion No 01 were killed by security forces which was not correct,” IG Sunderaj told Hindustan Times. “We had information that around 30 Maoists were killed in the encounter and now the letter corroborated the fact. In order to keep up the morale of their lower cadres, Maoists normally don’t disclose the details about huge casualties they suffer during an encounter with the security forces. The police have gathered information in villages of Jagargunda and West Bastar Division area and learnt about the huge casualties suffered by Naxals in the Minpa encounter,” the IG said.The officer further stated that after the analysis of the recovered documents, it was revealed that the Maoists are experiencing tremendous hardship during Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown period. “They have an acute shortage of provisioning and supply network have been chocked due to 24×7 check posts of the security forces along the interstate and inter-district borders. Medicine and ration supply remains the main area of concern for the red guerrillas during this period,” the release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-maoists-were-killed-in-minpa-encounter-which-took-place-in-march-bastar-police/story-zwedqUEqJPIqRKppIj0oCL.html
12-09-2020||India||China hands over 5 Arunachal men||Chinese authorities returned to India five residents of Arunachal Pradesh who strayed across the border during an expedition to hunt and collect medicinal herbs 10 days ago, army officials said on Saturday. The five men from the Tagin tribe, who worked as porters for the army, were handed over at Kibithu after completing all formalities, officials said. “The individuals will now be quarantined for 14 days as per Covid-19 protocol and thereafter be handed over to their family members,” Lt Col Harsh Wardhan Pande, a defence spokesperson based in Assam’s Tezpur ,said in a release.Arunachal chief minister Pema Khandu thanked the army and the Centre. “Absolutely glad to know that five of our Arunachali youths have been safely handed over to Indian Army by Chinese PLA. I am wholeheartedly thankful to the Govt of India and the Indian Army for their persistent effort in securing their return,” he posted on Twitter.The development came in the backdrop of simmering tensions between India and China with forces of the two countries locked in a face-off in eastern Ladakh over a border dispute.According to the army, this was the third such instance of people from Arunachal Pradesh living near the India-China border “straying inadvertently to the other side of line of actual control (LAC)” during “adventurous forays” this year.“Indian Army has always been proactive in tracing the lost locals and helping them return home. Three such incidents took place in the current year in Upper Subansiri and West Siang district including the latest one,” the army’s release said.“All such individuals were brought back home safely after consistent efforts and coordination by Indian Army in the past,” it added.In the latest incident, the five men — Tanu Bakar, Prasad Ringling, Ngaru Diri, Dongtu Ebiya and Toch Singkam — went missing on September 2, reportedly from Sera-7 in Upper Subansiri district on the Indian side of the McMahon line bifurcating Arunachal and the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) of China.The brother of one of the missing men posted on social media that they had been “abducted” by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Similar accusations were made by Tapir Gao, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian from Arunachal East, and Ninong Ering, a Congress legislator from Pasighat, in their tweets.Responding to a hotline message sent by the Indian Army, PLA replied on Tuesday that the men were found on the Chinese side and their condition was fine.On Monday, China’s state-controlled Global Times tweeted Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian as saying that the country “never recognized so called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’, which is China’s south Tibet region...”Family members of the five men thanked the army and officials of the Centre and the state government. “The release was arranged in a matter of a few days. I can’t thank the army, government officials and the PLA enough for their cooperation and goodwill gesture,” Reri Delak Bakar, the brother of Tanu Bakar, told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-hands-over-5-arunachal-men/story-FNvpdNjz5TIvhr1p4ymrYM.html
12-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB arrests six people from Mumbai, Goa||In its ongoing probe linked to the drug angle in late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested six people from Mumbai and Goa. The NCB first arrested 23-year-old Bandra resident identified as Karam Jeet Singh Anand alias KJ and recovered marijuana and hashish from him.According to NCB officials, Karam Jeet was part of the drug syndicate which it had busted as part of the ongoing investigations. Sameer Wankhede, joint director of the NCB, confirmed the arrest. However, NCB officials did not reveal the quantity of the drugs seized. Later, NCB officials arrested Dwayne Anthony Fernandes and two others from Dadar with 500 grams of marijuana. The NCB then arrested 29-year-old Ankush Arenja from Powai and recovered 42 grams of hashish and Rs 1,12,000 in cash from him. According to NCB officials, Arenja used to receive the contraband from Karam Jeet and used to supply it to arrested accused Anuj Keshwani. Also read: Kangana shares meme on Twitter. Uddhav is depicted as Ravana“The NCB also arrested one Chris Costa from Goa in the same case. Investigation is going on,” said deputy director KPS Malhotra. The NCB had conducted raids at several places in the western suburbs including Bandra, Khar, Lokhandwala and Powai area. As of now, the NCB has arrested a total 16 accused in the case including Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant, drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar; Kaizan Ebrahim, Karna Arora, Abbas Lakhani and Anuj Keshwani. Rhea, Showik, Miranda, Sawant, Vilatra and Parihar are in judicial custody after their bail application was rejected by NDPS court on Friday. Arora, Lakhani and Ibrahim got bail soon after they were sent to judicial custody a week ago. Keshwani is in NCB custody till September 14. The NCB had seized contrabands of 590 grams of Hashish, 0.64 gram of LSD sheets, 304 grams of marijuana, including imported marijuana joints and capsules, and cash worth Rs 1,85,200 and 5,000 Indonesian currency from Keshwani’s residence in Khar on September 6. Keshwani’s was arrested based on Ebrahim’s statement who revealed that he used to buy drugs from Keshwani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-arrests-six-people-from-mumbai-goa/story-hHOD1obTbUmatrqVlj1uzL.html
12-09-2020||India||Meghalaya minister, CM Conrad Sangma’s brother tests positive for Covid-19||Meghalaya power minister and elder brother of chief minister Conrad Sangma, James Sangma, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The 44-year-old, who was on a flight with Conrad from Delhi to Imphal, tested positive after a rapid antigen test (RAT) was conducted after they landed in Manipur’s capital. Conrad Sangma tested negative for the disease. According to Saidul Khan, OSD and press secretary to the CM, James and Conrad had taken a flight from Delhi to Imphal on Saturday morning. They were tested at the airport as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) where James tested positive for Covid-19. Conrad, who is the national president of National People’s Party (NPP), and his brother, had gone to Manipur to discuss party matters with the Manipur unit. NPP is partner of the ruling coalition in Manipur headed by the BJP. Also read: Oxford’s coronavirus vaccine AstraZeneca trial resumes after UK green lightFollowing the detection of his infection, James left Imphal by road for Shillong around 4:30 pm. He is expected to reach Meghalaya’s capital city on Sunday morning. “As responsible citizens, on arrival at Imphal airport from Delhi we followed the SOP and got ourselves tested at the airport. However, RAT result for James Sangma was positive and he was immediately isolated at the airport and later sent to Shillong via an ambulance,” Conrad Sangma said. (With inputs from David Laitphlang in Shillong)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-minister-brother-of-cm-conrad-sangma-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Ff3ypLK4O26WBehV6nq4rK.html
12-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM writes to Centre, seeks Rs 736.74 crore for running Covid-19 facilities||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written a letter to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan demanding the remaining amount of Rs 736.74 crore for operating Covid-19 dedicated hospitals and Covid Centres in the state and immediate supply of resources required for curbing and prevention of coronavirus.In the letter, the CM also urged the health minister to increase ICU beds in AIIMS Raipur since Covid-19 patients were continuously increasing.The CM further stated that the state government is taking the initiative to prevent the spread of coronavirus Chhattisgarh -- 29 dedicated hospitals and 221 Covid Care Centres have been established in the state. At present, the state government has set up 29,111 hospital beds, including 406 ICU and 370 HDU beds for the treatment of patients in these facilities. The Health and Family Welfare Department of Chhattisgarh had written a reference letter, demanding Rs 821.93 crore for operating Covid-19 Hospitals and Covid Care Centers, out of which only Rs 85.19 crore has been received till date. The chief minister urged the Union minister to provide the remaining amount of Rs 736.74 crore as soon as possible so that all the necessary resources can be arranged in time.Baghel informed that the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur is playing an important and commendable role in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. He said that in the present scenario, when the number of critical patients is increasing, there is an urgent need to increase the number of available ICU beds from 54 to 200 beds in AIIMS Raipur.Baghel said that in the past also various materials were demanded by the state against which very little quantity was received from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-centre-seeks-rs-736-74-crore-for-running-covid-19-facilities/story-Zryz5Oehi0Q7Dy8GDt8AWN.html
12-09-2020||India||Late referrals, lack of insurance key concerns for pvt hospitals treating Covid-19 patients||Delayed referral from smaller centres and financial stress due to lack of health insurance were the main concerns, said private hospitals treating patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a virtual conclave organised by the Union health ministry. The conclave, which was attended by over 150 hospitals, was organised to share best practices and effective treatment strategies among government and private hospitals. The health ministry said that no Covid-19 patient must be denied admission and the treatment must be affordable and accessible to ensure that the mortality rate of the infection can be brought to below 1%. The ministry stressed the importance of timely treatment in co-morbid patients to reduce fatality. Hospitals were also asked to protect the healthcare workers by following infection control protocols. The ministry asked the hospital representatives to share their key concerns and challenges in management of Covid-19 in their facilities. The best practices shared included a tele-consultation session conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences through e-ICU and clinical rounds to enhance the clinical management capability of doctors across the countries. The government said that this along with various strategies for containment, prevention, and early identification has resulted in higher recoveries and a steadily declining mortality. Over 81,500 people recovered from the infection in 24-hours on Friday, according to data shared by the Union health ministry. Around 60% of these recoveries were reported from five states – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh – the same five states that have been adding to the total active cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/late-referrals-lack-of-insurance-key-concerns-for-pvt-hospitals-treating-covid-19-patients/story-nEHPY2OhT077tVaXRB604O.html
12-09-2020||India||Terror hideout busted in J-K’s Poonch, arms and ammunition recovered||Security forces on Saturday busted a terror hideout in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district and recovered arms and ammunition. They also arrested two overground workers.“On specific input, joint operation, comprising the Army, Mendhar police and SOG Jammu, was launched to intercept the couriers of arms, ammunition and explosives along with other subversive material,” said a spokesman.Security forces were deputed to intercept the couriers of these materials along with arms, ammunition, explosives and other material to be used in subversive activities.Also read: Oxford’s coronavirus vaccine AstraZeneca trial resumes after UK green lightThe consignment was supposed to be carried from forward area to hinterland for subversive activities, the spokesman added.“As of now, two accused have been apprehended and arms and ammunition have been recovered from them,” he said.In this connection, case FIR 217/ 2020 under relevant sections of Unlawful Activity Prevention Act has been registered at Mendhar police station.The recoveries included three Chinese pistols, six pistol magazines, 70 pistol rounds, eleven hand grenades, one IED, one wireless set, two batteries, one mobile phone, pen drive, charger, two flags and other related materials to Improvised explosive device (IED). Further investigation in the case is ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-hideout-busted-in-j-k-s-poonch-arms-and-ammunition-recovered/story-TcA3KecbL67uDa0UClxe0J.html
12-09-2020||India||One more accused arrested in Bengaluru drug racket||The Central Crime Branch police of Bengaluru have arrested one more accused, Vaibhav Jain in the Bengaluru drug racket case in which several well known Kannada actors including Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani have already been taken into custody. Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil confirmed on Saturday that “Vaibhav Jain who is an accused in the case registered at the Cottonpet police station has been arrested.”Jain is said to be a businessman and the son of a prominent jeweler in the city. He is accused No.5 in the FIR which lists 15 people of whom nine have now been taken into custody. Ragini Dwivedi was arrested on September 5 and Sanjjanaa Galrani was taken into custody on the 8th of this month. Both their houses have also been raided. An Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate’s court in Bengaluru has ordered that all the arrested should be in police custody till Monday.In an unrelated incident, 62 kilograms of marijuana was seized from Salagara Basantpura village in Chincholi taluk of Kalburgi district in Karnataka. Police said that Dhanasingh Rathod who is accused of growing marijuana has been arrested and a case registered under relevant sections of the NDPS act. The police said that this was a part of the continued statewide crackdown on illegal drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-accused-arrested-in-bengaluru-drug-racket/story-19QB9mT7xRfnzezMivpfjL.html
12-09-2020||India||After Adhir Ranjan’s ‘Bengalee Brahmin’ tag, Cong takes out rallies for Rhea Chakraborty||After Congress Lok Sabha leader and West Bengal party unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury termed Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty as a “Bengalee Brahmin”, Congress activists on Saturday took out rallies in Kolkata in a protest against the alleged victimisation of the actor.Over 300 party activists marched from PCC headquarters to Wellington crossing, shouting slogans opposing the “vilification campaign” against Rhea in the name of investigation, and held placards that read “we will not stop till she gets justice”, reported PTI. On Wednesday, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had said Rajput was an Indian actor, but the “BJP turned him into a Bihari actor” only to score electoral brownie points ahead of Bihar elections.“Rhea Chakraborty has been indicted not for abetment of suicide or murder or any economic offences; she has been arrested under NDPS, ludicrous,” he had said. Rhea's father is a former military officer, served the nation. Rhea is a Bengalee Brahmin lady, justice to actor sushant rajput should not be interpreted as a justice to Bihari.#SushantSinghRajputCase (4/n)Not only in Kolkata, similar rallies were taken out by the party in West Midnapore and West Burdwan districts.After three days of interrogation, the NCB on Tuesday arrested Rhea, 28, in a drugs case linked to Rajput’s death, following which she was sent to judicial custody till September 22 by a local court. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-adhir-ranjan-s-bengalee-brahmin-tag-cong-takes-out-rallies-for-rhea-chakraborty/story-97QnoOV7Q3wYGPTAkRYorL.html
12-09-2020||India||Delhi records 4,321 new Covid-19 cases, 20.5K cases in just 5 days||Delhi on Saturday witnessed another record single-day jump after 4,321 new coronavirus cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the national capital’s tally past 2.14 lakh mark. A total of 4,715 people have succumbed to the infection in Delhi after 28 fresh deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.In a sudden surge in the number of daily cases, Delhi has been recording over 4,000 fresh cases in the last four days. The national capital has seen total 20,543 cases in the last five days, triggering fears of a second wave among experts.With a new testing protocol in place, Delhi’s positivity rate of the viral contagion was recorded at 7.19 per cent. As stated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi will undergo aggressive testing of people so that maximum cases ger detected on a daily basis.Total 60,076 people were tested in the last 24 hours — out of which 50,894 were through Rapid Antigen Tests and 9,182 were through RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests.The rate of positive cases has shown a decline from 9.55 per cent recorded on September 1. The seven-day average positivity rate in Delhi stands at 7.92 per cent, a drop from 8.98 per cent the week before.Active cases in Delhi also rose to 28,059 on Saturday, out of which 15,371 patients are being treated in home isolation.As of Saturday, Delhi has 1,383 containment zones — an increase by 54 areas from the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-4-321-new-covid-19-cases-20-5k-cases-in-just-5-days/story-17OfLr2p0KwIx42bVNhX0K.html
12-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Assam could see nearly 90,000 new Covid cases in Sept, says health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam likely to have nearly 90,000 new Covid-19 cases in Sept: Himanta Biswa SarmaAssam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday that the state could see nearly 90,000 new Covid-19 cases in September if the present trend of a surge in patients continued. “We recorded 68,000 new cases in August and around 29,000 cases in the first 10 days of this month. At this rate, we would have around 90,000 new Covid-19 cases by the end of September,” he told journalists in Guwahati. Read moreOver 130,000 cancer patients treated in Tamil Nadu since March: State govtTamil Nadu health minister Dr C Vijaya Baskar on Saturday said that the state government has provided cancer-related treatment to over 130,000 patients in government hospitals and government college medical hospitals across the state since March. Read moreFormer Union minister Tariq Anwar’s elevation in AICC hints at party’s focus on BiharThe elevation of former Union minister Tariq Anwar in the All India congress committee (AICC) as general secretary and his inclusion in the top policy-making set up seem to have put Bihar on the party’s priority list ahead of the assembly polls. Read moreLiberia declares rape a national emergencyLiberian President George Weah has declared rape a national emergency and has ordered new measures to tackle the problem after a recent spike of cases in the poor West African state. The moves comes after thousands of Liberians protested rising incidents of rape in the capital Monrovia last month, in a bid to draw attention to the country’s alarming rate of sexual assault. Read moreIPL 2020: Brendon McCullum was one of our heroes while growing up - KKR fast bowler Lockie FergusonWe all have our favourite teams while growing up but how many of us end up representing the same team as a player a few years later? New Zealand fast bowler Lockie Ferguson is one of those rare ones to have realised that dream when he picked up by IPL franchise Kolkata Knight Riders ahead of last year’s IPL. Read more‘I used to be a drug addict’: Kangana Ranaut’s video from March goes viral as Bollywood tackles allegations of drug abuseA video of Kangana Ranaut claiming that she used to be a drug addict is going viral on Twitter. The video was posted on Kangana’s Instagram account in March when she was in her home town of Manali. Read moreReporter shares funny video of two people ‘sneakily’ ruining his piece to cameraTwo individuals have now sparked a laughter fest among people, after they were recorded “sneakily” ruining a reporter’s piece to camera. Joe Tidy, cyber reporter for the BBC News, himself took to Twitter to share the hilarious video and now it has made many laugh out loud. Read moreKiara Advani’s OOTD for Laxxmi Bomb dubbing: Grey sweats, silver shoes and Rs 2 lakh Valentino bagKiara Advani may only be a few films old, but her luxury bag collection is as massive as any established Bollywood diva. The actor who has starred in movies like Kabir Singh and Good Newwz is often spotted flaunting a variety of extremely expensive handbags from the latest collections of luxury brands including the likes of Christian Dior, Valentino, Chanel and Givenchy. Read moreApple September 15 event: iPad, Watch SE, Series 6 and more expectedWe are just a few days away from Apple’s September 15 ‘Time Flies’ event. However, we aren’t completely in the dark though. There have been enough rumours and leaks hinting what’s there to come. Experts say that this event will be different from the typical iPhone launch event that Apple usually has in September every year and that we may not even see an iPhone this time. Read moreWatch| Covid: Delhi airport first in India to get test lab; how it’ll work | Explained||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-assam-could-see-nearly-90-000-new-covid-cases-in-sept-says-health-minister-himanta-biswa-sarma-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jHaQv3VVyCVn3T4FeB5nIJ.html
12-09-2020||India||Andhra govt hikes VAT on natural gas by 10% to offset revenue losses||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday increased the Value Added Tax (VAT) on natural gas by 10 per cent with immediate effect on grounds of augmenting the revenue of the state. An order (GO No. 265) to this effect was issued by special chief secretary (commercial taxes) Rajat Bhargava. “The government has decided to increase the rate of tax on natural gas from 14.5% to 24.5% by revising the VAT rate under Schedule-V of the APVAT Act,” the order said. Apart from liquor, as many as five petroleum products – crude oil, natural gas, high speed diesel, petrol and aviation turbine fuel (ATF), are under the VAT purview, after the other items were subsumed in the Goods and Services Tax (GST). In July, the state government increased the cess on petrol from Rs 2.76 to Rs 4 (an increase of Rs 1.24 per litre), apart from VAT of 31% and on diesel from Rs 3.07 to Rs 4 (an increase of 93 paisa per litre), apart from a VAT of 22.25%, saying that the state’s own revenues had dried up due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In the order, Bhargava explained in detail how the state government had been incurring huge expenditure on tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, while continuing to implement flagship welfare schemes for various sections of people over the last few months. He said in April this year, the state had realised only Rs 1,323 crore through its own resources as against Rs 4,480 crore in April, 2019, which was 29.5% of the total expected revenue. Similar trends were also observed for May, June, July and August, 2020. He said the expenditure, on the other hand, had increased steeply on health services and welfare schemes such as Rythu Bharosa, Vahana Mithra, Jagananna Vidya Deevena, Jaganna Chedodu, Tele medicine, zero interest loan schemes to women, Amma Vodi and Nadu Nedu etc. “Considering the fact that the revenues of the state are plummeting on the one hand and the requirement for finances to implement the pro-poor schemes is escalating on the other hand, it has become imperative to augment the revenues of the state,” Bhargava said. Meanwhile, the chief minister’s office (CMO) clarified that the increase in VAT on natural gas from 14.5% to 24.5% has nothing to do with liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) which comes under GST purview with a tax rate of 5 per cent. “Natural gas is used as input in certain industries and in gas-based power projects. Though it is also used as domestic fuel as “piped natural gas” in certain areas of metro cities, the rate of tax on “piped natural gas” for domestic purposes is only 5% under VAT Act. The increased tax rate on natural gas is applicable only to the natural gas other than that used for domestic use,” the CMO clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-hikes-vat-on-natural-gas-by-10-to-offset-revenue-losses/story-hzWUf1Ov4tI3IK15i3issL.html
12-09-2020||India||Assam announces infrastructure projects worth nearly Rs 12,000 crore||Continuing its initiatives ahead of next year’s assembly polls, Assam government on Saturday announced infrastructure projects worth nearly Rs 12,000 crore. Health, education, PWD and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters that work on the projects to be undertaken with government’s funds and external loans would start soon. “The entire cost of projects is around Rs 11,900 crore. This would be the highest capital investment for infrastructure in the state. Work on most of the projects would start in December,” he said. New projects include construction of four new medical colleges, nine women colleges, six degree colleges, ten law colleges, two flyovers and road corridors across the state. Also read: Prashant Bhushan moves SC for intra-court appeal in criminal contempt casesSarma also announced that the education department would appoint 10,789 new teachers in primary and secondary schools. “Besides the projects that would be undertaken with the government’s funds, 12 other road projects worth Rs 6,000 crore funded by Asian Development Bank and Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank would also begin in the state soon,” he said. The minister also announced lifting of several austerity measures that had been enforced in April this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They include lifting of limit of 10 percent spending of establishment expenditures by departments, resumption of tax exemption granted to industries and spending of money from MLA development funds. However, several measures like ban on purchase of new vehicles, organising conferences, workshops and seminars, events in 5-star hotels, foreign visits by bureaucrats and ministers and 30 percent cut in salaries of ministers would remain.“I had met Union finance minister two days back and she assured new compensation formula for GST and release of revenue deficit grant. This will enhance the state government’s spending capacity. We are in a much comfortable situation to go forward with commitments made in our budget,” the minister said.In recent weeks, Sarma has announced regularisation of services of 46,000 teachers, several sops for students, teachers and educational institutes; funds for religious bodies and a scheme to give Rs 830 per month to nearly 17 lakh families in the state. Assembly elections are due in Assam in April next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-announces-infrastructure-projects-worth-nearly-rs-12-000-crore/story-hHa1dNHyFQd9tEIURwYCGM.html
12-09-2020||India||Assam likely to have nearly 90,000 new Covid-19 cases in Sept: Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday that the state could see nearly 90,000 new Covid-19 cases in September if the present trend of a surge in patients continued. “We recorded 68,000 new cases in August and around 29,000 cases in the first 10 days of this month. At this rate, we would have around 90,000 new Covid-19 cases by the end of September,” he told journalists in Guwahati. Assam has recorded 1,38,339 Covid-19 positive cases till Friday with 1,08,329 recoveries and 430 deaths. The state has a recovery rate of 78.3% and a fatality rate of 0.31%. “We have conducted over 27 lakh tests at the rate of nearly 80,000 tests per million. The doubling rate of total Covid-19 patients in the state at present is 30 days,” said Sarma. Assam has been recording around 2,500 fresh Covid-19 cases daily for the past two weeks with Kamrup Metropolitan district, which includes the state’s biggest city Guwahati, being the worst affected with around 500-600 cases daily. Amid worries about scarcity of hospital beds due to rise in the number of cases, Sarma said that the government hospitals have enough ICU units and beds to cope with the surge for this month and initiatives are being taken to ensure that there is no dearth of beds in the coming months. “Due to an increase in requirement of oxygen for serious patients, we are constructing oxygen tanks at four hospitals in the state where we can store the commodity for at least 15 days,” he said. The minister said that though the death count of those who died due to Covid-19 in the state is 430 at present, there have been many cases where people who were declared negative died a few days later. Sarma informed that there was no data yet on the exact number of such cases. “Till date we are recording deaths as per ICMR guidelines. If tomorrow, we are told to include recovered patients who died, we will have to include them as well in the list of Covid-19 deaths,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-likely-to-have-nearly-90-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-sept-himanta-biswa-sarma/story-DI4MZweyhdb9859Yz3ihDO.html
12-09-2020||India||Dabbawalas urge Maharashtra govt to permit them local train travel||Mumbai’s dabbawalas or lunch-box carriers have urged the Maharashtra government to permit them to travel in local trains, which are currently running in a restricted manner in light of the Covid-19 outbreak, an official said on Saturday.Access to local trains will enable dabbawalas to resume their business with full capacity, said Subhash Talekar, president of Mumbai Dabbawala Association.At present, only people employed in essential services are allowed to travel in suburban trains.“Dabbawalas are also part of essential services are they deliver food to Mumbaikars. And since most officers are now functioning with reduced capacity, people have been asking us to deliver their meals,” Talekar said. Currently, dabbawalas who can reach south Mumbai area on their cycles are able to deliver food to offices, he said, adding that meals are being delivered in keeping with all Covid-19 safety norms.“We have been demanding financial assistance of Rs 5,000 per dabbawala from the state government, similar to what the construction workers had received,” Talekar said, adding that the proposal was discussed in the state cabinet and was still on paper.There are about 4,500 to 5,000 dabbawalas who deliver two lakh tiffins every day from suburban areas to the heart of the city. “Never before in the 130-year-old history of the tiffin services, has there been a six-month break. We ensure that office-goers get their meals on time and take the empty lunch boxes back to their homes,” he said. In the last six months, social organisations and volunteers have supported the association financially, because of which dabbawalas, who have been out of work, were given money and essentials during the lockdown period, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dabbawalas-urge-maharashtra-govt-to-permit-them-local-train-travel/story-LmIoF9lMPpKoFUMYLac75N.html
12-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM asks Centre to sanction funds worth Rs 736.74 cr for Covid hospitals||In view of the rise in coronavirus cases in Chhattisgarh, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has urged the Centre to sanction funds to the tune of Rs 736.74 crore for Covid-19 hospitals and care centres in the state, an official said on Saturday.In a letter to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Baghel also sought to increase the capacity of ICU beds at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Raipur, the official from the public relations department.“Chhattisgarh has 29 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and 221 care centres, which have the capacity of 29,111 beds, of which 406 are ICU and 370 are high dependency units (HDU) beds,” the chief minister said in the letter.For these facilities, the state’s health and family welfare department had earlier sought Rs 821.93 crore from the Centre, but only Rs 85.19 crore has been sanctioned so far, he said.Baghel requested the Union minister to sanction the remaining amount of Rs 736.74 crore soon so that necessary resources can be arranged for in a timely manner, the official said.Appreciating the role of AIIMS Raipur during the pandemic, the chief minister also said there is an urgent need to increase the number of ICU beds at the hospital from the current 54 to 200.Baghel has also urged the Centre to provide medical materials, which the state had asked for earlier to tackle the pandemic, the official said.As on Friday, Chhattisgarh had reported 58,643 Covid- 19 cases, which includes 27,123 recoveries and 518 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-asks-centre-to-sanction-funds-worth-rs-736-74-cr-for-covid-hospitals/story-jz2Rs4MapsMEWgtoty0UVK.html
12-09-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan moves SC for intra-court appeal in criminal contempt cases||Advocate Prashant Bhushan approached the Supreme Court on Saturday praying that an additional legal remedy should be provided in those cases where people are convicted by the Supreme Court in original criminal contempt cases.Original criminal contempt cases are those which are heard directly by the Supreme Court in the first instance. In such cases, if a person is convicted, he or she is left with no further remedy as the Supreme Court is the highest court in the country.Bhushan has prayed that in such a case, the convicted person should be afforded the right to an intra-court appeal, i.e. a larger bench of the Supreme Court, different from the bench which convicted the concerned person, should hear an appeal against such conviction.Also read: Judges are now soft targets with advent of social media - Justice Ramana“The right to appeal against conviction in original criminal cases is a substantive right under Article 21 and flows from principles of natural justice. The absence of such a right thus violates (right to life under) Article 21,” the plea stated.Moreover, contempt proceedings are one wherein the injured party is the Supreme Court itself and it acts as the prosecutor, the witness and the judge, thereby raising fear of inherent bias. Thus, there is a need for intra-court appeal, the petition said.If an intra-court appeal cannot be allowed, then as an alternative, review petitions filed against orders of conviction by Supreme Court in original criminal contempt cases would be heard in open court by a different bench, Bhushan prayed.Also read: ‘Asking questions from govt constitutional right’ - Chirag Paswan demands President’s rule in MaharashtraThe Supreme Court had recently held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his tweets criticising the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde. The court had on August 31 imposed a token fine of Rs 1 as punishment for the same.Another contempt case, initiated by the top court in 2009 for his remarks that past Chief Justices of India were corrupt, is also pending before the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-bhushan-moves-sc-for-intra-court-appeal-in-criminal-contempt-cases/story-jkKWPQvTE9c7to6ypL1jTO.html
12-09-2020||India||NEET to be held on Sunday amid strict Covid-19 protocols||Over 15 lakh candidates are expected to appear in medical entrance exam NEET on Sunday which will be conducted amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to officials of the National Testing Agency (NTA).In order to maintain social distancing, the NTA has increased the number of exam centres from originally-planned 2,546 to 3,843, while the number of candidates per room has been reduced from earlier 24 to 12.The crucial National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), which is a pen and paper based test unlike engineering entrance exam JEE, has already been deferred twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26, and then to September 13.A total of 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the exam.“For ensuring social distancing outside examination halls, a staggered entry and exit of candidates has been planned. Adequate arrangements have also been made outside examination centres to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing while waiting,” a senior NTA official said.“Candidates have also been issued an advisory guiding them about the ‘dos and don’ts’ for proper social distancing. We have also written to states governments to extend support in local movement of the candidates so that they are able to reach their examination centres in time,” the official added.The testing agency has also changed centres for a few candidates this week in compliance with social distancing norms and Covid restrictions. However, the city of the exam centre hasn’t been changed for any candidate. Making hand sanitisers available at the entrance of the examination centre and inside the exam hall at all times, replacing the process of checking the admit cards of candidates with barcode readers, increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the steps the NTA has taken.“While all the candidates will be asked to come to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, once they enter the centre, they will have to use the masks provided by the examination authority. “Each candidate will be offered a three-ply mask at the time of entry and are expected to wear the same during the examination in order to avoid any form of unfair means at the time of examination,” the official added.While the governments of Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have assured students that they will provide them transportation, a group of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) alumni and students have launched a portal to provide transport facilities to exam centres for the candidates in need.The Metro Railway in Kolkata is planning to run special services for NEET candidates on September 13 to help them reach their examination centres.There has been a growing chorus for postponing the exams amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The Supreme Court had earlier dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the exam amid a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, saying a “precious year” of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.Several opposition leaders, including Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik, DMK president M K Stalin and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had also demanded that this, as well as JEE, be postponed.When the JEE exams were just a few days away, the issue had escalated into a full blown political battle with ministers from Rajasthan and Punjab (Congress), West Bengal (Trinamool Congress), Jharkhand (Jharkhand Mukti Morcha), Maharashtra (Nationalist Congress Party and Shiv Sena) seeking postponement of the exams “in a manner that achieved the twin objectives of ensuring that the academic year of the students is not wasted and their health and safety is not compromised”.They has filed a petition in the apex court to review its order of conducting JEE and NEET UG 2020 during the novel coronavirus crises. However, the plea was dismissed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-to-be-held-on-sunday-amid-strict-covid-19-protocols/story-jviEeOwBdBwLyMiHWdQ9oN.html
12-09-2020||India||Peace process must ensure Afghanistan’s soil isn’t used for anti-India activities: Jaishankar||New Delhi on Saturday made it clear that any new dispensation that emerges from the intra-Afghan dialogue process must ensure that the soil of Afghanistan is never used for anti-India activities. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who joined the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha, Qatar, via video conference, reiterated India’s support for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process and sought an immediate ceasefire in the war-torn country. WATCH | What’s at stake for India in Taliban-Afghanistan govt talks: Explained Teams comprising representatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban will come face-to-face for the first time on Monday for peace talks in Qatar’s capital for a negotiated settlement after nearly two decades of war. The talks were to have begun in March but were delayed by differences over the release of prisoners. ALSO READ | ‘Peace process must be led, owned and controlled by Afghans’:India on historic talks between Taliban and Afghanistan. Read full statement hereJaishankar, who joined the event at the invitation of Qatar’s deputy prime minister and foreign minister Mohammad bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani, said: “Our friendship with Afghanistan is strong and unshaken, we have always been good neighbours and will always be so. Our expectation is that the soil of Afghanistan should never be used for any anti-India activities.” The peace process, he said, has to address the violence in Afghanistan and the neighbourhood and also protect the interests of minorities and women. Jaishankar said, “It [the peace process] has to respect national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. It should promote the values of human rights and democracy that can foster development. The interests of the minorities, women and vulnerable must be ensured. “And most important, the issue of violence across the country and its neighbourhood has to be effectively addressed. The rising levels of violence cannot be allowed to continue and, like others, we support an immediate, comprehensive ceasefire.” India, which is the region’s largest provider of development aid to Afghanistan, has watched a recent spike in violence and attacks on minorities such as Sikhs with growing concern. Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme for a period of five years. Jaishankar referred to India’s role in development aid and talked about the infrastructure created by the Indian partnership that spreads across all 34 provinces, “be it the Parliament house for the nation, transmission lines and hospitals in Kabul, the friendship dam in Herat, the Afghanistan national agricultural science and technology university in Kandahar”. “Equally impactful have been capacity building projects, scholarships and training of youth,” he said, adding that India has supplied more than a million tonnes of food grains in recent years. To address the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, India provided more than 15 tonnes of life-saving drugs and medical equipment and facilitated the travel of Afghan citizens to India for medical treatment. He added, “These are but examples of our deep commitment to the welfare, prosperity and stability of the Afghan nation, and today, these are the very objectives that bring us here to discuss peace and reconciliation. Our approach in that regard has always remained consistent – any peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.” A senior official delegation led by JP Singh, joint secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) in the external affairs ministry, also participated in the inaugural ceremony in Doha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-process-must-ensure-afghanistan-s-soil-isn-t-used-for-anti-india-activities-jaishankar/story-rulM6PbZJYiLwsARoFR7VK.html
12-09-2020||India||Kangana to meet Maharashtra Guv BS Koshyari tomorrow||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut will meet Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday in the backdrop of the escalating animosity between the actor and the Shiv Sena. The actor is believed to apprise the governor of the situation before she leaves Mumbai on September 14. The meeting is scheduled at 4.30pm.The Bollywood actor drew the ire of the Shiv Sena after she compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir in one her tweets regarding Sushant Singh Rajput death investigation case. The actor allegedly received threats from Sena leaders following which she was accorded Y plus security. On September 9, she arrived in Mumbai amid tight security. On the same day, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation conducted a demolition drive at her Mumbai office, razing the portions which were ‘illegally’ built. The Maharashtra government has, however, distanced itself from the demolition drive and said the government had nothing to do with the BMC decision.Also Read: ‘Even if they try hard to scare me’, Kangana shares meme. Uddhav is depicted as RavanaThe tussle between the actor and the party continued with Kangana taking a potshot at Shiv Sena ‘becoming a shadow of Congress’. The party too took a jibe at the actor in its editorial on mouthpiece Saamana, saying several artists have achieved success in the industry due to talent and not religion. Artistes from all over the country are benefitting from the fruits of the foundation laid by Dadasaheb Phalke, the editorial said.“Those who come to Mumbai to try their luck in this industry first stay on the footpath and then shift to Juju, Pali Hill and Malabar Hill to build their bungalows.“All these people have always been grateful to the city and the state which allowed them to chase their dreams and make it big. They have never betrayed Mumbai but have also contributed to the growth of the city,” the Saamana said.“Many artistes have been awarded Bharat Ratna and also Nishan-e-Pakistan,” it noted.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-to-meet-maharashtra-guv-bs-koshyari-tomorrow/story-Jf9m2RkRvSo176qRM792KO.html
12-09-2020||India||‘Asking questions from govt constitutional right’: Chirag Paswan demands President’s rule in Maharashtra||Maharashtra is feeling the heat of Bihar polls as the death case of ‘Bihari’ boy Sushant Singh Rajput and “attack” on Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for raising questions on the state government continues to generate political responses.Lok Janshakti Party national president Chirag Paswan has demanded the imposition of President’s Rule in Maharashtra claiming the law and order situation in the state is continuing to deteriorate. He said that demolition by BMC of Ranaut’s property was an act of vengeance.Speaking to ANI, Paswan said that he is concerned about Biharis residing in the state. “People are concerned about their safety. Maharashtra is built by everyone including Kangana,” the LJP leader said.“If people are targeted like this, and this is precisely what I demanded and think, then there is no option but to impose President’s rule in the state as people are afraid of the government,” said Paswan.He also alleged that Late Bala Saheb Thackeray’s acumen of satire without indulging in violence is lost on Shiv Sainiks.“The way North Indians are being targeted, the way Kangana was targeted because she asked a few questions, the way the ex-Naval officer was thrashed by alleged Shiv Sainiks because he forwarded a sketch is abhorrent. Late Bala Saheb Thackeray used to make beautiful sketches to express satire, tolerance level has gone down in his party members. Those who thrashed ex-Naval officer were let off in a few hours,” Paswan said.The LJP leader also stood firm behind Ranaut, claiming she was targeted by the state government. Chirag said that he believes it was the “death of democracy” if people are gagged from asking questions.In a democracy, people have the right to ask questions and Ranaut was targeted for doing the same, maintained Paswan.While avoiding any political statement on Bihar polls and keeping the cards close to his chest, Paswan did mention pulling up Bihar government and Chief Minister on various issues.“I too ask questions from my state government and Bihar Chief Minister. Every aware citizen should ask and the government is bound to respond. Constitution gives us the right to live, earn livelihood anywhere in the country,” Paswan said.When asked whether Ranaut’s support and Rajput’s death case is raked up for political gains, he said, “Kangana kaun sa chunaav lad rahi hai, (which election is Kangana contesting). She has been targeted for fighting for truth. She is straight forward and blunt. This is a fight for a Bihari boy. Why is Maharashtra government afraid of questions?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asking-questions-from-govt-constitutional-right-chirag-paswan-demands-president-s-rule-in-maharashtra/story-H7h90jnoFo54HyY5Dp6U3K.html
12-09-2020||India||‘Even if they try hard to scare me’, Kangana shares meme. Uddhav is depicted as Ravana||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has shared a meme on Twitter, one of the many she is belived to have received during her ongoing tussle with Shiv Sena after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation razed a portion of her Mumbai office terming it illegally built. The meme, sent to the actor by director Vivek Agnihotri, depicts Kangana as a fighter whom Shivaji Maaharaj is giving a sword. In the background, a Ravana-like villain figure is shown with ten heads — modelled after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Received many memes, this one sent by my friend ⁦@vivekagnihotri⁩ ji made me emotional.लक्ष्मीबाई, वीर शिवाजी यांच्या पावलावर पाऊल ठेवून मी माझे कार्य पुढे करत राहीन.जरी त्यांनी मला घाबरवण्याचा खूप प्रयत्न केला तरीही मी धैर्याने पुढे जात राहीनजय हिंद, जय महाराष्ट्र 🙏 pic.twitter.com/c4KvpVcqX1“Following in the footsteps of Lakshmibai and Veer Shivaji, I will continue my work. Even if they try hard to scare me, I will continue to move forward with courage. Jai Hind, Jai Maharashtra,” Kangana tweeted in Marathi.ALSO WATCH | Ex-naval officer beaten up in Mumbai, Kangana Ranaut reactsThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has razed a portion of the actor’s Mumbai office, alleging that it was built illegally. This happened on the day the actor reached Mumbai from Manali with Y-plus security that the Centre allotted to her after the actor complaint of receiving threats from Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-if-they-try-hard-to-scare-me-kangana-shares-meme-uddhav-is-depicted-as-ravana/story-j8xiFRuIKrt7gvkPEhRQRI.html
12-09-2020||India||‘Peace process must be led, owned and controlled by Afghan’: India on historic talks between Taliban and Afghanistan. Read full statement here||India on Saturday joined the inaugural session of intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha and communicated its national stand on the issue, stating that any peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. External affairs minister S Jaishankar participated in the session which marks the end of decades of war by coming together of Taliban and delegates appointed by the Afghanistan government in a historic moment. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo also attended the opening ceremony in Qatar. “India believes any peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled, has to respect the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan,” a statement released by MEA read. Here is the full text of India’s statement:External Affairs Minister (EAM) participated in the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations held in Doha on 12 September 2020 via VTC. EAM’s participation was in response to an invitation extended to him by the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of the State of Qatar, H.E. Mohammad bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani.In his address, EAM referred to the millennia old relationship between India and Afghanistan, which he said had withstood the test of time. EAM highlighted India’s role as a major development partner of Afghanistan with over 400 projects completed in all the 34 provinces of Afghanistan.EAM conveyed that India’s policy on Afghanistan had been consistent. India believes any peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled, has to respect the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan and preserve the progress made in the establishment of a democratic Islamic Republic in Afghanistan. The interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society must be preserved and the issue of violence across the country and its neighbourhood has to be effectively addressed.EAM wished for the success of the Intra-Afghan negotiations in delivering to the people of Afghanistan what they have longed for - a peaceful and prosperous future in an independent and sovereign nation.A senior official delegation led by Shri J P Singh, Joint Secretary (PAI) in the Ministry of External Affairs participated in the inaugural ceremony in Doha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-process-must-be-led-owned-and-controlled-by-afghan-india-on-historic-talks-between-taliban-and-afghanistan-read-full-statement-here/story-3Ew8ip6HxysvHUBkNDLuzI.html
12-09-2020||India||Judges are now soft targets with advent of social media: Justice Ramana||Judges have become soft targets with the advent of social media and have been subject to relentless criticism and juicy gossip, Supreme Court judge, Justice NV Ramana said on Saturday.Justice Ramana, who is the second senior-most judge at the Supreme Court after Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde, said judges have to be very circumspect when it comes to their social life since they have no platform to respond to criticism and can speak only through their judgments/ judicial work.“Judges are restrained from speaking out in their own defence. Today, judges have become soft target of criticism and especially with social media’s advent, judges have become subject to juicy gossip. There seems to be a misunderstanding that judges lead a life of luxury in their ivory towers. That is not true. Judges have to balance their social lives in order to be independent,” he said in his speech at the launch of a book authored by recently retired Supreme Court judge, Justice R Banumathi.CJI Bobde concurred with Justice Ramana’s views saying “Freedom of speech of judges is curtailed by the same laws and machinery that uphold the freedom for others who use it to criticise the judiciary and judges.”Justice Banumathi’s book titled ‘Judiciary, Judges and the Administration of Justice’ was released by CJI Bobde who handed over the first copy to Justice Ramana.Justice Ramana will take over as CJI from Justice Bobde on April 24, 2021 and will serve at the helm for nearly 1.5 years before he retires in August 2022.Last week, another Supreme Court judge, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul had said that courts today are increasingly being asked to decide on political matters which are brought before it under the guise of public interest litigation and they face a lot of criticism due to the handling of such cases.Courts, he maintained, have limitations and have not been been tasked with the responsibility of running the system and cannot perform the role of the government. He, therefore, called for a constructive approach while criticizing the court and its judgments.“I do believe that we have adopted a Constitution where we have an elected government in power. Segregation of powers requires the judiciary to perform its role and executive to perform its role. Courts cannot be unelected governments,” Justice Kaul had said at a webinar organized by non-governmental organization, CAN Foundation.CJI Bobde on Saturday also said that due to the Covid-19 and the accompanying restrictions which led to shutdown of courts across the country since March, there will be a surge in pendency of cases and suggested mediation as one possible way to tackle the arrears.“There will be huge pendency of cases due to the Covid-19 pandemic. I don’t think there is a way out of it but only a way through it. I think it can be resolved through mediation. I am not suggesting that we should go for mediation in every case but I don’t think we can go about it in the usual way. We will have to put our minds together (to find a solution),” he said.The CJI also highlighted the significance of mental health during Covid-19 times saying the Supreme Court has come up with an initiative to provide mental health support and the secretary general will be making an announcement in this regard soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-are-now-soft-targets-with-advent-of-social-media-justice-ramana/story-5RPYNrnrtViyjZJhNmjinM.html
12-09-2020||India||Andhra Police’s unique mobile app provides over 80 services, safety features for women||Women travelling alone across Andhra Pradesh can now find out whether they have the correct route and if the area is safe via an application that is soon to be launched by the Andhra Police.The mobile application will give all the information about the route, their exact location and the contact details of the nearby mobile police patrol, if required.Andhra Pradesh police department’s unique mobile application – AP Police Seva – provides as many as 86 such services to citizens at the touch of a button. It is going to be formally launched by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on September 17.“Depending on the GPS location of the user, the mobile app will tell her whether her present location is safe. The department has geo-tagged all scenes of crime in their database. This feature will alert women when they could be in danger,” Deputy Inspector General of Police (Technical) G Pala Raju said.Also read: BSF finds cache of arms near Indo-Pak border in Punjab’s Ferozepur districtAnother unique feature of the AP Police Seva mobile app is “house monitoring”, which enables the police to keep a watch on one’s house when one goes on a holiday along with family members for a few days. “The individual can place a request on the mobile app to monitor his/her house when it is locked for a certain period. The police department will install a motion sensor at the residence of the person placing the request. If any unknown person tries to enter the house without prior intimation, it automatically triggers an alarm, alerting not only the local police but also the owner of the house via an SMS,” the DIG said.There is also another option for citizens in the rural and remote areas where there is no possibility of installing sensors or CCTV cameras. The citizen placing the request for house monitoring will be allotted a constable on duty who will patrol the area regularly, click pictures of the house and send the same to the citizen.The mobile app is also programmed to alert individuals whenever they are approaching black spots and accident-prone areas without even having to open the app while travelling, using the location of the user.In a first, the police department has also provided a facility in the mobile app for a fact-check of fake news, he said.The app has many other features such as a request for a background check of a probable employee or a probable tenant, filing a complaint, downloading an FIR, checking the challan status, applying for passport verification, obtaining no-objection certificates, getting real-time updates on the status of complaints to identifying missing persons, et cetera.“All the services are free of charge and there is no need for paying a single rupee to the department. Through this app, we want to minimize the reasons for which citizens will have to visit the police stations, especially in these days of social distancing,” the DIG added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-police-s-unique-mobile-app-provides-over-80-services-safety-features-for-women/story-fSCQStwOfN6tbu8A9FNI0L.html
12-09-2020||India||‘Awas Yojna for rural areas not dominated by Delhi’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that the major difference between housing schemes conceived for the poor after Independence and in the past six years was transparency and decentralisation of decision making powers in it. At the same time, it strengthened the rural economy and women empowerment and also infused a sense of personal attachment in the beneficiaries with their houses built. The PM was addressing beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) (Rural) in Madhya Pradesh through a live webcast on the occasion of ‘grih pravesh’ (formal entry) of beneficiaries of 1.75 lakh houses constructed across 12,000 villages of Madhya Pradesh under the scheme. The PM interacted with three beneficiaries also during the programme- each selected from Dhar, Singrauli and Gwalior districts. Also read: No carelessness till Covid-19 medicine is developed, urges PM ModiMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union minister for agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia and officials of department of rural development and panchayat raj, including additional chief secretary Manoj Shrivastava, also attended the programme.The prime minister said, “housing schemes for the poor were conceived earlier too even from the first decade of the Independence. There were some additions and names of the schemes kept on changing every 10 to 15 years but the goal of providing houses and dignified life to crores of poor could never be fulfilled.” He said, “Earlier, there was a lot of interference from the government in it. Those who were supposed to live in these houses were not involved anywhere in the process. Not only this, but there was also a lack of transparency in the schemes earlier and there were irregularities of different kinds. That’s why the quality of such houses was very poor. In addition to this, beneficiaries of the scheme had to take rounds of government offices for basic facilities like water, electricity, et cetera. The result of all this was that the beneficiaries of such housing schemes didn’t shift to the houses willingly”, said the PM. He added, “when we started working in 2014, the old schemes were improved in the first place based on studies of the experiences in the past. Then, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana was introduced with a completely new thought. In this, transparency is given precedence and a scientific and transparent system is put in place from the selection of beneficiaries to the construction of houses. Earlier, the poor used to run after the government to get benefits from several schemes but now government has to approach people, identify them and give facilities to them”.The PM said, “The materials available at the local level are given preference. Even the design of the houses is decided as per the need of people and the construction style prevalent at the local level. Every level of construction is monitored with complete transparency”. He said now a beneficiary was not only getting a house but also other facilities under various schemes like a toilet under Swachh Bharat, LPG connection under Ujjawala Yojna, electricity connection under Saubhagya Yojna, LED bulbs Ujala Yojna, water connection, et cetera., everything with the house.He said it was interesting to note that the work under the scheme was done effectively even during the Covid-19 period. In all, 18 lakh houses were constructed across the nation during this period under the PMAY scheme. Also, construction of a house under the scheme used to take about 125 days on an average to be completed but during the corona period, a house was built in just 45 to 60 days. This could be possible because of the contribution from migrant labourers who returned home during the Covid-19 period.The PM said, “Under PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojna, Rs 23,000 crore worth of construction work was executed across the country. While houses were constructed (under PMAY (Rural) scheme) there were works executed at a rapid speed regarding providing water to homes, construction of Anganwadi and panchayat buildings, construction of sheds for cattle, ponds, wells, rural roads and other work associated with rural development. This benefitted in two ways - first, lakhs of migrant labourers who returned home from cities got employment and second, it led to the sale of brick, cement, sand and other building materials. In a way, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojna proved a big support for strengthening the rural economy. The scheme stemmed strength to a large extent from the work under PMAY”. The PMAY, he said, not only offered employment to people but also strengthened the women empowerment as a registry of such a house was either done in the name of a woman or her name was joined with another person. There was now an opportunity for women masons to improve their income and feel empowered. The PM said having put in place infrastructure like electricity, road, toilets et cetera., in five years up to 2019 in the rural areas now the government’s effort was to strengthen the villages with modern facilities. On August 15, the government resolved to lay optical fibre across up to 6 lakh villages in 1,000 days. In about 1,250 villages 15,000 WiFi hotspot and about 19,000 optical fibre connections were provided. Hence, in the coming time, the villages will not only have fast internet facility for students, youth and others, it will be a hotspot for several activities including businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/awas-yojna-for-rural-areas-not-dominated-by-delhi-pm-modi/story-7WZqsPsE4QBAtvovYaydtO.html
12-09-2020||India||Gujarat govt asks oxygen plants in state to ramp up production amid Covid crisis||In view of the rise in coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Gujarat, the state’s health department has directed oxygen manufacturing units of the state to increase production to their maximum capacity and ensure that 50 per cent of the oxygen produced is ‘medical oxygen’, to be reserved for hospitals.In a notification issued on Thursday, the department has asked these units to use only up to 50 per cent of oxygen for industries, with the priority given to hospitals in case the need arises.The notification added that while the demand for oxygen will multiply in the upcoming days in Gujarat, the re-opening of the industries under the provisions of Unlock 4 will affect the supply of medical oxygen to hospitals in the state.Due to this, the state government decided to regularize the circulation and supply of oxygen from production units in order to cater to the needs of Covid-19 patients. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicFood and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) H M Koshia told news agency PTI that there are around around 53 licenced medical oxygen producing units and the notification has been issued as a precautionary measure to ensure that people of the state don’t face any shortage of oxygen. He added that Gujarat produces sufficient medical and industrial oxygen and even supplies to other states.Meanwhile, Gujarat on Friday registered its highest single-day spike of 1,344 Covid-19 cases, which pushed the state’s tally to 110,971. The total cases include 16,318 active cases, 91,470 recoveries and 3,183 deaths. The state has conducted over 3.14 million Covid-19 tests. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-govt-asks-oxygen-plants-in-state-to-ramp-up-production-amid-covid-crisis/story-5g3Z6XNXqFbWYeS14kRr7M.html
12-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi says no carelessness till Covid-19 medicine is developed and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No carelessness till Covid-19 medicine is developed, urges PM ModiReiterating his appeal to exercise utmost caution to stop the spread of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said until an effective medicine for the novel coronavirus is developed, there should be no lowering of the guard.Read more. BSF finds cache of arms near Indo-Pak border in Punjab’s Ferozepur districtThe Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday seized a cache of arms and ammunition, including three AK-47 and two M-16 rifles, from a field along the Indo-Pakistan border in Punjab’s Ferozepur district.Read more. China hands over 5 Arunachal Pradesh youths 10 days after they went missingTen days after they strayed across the border during an expedition to hunt and collect medicinal herbs, five youths from Arunachal Pradesh were handed back to India on Saturday by the Chinese authorities, Indian Army officials confirmed.Read more.‘Brought back fond memories’, says PM Modi as Japan PM Shinzo Abe tweets on ties with IndiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday cheered his counterpart and Japanese PM Shinzo Abe’s Twitter thread for underlining India’s ties with Japan, terming it as a glimpse of the robust bilateral ties between the two countries.Read more.UP don Mukhtar Ansari’s wife, her two brothers booked under gangsters actA case has been registered against gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s wife Afsan Ansari and her two brothers Sarjil Raza and Anwar Shahzad under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act for their alleged involvement in criminal activities, trespassing and earning money illegally, the Ghazipur police said. Read more. Watch: Scuffle among Cong leaders in Hyderabad, Covid-19 guidelines floutedA scuffle broke out among Congress leaders during a meeting in Telangana’s Hyderabad. The brawl broke out at Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation preparatory meeting. The meeting held on September 11. The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee leaders violated Covid-19 guidelines. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-says-no-carelessness-till-covid-19-medicine-is-developed-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NtpBSBkhwNB7LVhUnES9vK.html
12-09-2020||India||‘Brought back fond memories’, says PM Modi as Japan PM Shinzo Abe tweets on ties with India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday cheered his counterpart and Japanese PM Shinzo Abe’s Twitter thread for underlining India’s ties with Japan, terming it as a glimpse of the robust bilateral ties between the two countries. “Great thread, offering a glimpse of the robust India-Japan friendship as well as the strong potential of our partnership in the times to come. The lovely photographs, shared by my good friend PM @AbeShinzo have brought back fond memories of our many interactions,” PM Modi said in a tweet. Great thread, offering a glimpse of the robust India-Japan friendship as well as the strong potential of our partnership in the times to come. The lovely photographs, shared by my good friend PM @AbeShinzo have brought back fond memories of our many interactions. https://t.co/vROSKis2CCLauding Indo-Japan ties, Japanese PM Abe on Friday had shared pictures on Twitter from his trip to India in 2015 and 2017, in addition to pictures from PM Modi’s visit to Yamanashi in 2018. PM Abe, in his tweets, said Japan has signed an acquisition and cross-servicing agreement (ACSA) with India. “The agreement will promote closer cooperation between our self-defense forces and the Indian Armed Forces and serve as a major cornerstone for Japan and India to actively contribute to international peace and security,” Abe said. PM Abe said he had held summit talks with PM Modi over the telephone and welcomed the signing of the agreement. He and PM Modi shared the vision of a “free and open Indo-Pacific”, Abe said adding that both the countries have been successful in rapidly strengthening the relationship between Japan and India.Emphasising on regional peace and stability, Abe said Japan will be “arm in arm with the US, Australia and other countries” and must continue to play a major role in ensuring peace and stability of this region and the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brought-back-fond-memories-says-pm-modi-as-japan-pm-shinzo-abe-tweets-on-ties-with-india/story-lr8c5nF5RPSaAlGMVFvYiJ.html
12-09-2020||India||No carelessness till Covid-19 medicine is developed, urges PM Modi||Reiterating his appeal to exercise utmost caution to stop the spread of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said until an effective medicine for the novel coronavirus is developed, there should be no lowering of the guard. ‘Jab tak dawai nahi, tab tak dhilai nahi’ (No carelessness till a medicine is found), the prime minister said as he was addressing the virtual house warming ceremony of 1.75 lakh houses built in the rural parts of Madhya Pradesh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. At least seven Indian pharma companies, including Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute, Zydus Cadila, Panacea Biotec, Indian Immunologicals, Mynvax and Biological E, are working to develop a vaccine against coronavirus.Also Read | Despite Covid-19, 1.75 lakh houses were built under PMAY, says PM ModiBharat Biotech’s Covaxin developed in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is being tested at 12 institutes across India. Animal trials of Covaxin have been successful and the results showed “remarkable immunogenicity and protective efficacy” in the first phase of the clinical trials.Serum Institute of India has paused clinical trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in India as AstraZeneca halted trials after a volunteer developed neurological symptoms. On Saturday, India recorded a single-day jump of 97,570 fresh cases. A total of 1,201 deaths have been reported from across the country in the last 24 hours. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-carelessness-till-covid-19-medicine-is-developed-urges-pm-modi/story-vgedpS5og1fleC2Y8PFmzM.html
12-09-2020||India||BSF finds cache of arms near Indo-Pak border in Punjab’s Ferozepur district||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday seized a cache of arms and ammunition, including three AK-47 and two M-16 rifles, from a field along the Indo-Pakistan border in Punjab’s Ferozepur district. During the operation, the BSF personnel found the arms and ammunition from a bag which was lying abandoned on a field near Joginder Chowki, close to the border around 7:00 am, a BSF official said. Six magazines of AK-47 and 91 rounds, four magazines of M-16 rifles and 57 rounds, two pistols with four magazines and 20 rounds were also recovered along with the weapons, he said. Birbal Singh, the station house officer of Lakho Ke Behram, said a BSF patrol team spotted the weapons in a field near a border outpost in the morning. The area is adjoining the zero line.“The weapons were found packed neatly in plastic bags. The weapons were recovered from different spots in the field. No person has been named in the FIR and preliminary investigation is on,” Singh said.The arms and ammunition were allegedly sent by elements wanting to destabilize the country from neighbouring nations through Abohar in Ferozepur district in Punjab, along the international border with Pakistan, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-finds-cache-of-arms-near-indo-pak-border-in-punjab-s-ferozepur-district/story-TujGRBSfRrB2V73vGHo2RJ.html
12-09-2020||India||Mumbai locals to allow NEET 2020 candidates, other examinees with I-cards, hall tickets||The Central Railway has announced that Mumbai local trains, which have so far been limited to only essential workers, will be open to students appearing in competitive exams or college, university final year examinations. NEET-2020, the entrance examination for medical college, is scheduled to be held on September 13.  Students appearing for final exams and other competitive exams for advance studies, please see 👇 pic.twitter.com/hDRhFz1WPd“With reference to the permission received from the ministry of railways, government of India, students appearing for final year exams and other competitive exams for advance studies as approved by state government of Maharashtra, are permitted to travel by special suburban services over Mumbai Suburban network,” the Central Railway said. Candidates must have valid identity cards and hall tickets, which are to be displayed at the stations. Additional booking counters will also be opened. However, Mumbai locals are not yet open for others, the Central Railway has reiterated.The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government how long it plans to shut the services. Local trains, the lifeline of Mumbai’s public transport, have been shut for the last six months. In June, as the Centre announced Unlock 1, Mumbai locals resumed operations only for essential staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-locals-to-allow-neet-2020-candidates-other-examinees-with-i-cards-hall-tickets/story-Luc6kU62Ku4Tqeq3W0vzEM.html
12-09-2020||India||Earlier poor used to run after govt, now govt going to people: PM Modi at ‘Grih Pravesh’ programme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the government has successfully built 18 lakh houses in the country during the coronavirus disease outbreak and that the average time of constructing a house came down to 45 to 60 days due to help from migrant labours who returned home during the pandemic.PM Modi was addressing a virtual video conference of ‘Grih Pravesh’ programme, marking inauguration of 1.75 lakh houses built under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Rural) in Madhya Pradesh.Here are the top quotes from PM Modi’s virtual address:• Earlier, the poor used to run after the government, now the government is going to the people. Now the name cannot be added or reduced in the list as per one’s wish. Scientific and transparent methods are being adopted from selection to manufacture: PM Modi• When the income of the poor and the confidence of the villagers increases, our resolve to build a self-reliant India is also strengthened: PM Modi• Every kind of modern infrastructure is being developed in the village to strengthen this confidence: PM Modi• Under the Prime Minister’s Housing Scheme, 18 lakh houses have been completed across the country even in the midst of all the obstacles in the Corona period: PM Modi• Of these, 1 lakh 75 thousand houses have been completed in Madhya Pradesh alone. The speed at which work has been done during this period is also a record in itself: PM Modi• With the PM Garib Kalyan Abhiyan, works worth about 23 thousand crores have been completed in many states, including Madhya Pradesh. Under this, apart from houses, the construction of Anganwadi and Panchayat buildings and the construction of rural roads etc. have been done at a rapid pace: PM Modi• Under the Prime Minister Housing Scheme, 18 lakh houses have been completed across the country during the ongoing pandemic. It takes an average of 125 days to build a house under this scheme. But in this period of Corona, houses were built in only 45 to 60 days: PM Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earlier-poor-used-to-run-after-govt-now-govt-going-to-people-pm-modi-at-grih-pravesh-programme/story-nE6RhwkrzoI8UAzDNJ1wxO.html
12-09-2020||India||Govt to introduce bill to make law banning manual scavenging more stringent||The government plans to make the law banning manual scavenging more stringent by introducing a bill in the Monsoon Session of Parliament, which is scheduled to begin from Monday.The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, also proposes to completely mechanise sewer cleaning and provide better protection at work and compensation in case of accidents, officials said.Currently, engaging any person for hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks by any person or agency is punishable with imprisonment of up to five years or a fine up of to Rs 5 lakh or both.The bill proposes to make the law banning manual scavenging more stringent by increasing the imprisonment term and the fine amount, the officials said.The bill is among the 23 bills to be tabled in Parliament during the Monsoon Session.The amendment bill comes amid increasing number of deaths during cleaning and maintenance of sewers in the country.The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 prohibits construction or maintenance of insanitary latrines, and employment of any person for manual scavenging or hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks. The bill comes under the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry’s National Action Plan which aims at complete elimination of hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks, a more serious, stringent and focused strategy framework.The plan aims to modernise existing sewage system and coverage of non-sewered areas; setting up of faecal sludge and septage management system for mechanised cleaning of septic tanks, transportation and treatment of faecal sludge; equipping the municipalities, and setting up of Sanitation Response Units with help lines, according to a document by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-introduce-bill-to-make-law-banning-manual-scavenging-more-stringent/story-nDbe5DgqRRVGBolka8MPnL.html
12-09-2020||India||70-year-old Bihar woman lynched on suspicion of being child lifter||A 70-year-old woman was lynched on suspicion of being a child lifter at the border of Bihar’s Nawada and Gaya district on Saturday. The victim was identified as Shanti Devi, a resident of Sirdala police station area of Nawada. Police have detained some suspects in the incident, which took place in Nagwa village of Fatehpur police station area and launched a hunt for other suspects.A purported video of the incident, viral on social media, shows children and men beating up the victim. The incident occurred following rumours that a child lifter had entered the village and taken away several small children. The woman was reportedly accosted by the locals as she was seen in the area for the first time, raising doubts.According to the victim’s daughter, Neelu Devi, her mother went to Nagwan Bazar, five kms away from her home in Angra village and did not return till evening. At around 7pm, she was informed that her mother was admitted to Sirdala primary health centre.She rushed to the centre with other family members and found that her mother was critical. Shanti Devi was later rushed to Sadar hospital, where she died during treatment late on Friday night. Also Read: Report seeks special financial help for resource-starved BiharSirdala station house officer (SHO) Ashish Kumar Mishra claimed the incident occurred in Fatehpur police station area, while Fatehpur SHO Bharat Shah said the incident took place in another village.Multiple police teams have been formed to arrest the perpetrators who are on the run. “We will take strict action against them,” said Gaya range IG Rakesh Rathee. Also Read: ‘Big blow’: Ahead of Bihar polls, two Congress MLAs and RJD senior join JD(U)In 2019, Bihar witnessed lynching of 26 people on false suspicion of being child lifters.Bihar police have filed first information reports (FIRs) against 360 people in connection with these incidents. Police headquarters said 325 suspects have been arrested in connection with 65 incidents of mob lynching in the state so far.Apart from the deaths, at least 20 people have been injured in attacks by locals over such rumours, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-bihar-woman-lynched-on-suspicion-of-being-child-lifter/story-RwHweTBTVBB6DmsUN9zt2L.html
12-09-2020||India||Election commission’s tech advisory panel to assess options for remote voting||The Election Commission of India (ECI)’s four-member tech advisory group will assess “technological alternatives and the landscape” to enable remote voting, its members told Hindustan Times. The panel, which comprises people from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bhilai, IIT Bombay, IIT Madras and the National Informatics Centre, is gearing up to present a concept plan to the Commission to enable a two-way transfer of vote and ballot in the next two months. The panel was set up four months ago, professor Rajat Moona, director, IIT Bhilai, and former chief of the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, told Hindustan Times. Also Read: Busting fake news is Mamata Banerjee’s key battle strategy for 2021 polls“The tech advisory group is exploring a spectrum of options, including blockchain technology to enable remote voting,” said Moona. They have been holding regular meetings to address the issue. “We are hoping to demonstrate a prototype in the next two months, then the Commission will take a call.” However, many concerns will have to be addressed before virtual casting of votes can be implemented for elections, said sources. “The remote voting exercise is not only for academic purposes,” the source said. “The machines will have to be flexible and ensure privacy and security of the vote.” The source added that the group is advising the ECI’s IT division on various aspects such as electoral rolls and storing, as the elections’ dependence on technology increases. “The idea is that going forward, everything should have the backing of experts.” Also Read: Ahead of Bihar polls, EC declares timeline for advertising criminal recordsThe ECI has already conducted two webinars on the issue and is looking to conduct a third one on network and security later this month. There are a sizeable number of voters, such as migrant labourers and students, who will benefit from the move. “The question of remote voting came up when we talked about whether postal ballots can have a two-way transfer system,” said Moona. At present, postal ballots, meant for service voters such as army personnel who cannot travel for the elections, are sent electronically, but the reply is received via post. “There will be logistical challenges, but we are working on it,” Moona added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-s-tech-advisory-panel-to-assess-options-for-remote-voting/story-DmIfzwM1QTCHyM7lu8vf3J.html
12-09-2020||India||What Kangana Ranaut has said so far on joining politics||With Kangana versus Shiv Sena playing up in the aftermath of BMC razing the allegedly illegal portion of her Mumbai office, the political connection of the Bollywood actor is in news. The actor was provided with Y plus security as she reached Mumbai on September 9, after she complained of receiving threats from Shiv Sena following her comment comparing Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir. The actor’s mother, Asha Ranaut, thanked Union home minister Amit Shah for providing Kangana security, despite knowing that the family has Congress links. This triggered several speculations over Kangana joining politics.Union minister Ramdas Athawale has recently met the actor at her Mumbai residence and said BJP or his party RPI will welcome Kangana if she wants to join. But the actor harbours no political ambition, Atawale confirmed.Talking about politics, Kangana on Friday said Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray has been one of her “most favourite icons”. She also took a swipe at the Congress and party president Sonia Gandhi for Congress’s silence during the entire episode.Both Kangana and her sister Rangoli Chandel are vocal supporters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But the actor had no plans to join politics, as she had tweeted in August, this year. From Congress, fortunately after Manikarnika even BJP offered me a ticket, I am obsessed with my work as an artist and never thought about politics so all the trolling that I get for supporting who I want to support as independent thinker need to stop 🙂🙏“This is to set the records straight for everyone who thinks I support Modi ji because I want to join politics, my grandfather has been congress MLA for consecutive 15 years,my family is so popular in politics back home that after Gangster almost every year I got offers from Congress,” she tweeted on August 15.“From Congress, fortunately after Manikarnika even BJP offered me a ticket, I am obsessed with my work as an artist and never thought about politics so all the trolling that I get for supporting who I want to support as independent thinker need to stop,” she wrote.In 2018, however, the actor was not averse to join politics. “Whenever I decide to take up the path, I will do so with utmost sophistication, dignity and full focus. If I have to be a national servant, I can’t have a family or kids, or an alternate career. A politician should be nothing more than a government servant,” she had said in an interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-kangana-ranaut-has-said-so-far-on-joining-politics/story-bKKazOdjybxlmXbLDglzlN.html
12-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer warns about fake Twitter account, says will take action||A senior lawyer representing actor Rhea Chakraborty in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case in court said on Saturday he does not have any account on Twitter.“Dear Friends, this is NOT my Twitter Account and a Fake one created by some so called “Fan”. It’s Fake news being spread and I have no concern whatsoever with this Tweet. I have said so earlier. I’m taking Criminal and Civil steps to stop this nonsense,” Satish Maneshinde said in a statement.Maneshinde, a criminal lawyer, is helping Rhea Chakraborty fight the case in court. He had said on Friday that the 28-year-old actor could move the Bombay high court after her bail plea was rejected by a special court. “Once we get a copy of the order, we will decide on the course of action about approaching the high court,” said Maneshinde.Also read: BJP won’t rest till Sushant Singh Rajput gets justice, says FadnavisThe special court had rejected the bail applications of Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and four other accused arrested in connection with a probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The six are among nine people arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing allegations of drug abuse and distribution in the case.Chakraborty, who has been booked under section 27A or financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, said she was innocent and had been falsely implicated.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty being kept in jail cell without bed, pillow or fan“The allegations against the present accused would, at the most, make out a case of purchasing a small quantity of a drug, which is, in essence, a bailable offence. There is not a shred of evidence to connect the applicant with financing any illicit traffic or harbouring any offender,” she said in her plea.Rhea was arrested on September 8 and sent to judicial custody till September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-s-lawyer-warns-about-fake-twitter-account-says-will-take-action/story-9jCQfbv1Z72euVxS16PIjO.html
12-09-2020||India||China hands over 5 Arunachal Pradesh youths 10 days after they went missing||Ten days after they strayed across the border during an expedition to hunt and collect medicinal herbs, five youths from Arunachal Pradesh were handed back to India on Saturday by the Chinese authorities, Indian Army officials confirmed. “Indian Army took over all five individuals at Kibithu on 12 September, 2020 after completing all necessary formalities,” Lieutenant Colonel Harsh Wardhan Pande, PRO (Defence) based at Tezpur in Assam said in a release. “The individuals will now be quarantined for 14 days as per Covid-19 protocol and thereafter be handed over to their family members,” it added. Union sports minister and BJP MP from Arunachal West Kiren Rijiju tweeted: “ All the 5 Indian youths from Arunachal Pradesh who were received at Kibithu by our Army from PLA are fit and fine. However, they will be quarantined for a specified period.” According to the army, this was the third such instance of youths from Arunachal Pradesh living near the Indo-China border straying inadvertently to the other side of line of actual control (LAC) during “adventurous forays”. “Indian Army has always been proactive in tracing the lost locals and helping them return home. Three such incidents took place in the current year in Upper Subansiri and West Siang district including the latest one,” the release said. “All such individuals were brought back home safely after consistent efforts and coordination by Indian Army in the past,” it added. The 5 youths from Tagin tribe, who used to work as porters for Indian Army, had gone missing on September 2 reportedly from Sera-7 in Upper Subansiri district on the Indian side of the McMohan line bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet autonomous region (TAR) of China. Also Read: India, China statements show divergence remainsFollowing their disappearance, a brother of one of the missing youths posted on social media that they had been ‘abducted’ by PLA. The same accusation was made by Tapir Gao, BJP MP from Arunachal East and Congress MLA from Pasighat Ninong Ering in their tweets. Responding to a hotline message sent by Indian Army, the People’s Liberation Army had informed on Tuesday that the youths have been found on the Chinese side and their condition was fine. Also Read: Only one man holds key to China’s movesThe disappearance of the youths and the allegation of their ‘abduction’ by PLA had added to the heightened tension between both countries. On Monday, China’s state affiliated Global Times tweeted quoting Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian. “China has never recognized so called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’, which is China’s south Tibet region, and we have no details to release yet about the question on Indian Army sending message to PLA about five missing Indians in the region”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-hands-over-5-arunachal-pradesh-youths-10-days-after-they-went-missing/story-PT37k5LqsJEBOSNGfrwfkN.html
12-09-2020||India||Diesel cheaper by 63 paise as global oil prices fall||Oil companies have reduced diesel prices by 63 paise per litre (8.33%) since September 2, bringing down its rate to Rs 72.93 on Saturday in Delhi as international crude oil prices softened over 10% during the period because of a rise in the global stockpile and weak demand. Petrol rates have been cut by 22 paise a litre that brought down its retail price to Rs 81.86 in Delhi on Saturday.The difference in quantum of decline in pump prices of petrol and diesel is mainly because their rates are aligned with respective international benchmarks that often do not move synchronously, two executives working for different state-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) said, requesting anonymity.Also Read: Oil climbs as US stock market strengthens, but heads for weekly lossState-run fuel retailers revise pump prices of auto fuels daily based on fluctuations in their international benchmark rates. India’s fuel retail market is dominated by three state-run OMCs – Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL). They have almost 90% market share.Benchmark Brent crude fell $39.83 a barrel on Friday because of weak demand. It slipped below $40 a barrel for the first time since June 15. Reuters reported on Saturday that the US stock markets ended lower for a second week following several economic indicators that suggest a long and difficult recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic.One of the executives cited above said the falling international oil prices also helped state-run OMCs in reducing retail prices of subsidised kerosene sold through the public distribution system (PDS).The retail selling price of PDS kerosene was reduced by Rs 0.69 per litre in Kolkata. There was a corresponding reduction in prices in other cities effectively from September 1, the executive said.Also Read: Oil prices edge up off three-month lows, but demand concerns persist“This decrease is due to a drop in product prices in the international market and the strengthening of the rupee-dollar exchange rate,” he said. With this revision, the retail price of PDS kerosene was reduced from Rs 28.66 per litre in August to Rs 27.97 in September in Kolkata, he added.Public sector oil companies revise kerosene rates every month.The rupee-dollar exchange rate has a significant bearing on domestic fuel rates as India imports more than 80% of crude oil it processes and pays in dollars. Every dollar per barrel drop in crude prices reduces India’s import bill by Rs 10,700 crore on an annual basis.According to the oil ministry’s data keeper, Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell, the exchange rate fell to Rs 73.35 a dollar on September 11 compared to Rs 74.77 on August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diesel-cheaper-by-63-paise-as-global-oil-prices-fall/story-PUczZE1cOz5m6NSYvmYQlJ.html
12-09-2020||India||More foreign airlines for Indian flyers under travel bubbles | All you need to know||As India is exploring options to set up air bubbles with more countries to facilitate international travel in a restricted manner, a number of foreign airlines from countries with which India has already set up air bubbles have resumed their operations in the country. America’s United Airlines has recently announced direct flights to Delhi and Bengaluru, which will start between December 2020 and January 2021.Here’s all you need to know1. International flight operations were suspended on March 22, before the nationwide lockdown was imposed to fight the spread of Covid-19. From May 7, Air India resumed repatriating flights under Vande Bharat Mission, which entered its sixth phase in September.2. Starting from July end, India entered into air bubbles with a few select countries to facililitate two-way operations. While repatriation flights can operate one way, air bubble flights can operate both ways. These bubbles allow foreign airlines to operate in India as well.3. So far, India has transport bubbles with the US, the UK, Canada, Qatar, France, Germany, Afghanistan, the Maldives, and the UAE. 4. India is in talks with 13 other countries, including Australia, Italy, japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea and Thailand, to set up air bubbles.5. List of foreign airlines operating in India: United Airlines (Chicago),Emirates (Dubai), Etihad (Abu Dhabi), Air France (Paris), Lufthansa (Germany), Air Canada (Canada), Virgin Atlantic (England)6. Not everyone can fly to foreign destinations at this moment. International travel is subject to several conditions by the Centre and also the destination country.7. United Airlines has announced non-stop flights daily between Chicago and New Delhi starting from December. From January 2021, United will operate between San Francisco and Bengaluru.8. Regular international flights are still suspended. Setting up more air bubbles is presently the only way to step up international travel.9. Meanwhile, Air India’s Vande Bharat Mission flights will continue10. Under air bubbles, foreign carriers can’t fly passengers to and from any other destination apart from the countries which have entered into the pact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-foreign-airlines-for-indian-flyers-under-travel-bubbles-all-you-need-to-know/story-nOxcsDZ0g0d3ZM0aR6pf2O.html
12-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 77.7%. These 5 states are ahead of others||More than 3.6 million patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have recovered across the country so far and most of them are from five states, including Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, the government said on Saturday.According to the Union health ministry, a record 81,533 Covid-19 patients recovered between Friday and Saturday morning, taking the number of recoveries in the country to 3,624,196. Of this, 60% of the cases are from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.Maharashtra has alone contributed more than 14,000 and Karnataka over 12,000 to the new single-day recoveries, the health ministry’s dashboard showed on Saturday.“These states have also reported the maximum new recoveries in the past 24 hours. With its focussed strategies and measures, India has been continuously reporting a high number of recoveries,” the health ministry said.India’s caseload of the coronavirus disease mounted to 4,659,984 with a record 97,570 infections reported in a day, data showed on Saturday morning.Of the 97,570 new cases added in the last 24 hours in the country, Maharashtra has contributed to more than 24,000 of the additional cases. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka both have contributed to over 9,000 infections, it said.Also read | Animal trials proved efficacy of Covaxin, says Bharat BiotechIndia’s case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.66% while the recovery rate has risen to 77.77%, according to the health ministry’s dashboard. The country registered 1,201 deaths in 24 hours, with 36% of the fatalities reported on Friday are from Maharashtra with 442 deaths, followed by Karnataka with 130 deaths.Of the total deaths, 69% fatalities are concentrated in five states and Union territories of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, according to the government.India is now the second-worst hit country in the world after the United States and Brazil as the global cases of coronavirus disease climbed to over 28 million and 915,608 people have died, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-77-7-these-5-states-are-ahead-of-others/story-PefeJl1wy2ki2FM3rLFcmN.html
12-09-2020||India||DGCA warns airlines over violations of in-flight norms after Kangana row||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Saturday issued an order for commercial flights stating that violations of in-flight norms, including photography, will invite a suspension of that scheduled route for two weeks. The suspension would stay in place till the airline completes taking action against those violating these norms.“In case of any violation of Rule 13 of Aircraft Rules 1937 on any passenger aircraft, the schedule of flight for that particular route shall be suspended for two weeks from the next day,” the DGCA statement read. The rule cited by DGCA, deals with conditions of photography and videography on board commercial passenger flights.The aviation regulator added that despite these regulations, airlines have often failed to follow rules primarily due to lack of diligence on their part. “Needless to say that such deviations result in compromise in maintaining the highest standard of safety and therefore is not to be allowed,” the statement said.ALSO READ | DGCA seeks report from IndiGo for violating social distancing norms on a flight with Kangana Ranaut aboardThe new guideline comes soon after an incident on board an Indigo flight recently involving actor Kangana Ranaut who was travelling from Chandigarh to Mumbai on Wednesday.The DGCA has asked IndiGo to take “appropriate action” after the regulator found alleged violation of safety and social distancing protocols by the media on the airline’s Chandigarh-Mumbai flight that included Ranaut as a passenger.“We have seen some videos wherein mediapersons are standing too close to each other on board the 6E264 flight on Wednesday. It seems to be a violation of safety and social distancing protocols,” a DGCA official said.The aviation regulator cited multiple issues with the incident, prominent among them were related to photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules 13, visible violation of Covid-19 protocols and alleged unruly behaviour by a few passengers on board the flight.According to the DGCA rules, an airline can put an “unruly passenger” on its “no-fly list” for a certain period of time after an internal enquiry.A viral video of Wednesday’s incident showed that reporters and camerapersons of various television channels were jostling with each other near the front rows to get a comment from Ranaut after the plane landed at the Mumbai airport.The video showed the actor sitting in one of the front rows. According to the video, Ranaut disembarked from the plane without giving any comment to the mediapersons on board.The Shiv Sena, which heads the coalition government in Maharashtra and the actor had been engaged in a bitter war of words after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and said she feared for her safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violations-of-in-flight-norms-will-invite-suspension-of-scheduled-route-for-2-weeks-dgca/story-dBM7TzcsMSoOlJPnjg7vJN.html
12-09-2020||India||‘Humble tribute to Mahatma Gandhi’: Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik launches scheme for sanitation workers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has launched a scheme to improve the socio-economic condition and hone the skills of thousands of sanitation workers in the state.Patnaik said while launching the scheme that despite several strides in various sectors in India, sanitation workers have been deprived of safety, dignity and decent livelihood, apart from suffering social stigma and exclusion.“Our conscience can never be calmed if we don’t take steps to correct this injustice. My government has therefore decided to launch a scheme called Garima, a Scheme to ensure Safety and Dignity of Core Sanitation Workers,” Patnaik said on Friday, according to news agency PTI.“Odisha’s Garima scheme is a humble tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 150th birth anniversary, who fought throughout his life for the rights, equality and social dignity of the underprivileged people,” he added.Here is all about the scheme:* The ‘Garima’ scheme will be implemented in all the 114 urban local bodies (ULBs) in Odisha and benefit about 20,000 core sanitation workers and their families.* “A dedicated corpus fund of Rs 50 crore will be created, and a state commission for core sanitation workers will also be constituted,” Patnaik said.* Pratap Jena, the state’s minister for housing and urban development, said the scheme is first of its kind by any state in India to provide a comprehensive package, institutionalizing and regulating the core sanitation services, providing service level benefits, social security and financial benefits to core sanitation workers and their families.* A statewide survey under the new programme will identify workers engaged in core sanitation work, regulate sanitation service organisations, introduce a special wage category apart from other allowances.* All core sanitation workers will receive training to improve their skills. They will also have access to counselling support to acquire new skills and financial support if they choose an alternative livelihood if they want to.* The benefits also include the introduction of a special category of wages for core sanitation work, the introduction of risk and hardship allowance, financial assistance to the families in the event of accident or injury, financial support in the form of house grant and purchase of two-wheelers to the extent of 90% of the cost.* Access to Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPF), retirement benefits, post-service benefits and illness allowance will provide further financial security to the core sanitation workers and their families.* The government will also provide welfare benefits like health and life insurance, disability support, periodic health check-ups, housing, educational support, mobility support and mobile support.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humble-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-odisha-s-naveen-patnaik-launches-scheme-for-sanitation-workers/story-5P9U4bXYSZFBNon3DpGOtI.html
12-09-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Modi govt over Covid-19 management, GDP decline, job losses||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi kept up his attack on the government on Saturday for the decline in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), job losses and the increasing number of Covid-19-related cases and deaths in the country. Taking a jibe at the Modi government, he said its “well-planned fight against Covid-19 has put India in an abyss of 1.historic GDP reduction of 24%, 2. loss of 12 crore jobs, 3. Rs 15.5 lakh crore additional stressed loans, 4. highest daily Covid-19 cases and deaths globally. But for GOI and media ‘sab changa si’.”Also Read: Congress amps up attack on govt, launches online campaign #SpeakUpForJobsThe Congress has been attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government for “failing to control” the spread of the coronavirus disease, with India surpassing Brazil to record the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world. The party has maintained that the Prime Minister should tell the nation his future strategy and plans to contain the pandemic. Also Read: ‘When exactly will you get our land back’: Rahul Gandhi again questions government on Chinese aggression in LadakhIndia’s GDP shrank steeply by 23.9% in April-June as the Covid-19-induced lockdown battered an already slowing economy. Apart from the ongoing India-China border standoff, the Congress has decided to raise, among other issues, the Covid-19 situation and the current state of economy in the monsoon session of Parliament, beginning Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-attacks-modi-government-over-covid-19-management-gdp-decline-job-losses/story-R56hlAACjV9bpa5XJ7bDnL.html
12-09-2020||India||Despite Covid-19, 1.75 lakh houses were built under PMAY, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the Centre’s flagship housing scheme for the rural poor does not just provide homes to them but also gives them confidence as he inaugurated more than one lakh houses in Madhya Pradesh.PM Modi was speaking during the virtual ‘grih pravesh’ or housewarming event for those who have built homes with assistance under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). “I spoke with many who have got their pucca houses today and have got their dream home. Now 1.75 lakh families of Madhya Pradesh, who will have their own homes today. I also congratulate them and wish them all the best,” PM Modi said.These house were completed in just 45 to 60 days during the coronavirus pandemic , he added.“This day also reinforces the belief of crores of citizens that there are government schemes made with the right intention do become a reality and reach their beneficiaries. I can feel the satisfaction and confidence among those who have found their home today,” he added.He also spoke to several beneficieries during the event which was attended by Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Officials had said Chouhan had transferred online a cumulative amount of Rs 102 crore, which was the fourth and last installment of home finance, to 68,000 beneficiaries, on September 8. He had said that 17 lakh homes out of 20.30 lakh have been completed under the rural component of PMAY, and the target for 2019-20 was to build 6 lakh homes, of which 3.45 lakh have been completed.Chouhan added that those who could not get benefit of the scheme at this time will be covered under the ‘Awas Plus’ scheme of PMAY.Under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), which is an upgraded version of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA)-era Indira Awas Yojna, 17.2 million houses have been completed since 2014, after Modi came to power at the Centre.The scheme not only helps the rural homeless population get pucca houses, it also generates work, as up to 90 days of work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), 2005, is required to build one house.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-covid-19-18-lakh-houses-were-built-under-pmay-says-pm-modi/story-FEcsIgUW22J8rTenCXDXcL.html
12-09-2020||India||At PMAY event, PM Modi outlines how rural housing changed under NDA regime||PM Modi on Saturday said that despite the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana has built 1.75 lakh houses for its beneficiaries. PM Modi said, ‘Earlier there was a lot of government intervention when it came to building houses, but our government has ensured that people for whom the houses are being built are part of the process, which was not the norm earlier.”PM said that now not only the poor have homes but they have all facilities embedded along with the house because of the PM Awas Yojana. He said now the houses under the PM Awas Yojana have water, LPG and electricity connections when they are handed over to the beneficiaries. PM Modi said, “The government has taken into consideration that several groups of people like the Adivasis have a different lifestyle, their suggestions were never taken into consideration earlier but our government has made houses for people based on their needs.We did not build complex structures where people would live in a congested manner.”The prime minister emphasised how these villages where the houses are being built were being empowered by installing optical fibres, providing WiFi connectivity and developing roadways so that people living in this rural areas could have access to amenities necessary for development. Inclusion of female masons and carpenters, ensuring rural workforce’s participation in building houses under PMAY and ensuring that beneficiaries do not have to run pillar to post for services like water supply and electricity has been the primary objective for this government, prime minister Narendra Modi further added. During the programme, PM spoke to beneficiaries Pyarelal Yadav and Narendra Namdev who told the PM how PMAY has made their dream of owning their own piece of land come true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-pmay-event-pm-modi-highlights-how-rural-housing-has-changed-under-nda-regime/story-dEemzESkRh1DBQxiSWkSqO.html
12-09-2020||India||Hate speech complaints: Delhi Assembly panel summons Facebook official||The Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee has summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan in connection with complaints about the social media company’s alleged “deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content” in the country.The panel, headed by Aam Aadmi Party leader and MLA from Rajendra Nagar Raghav Chadha, has issued a notice asking Mohan to appear before it on September 15 on the Delhi Vidhan Sabha premises. Also Read: Plea in Supreme Court over data protection in UPI platforms“The summons were issued on the basis of scathing depositions of key witnesses as well as incriminating material submitted by them on record,” the committee said in an official statement Saturday.The notice came weeks after the committee in its second hearing on August 31 had said that prima facie it had found that Facebook was complicit in aggravating the Delhi riots in northeast Delhi in February, leaving 53 dead and over 400 injured. The committee is investigating the matter after it took cognisance of “several complaints” received from people based on an article published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14. The report titled ‘Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics’ stated that Facebook officials, especially its top public policy executive in India, Ankhi Das, allegedly cited business imperatives while choosing not to apply hate-speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in India, despite their being internally flagged for promoting or participating in violence. Also Read: Back to roots: Facebook starts app within app called campusDelhi Police have not charged BJP leader Kapil Mishra in connection with the riots yet. Mishra was accused of delivering inflammatory speeches before the riots. Mishra, however, denied the charges and said that he had not violated any law. “We hereby summon you (Ajit Mohan) to appear before the committee on September 15, 2020 at 12 Noon at MLA Lounge- 1, Delhi Vidhan Sabha, for the purpose of recording your deposition on oath and participating in the proceedings carried out by the committee,” read the summons issued by Delhi Assembly’s deputy secretary on September 10. HT has seen a copy of the notice. HT has contacted Facebook for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-assembly-panel-summons-facebook-official/story-P6PFIdQgYljVXjs8IIm8bL.html
12-09-2020||India||Cop’s daughter secures 3rd rank in UP civil service exam, aims to clear IAS||25-year old daughter of a Uttar Pradesh head police constable, Jyoti Sharma, who secured third rank in state provincial civil service (PCS) exam-2018, says her ultimate aim is to become an IAS officer by cracking the civil service examination. The results were declared on Friday.Sharma, a Isabella Thoburn College alumna, had joined public service after clearing the PCS exam in her first attempt in 2017 and is now working as the block development officer in Ayodhya.“I was on a field visit. My mentor called me over the phone to inform me that I had secured the third rank. I was in a state of disbelief. But then I checked my result online. It was incredible that I was among the top three,” she said.“I have become a deputy collector and will soon be getting a posting as SDM,” she said.Determined to excel in the UPSC exam, she said, “I had appeared in (UPSC) civil service (exam) twice, but did not get through it.”Her father Devendra Sharma is posted as a head constable in Sitapur. “My younger sister Kirti Sharma is a scientist with ONGC, posted in Chennai and younger brother Deepak Sharma is a national volleyball player,” she said.Women secure top three ranks in PCS-2018Also Read: Former UP minister Gayatri Prajapati’s jail stay got longer despite bailPanipat’s Anuj Nehra stood first, Gurugram’s Sangeeta Raghav came second and Mathura’s Jyoti Sharma grabbed the third place on the merit list as women bagged three of the top five positions in the PCS-2018 examinations, the results for which were declared by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) on Friday. Vipin Kumar Shivhare of Jalaun (Uttar Pradesh) and Karamveer Keshav of Patna (Bihar) bagged the fourth and fifth ranks respectively.Also Read: Migrants in UP pack their bags as former employers lay out red carpet for their returnA total of 976 candidates were declared successful against the 988 posts. Candidates can check their results by visiting the commission’s official website at uppsc.up.nic.in, said UPPSC controller of exams Arvind Kumar Mishra.The others in the top-10 include Farhan Ahmad Khan, Shweta, Arun Kumar, Arun Dixit and Ashwani Kumar Singh.In terms of posts, PCS-2018 was one of the biggest recruitment exams of its kind held by the commission till date with 988 posts of 40 different kinds on offer, including 119 posts of deputy collector and 94 posts of deputy SP. In the past 10 PCS exams, the number of posts on offer was less than this, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-s-daughter-secures-3rd-rank-in-up-civil-service-exam-aims-to-clear-ias/story-fpkoXAhdcuH0Cz9Qukg4sO.html
12-09-2020||India||Animal trials proved efficacy of Covaxin, India’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, says Bharat Biotech||Animal trials of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covaxin, have been successful and the results showed the shot’s “remarkable immunogenicity and protective efficacy” in the Phase I clinical trials in India, the drugmaker has said.Covaxin, developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech, is being tested at 12 institutes across India. The Hyderabad-based firm said the data from the study on primates substantiate the immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate.“Bharat Biotech proudly announces the animal study results of COVAXIN - These results demonstrate the protective efficacy in a live viral challenge model,” Bharat Biotech tweeted on Friday.Bharat Biotech has said in a release that it developed and assessed the protective efficacy and immunogenicity of an inactivated Sar-CoV-2 vaccine (BBV152) or Covaxin in rhesus macaques. Twenty macaques were divided into four groups of five animals each, it said.Also read | Want to enrol in a vaccine trial? Know your eligibility“One group was administered a placebo while three groups were immunised with three different vaccine candidates at 0 and 14 days. All the macaques were challenged with SARS-CoV-2 14 days after the second dose. The protective response was observed with increasing SARS-CoV-2 specific IgG and neutralising antibody titres from third week post-immunisation,” the drug company said.ALSO WATCH | Parliament during Covid-19: 50 officials test positive It added that viral clearance was observed from “bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, nasal swab, throat swab, and lung tissues at 7 days post-infection in the vaccinated groups.”“No evidence of pneumonia was observed by histopathological examination in vaccinated groups, unlike the placebo group which showed features of interstitial pneumonia and localisation of viral antigen in the alveolar epithelium and macrophages by immunohistochemistry,” it added.“To summarize, the vaccine candidate was found to generate robust immune responses. Thus, preventing infection and disease in the primates upon high amounts of exposure to live SARS-CoV-2 virus,” it added.Bharat Biotech had received approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation to conduct the Phase-II trials earlier this month. It had announced in June that it successfully developed Covaxin in collaboration with ICMR and the National Institute of Virology (NIV).The SARS-CoV-2 strain was isolated in NIV, Pune and transferred to Bharat Biotech. The indigenous, inactivated vaccine candidate has been developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech’s high containment facility located in Genome Valley, Hyderabad.Covaxin is one of the frontrunners in the race for a Covid-19 vaccine in India. It is an “inactivated” vaccine — it works by injecting doses of the virus that have been killed aiming to prompt the body to build antibodies against it without the virus posing a threat.Each stage of a vaccine’s clinical trial tests its safety and ability to develop an effective immune response. Phase 1 focuses on determining safety and dosage in a small group of healthy participants, while Phase 2 looks at the vaccine’s effectiveness. Phase 3 looks into these aspects in a much larger population that would represent a wider demographic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/animal-trials-proved-efficacy-of-covaxin-india-s-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-says-bharat-biotech/story-72QgevKAshBqKZis6X45XN.html
12-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut’s Y-plus security cover came on her father’s request: Union minister||Kangana Ranaut has been provided the Y-plus security cover after the Bollywood actor’s father requested the state government in Himachal Pradesh, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy has said.Reddy said the Himachal Pradesh government had asked for security for Ranaut after her father wrote to the state’s chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. According to her father, Ranaut was responding to social issues which caused “heartburn” to some people in Maharashtra, the minister told reporters on Friday, according to news agency PTI.The Union minister said Ranaut’s father also met Jai Ram Thakur and submitted a memorandum that his daughter was being subjected to harassment and based on his request, the Himachal chief minister informed the centre about the situation. Reddy, however, did not clarify who is going to foot the bills for the security.This came amid an escalating war of words between the actor and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut. The verbal duel between the actor and Raut started after her “Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir” comment. She had also said that she feared Mumbai Police more than what she has dubbed as ‘movie mafia’.Officials have said the decision to give the security cover was taken after a threat perception was carried out and the Himachal Pradesh government also approached the Union home ministry.Under the Y-plus category, Ranaut has 10 to 11 armed commandoes guarding her in three shifts, with two or three personnel security officers (PSOs) accompanying her round the clock and one security personnel deployed at her residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-s-y-plus-security-cover-came-on-her-father-s-request-union-minister/story-N7JHoqGX0tZfaA8amMonfP.html
12-09-2020||India||Tripura HC cites poor treatment facility for Covid-19 patients, seek report from govt||The Tripura high court on Friday took up suo motto, the case of alleged sufferings of Covid-19 patients at a Agartala hospital and asked the state government to file an affidavit answering certain queries related to Covid-19 cases in the state by September 18. The high court’s division bench led by chief justice Akil Kureshi and justice Subhasish Talapatra took up the matter after a series of allegations of poor health services for Covid patients at Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital surfaced in local media. The GBP is also a dedicated Covid care centre in Agartala. “....Recent newspaper reports, particularly, those published in vernacular language have reported the plight of the patients and relatives of those who have tested positive for the virus. Certain shortcomings in the public health care system are projected. ...This Court is of the opinion that the time has come when the court needs to make inquiries from the government with respect to the issues revolving around the handling of coronavirus spread in the state and more particularly, of providing health care to those who have tested positive,” the court order reads. The HC asked the state government to file an affidavit stating the total number of active Covid-19 cases, number of Covid care centres with their medical and paramedical staff, doctors, necessary infrastructure. HC has also sought government’s response on alleged lack of communication between doctors and Covid patients and their relatives. It has also asked if any private hospital has been permitted to admit Covid-19 patients. The government also needs to mention fund allocation to upgrade government Covid care centres in their affidavit. Also Read: Biplab Deb lays foundation stone for Tripura’s first Special Economic ZoneThe government report said that a total 2,865 beds are available for Covid-19 patients throughout the state, of which, the GBP has 240 beds. There are a total of 19 ventilators available only at GBP hospital, it adds. The court observed that the current number of patients in the hospital are more than available beds. Also Read: Team of Covid-19 experts from New Delhi to reach TripuraChief minister Biplab Kumar Deb is visiting different district hospitals urging them to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients locally instead of referring them to Agartala.The state has also formed special corona teams comprising ten medical officers and it is about to start plasma therapy for Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-hc-cites-poor-treatment-facility-for-covid-patients-seek-report-from-government/story-lYu4O2aqKE60gC6nTtUUUN.html
12-09-2020||India||With record 97,570 new Covid-19 cases, India’s tally goes past 4.6 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surged to 4,659,984 after another record daily jump of 97,570 fresh infections and 1,201 deaths from across the country, the Union health ministry data showed on Saturday.The country has been witnessing more than 95,000 cases of the coronavirus disease daily for three days now. The number of deaths has been over 1,000 almost every day since the beginning of September now. There have been 77,472 deaths due to the viral disease till date, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am.There are 3,624,196 patients who have been discharged from hospitals and 958,316 active cases of the viral disease now, according to the health ministry. The gap between recovered and active cases has widened to 2,665,880 and the recovery rate has reached 77.77%.Also read | Serum Institute ordered to suspend recruitment for Covid-19 vaccine trials: ReportThe health ministry said that more than 3/4 of total cases or more than 3.6 million have recovered and discharged. Active cases are only a small proportion or less than 1/4 of the total cases, it added. “Centre-led #COVID management strategies have focused on early detection through widespread, easy & aggressive testing; standardised quality & effective treatment in hospitals and supervised home/facility isolation; and reducing mortality,” the ministry tweeted.The ministry had said on Friday that nearly 57% of the new cases are reported from only five states with Maharashtra contributing most to the caseload. Maharashtra has now become the first and only state or province in the world to report more than a million cases of Covid-19. It came after a little over six months since the day it detected its first case. Brazil’s Sao Paulo province with 874,754 Covid-19 cases has the second-highest infections of any state or province in the world.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh are the states that are contributing 60% of the recovered cases, the health ministry has said.“India has been continuously reporting a high number of recoveries. A total of 70,880 recoveries have been registered in the last 24 hours in the country. Maharashtra has alone contributed more than 14,000 and Andhra Pradesh has contributed more than 10,000 to the single-day recoveries,” it said in a release.Also read | Merck starts recruitment for Covid-19 vaccine human trialAccording to the health ministry, nearly 74% of the active cases are in nine most affected states with Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh contributing more than 48% of the total. Maharashtra, Karnataka have also added to the country’s death toll.Globally, there have been more than 28 million cases and 913,018 deaths till date, according to Johns Hopkins University coronavirus disease tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-record-97-570-new-covid-19-cases-india-s-tally-goes-past-4-6-million/story-zGMjvNMCKRMqA3b9o1oU5L.html
12-09-2020||India||No fresh opinion on the GST compensation issue||There is no move in the offing to consult the Attorney General (AG) again on the matter of the Union government’s obligation to compensate states for their Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue losses because of the Covid-19 pandemic, a government official said, requesting anonymity. “Certain sections of the media are inaccurately claiming that a parliamentary panel discussed consulting the Attorney General again on the issue of GST compensation to states,” the official said.The official said the panel on Friday did discuss audit-related matters pertaining to the Mach 2018 report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) with Union finance ministry officials, but there was no discussion on the GST compensation issue.Also Read: As some states oppose borrowing money, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy says it is the only way to overcome GST shortfallThe AG had already opined that the Union was not obligated to compensate state for the loss of revenue collection under the GST laws, the official said.“According the AG, the GST council has to find ways to meet the shortfall in compensation, not the Central government,” the official said.The Union government has given two borrowing options to states to meet their revenue shortfall of about Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year. Under the first option, states will not have to pay either principle or interest if they borrow only Rs 97,000 crore to meet the GST revenue shortfall because of implementation issues, but they will have to bear significant interest costs if they choose the larger borrowing option of Rs 2.35 lakh crore that includes revenue shortfall due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fresh-opinion-on-the-gst-compensation-issue/story-X09yBdOHkfQZ0jIJcGwAYO.html
12-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 case tally crosses 4.6 million||India’s cumulative Covid-19 tally reached over 4.6 million as 97,661 new cases were reported on Friday. Nearly 57% of the new cases were reported from five states, which also account for 60% of the recoveries. Maharashtra reported 24,886, and Andhra Pradesh 9,999 cases on Friday.There are now over one million active cases with nearly 74% of them in the nine most affected states. Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh alone account for more than 48% of the active cases.India’s recoveries have also been improving steadily, with 81,035 on Thursday. Maharashtra reported at least 14,308, and Andhra Pradesh 11,069 recoveries.The number of recoveries in India has touched over 3.6 million, taking the recovery rate to 77.65%.Nearly 60% of the new recovered cases are from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh.The eight North-eastern states account for about 5% of the total active cases in the country. With 29,690 active cases, Assam accounts for 68% of total caseload in the region. Tripura has 7,383 active cases and has contributed to 17% of the caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-case-tally-crosses-4-6-million/story-p7in2X10D67UsUN5Cbe3vM.html
12-09-2020||India||Manipur minister tests positive for Covid-19||Manipur public works and information and public relations minister Thongam Biswajit Singh tested positive for Covid-19, making him the second minister in the state to be infected with the disease, reports said on Saturday.Swab samples of Singh, who also holds rural development and panchayati raj portfolio, along with his family members and some close associates were collected on September 9 and sent for testing.The results of the samples were received on September 11, with the minister and his daughter testing positive, the report said, adding that they are under home isolation.Earlier, state social welfare minister and cooperation minister Nemcha Kipgen had tested positive for Covid- 19 on August 25. She has now recovered.Meanwhile, with 209 new recoveries reported from eleven Covid care facilities in the past 24 hours in the state, the recovery rate of Manipur climbed to 79.19 per cent on Friday.So far, 6,002 persons out of the total 7,579 Covid positive cases have recovered.Also Read: Manipur man, who reunited with family after 40 years, found dead near his villageDr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department said, “The cumulative number of positive cases is 7, 579. The cumulative number of recovered cases is 6,002. The number of active cases is 1,533. The recovery rate is 79.19 per cent.”Also Read: 27-year-old woman starts unique venture, spins yarn from lotus stalks in Manipur101 persons including 22 females from the general population and eight from the central armed police forces have tested positive in the past 24 hours in Manipur, the release signed by Mangang added.44 Covid-19 patients have so far died in the state due to the disease and other co-morbid health conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-TlrjvoksFo4VG3zwKyi6EL.html
12-09-2020||India||Migrants in UP pack their bags as former employers lay out red carpet for their return||Vikram Rajput, a native of Mawai village in Jhansi, is ready to get back to work. He is happy since he had never imagined that it would be possible to get his job back within five months of losing it during the Covid-19 lockdown.He is not only getting his job back but also has a red carpet welcome laid out by his employer, who has sent his representative to Rajput’s village with a van to bring him back to Gujarat with other workers who had returned to the village after the factory closed down during the nationwide lockdown announced by the central government on March 24 to fight the Covid 19 pandemic.“I worked in a rubber slipper factory located near Ahmedabad. After the factory closed down, the owner expressed inability to pay wages. With shattered dreams and meager savings, I travelled hundreds of kilometers along with other workers to reach home in mid-April. I feared I would never be able to earn decent money and improve the living standard of my family and provide quality education to my children,” said Rajput.Rajput and his friends from the factory got registered as MNREGA labourers back in the village. It helped them earn Rs 200 per day and the district administration used to supply rice, yet it was barely enough for the survival of the eight members in Rajput’s family.“I was earning Rs 1,200 per day in Ahmedabad as a skilled labourer; digging a pond or a canal drain hurt our dignity but for survival we continued with the menial job,” Rajput said.In the first week of September, I got a call from the factory owner and he told me that he was restarting manufacturing and we must return immediately. He also assured us to provide free housing facilities and food.Within a week, the representative of the factory arrived in the village with a taxi to take us back, he said.In Gorakhpur, the story of Motilal, a resident of Ahirauli village, is no different.He worked in a furniture manufacturing unit in Delhi.After the closure of the factory in March, he returned with the family to his native village.“Skilled in making household furniture, I worked in Delhi for the past eight years. The lockdown turned me jobless, and along with other workers from the Gorakhpur region, I returned to my village. With little savings, I was somehow managing the family. The supervisor of the factory arrived on Monday and assured us that the factory will not shut down and our wages will also be hiked. The trains are running full so he has booked flight tickets for us to Delhi,” Motilal said.Vikram Rajput and Motilal are not alone who are getting their work back.Also Read: Indian Railways to start 80 new special trains from today: Here’s the full listBundelkhand and Gorakhpur regions, known as land of migrants, are witnessing a similar story with the migrant workers being wooed back to their workplaces in cities. Interestingly, the factory owners, real estate businessmen, construction agencies are sending their representatives to convince the workers and arrange their return by road, rail and air.“The push and pull factors are driving the migrant workers again from the villages to the cities. The deprivation and fear of Covid pandemic had forced the workers to return to their villages. Resumption of business activities in the Unlock phase has healed the scars along with the realization that there are limited options in villages. Workers are more than willing to return,” said professor Rajesh Kumar Mishra, former head of sociology department in Lucknow University.Also Read: An agenda for India’s New Deal to fix the Covid-infected economy | Opinion“Recent studies show that the purchasing power in rural areas has declined adding to the plight of workers who returned home. The entrepreneurs settled in cities who are trying to start their business activities are working as the pull factor, luring the migrants to return by sending representatives, offering better wages, shelter and food,” he said.Labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya said the state government had succeeded in providing employment to several migrants as per their skills.“They were provided shelter and ration and enrolled under MGNREGA schemes. The skill mapping of the workers was done to provide them with employment in the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector. With the start of activities post-Unlock, large number of skilled workers have been provided jobs in various manufacturing units across the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-in-up-pack-their-bags-as-former-employers-lay-out-red-carpet-for-their-return/story-xK8KpQxXATfLSkIwYStVTK.html
12-09-2020||India||Serum Institute ordered to suspend recruitment for Covid-19 vaccine trials: Report||Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has directed Serum Institute of India to suspend till further orders new recruitment in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the backdrop of pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing the trials in other countries. In an order, a copy of which has been accessed by PTI, DCGI Dr V G Somani on Friday also directed Serum Institute of India (SII) to increase the safety monitoring of the subjects already vaccinated as part of the trial, and submit the plan and report. Somani also asked the firm to submit clearance from Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) in the UK as well as in India to obtain clearance from his office (DCGI) prior to resumption of future recruitment in the trial.  The central drug regulator DCGI had issued a show-cause notice to SII on September 9 for not informing it about AstraZeneca pausing clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in other countries and also for not submitting casualty analysis of the “reported serious adverse events”. Following which the Pune-based firm, which has partnered with the British-Swedish biopharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine candidate, on Thursday said it is pausing the clinical trials in India. Earlier this week, AstraZeneca said it had paused the trials because of ‘an unexplained illness’ in a participant in the study.  “We are reviewing the situation and pausing India trials till AstraZeneca restarts the trials,” SII said in a statement on Thursday.   According to the DCGI’s order issued on Friday, the SII in its reply stated that DSMB has noted no safety concerns from the Indian study (part 1-phase-2 study) with the first dose and seven days post vaccination safety data.  In its reply, SII also stated that DSMB further recommended “to pause further enrolment into the study until ongoing investigations of SAE reported in the UK study is completed and the sponsor and the UK DSMB are satisfied that it doesn’t pose any safety concerns”. “In the view of the above, I Dr V G Somani, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Licensing Authority, after careful examination of your reply and the recommendations of the DSMB in India, in exercise of the powers vested under Rule 30 of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, direct to you suspend any new recruitment in the phase 2 and 3 clinical trial till further orders,” the order read. “Increase the safety monitoring of the subjects already vaccinated with the vaccine under trial and submit the plan and report,” the order further stated. On August 2, the DCGI had granted permission to the Pune-based SII to conduct Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the coronavirus vaccine candidate. AstraZeneca, the biopharmaceutical giant in a tie-up with the Oxford University to produce the vaccine, described the pause of trials as a “routine” one following what was “an unexplained illness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-ordered-to-suspend-recruitment-for-covid-19-vaccine-trials-report/story-xjhStVjriFkM1lCgGQ2W6O.html
12-09-2020||India||Indian Railways to start 80 new special trains from today: Here’s the full list||The Indian Railways will be running 80 more special trains from Saturday, the booking of which started from September 10. The announcement was made by the ministry of railways on its official Twitter handle. “Indian Railways to run additional 40 pairs of more special trains w.e.f. 12th September 2020. These will be fully reserved train. Ticket can be booked from 10th September, 2020,” the tweet read. These will be fully reserved trains.Here’s the full list of trains: Indian Railways to run additional 40 pairs of more special trains w.e.f. 12th September 2020. These will be fully reserved train. Ticket can be booked from 10th September, 2020https://t.co/nurgBZYvJd pic.twitter.com/TtQKJyKAdQAs per Press Information Bureau (PIB), these trains will be in addition to the existing 30 special Rajdhani type and 200 Special Mail Express trains that are already operating. The Railways have started running these special trains after regular services were suspended in March due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and subsequent lockdown.Passengers can book the tickets of these new special trains through the official website as well as mobile app of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) or from the reservation counter at railway stations.Railways have made it compulsory for the passengers travelling in these trains to cover their mouth and nose with face masks in the station premises as well as during the journey to contain the spread of Covid-19.Passengers will have to reach the station at least 90 minutes prior to the scheduled departure of the trains and undergo thermals screening. Only those who do not show any Covid-19 symptoms will be allowed to travel in these special trains.The 80 new trains are being introduced keeping in mind the migrant workers who are now travelling back to their workplaces as unlocking has entered the fourth phase in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-start-80-new-special-trains-from-today-here-s-the-full-list/story-tLwhYqvzdiS9l8JRL1LkZP.html
12-09-2020||India||PM Modi, MP CM to take part in housing scheme e-function on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will take part in a virtual ‘grih pravesh’ (housewarming) function on Saturday for people who have built homes with assistance provided under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY).The chief minister had on September 8 transferred online a cumulative amount of Rs 102 crore, which was the fourth and last installment of home finance, to 68,000 beneficiaries, officials said.Chouhan had said that 17 lakh homes out of a total of 20.30 lakh have been completed under the rural component of PMAY, and the target for 2019-20 was to build six lakh homes, of which 3.45 lakh have been completed.Those who could not get benefit of the scheme at this time will be covered under the ‘Awas Plus’ scheme of PMAY, Chouhan added.During his interaction with some beneficiaries, Chouhan was told by one Sushila Vishwakarma of Betul that she and her husband had built their home in 49 days on their own.Dhar’s Gulab Singh and Gwalior’s Namdeo, both beneficiaries, thanked the government for assistance under the scheme due to which they now have homes of their own.Additional Chief Secretary (Panchayat and Rural Development Department) Manoj Shrivastava said PM Modi would interact with three beneficiaries during the function on Saturday.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-mp-cm-to-take-part-in-housing-scheme-e-function-on-saturday/story-DCmzvjKXLjRc3tR1Oc5WlJ.html
12-09-2020||India||Man’s arm hacked in Haryana; SIT formed||Haryana police formed a special investigation team on Friday after a Muslim barber alleged his right arm was hacked off by four people in Panipat on August 24.Akhlaq Salmani, a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur, told police his arm was chopped off around 1.30am on August 24 in Panipat town, where he had gone in search of a job. Salmani’s brother, Ikram, alleged the crime was committed after the culprits allegedly spotted the number 786 tattooed on his right arm. “My brother’s hand was cut because 786 was written on his hand,” alleged Ikram. The number 786 has a holy context in Islamic religious scriptures. Panipat superintendent of police, Manisha Chaudhary, confirmed the crime but added that Salmani did not mention the tattoo in his complaint. The FIR, lodged on September 7, said around 1.30am on August 24, Salmani was near the Kishanpur area of Panipat, searching for water. When he knocked at a house, four people allegedly attacked him with sticks and bricks, dragged him to a nearby saw machine and chopped his right arm off with a chainsaw. They later dumped him near the railway track, the FIR added. However, a second FIR filed on September 7 alleged that Akhlaq sodomised a young boy on August 23 and his hand was cut off when he fell on nearby railway tracks while fleeing from the spot. Both the FIRs were filed on September 7 after he recorded his statement from a hospital bed at PGIMS, Rohtak, where police admitted him after spotting him on railway tracks on August 24.“An SIT under Panipat DSP Satish Vats has been formed to investigate both the cases and the police will soon contact Akhlaq to join the investigation,” said Chaudhary. When Salmani reached his home in Nanauta town of Saharanpur district on September 8, his family alleged he was attacked because of his religion. This sparked a political row with Saharanpur MP and Bahujan Samaj Party leader Fajlur Rehman, Samajwadi Party district president Rudrasen and Bhim Army district president Raj Gautam visiting Salmani’s home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-s-arm-hacked-in-haryana-sit-formed/story-zeGQIm5yLE6MO0pBimm81K.html
12-09-2020||India||Factory output contracts for fifth consecutive month||India’s factory output, as measured by the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) contracted by 10.4% on an annual basis in July, according to data released by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation. This is the fifth consecutive month of contraction in IIP. While the contraction is in keeping with a Reuters forecast, it is better than the projected figure (11.5%).On the brighter side, the data does show a sequential recovery in industrial activity over the previous months. Experts believe a sequential recovery will continue in the months of August and September, but that the lack of fiscal stimulus and dissipation of pent-up demand could generate headwinds to this process.Also read: Moody’s projects Indian economy to contract 11.5% this fiscalIndustrial activity in the month of July this year was lower than its last year levels in all categories. IIP is classified into two kinds of categories. Economic activity-based categories include mining and quarrying, manufacturing, and electricity. Usage-based categories include primary goods, intermediate goods, capital goods, infrastructure goods and consumer goods. The last category has a sub-classification of consumer durables and non-durables. A look at the usage-based categories suggests that both consumption and investment, the two crucial drivers of growth, continue to present a grim picture. While all sub-sectors continue to show a sequential improvement—this month’s numbers are better than previous months—the contraction in capital goods and consumer durables is still more than 20% on an annual basis.India’s industrial output suffered a contraction of 38% on an annual basis in the first quarter (April-June) of the current fiscal year. The overall GDP contracted by 23.9%.The government has said that the first quarter’s performance was because of the exogenous shock of the lockdown and the economy is in the process of staging a V-shaped recovery. A V-shape implies that economic activity will quickly come back to its normal levels after suffering a sharp fall.Also read: Govt considering series of measures to boost economyHigh frequency indicators which are available for the post-July period, such as the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for August and Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) until last week, do support claims of a continuing sequential recovery. PMI manufacturing breached the threshold of 50 —a PMI value greater than 50 signifies expansion in economic activity—in August for the first time since April. NIBRI climbed to 77.4 in the week ending September 6, the highest since the lockdown was imposed on March 25. But other indicators such as consumption of petroleum products paint a different picture. According to data released by the petroleum ministry, consumption of petroleum products in the month of August was the lowest since April. The fall was driven by diesel consumption, suggesting a fall in goods transport.The July IIP numbers suggest that the ongoing sequential recovery might be losing momentum as the curve is straying from a V-shaped pattern.Experts attribute this to continuing local lockdowns. “The data also shows that the sharp recovery witnessed in the month of May and June is now becoming somewhat flattish. Part of the reason is local/partial/ weekend lockdown imposed in many parts of the country, often without much advance intimation”, said a note by Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist at India ratings and research. The recovery could be further jeopardised as number of cases continue to rise. A research note by Nomura warned that the pick-up in resumption of economic activity was being driven by a “lockdown fatigue”.Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings, expects the to improve further in August and come close to zero in the month of September. “The critical sectors to be tracked would be auto in particular in the coming months which have shown some signs of a turnaround—based on pent up demand to an extent”, he added. Passenger vehicle sales improved by 14.1% on an annual basis in August, according to the Society for Automobile Manufacturers (Siam).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factory-output-contracts-for-fifth-consecutive-month/story-t3ypNWEEwzc52FFsiWABVJ.html
12-09-2020||India||An agenda for India’s New Deal to fix the Covid-infected economy | Opinion||India’s battle with coronavirus is on, with daily spikes in infections threatening to cross the one lakh mark. With easing of lockdown restrictions, things have improved slightly on the economic front but we have a long way to go to even catch up with the February 2020 level that itself was well below par. The adverse impact of the virus on the Indian economy is writ large everywhere with the first quarter of current year GDP indicating the economy contracted by 23.9%. There is hardly any section of the population that has not faced severe contraction of income in their occupation. The spectre of millions of migrant workers, walking on foot with all their belongings, across the length and breadth of our country is still fresh in every Indian’s mind. The march of these millions and millions of uneducated, unskilled and poor migrant labourers to their homes brought out the true picture of poverty and misery prevalent in our country for decades.The question is what were we doing all these years in the name of governing the country and states. Why did we fail to educate and skill these millions all these years? Why did we fail to provide a decent and affordable health care system to all our people? Why does every citizen have to still run from pillar to post to get justice and has to constantly struggle to save his dignity? Why have we failed to provide to millions even a decent dwelling with basic civic amenities? Where are the jobs for crores of our people who want to work and earn their livelihood.The time has come to rectify the mistakes of the past and build a strong and prosperous India. The pandemic has given us an opportunity to think afresh and take some major steps to turn the tide. Massive public spending programme will have to be undertaken urgently to not only create employment opportunities for our working population but also create demand across all major industrial sectors like steel , cement, machinery, equipment, manufacturing, building construction etc. Managing resources for the increased public expenditure is not difficult, there are many ways to manage the issue. It all has to begin with reforming the education and health system first. It is not rocket science that one needs bulky reports by subject matter experts to start any action. At present we have thousands of types of schools churning out thousand types of citizens across our nation. To revamp the existing education system with extremely poor infrastructure, the central government should announce a “National Programme for Rebuilding the School Education” and take up the responsibility to establish nearly 70,000 well equipped Class 1 to 12 schools across the nation that will truly be world class, equipped with all modern facilities to use IT-enabled education to provide the top quality of education to each and every student of our country. These schools will need to be fully equipped for providing vocational education to millions of students simultaneously. This will cost the nation nearly Rs 5 lakh crores over a three-year period. We already have more than adequate teaching posts sanctioned to man these schools so there shall not be any additional burden on account of salaries. These schools, spread across the country, each catering to nearly six to seven villages, will provide equality of opportunity in education to all our population and enable them to fully skill themselves to become economically productive.Similarly, through a “National Health Rejuvenation Programme”, well-equipped super-specialty hospitals should be established in every district to provide the level of healthcare that our constitution makers had envisioned. This will cost the central government barely Rs3 lakh crore over three years. This will also require complete change in the way the medical education system is being run today so that we not only start producing enough doctors for our requirement but for other countries across the world also.Our country is known for its pathetic infrastructure facility across all sectors. It is unfortunate that the highways which should not cost more than Rs 15 crore for a kilometre of a six-lane road are being built at the rate of Rs 60 to Rs 70 crore per kilometre. Through a “National Infrastructure Development Programme”, 20 thousand kilometre super highways will have to be built in three years time costing no more than Rs 3 lakh crore. Similarly, all the airports, ports, electricity distribution networks, and other infrastructure facilities can be made world class with an additional expenditure of nearly Rs 4 lakh crore in next four years.These four initiatives, to begin with, costing nearly Rs 15 lakh crores over four years, should become the “New Deal” of the central government, to not only transform India but will also kickstart the economy with jet speed and bring back mass employment, help pick up demand of all goods and services and bring the country back on the high growth path.In 1933, US President Franklin D Roosevelt came up with the nation-building programme called the “New Deal” to pull America out of “great depression”. It is an example for the present government to follow.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-agenda-for-india-s-new-deal-to-fix-the-covid-infected-economy-opinion/story-jl3Zm0k5fS3kMgawHajLMN.html
12-09-2020||India||Charting India’s pathway to the big leagues||Even before the coronavirus pandemic swept through the country, India was at a crossroads. Its sustained economic expansion, accelerated by pathbreaking reforms in 1991, slowed significantly. Convulsions around religion and citizenship roiled domestic politics under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Meanwhile, the aspirations of international leadership that India has harboured since independence remain unrealised.For all its recent shortcomings, however, India should not be counted out. At a time when China’s myriad pathologies have left many countries thirsting for an alternative exemplar, India could again become the world’s fastest-growing free market democracy. But it will need a new approach to revive its hopes of joining the league of great powers.Can India grow fast enough?India’s economic growth has contracted since 2018, alongside a larger global slowdown driven by falling commodity prices, declining international trade, intensifying U.S.-China tariff wars, and decreasing manufacturing output across the developed world. If these cyclical factors alone accounted for India’s weakening performance, New Delhi could get by on provisional remedies while waiting for global conditions to improve.The unpalatable reality, however, is that the Indian economy’s structural weaknesses intensified these cyclical headwinds. Investments slowed because heavily indebted Indian companies left India’s major public sector banks saddled with huge non-performing loans and other Indian financial intermediaries fell victim to bad investments, thus bringing credit expansion to a halt.The resulting contraction compressed consumer spending at a time when the global slowdown was also pushing down exports. Additional government spending could not compensate because falling revenues and the costs of debt restructuring had aggravated the government’s fiscal burden. The coronavirus pandemic only intensified this problem, forcing the Indian government to expend resources to save lives and livelihoods at immediate risk.While all these challenges contributed to India’s recent drop-off in growth, they do not sufficiently account for it. The deepest underlying cause — one only now receiving a serious response by the government — is India’s failure to complete the programme of reforms begun in 1991, which liberalised commodity prices, removed production constraints, and reopened India to international trade.Those measures did not do enough to subject land, labour, capital, and enterprise to the rigors of a genuinely free market. The necessary follow-on reforms on this count were put off — largely out of fear that voters would penalise political leaders for the difficult decisions involved, after having come to view high growth rates produced by the initial reforms as a new birthright.The consequences have been onerous. Acquiring land in India today, for example, remains an arduous and distasteful enterprise that deters all but the most intrepid or the most corrupt. Labour in the organised sector can be hired but not fired, because current law is indifferent to market conditions and firm needs. Labour productivity growth in the informal sector— where most Indians are employed — is abysmal. India’s public sector banks dominate the nation’s financial capital, directing it toward the wealthy and the powerful often at the government’s behest with limited regard for viability. And red tape, corruption, arbitrary taxation, and unpredictable policies continue to sap both foreign investment and domestic entrepreneurship.Even as India struggles to reform these conditions, it has focused more resolutely on expanded distribution rather than growth. To attack inequality, the Indian state has tried to provide the disadvantaged segments of its population with subsidised food, medical services, electricity, and cooking fuel. These are commendable initiatives, but they ultimately must be paid for through accelerated economic growth. Yet this is precisely where India has faltered: without the structural changes that deepen markets, improve regulatory capacity, and expand human and physical capital through targeted investments, India will struggle to regain growth rates of 7 per cent and above — the minimum level necessary to sustain its development and its great power ambitions.Modi’s government has initiated important reforms under the pressure of the coronavirus crisis. Modi has encouraged states ruled by his party to institute land and labour reforms, even as the central government has begun to transform policies for agriculture and other industries to attract investments leaving China.Whether these efforts will produce lasting success, only time will tell. But India historically has only pushed forward with reforms when its back is to the wall — and, today, it is. Between the coronavirus pandemic and the heightened security threats from China, India needs to revive its economic growth in a hurry. The current crises may tip the balance in favour of the decisions necessary to free up the country’s substantial untapped capacity and master its myriad challenges.Can India play a meaningful global role? India’s economic performance remains its best instrument to shape the international system. But its role in international trade, its defence investments, and its conception of the global order also affect its rise to power.The coronavirus pandemic has unfortunately added momentum to the backlash against international trade, but jumping on the protectionist bandwagon in pursuit of self-sufficiency would provide India only illusory benefits. There is no way that India can reach its ambitious growth goals without expanded exports, which have recently been the fastest-growing slice of its economy. Those exports often depend on foreign inputs and cannot be sustained if India suppresses imports through higher tariffs, localisation requirements, and other trade barriers. Rooting for trade expansion — at least among friends, if not beyond — offers the greatest opportunities for Indian leadership and revived growth. But New Delhi’s inability to conclude even a modest trade truce with the United States, let alone integrate itself into the wider Asian economic system, is not reassuring.Defence investment presents parallel challenges. India’s slowing economy has constrained its defence spending —especially planned expenditures on modernisation — at a time when frontier security remains a major preoccupation. Any state seeking to become a great power, however, must influence outcomes beyond its immediate borders. Yet the economic downturn has left India without the necessary resources to expand its reach. Now that Chinese military assertiveness along India’s borders promises to bring new troubles, the financial constraints on India’s defence modernisation could prove especially costly.The persistent obsession with indigenising defence production will not help matters either. The belief that a country of India’s size should not import advanced weapons extensively is driven by sentiment at the expense of rational calculations about domestic capacity and economies of scale. Instead, India should import as needed to equip its military with the best operational capabilities while nurturing the development of critical components, subsystems, and technologies that can be integrated into global defence supply chains. This strategy offers better prospects than self-reliance for both securing cutting-edge technologies and stimulating domestic manufacturing.In recent years, India’s deepened strategic engagement with partners such as Australia, France, Israel, Japan, Singapore, and the United States has given it more room to play on the global geopolitical stage. Through better access to more advanced technology, increased exercises with highly proficient foreign militaries, and greater diplomatic coordination with other regional partners, India’s influence continues to enlarge, making it a stronger counterweight to troublesome challengers such as China. Ironically, India’s economic weakness has diminished its capacity to control its own neighbourhood even as it has fortified other global ties. And New Delhi’s policies on global issues such as data management, international trade, and sometimes even religious freedoms put it at odds with its Western partners, reminding the world more of India’s extant infirmities than of its growing strengths.India’s own conception of global order —centered on preserving a diverse, non-violent, non-discriminatory, polycentric state system — is not inherently incompatible with liberal internationalism. Consequently, there is no reason why India should not defend the liberal order more vigorously, both at home and abroad, despite its colonial history and its occasional disagreements with the West on norms such as the “responsibility to protect”. Can India remain a liberal democracy? Unlike China, India has seen its rise widely welcomed: it proved that rapid growth could occur even in a liberal democratic society marked by sharp demographic heterogeneities and severe developmental challenges. In fact, the United States and many other Western powers jumped at the prospect of aiding India’s ascent, presuming that it would not misuse its power against its own citizens or its neighbours. Yet a recent wave of policies widely perceived to be illiberal has eroded this confidence. Critics within and outside India point to many developments such as the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s autonomy, the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and the possibility of implementing a National Register of Citizens as evidence of a weakening commitment to liberalism. The government’s defences of these moves have not satisfied India’s minority groups or others concerned about India’s direction. But more than government policy is at issue here: key Indian institutions are weakening dangerously, and important segments of the population appear disenchanted with their country’s liberal inheritance.The community of liberal democracies internationally stands to lose if domestic unrest fuelled by confrontational politics stymies India’s growth or if India enlarges its material capabilities only by sacrificing its liberal character. Either outcome would dilute the West’s eagerness to partner with India.To be sure, India’s relevance in the Indo-Pacific will survive, thanks to the exigencies of balancing China. This ensures continued engagement by the United States and other powers, but a constrained acquiescence to partnership is a poor substitute for the enthusiastic boosting of India that would otherwise occur if its liberal credentials were not contested. For all its difficulties, India is by no means out of the great power game. It possesses vast and still largely untapped potential. But realising that potential will require New Delhi to deepen its economic reforms in order to expand its national power, use that power to strengthen the liberal international order in partnership with its fellow democracies, and remain a credible example of how liberal politics can advance development in large, diverse countries outside of the West. On each count, India will have to meaningfully correct course if it is to achieve these ambitious aims.(Ashley J. Tellis holds the Tata Chair for Strategic Affairs and is a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. This essay was first published as a part of Carnegie’s digital publication, The Day After — Navigating a Post Pandemic World.) “The views expressed are personal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charting-india-s-pathway-to-the-big-leagues/story-RT3xpu14ZjNsfC7JwgiVZM.html
12-09-2020||India||Only one man holds key to China’s moves||When Chinese foreign minister Huang Hua met Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on June 29, 1981, the two agreed that unless the boundary question was settled, it would be difficult to maintain friendship and goodwill between the two neighbours.More than 39 years later, the People’s Liberation Army and the Chinese foreign ministry appear to be on different pages on this tenet. The PLA is hard at work in its single-minded effort to reach to the Green Line defined by a 1959 map drafted by then Chinese Premier Chou En-Lai while the foreign ministry is talking about building bilateral economic ties, which over the years, favoured Beijing.Much as State Councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi tried to gloss over a near war-like situation in Ladakh during his two-hour-long meeting with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, the fact is that the 1981 parallel track policy of working to build on harmonious ties even as the two countries sorted out the boundary issue has not paid any dividends to India.Instead, India has lost territory since then, letting 65 patrolling points defined by the China Study Group in 1976 turn into the de facto Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. The patrolling points are well within the Indian perception of the LAC but the movement of the Indian forces to these points has been curtailed by the presence of Chinese troops, face-offs with PLA patrolling parties and on occasion, harsh weather and mountainous terrain.As Wang and Jaishankar arrived at a five-point consensus in Moscow to first disengage, and then de-escalate in Ladakh, the Communist Party of China mouthpiece Global Times continued to play up its war-mongering editorial line .“If India wants peace, China and India should uphold the LAC of November 7, 1959. If India wants war, China will oblige,” the tabloid, considered an extended arm of the Chinese government, said. It claimed that India does not want to implement the 1959 LAC as it is still nursing a grudge for its failure in 1962 war. It is this 1962 mindset that pervades the regime of Xi Jinping. President Xi, who evidently sees himself as a true successor to Mao Zedong, who decided to target India in 1962 by creating an impression that India was out to occupy Tibet.The aggressive line projected by the party’s mouthpiece is totally at odds with State Councillor Wang Yi’s stand at his meeting with Jaishankar where the Chinese side did not appear to acknowledge the role of the PLA in spiking tensions. Given China’s expansionist plans to make unilateral cartographic changes in Ladakh, the disengagement process will not be easy. The PLA wants to reach the 1959 Green Line and push Indian Army troops beyond the self-designated line. This is completely in violation of the 1993 Peace and Tranquillity Accord, which talks about mutual and equal security on the border for both sides.Under the circumstances, India will have to wait for PLA Commander-in-Chief and President Xi Jinping to give instructions to his western theatre command troops to return to their barracks if Beijing is seriously interested in rolling back the aggression. While the Chinese political mindset has not changed since 1962, the Indian mindset has. Beijing must take this into account before making the next move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-one-man-holds-key-to-china-s-moves/story-Lkna8WacA8V5bEl1bMC1hK.html
12-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||I have a data wish list. It changes, like all good wish lists must. The current wish list is heavy on data related to rapid antigen tests.I have been writing for months about the context in which it makes sense for these tests to be used – and the context in which it doesn’t. I have also suggested a hack (two rapid antigen tests administered in parallel) if these tests need to be administered even in the context where it doesn’t make sense to. There is a reason for this. Many rapid antigen tests are inaccurate when it comes to so-called false negatives. In plain English, this means they show infected individuals as uninfected – potentially disastrous in the case of Covid-19 because it means infected individuals will be at large, infecting others, including those from the most vulnerable population segments.Also read: 6.4 million Covid-19 cases were estimated in India by early May, says first national serosurvey reportBut back to the wish list.I’d like all states to separately mention the number of Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (or RT-PCR) tests – a mouthful, but these molecular tests are very accurate – and the number of rapid antigen tests they conduct every day, not just provide a consolidated number. I’d also like them to mention how many RT-PCR tests resulted in a positive identification, and how many antigen tests did. This might require some changes in how they report data – there isn’t a direct correspondence between the daily test and new case numbers (the latter correspond to the previous day’s numbers where RT-PCR tests are concerned, sometimes to tests done two, even three days previously), although everyone assumes there is one. But it can be done.This information is important because antigen tests may push positivity rates down.This is how the math works. According to the Harvard Medical School, for instance, the reported rate of false negatives in antigen tests could be as high as 50%. Consider a population where the prevalence of the coronavirus disease is 20% — a proportion that is lower than what sero surveys (antibody tests) have come up with in some parts of the country. This means that in a population of 100 people, 20 are infected. Let us assume this population is tested – half using RT-PCR tests and the rest using antigen tests – and that the number of infected is providentially shared equally between these two groups. Of the 50 who undergo RT-PCR tests, 10 are identified as positive (to be sure, there are times when these tests are also wrong, but such instances are rare). Of the 50 who undergo antigen tests, assuming a false negative of 50%, only five are identified as positive. The overall positivity rate works out to 15%, when it should actually be 20%. As the proportion of antigen tests in overall tests rises, it is clear that the positivity rate will fall.Also read: Covid-19 respite for Mumbai unlikely till New Year says BMC, it has a logicThis is what states using a disproportionate number of antigen tests have to guard against. At one level, the inaccuracy of the test means a significant number of infected people are still at large (instead of being quarantined). At another, it means that the actual positivity rate in the state is higher than the reported number. Because many of the infections are mild or asymptomatic, the infected people are unlikely to require hospitalisation – although there is always the chance that they will infect someone from a vulnerable segment.Over the past three days (September 8-10), between 85% and 87% of all tests conducted in Bihar (the state conducted over 100,000 tests on each of the days) were rapid antigen tests. Bihar’s average positivity rate over these three days was 1.2%.In the same period, between 62% and 67% of all tests conducted in Uttar Pradesh (the state conducted at least 140,000 tests on each of the three days) were rapid antigen tests. Uttar Pradesh’s average positivity rate over these three days was 4.6%.And, in Delhi, between 78% and 84% of all tests conducted over the past three days (the Capital conducted at least 45,000 tests on each of the days) were rapid antigen tests. Delhi’s average positivity rate over these three days was 7.6%.Of the three, Delhi is the only state to have seen the trajectory that positivity rates follow in regions testing adequately (a rise to a peak and then a fall; Delhi’s peak positivity rate was 36.9% on June 13).I have picked these three but there are other states, too, that use a significant number of antigen tests. There is a context in which antigen tests can and should be used, but their indiscriminate use may well present an inaccurate picture.The good news: accurate antigen tests have been developed (a previous instalment of this column wrote about one) and may soon be available in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-LAhwgCTRJOPBbOGfLW0z4J.html
12-09-2020||India||Odisha announces Rs 300 crore package for flood-hit farmers||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a special package of Rs 300 crore in livelihood support for the flood affected farmers.The flood in the Brahmani and Mahanadi river system in August had affected 1.4 million people in the state and left 22 people dead. To help the affected farmers and others, the state government announced agriculture input subsidy to the small and marginal farmers who have sustained crop loss of 33% and above at Rs 6,800 per hectare of land in rain-fed/non irrigated areas, Rs13,500 per hectare of land in areas under assured irrigation, and Rs 18,000 per hectare for all types of perennial crops. Perennial crops will include mango, cashew, coconut, kewra, betel vine etc. Besides, 20,000 pulse seed minikits will be provided to the flood affected farmers during Rabi 2020. Under the package, 60,000 acres of demonstration programmes of different crops will be taken up in affected districts in the ensuing Rabi season.Besides, 2000 pump sets would be provided with 50% subsidy limited to a maximum of Rs15,000 while 5,000 power sprayers will be given to flood affected farmers at a subsidy of 50% limited to maximum of Rs 3,000 for battery operated sprayers and Rs 600 for hand operated sprayers.One lakh farmers will be trained on seed treatment programme with free supply of seed treatment chemicals/bio-pesticides to cover one lakh acres for increasing production in Rabi crops.Farm Mechanisation Subsidy of Rs 10 crore will be disbursed to the affected districts. One lakh farmers will be provided with vegetable kits involving seeds of palak, beans, cowpea, tomato, chilli and radish, etc. to meet their immediate needs through a kitchen garden at the Rs130 per kit.Another 75,000 farmers will be provided with 10 quick growing fruit species like Papaya, Banana and Drumstick at Rs160 per affected farmers to raise backyard gardens in the flood-hit districts.Rs 500 per unit will be provided for shade net/thatched structure for renovation of 10,000 mushroom units affected by flood to farmers for livelihood support.Short term Kharif loans advanced in the food affected areas having crop loss of 33% and above would be converted into Medium Term (Conversion) loans.Assistance for replacement of animals shall be provided towards loss of animals at Rs 30,000 per milch cow and buffalo, Rs 25,000 per draught animal (upto 3 animals), Rs 16,000 per calf (upto 6 animals), Rs 3,000 per goat (upto 30 animals), Rs 50 per poultry bird (maximum Rs 5,000)Fisheries sectorFinancial assistance of Rs 12,200 per hectare will be provided to fish farmers (Freshwater/ Brackish water) for repair of damaged fish ponds/ dykes.Input subsidy at Rs 8200 per hectare will be given for de-silting/restoration/ repair of damaged fish seed farm.Handloom & Handicrafts SectorAssistance of Rs 4100 per weaver/handicrafts artisan will be provided for replacement tools/equipment and Rs 4100 per weaver/handicrafts artisan towards loss of raw materials/goods in process/finished goods.Employment GenerationWorks under MGNREGA will be intensified once flood water subsides. The focus will be given on works like repair and maintenance of GP roads, Playfields, canals, earthen bunds, goat shed, cowshed, and fodder cultivation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-announces-rs-300-crore-package-for-flood-hit-farmers/story-tFQapracpFRSOuyKyIG2rO.html
12-09-2020||India||NDMC’s 40-member team to keep Parliament deep-clean||The New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) has devised an elaborate plan involving a special 40-member team to sanitise Parliament before and during the monsoon session, which begins next week in the backdrop of a recent spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the Capital, officials said on Friday.Deep cleaning of Parliament whenever there is an adjournment, and regular sanitisation of the entire complex, are two highlights of the plan, according to the officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity. They pointed out that the first phase of the sanitisation drive has already begun in and around the complex and that it will be completed in the next two days. Officials also said NDMC, along with the Union health ministry and the New Delhi district administration, is conducting Covid-19 tests on parliamentary staff at 10 centres in the complex.The monsoon session will convene on September 14 and continue till October 1.According to a senior NDMC official, the special team will carry out sanitisation drives three times on a typical work day while the House is in session — before the sitting every morning, during breaks, and when the session is adjourned for the day.“We will also ensure deep sanitisation every time the session is adjourned on any issue. Sanitiser dispensing machines have been installed on the premises. We don’t want to take any chances as the session is being conducted amid the pandemic,” the official said.He said extra staff will be on standby to ensure there is no laxity in sanitisation, testing and cleanliness.This official added that the team — it will be deployed in addition to the staff deployed for usual cleanliness work in the complex — has been divided into two groups of 20 workers. “One group will ensure deep cleaning and sanitisation inside Parliament House, while the other will take care of the areas outside such as corridors, offices of ministers and staff rooms, among other places,” the official said.In normal circumstances, the civic body carries out cleaning exercises and drives against mosquitoes in the complex before any session, another NDMC official said. But this year, there are additional responsibilities of testing and thorough daily sanitisation in the wake of the pandemic, he added.“We are dedicated to ensuring a safe session of Parliament. Thorough sanitisation exercises will be conducted. However, we will be doing it for the first time on such a large scale. At this point, we will not be able to tell the exact time needed to conduct the daily exercises,” the second official said.A third official, who is from NDMC’s public health department, said the civic agency has been conducting Covid-19 testing for Parliament officials and staff since September 5.“Our testing process is underway at 10 testing centres set up in the Parliament complex at different locations...With the House commencing on Monday, the number of testing centres will be increased. Covid-19 testing counters will be opened at all entry gates of parliament building premises,” the official said.PK Sharma, former head of NDMC’s public health department, said: “It is good that thorough sanitisation exercises and testing will be done, as nearly 1,000 people are expected to be on the premises...Along with precautionary measures by concerned agencies, public cooperation and strict enforcement of guidelines are key to controlling the spread of the virus.”The additional safety steps come at a time when Parliament is preparing to hold the session under the shadow of the coronavirus. Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha authorities are focusing on every detail to ensure the safety of lawmakers and workers during the 18-day session.Doorstep Covid-19 tests for MPs, the freedom to deliver a speech in the House while seated, options to undergo real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at their constituency before heading to Delhi, and one-way movement in the Central Hall and key corridors are some of the new measures the House will adopt.Visitors and media persons will not be allowed access to areas, including the Central Hall, during the upcoming session. Media, however, will be allowed to cover the session from press gallery. There will be no question hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndmc-s-40-member-team-to-keep-parliament-deep-clean/story-zsBAPOuzuGApINKZjwPK4L.html
12-09-2020||India||CBI asks for govt nod to prosecute ex-CAG Sharma||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has sought sanction from the Union government to prosecute former defence secretary and Comptroller and Auditor General of India Shashi Kant Sharma, former Air-Vice Marshal Jasbir Singh Panesar, and three other Indian Air Force (IAF) officers in connection with irregularities in the ₹3,727-crore AgustaWestland chopper deal, people familiar with the development said. Sharma was joint secretary (air) in the ministry of defence when the contract for supplying 12 VVIP helicopters was under consideration, and when operational requirements (OR) for the deal were being finalised. The contract – alleged violations and kickbacks in the deal became one of the biggest controversies during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime — was given to Anglo-Italian firm AgustaWestland in February 2010. The deal was eventually scrapped in 2014Sharma was later India’s defence secretary, between July 2011 and May 2013, and then CAG till 2017. This is the first time his name has come up in connection with the case.The words “JS Air” – an apparent reference to the designation joint secretary (air) — appeared repeatedly in Italian court judgments in the matter, as part of a note written by British middleman Christian Michel, who allegedly arranged kickbacks to politicians and officials in India. Exact details of Sharma’s role, however, were not known.“As JS (Air), Sharma was part of key meetings in the defence ministry,” said a CBI official when asked about the prosecution sanction. He declined to give any other details, while confirming the request was made in writing to the defence ministry. HT has seen the document making the request. The details of the alleged role played by Sharma in the case are not clear at this time.Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act makes it mandatory for CBI to seek a prosecution sanction from the concerned department before filing a charge sheet against a government official.Sharma denied the charges. “I had a long unblemished service record of over 40 years and nobody can blame me for any malafide action or decision. I strongly and firmly deny any such frivolous allegation,” he told HT. A second CBI officer, who asked not to be named, contended that Panesar and the three IAF officers played important and questionable roles in the purchase and testing of the AW-101 helicopters. More details of Panesar’s alleged role are not known at this time.The three officers against whom sanctions have been sought from the defence ministry are deputy chief test pilot SA Kunte, Wing Commander Thomas Mathew, and Group Captain N Santosh. The three officers have retired.Panesar and the three officers could not be reached. The Directorate of Veteran’s office did not share their contact details.The second CBI officer added that a supplementary charge sheet, detailing the alleged roles played by Sharma, Panesar, Kunte, Mathew and Santosh, is ready and will be filed as soon as the government accords sanction. The charge sheet will also detail the role of about a dozen other officials and individuals that amount to conspiracy and violation under the prevention of corruption act, he added. On Michel, the CBI supplementary charge sheet will explain how he paid bribes to Indian officials to influence the decision in the favour of AgustaWestland, and later destroyed the trail, said the second officer.Michel was extradited to India in December 2018 and is currently lodged in Tihar jail. CBI filed its first charge sheet in the case in September 2017, naming former IAF chief SP Tyagi; former Air-Vice Marshal JS Gujral; former AgustaWestland CEO Bruno Spagnolini; former Finmeccanica chairman Giuseppe Orsi; Michel and his two associates, Guido Ralph Haschke and Carlo Gerosa; SP Tyagi’s cousin Sanjeev Tyagi; and Delhi-based lawyer-middleman Gautam Khaitan. They have all denied any wrongdoing.According to a note, allegedly written by Michel sometime in 2008 at his London office, 30 million euros were to be distributed among Indian bureaucrats, politicians, and air force officers. The note used abbreviations of designations under the heads “AF” (which, investigators allege, meant air force), “BUR” (bureaucrats, according to sleuths), “POL” (politicians) and “Fam” (believed to be SP Tyagi’s family). The note mentioned that 6 million euros were for “AF”, 8.4 million euros for “BUR”, 3 million euros for “Pol” and 15-16 million euros for “Fam”. Several of the abbreviations under the header were revealed by Guido Haschke to Italian investigators, according to court documents. The Italian court’s 2016 judgment in the case – it sentenced Orsi and Spagnolini – said that Haschke admitted to these expenses incurred by Michel on the Indian military, bureaucracy, and politicians. Spagnolini and Orsi were acquitted later by an appeals court in Milan in September 2018.CBI claimed in its first charge sheet (HT has seen a copy) that, in 2004, officials at Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), Special Protection Group (SPG) and air force and ministry of defence officials, agreed to change the mandatory service ceiling of the helicopters from 6,000 meters to 4,500. This, it alleged, ultimately benefitted Anglo-Italian firm AgustaWestland. CBI also says it has established a “money trail” of 62 million euros (around ₹415 crore) out of suspected 67 million euros (₹452 crore) in bribes allegedly paid to Indian officials through middlemen. The irregularities in the award of contract to AgustaWestland led to estimated loss of 398.21 million euros (around ₹2,666 crore) to the Indian government in the 556.262 million euros (₹3,726.9 crore) contract, according to CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-asks-for-govt-nod-to-prosecute-ex-cag-sharma/story-zOCGwD8AwkPkH3cUegjQdK.html
12-09-2020||India||Key changes, boost to Team Rahul as Congress rejigs panels||The Congress announced a major organisational reshuffle on Friday, an exercise that a section in the party hoped will put a lid on a growing buzz over differences between its younger leaders and the old guard, even as fresh discontent appeared to be brewing over the move.Congress president Sonia Gandhi formed a five-member special team that will help her in day-to-day matters; reconstituted the party’s Central Election Authority (CEA), which will conduct the organisational polls to elect a new party president; revamped its highest decision-making body, the Central Working Committee (CWC); and removed some key faces, including senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mallikarjun Kharge, as general secretaries. However, both of them were retained in CWC.The reshuffle comes against the backdrop of 23 Congress leaders, including four CWC members (Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada), writing a letter to Sonia Gandhi on August 7, and calling for full-time leadership and an introspection behind the “steady decline” of the 135-year-old organisation while outlining 11-point action plan.The letter-writers, who triggered a flutter and drew flak from the party, had demanded the election of CWC members, and not nomination as announced on Friday. Some of them did not appear to be satisfied with the changes, and the manner in which they were carried out. “The wisdom of great minds has prevailed. Nomination seems to be the rule and election is not even an exception,” senior leader Kapil Sibal, one of the 23 signatories of the controversial letter, said on Friday.Manish Tewari, also a letter-writer, cryptically said: “Success is not final, failure is not fatal. It is the courage to continue that counts. I persevere in the hope that we shall do our duty to protect the idea of India that Gandhi, Nehru, Patel and Ambedkar gave their lives for.”While the four letter-writers, who were part of the CWC, retained their place in the highest decision-making body — an indication, according to some functionaries, that the party leadership was trying to strike a conciliatory note — there appeared to be an infusion of leaders close to Rahul Gandhi in other senior organisational roles across states.In an August 24 CWC meeting, Sonia Gandhi had asked for a committee to help her in organisational and operational affairs till the next session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) to be held within six months. The panel that will assist her comprised AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala, the party’s chief spokesperson. Wasnik was one of signatories of the letter.The five-member CEA will be headed by Madhusudan Mistry and the members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely, another of the letter-writers. The newly inducted general secretaries included Surjewala (Karnataka), Jitendra Singh (Assam) and Tariq Anwar (Kerala and Lakshadweep). The newly appointed in-charges were Dinesh Gundu Rao (Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa), Manickam Tagore (Telangana), Vivek Bansal (Haryana), Pawan Kumar Bansal (administration), Rajeev Shukla (Himachal Pradesh), HK Patil (Maharashtra), Devendra Yadav (Uttarakhand), Manish Chatrath (Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya), Bhakta Charan Das (Mizoram and Manipur), and Kuljit Singh Nagra (Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura). Digvijaya Singh, Salman Khurshid, Jairam Ramesh, Pramod Tiwari and Chinta Mohan will attend CWC meetings; the body will have 22 members, 26 permanent invitees, and nine special invitees. Former finance minister P Chidambaram was elevated from a permanent invitee to full-time member of the CWC. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel and Ambika Soni, among others, were retained as CWC members.The restructuring also saw the exit of eight existing CWC members – Motilal Vora, Luizinho Falerio, Tamradhwaj Sahu, Asha Kumari, Gaurav Gogoi, Anugrah Narayan Singh, Ram Chandra Khuntia and Arun Yadav. Gogoi, who was also dropped as the general secretary incharge of West Bengal, said the decisions were part of a larger change. “This is a massive exercise and I welcome these changes. This announcement will put a lid on all rumours about camps and young versus senior,” he said.Prasada, a CWC member and one of the letter-writers, will now look after the party affairs in West Bengal, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Those who were retained as general secretaries were Harish Rawat (Punjab), Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (Uttar Pradesh), Oommen Chandy (Andhra Pradesh), Ajay Maken (Rajasthan), KC Venugopal (organisation). Among the in-charges retained were RPN Singh (Jharkhand), Rajani Patil (Jammu and Kashmir), PL Punia (Chhattisgarh), Shaktisinh Gohil (Bihar and Delhi), A Chellakumar (Odisha), and Rajeev Satav (Gujarat, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu). “It’s a new team with both experience and youth. I want to thank Soniaji and Rahulji. In these vicious times, where lies and hate are consuming this country, it’s time for the Congress to rise to the occasion. I’m sure this new team will rise to the occasion,” said Dinesh Gundu Rao. Manickam Tagore said:“It is going to be a huge challenge. And the leadership has kept the younger team in the battlefield. The policy making body of the CWC has all the senior party leaders for larger issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-changes-boost-to-team-rahul-as-congress-rejigs-panels/story-LMBpOUO7zlNrjs88vVig9L.html
12-09-2020||India||Key changes, boost to Team Rahul as Cong rejigs panels||New Delhi The Congress announced a major organisational reshuffle on Friday, an exercise that a section in the party hoped will put a lid on a growing buzz over differences between its younger leaders and the old guard, even as fresh discontent appeared to be brewing over the move.Congress president Sonia Gandhi formed a five-member special team that will help her in day-to-day matters; reconstituted the party’s Central Election Authority (CEA), which will conduct the organisational polls to elect a new party president; revamped its highest decision-making body, the Central Working Committee (CWC); and removed some key faces, including senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mallikarjun Kharge, as general secretaries. However, both of them were retained in CWC.The reshuffle comes against the backdrop of 23 Congress leaders, including four CWC members (Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada), writing a letter to Sonia Gandhi on August 7, and calling for full-time leadership and an introspection behind the “steady decline” of the 135-year-old organisation while outlining 11-point action plan.The letter-writers, who triggered a flutter and drew flak from the party, had demanded the election of CWC members, and not nomination as announced on Friday. Some of them did not appear to be satisfied with the changes, and the manner in which they were carried out. “The wisdom of great minds has prevailed. Nomination seems to be the rule and election is not even an exception,” senior leader Kapil Sibal, one of the 23 signatories of the controversial letter, said on Friday.Manish Tewari, also a letter-writer, cryptically said: “Success is not final, failure is not fatal. It is the courage to continue that counts. I persevere in the hope that we shall do our duty to protect the idea of India that Gandhi, Nehru, Patel and Ambedkar gave their lives for.”While the four letter-writers, who were part of the CWC, were retained in the highest decision-making body — an indication, according to some functionaries, that the party leadership was trying to strike a conciliatory note — there appeared to be an infusion of leaders close to Rahul Gandhi in other senior organisational roles across states.In an August 24 CWC meeting, Sonia Gandhi had asked for a special committee to help her in organisational and operational affairs till the next session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) to be held within six months. The panel that will assist her comprised AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala, the party’s chief spokesperson. Wasnik was one of signatories of the letter.The five-member CEA will be headed by Madhusudan Mistry and the members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely, another of the letter-writers. The newly inducted general secretaries included Surjewala (Karnataka), Jitendra Singh (Assam) and Tariq Anwar (Kerala and Lakshadweep). The newly appointed in-charges were Dinesh Gundu Rao (Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa), Manickam Tagore (Telangana), Vivek Bansal (Haryana), Pawan Kumar Bansal (administration), Rajeev Shukla (Himachal Pradesh), HK Patil (Maharashtra), Devendra Yadav (Uttarakhand), Manish Chatrath (Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya), Bhakta Charan Das (Mizoram and Manipur), and Kuljit Singh Nagra (Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura). Digvijaya Singh, Salman Khurshid, Jairam Ramesh, Pramod Tiwari and Chinta Mohan will attend CWC meetings; the body will have 22 members, 26 permanent invitees, and nine special invitees. Former finance minister P Chidambaram was elevated from a permanent invitee to full-time member of the CWC. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel and Ambika Soni, among others, were retained as CWC members.The restructuring also saw the exit of eight existing CWC members – Motilal Vora, Luizinho Falerio, Tamradhwaj Sahu, Asha Kumari, Gaurav Gogoi, Anugrah Narayan Singh, Ram Chandra Khuntia and Arun Yadav. Gogoi, who was also dropped as the general secretary incharge of West Bengal, said the decisions were part of a larger change. “This is a massive exercise and I welcome these changes. This announcement will put a lid on all rumours about camps and young versus senior,” he said.Prasada, a CWC member and one of the letter-writers, will now look after the party affairs in West Bengal, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Those who were retained as general secretaries were Harish Rawat (Punjab), Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (Uttar Pradesh), Oommen Chandy (Andhra Pradesh), Ajay Maken (Rajasthan), KC Venugopal (organisation). Among the in-charges retained were RPN Singh (Jharkhand), Rajani Patil (Jammu and Kashmir), PL Punia (Chhattisgarh), Shaktisinh Gohil (Bihar and Delhi), A Chellakumar (Odisha), and Rajeev Satav (Gujarat, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu). “It’s a new team with both experience and youth. I want to thank Soniaji and Rahulji. In these vicious times, where lies and hate are consuming this country, it’s time for the Congress to rise to the occasion. I’m sure this new team will rise to the occasion,” said Dinesh Gundu Rao. Manickam Tagore said:“It is going to be a huge challenge. And the leadership has kept the younger team in the battlefield. The policy making body of the CWC has all the senior party leaders for larger issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-changes-boost-to-team-rahul-as-cong-rejigs-panels/story-DX8DaStz0GsLsgah2bDBjP.html
12-09-2020||India||Fresh five-point plan to douse flare-up at border||India and China have finalised a five-point road map to address the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), including disengagement of troops and easing of tensions, even as New Delhi conveyed its strong concern at the massing of Chinese troops without any credible reason and will now wait to see if Beijing translates its words into action. The consensus on the five points was reached during talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow on Thursday evening. The talks lasted two-and-half hours. A joint statement issued early on Friday morning said that the ministers agreed both sides should be guided by the consensus of the top leadership on developing India-China relations, “including not allowing differences to become disputes”. They agreed the situation on the LAC is not in the interest of either country, and “therefore...the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”. They further agreed that both sides would abide by all existing agreements and protocols on boundary affairs, maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas and “avoid any action that could escalate matters”. The two sides will continue communicating through the Special Representatives mechanism, and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs. The ministers also agreed that “as the situation eases, the two sides should expedite work to conclude new confidence-building measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquillity”. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Indian side highlighted its strong concern at the massing of Chinese troops and equipment along the LAC without any credible explanation. “The presence of such large concentration of troops was not in accordance with the 1993 and 1996 agreements and created flashpoints along the LAC. The provocative behaviour of Chinese frontline troops at numerous incidents of friction along the LAC showed disregard for bilateral agreements and protocols,” said one of the people cited above. “The immediate task is to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all friction areas. That is necessary to prevent any untoward incident in the future. The final disposition of troop deployment to their permanent posts and the phasing of the process are to be worked out by military commanders,” the person added. The people said the five-point roadmap is a broad template for disengagement, though differences remain on crucial issues such as how far the troops should be pulled back from the LAC. The Indian side made it clear the ultimate goal should be to move forces back to their permanent posts, at least 20 km or more from the LAC, so that the high levels of tension dissipate, the people added. The Indian side said it expected full adherence to agreements on the management of border areas and that it “would not countenance any attempt to change the status quo unilaterally”, the people said. It also pointed out that Indian troops had scrupulously followed agreements and protocols on the border areas. Jaishankar, who has served as India’s envoy to Beijing and knows Wang well, made it clear India recognises that a solution to the boundary question requires time and effort, but it was equally clear that the maintenance of peace and tranquillity on the border areas is essential for developing the overall ties, the people said. Recent incidents in eastern Ladakh had “inevitably impacted the development of the bilateral relationship”, and an “urgent resolution of the current situation was in the interest of both nations”, the external affairs minister was quoted as saying by the people. Jaishankar also noted that since the resumption of ambassadorial-level relations in 1976 and holding of boundary talks since 1981, bilateral ties have developed on a “largely positive trajectory”. While there have been incidents from time to time, peace and tranquillity has largely prevailed on the border, and bilateral cooperation developed in a broad range of domains to give the relationship a more substantive character, he noted, according to the people. Jaishankar and Wang met for the crucial talks in Moscow against the backdrop of a spike in tensions on the LAC after both countries amassed more troops in the Ladakh sector. The two leaders were in the same room twice earlier in the day – first for a meeting of foreign ministers of the SCO and then for a luncheon meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping – before holding their bilateral talks a little after 8 pm Indian time on Thursday. A Chinese foreign ministry statement cited Wang as saying that “it is normal for China and India to have differences as two neighbouring major countries”, but it is important to “put these differences in a proper context vis-a-vis bilateral relations”. The statement further said the Chinese side is willing to “support enhanced dialogue between the frontier troops on both sides to resolve specific issues”, and it will stay in touch through diplomatic and military channels to restore peace and tranquillity. The Chinese statement quoted Wang as outlining China’s “stern position” on the border situation and “emphasising that the imperative is to immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions”. He also said the “frontier troops must quickly disengage so that the situation may de-escalate”. However, New Delhi has rejected all assertions by Beijing that Indian troops had crossed the LAC and blamed the latest face-offs during August 29-30 and on September 7 on provocative military actions by Chinese forces.There have been face-offs on the south bank of Pangong Lake after provocative Chinese movements to change the status quo during August 29-30. India said during the latest face-off on September 7, Chinese soldiers fired in the air after being prevented from closing in on an Indian forward position – the first time guns were used on the LAC since 1975. Since then, both sides have further strengthened their military presence by moving in additional troops, tanks and other weaponry. The Chinese side, however, has been rattled by India’s proactive move of positioning its troops on several strategic heights to prevent further land grabs on the south bank of Pangong Lake. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said that despite the view taken by some sceptics, the meeting had produced a reasonable outcome. “The result is better than the external affairs minister coming back empty handed. In that scenario, things would have looked truly grim. It is also significant that the two sides agreed that the continuation of the current situation is not in their interests. India always believed in this obvious realty and now China is also subscribing to it,” he said. “An agreement is worth the paper it is written on provided it is implemented. While there are obvious difficulties in implementing it, it is in the interest of both countries to implement it scrupulously,” Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-five-point-plan-to-douse-flare-up-at-border/story-1KxNp4kw9riuj2aaMte93K.html
12-09-2020||India||After 4-day search, body of LeT terrorist fished out of stream in Srinagar||Body of a Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist was recovered by security forces from Sukhnag stream in Central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Friday, four days after he was injured in an encounter with the forces.On September 7, said a police spokesperson, acting on information about the presence of terrorists in Kawoosa area of Budgam, police and security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the area.“During the search operation the terrorist fired upon the search party which was retaliated. However, after a brief gunfight, one terrorist who had received bullet injury escaped from the spot and jumped into Sukhnag Nala,” said the spokesperson.The army and police have been searching the area since then. Even divers from the navy were arranged to look for the terrorist’s body inside the Sukhnag stream, said police.A senior police officer said that the dead body of a terrorist was recovered from the stream at Kawoosa Budgam. “He (the terrorist) had been shot in the neck as he jumped into the stream.”The officer identified the militant as Aqib Lone of Lashkar-e-Taiba (leT) from Aglar Shopian.Following his escape, a search operation was launched by Budgam Police, 2 RR and 44 CRPF in the said area. “The services of Marine Commandos and river police were also pressed into service and the search operation continued for four days. The joint search team were successful in recovering the dead body of a terrorist during the intervening night of 10/11 September from Sukhnaag Nallah Kawoosa.“One hand grenade, 1 Pistol, 1 AK magazine, AK rounds, 2 mobile phones, a knife and other materials were also recovered,” said police spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-4-day-search-body-of-let-terrorist-fished-out-of-stream-in-srinagar/story-T2zacjs0zjzmrqy4AWtfML.html
12-09-2020||India||Nirav won’t get a fair trial in India, says SC ex-judge||London: Diamantaire Nirav Modi will not get a fair trial in India if extradited to face charges of major financial offences, former Supreme Court judge Markandey Katju insisted while deposing as a defence witness in the Westminster Magistrates Court on Friday.Appearing via videolink from New Delhi, Katju alleged in his 130-minute deposition that the judicial system in India has collapsed, claiming that investigative agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate were acting at the behest of political masters. The prosecution, in turn, suggested that Katju was using he case to boost his own public profile. The five-day hearing is part of Modi’s extradition trial in which the judge needs to decide whether there is a prima facie case against him in India on the basis of evidence submitted by the government of India. Katju expounded on several cases and issues to substantiate his allegations, including the 2019 Ayodhya judgement by a SC bench headed by former chief justice Ranjan Gogoi, the latter’s subsequent nomination as a Rajya Sabha MP, post-retirement appointment of judges, media trials and alleged corruption in the judiciary.Questioning law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s claim in a press conference in May that Modi was a “criminal”, Katju said: “The government of India has made up its mind that Nirav Modi is a criminal. Is Prasad the judge? What kind of law minister is he? How can we expect a fair trial?”“All ministers have pronounced him (Modi) guilty and the courts will do what they say…The present government needs a scapegoat to divert attention from other issues. Nirav Modi is the scapegoat, blamed for all ills”.He added: “They have already pronounced him a criminal. I am definite that he will not get a fair trial in India. No lawyer will pick up his case. The justice system has collapsed; it is beyond redemption; it has bowed before political masters.”Katju clarified that he cannot say anything about the charges of financial offences brought against Modi by CBI and ED, since he is not aware of the details, but repeated several times that he will not get a fair trial under the present circumstances.Recalling the SC’s 2013 description of CBI as a “caged parrot”, Katju alleged that things had worsened, claiming that CBI and ED were not politically neutral, with the Central Vigilance Commission “doing nothing”. According to him, such agencies had become “tools of political masters”.Helen Malcolm, appearing on India’s behalf, questioned him about speaking to the news media in India on Thursday about his court appearance, and wondered if it was anything to do with his being a “self-publicist” keen to exploit the high-profile case.Malcolm read out Katju’s remarks published in the past on same sex relationships, about single women allegedly being prone to psychological problems, that “90% Indians are fools”, provoking agitated responses from Katju. At one point, he said: “I know more English literature than you”.Malcolm said: “I don’t want to be discourteous but is it possible that you are a self-publicist who will make any outrageous comment to reach the press in this high-profile case. It is up to others to make a judgement about the use of your evidence”.Katju insisted that Malcolm’s accusation that he is motivated by personal vanity is not a fair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-won-t-get-a-fair-trial-in-india-says-sc-ex-judge/story-3cvrA5BqNrHtkmT6W4Q82N.html
12-09-2020||India||DGCA to check if Covid guidelines violated on Kangana’s flight||India’s aviation regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), has sought a report from IndiGo on alleged violation of safety and social distancing norms necessitated by the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic on board a Chandigarh-Mumbai flight, where actor Kangana Ranaut was one of the passengers, on September 9. The IndiGo flight, 6E 264, which took off from Chandigarh at its scheduled time at around 12 noon, landed in Mumbai at around 2.15 pm on September 9. The flight had Ranaut on board, along with her sister, Rangoli. A few media persons were on the same flight to cover Ranaut’s movement. Ranaut has been critical of the Mumbai police’s investigation of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and an escalating war of words with members of the Shiv Sena, part of the state’s Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, saw her compare the state to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir. Ranaut, was subsequently provided Y+ security by the Union Ministry for Home Affairs (MHA) and she did not interact with the media during the flight. However, mediapersons allegedly violated social distancing norms as they kept on leaving their seats during the flight . An airline official said, “The cabin crew kept on requesting the media persons on board the flight to remain seated. The pilot also asked them not to use their camera phones or shoot on board. However, they refused to obey.” Arun Kumar, director-general, DGCA, said, “We have asked the airline to submit the report about the situation during the flight and the safety and social distancing norms violated by a few passengers. The report is expected soon.” Commenting on the incident, IndiGo said, “We have given our statement to DGCA regarding the matter pertaining to flight 6E 264 from Chandigarh to Mumbai, on September 9, 2020. We would like to reiterate that our cabin crew, as well as the captain, followed all the requisite protocols, including announcements to restrict photography, follow social distancing and maintain overall safety. IndiGo also followed the requisite protocol of documenting this matter in its post-flight report. We are committed to providing a safe, hassle-free experience to our passengers.”“Multiple issues have been witnessed, the prominent ones include photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules 13, violation of Covid protocols and certain actions falling within the purview of unruly behaviour on board. We have asked the airline to take appropriate action against those responsible,” said Arun Kumar, DG, DGCA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-to-check-if-covid-guidelines-violated-on-kangana-s-flight/story-Du7iWL4rRe1V4Wde6NsrQN.html
12-09-2020||India||Rs 11 crore embezzlement at two Mathura temples, SIT files FIR against 12||A special investigation team (SIT) of Uttar Pradesh police has detected embezzlement worth Rs 11 crore from the donation funds of two Mathura temples and registered an FIR against 12 people at its police station in Lucknow on Friday. Senior police officials, privy to the investigation, said the embezzled amount from the funds of Mukut Mukharbind temple and Hargokul Daswalia Brahmaadan temple in Govardhan, Mathura could be higher. An SIT official said those accused in the FIR are the common receiver of both the temples - Ramakant Goswami, his two assistants Manu Rishi and Santosh Kumar, and Ram Krishna Sharma, Radha Kishan, Vivek Sharma and his mother Siddhisri Sharma, Pintu Saini and his wife Kamlesh, Latto Saini, Bihari Lal Saini and Koken Babu Mishra. The official said the accused have been booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (fraud), 409 (criminal breach by government servant), 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant), 423 (dishonest or fraudulent execution of deed of transfer containing false statement of consideration) and 120-B (entering into criminal conspiracy with common intention to commit fraud). Also read: Swami Agnivesh passes away at 80, was suffering from liver diseaseAs per the FIR, the embezzlement was committed by the receiver and the other accused between 2014 and 2018. The official said a preliminary inquiry was handed over to the SIT by the state government in July 2019 and it was completed in February 2020. He said the permission to register an FIR and conduct further investigation was pending with the state government due to the Covid-19 outbreak.  He said the FIR was lodged after the state government gave the go-head in the case a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-11-crore-embezzlement-at-two-mathura-temples-sit-files-fir-against-12/story-VXVvooKs9I4hECLML4xXrN.html
12-09-2020||India||ED questions Kerala education minister in gold smuggling case||Thiruvananthapuram:The Enforcement Directorate on Friday questioned Kerala higher education minister KT Jaleel in the gold smuggling case.Jaleel’s alleged involvement in the case had come to light when his phone number figured in the call records of the main accused, Swapna Suresh. Following this, the minister had told mediapersons that the calls were made regarding a consignment of Holy Quran from UAE, which customs officials had referred to as “prima facie violation of FCRA (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act)”. The customs department found that a consignment, weighing 4,000 kg, had arrived in the state on March 4. “Out of 31 packets that came only one packet was opened. Rest are lying in two religious institutions in my constituency. Let any agency probe, my hands are clean,” the minister had said. The minister’s questioning led to further controversy in the state, with the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party hitting out at the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan-led government. “It is a shame for the state. It seems the CM is waiting for his arrest. This is the first time such an incident is taking place,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, demanding Jaleel’s resignation. Meanwhile, a senior official privy to the case said that the minister will likely be summoned again. The case pertains to the seizure of a 30-kg gold consignment, that arrived in Thiruvananthapuram for an official of the UAE consulate on July 5.The case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and at least four other central agencies are part of the probe now.The NIA has arrested 30 persons in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-questions-kerala-eduction-minister-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-9P1o9yEBnqFimxpzTwHnLL.html
12-09-2020||India||India, US ask Pakistan to act on terror||New Delhi/Beijing: India and the US have called on Pakistan to take “immediate, sustained and irreversible action” to ensure that Pakistani territory isn’t used for terror attacks and to speedily bring to justice the perpetrators of the 2008 Mumbai and 2016 Pathankot attacks. The two countries also underscored the need for concerted action against all terrorist networks, including al-Qaida, Islamic State, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), and Hizbul Mujahideen. These issues figured in the 17th meeting of the US-India joint working group on counterterrorism and the third session of the designations dialogue held virtually during September 9-10, according a joint statement. Both sides denounced the use of terrorist proxies and strongly condemned cross-border terrorism in all its forms. They also exchanged views on threats posed by UN-sanctioned terrorist entities, the statement said. “The two sides underlined the urgent need for Pakistan to take immediate, sustained, and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under its control is used for terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such attacks, including 26/11 Mumbai and Pathankot,” the statement said. The 2008 Mumbai attacks, which were carried out by a 10-member team of the LeT from Pakistan, left 166 people dead, including six US nationals. Pakistani security agencies arrested seven men, including LeT operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, for allegedly planning, financing and supporting the attacks but there has been little progress in their trial in a counterterrorism court. The 2016 Pathankot attack, blamed on JeM, targeted an Indian Air Force base and resulted in the death of seven Indian troops. During the dialogue, India and the US also shared information about their priorities and procedures for pursuing sanctions and designations against terror groups and individuals, particularly in light of recent legislative changes in India, the statement said. There was a joint commitment to strengthen cooperation on information-sharing and other steps to disrupt the ability of international terrorists to travel, in line with the provisions and obligations outlined in UN Security Council Resolution 2396. Officials of the two sides highlighted their efforts to address some of the world’s most pressing counterterrorism challenges, including countering the financing and operations of terrorist organisations, countering radicalisation and terrorist use of the internet, cross-border movement of terrorists, and prosecuting, rehabilitating, and reintegrating returning terrorist fighters and family members. The two sides also discussed mutual legal and extradition assistance, and bilateral law enforcement training and cooperation. The US reiterated its support for the people and government of India in the fight against terrorism. Mahaveer Singhvi, joint secretary for counterterrorism in the external affairs ministry, and Nathan A Sales, the US state department coordinator for counterterrorism, led the two delegations in what the statements described as a “far-reaching conversation on counterterrorism cooperation”. The two sides also resolved to continue close coordination on “this important element of the comprehensive global strategic partnership” between India and the US. China, however, responded to the joint statement by defending Pakistan’s counterterrorism record. It said Pakistan has made “tremendous efforts” in fighting the menace and shouldn’t be singled out as a country linked to terrorism. Asked to comment on the joint statement, the Chinese foreign ministry noted that Friday is the 19th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks in New York.“All countries should work together to prevent and fight terrorism and safeguard the world’s peace and stability. So, on this very special day, I would like to say that we hope the US won’t forget terrorism and Covid-19 are common enemies to all mankind. And China and Pakistan are not the enemies of the US,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a regular news briefing.“Terrorism is a common challenge faced by all countries. And Pakistan has made tremendous efforts and sacrificed in fighting terrorism. The international community should fully recognise and respect that,” he added. “China opposes all kinds of terrorism and we believe that the UN should play a leading role and we oppose double standards on counterterrorism. And we oppose the attempt to link terrorism to any specific country,” Zhao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-ask-pak-to-act-on-terror/story-zARN4mlCkeOKzNvM5eVZxK.html
12-09-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, CDS Rawat attend House defence panel meet||New Delhi: The parliamentary standing committee on defence, which met on Friday with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in attendance for the first time, discussed issues such as better food, clothing and other facilities for soldiers, especially those deployed on the borders, according to people aware of the matter.The meeting -- in which Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat was present -- centered around the topic on the agenda, “provision and monitoring of the quality of ration and livery items to the defence forces”. The committee is headed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Jual Oram.The border standoff between India and China was not discussed, though Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and former defence minister Sharad Pawar did seek a discussion on matter, the people cited above said.When Pawar asked for a briefing on the latest situation in India-China border conflict, General Rawat said his comments have been noted, and indicated that the armed forces will send a written reply to the panel later -- a usual practise in parliament that allows deponents to give a detailed reply to questions which they think should be handled more carefully. Last month, appearing before another parliament committee, Rawat had said that de-escalation in Ladakh may be a “long-drawn process” but that the Indian armed forces is prepared for it and has made all arrangements for troop deployment in the harsh winter. The top general and three-star Generals had also emphasised that the Indian armed forces are prepared to face any contingency.Rahul Gandhi on Friday expressed concern over the food items being provided to soldiers as compared to officers, saying rank should not considered for providing the “type of food or nutrition” in the defence forces, they added.Gandhi had skipped the earlier meetings of the panel, apparently as a mark of protest against the inclusion of BJP’s Lok Sabha member from Bhopal, Pragya Singh Thakur, in the 31-member committee. The BJP later removed her from the panel following her praise of Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse, whom she called a “desh bhakt (patriot)” during a discussion on the Special Protection Group (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha in the Winter Session last year. According to a functionary present in the meeting, when Gandhi wanted to know about the difference between the ration for jawans and the officers, General Rawat emphasised there is no qualitative difference in food but since jawans mostly come from rural India, they prefer certain kind of food items such as chapati over rice. He added that there is no complaint about the quality of food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-cds-rawat-attend-house-defence-panel-meet/story-rgW8qKt9B0Cw92Twi9e9AM.html
12-09-2020||India||China may hand over 5 missing arunachal men on Saturday, says Rijiju||GUWAHATI: The five young men from Arunachal Pradesh who strayed across the border to the Chinese side earlier this month will be handed over to Indian authorities on Saturday, according to union sports minister Kiren Rijiju. The Chinese PLA has confirmed to the Indian Army that it will hand over the young men, likely anytime tomorrow, Rijiju, who represent BJP from Arunachal West seat, said in a Tweet on Friday evening. The five men from the Tagin tribe, who used to work as porters for Indian Army, went missing on September 2 reportedly from Sera-7 on the Indian side of the McMahon line bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and the Tibet autonomous region (TAR) of China. Following their disappearance, the brother of one of them posted on social media that they had been abducted by PLA. The same accusation was made by Tapir Gao, BJP MP from Arunachal East and Congress MLA from Pasighat, Ninong Ering in their tweets. Responding to a hotline message sent by the Indian Army, the People’s Liberation Army said on Tuesday that the men had been found on the Chinese side and that they were fine. “The young men, who were hunting in the area, inadvertently crossed over to the other side. The PLA informed us that they all are okay. Formalities for their early transfer are being coordinated with the Chinese side,” Lt Col Harsh Wardhan Pande, PRO (Defence), Tezpur, Assam, said on Tuesday The disappearance and the allegation that they were abducted came against the backdrop of heightened tensions between both countries. On Monday, China’s state affiliated Global Times tweeted quoting Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian: “China has never recognized so called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’, which is China’s south Tibet region, and we have no details to release yet about question on Indian Army sending message to PLA about five missing Indians in the region”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-may-hand-over-5-missing-arunachal-men-on-saturday-says-rijiju/story-JZPkha64EU1bgXdcCXn6zJ.html
12-09-2020||India||New Delhi must ensure positive outcome, says Chinese media||Beijing: China’s state-controlled media on Friday cautiously welcomed the five-point consensus reached by Indian and Chinese foreign ministers in Moscow to defuse the ongoing border tension, but said it was New Delhi’s responsibility to ensure the final positive outcome.Most official media carried a report by the state news agency Xinhua on the meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting of foreign ministers in Moscow on Thursday.The two agreed “...the current situation in the border areas is not in the interest of either side. They agreed therefore that the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”, the Xinhua report said.Jaishankar and Wang had “held full, in-depth discussion with his Indian counterpart S. Jaishankar on the situation in the border areas as well as bilateral ties here on Thursday,” the report said.It quoted Wang as saying that it is normal for China and India to have differences as two neighbouring major countries.“What is important is to put these differences in a proper context vis-a-vis bilateral relation,” the report said, quoting the senior Chinese official.The nationalistic tabloid Global Times, known for its hawkish views, carried opinion pieces saying the ball is now in New Delhi’s court to resolve the tension.In an editorial published ahead of the meeting, the tabloid said Beijing’s “talks with India come with war preparedness”.On the outcome of the bilateral, the tabloid said it exceeded the “expectations of most international observers and created favourable conditions for a possible future meeting between the leaders of the two countries”.The article then quickly changed track to say the “…successful implementation of the joint statement, however, depends on whether the Indian side can truly keep its word.”Quoting experts, it argued that it is possible that the joint statement will end up as merely “paper talk,” if India did not follow-up.“We should not only observe what India says, but also what it does. For a country like India, the most important thing is how it acts,” Hu Zhiyong, from the Institute of International Relations of the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, told Global Times.In a separate opinion piece, the tabloid’s editor Hu Xijin said the border tension is because of the aggressive attitude of the Indian army“The meeting between the two foreign ministers maintained the political communication channels between the two sides under the current critical situation. However, due to the huge differences in the understanding of the actual border control line between the two sides, the Indian army adopted an aggressive stance on the ground,” Hu wrote in a commentary published in Mandarin.“The two foreign ministers eased the political situation. Whether the wishes can be implemented on the spot is uncertain,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-must-ensure-positive-outcome-says-chinese-media/story-PyAz3A4rKvM70Eeb35hl8I.html
12-09-2020||India||India, China statements show divergence remains||Divergences remain between India and China on the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), even after they framed a five-point road map for easing tensions on the disputed border and speeding up the disengagement of troops. The two sides reached an agreement on the five points during talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow on Thursday night. The points include dialogue aimed at quick disengagement, maintaining proper distance between troops of the two sides and easing tensions, abiding by all agreements and protocols on border management, and working on new confidence-building measures once the situation eases. Wang was quoted by a Chinese foreign ministry statement as acknowledging that it is normal for two major neighbours such as India and China to have differences and that bilateral ties have come “to a crossroads”, though there is no challenge that can’t be overcome if both sides keep moving in the right direction. These remarks marked a slight shift from China’s stance in recent weeks, including during defence minister Rajnath Singh’s meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe on September 4, of holding the Indian side entirely responsible for the standoff. In other areas, however, sharp differences persisted between the two sides, and experts noted that both countries hadn’t made any mention of the restoration of the status quo on the LAC as it existed in April or set any time frame for completing the disengagement and de-escalation. The Chinese foreign ministry’s statement also said that the Indian side “does not consider the development of India-China relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question”, but this was dismissed by people familiar with developments. The people, speaking on condition of anonymity, noted that Jaishankar emphasised even before the meeting that “the state of the border cannot be de-linked from the state of the relationship”, and that he had repeated this at the talks with Wang. During the meeting, Jaishankar made it clear that recent incidents in eastern Ladakh had “inevitably impacted the development of the bilateral relationship”, said one of the people cited above. “While the Indian side recognised that a solution to the boundary question required time and effort, it was clear the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas is essential to the forward development of ties,” the person added. The people also challenged the Chinese statement’s assertion that the “Indian side believes that China’s policy toward India has not changed”, saying the Chinese side is yet to provide a satisfactory explanation for the massing of troops and equipment in violation of all existing border agreements, which has created new flashpoints along the LAC. The Chinese statement cited Wang as outlining China’s “stern position” on the situation and emphasising the need to “immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions” and to “move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed”. The people cited above reiterated that Indian troops hadn’t crossed the LAC and it was the Chinese troops that had fired in the air during the latest face-off on September 7 on the south bank of Pangong Lake. “We are committed to a resolution though peaceful dialogue but it is the Chinese side that has repeatedly resorted to aggressive military actions and posturing,” a second person said. Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash is among those who remain sceptical about the Chinese side’s intentions and willingness to deliver on the commitments made during Thursday’s meeting. “The India-China joint statement on border disengagement somehow doesn’t inspire. The Chinese don’t seem to have agreed to restore status quo ante. There are no timelines,” he said. “The understanding on quick disengagement is vague at best. It will be a miracle if these commitments are honoured,” Prakash added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-statements-show-divergence-remains/story-9HkETQqK811BmEwYSZaF5L.html
12-09-2020||India||India’s first toy-making hub pins hopes on ‘vocal for local’||Greater Noida: A few hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s latest Mann Ki Baat radio address, in which he urged entrepreneurs to “team up for toys” to make India a toy-manufacturing powerhouse, Naresh Kumar Gautam, vice president of Toy Association of India, started getting phone calls from people seeking tips on how to get into the toy business. “A lot of them currently see a great opportunity in it. The PM’s emphasis on local manufacturing of toys was yet another morale booster for us after the government increased the import duty on toys earlier this year. If the government had the right policies and shown such enthusiasm 20 years back, this place by now would have become one of the world’s biggest toy manufacturing hubs,” says Gautam. Also read: ‘Mindset for free India should be vocal for local’: PM Modi pushes for self-reliance in Independence Day speechThe place that Gautam, founder of Little Genius Toys, one of India’s biggest wooden toy companies, is referring to is the Toy City in Greater Noida, where he has a manufacturing unit. In the past couple of months, with the government pushing the Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) initiative, several toy manufacturing hubs have been announced in different parts of the country, including one along the Yamuna Expressway in Gautam Buddha Nagar. Very few people know that Toy City in Greater Noida — 30 km from Connaught Place — was India’s first toy hub. Planned in the late 1990s, the Toy City, where plots were allotted to over 100 toy makers, has wide, well- laid out, tree-lined roads and signage. Years later, in 2002, the ministry of micro, small & medium enterprises launched a national programme for the development of the toy Industry. As part of the programme, land for a Toy Design & Development Institute (TDDI) was also allotted in Toy City. Ironically, today, Toy City has only 10 toy manufacturing units producing a range of tin toys, soft toys, board games and puzzles, among others. The rest are engineering, furniture, auto parts, packaging material and home appliances units--- all, incongruously, with a Toy City address. Also read: ‘It’s a great service to the nation’: PM Modi urges people to go vocal about localMost of those allotted plots either surrendered their land to the Greater Noida Authority or sold them. Toy manufacturers here say there are several reasons why India’s first toy city failed to become a manufacturing hub. “Even as the Toy City was set up, at the time liberalisation had picked up pace and the government drastically reduced tariff and non-tariff barriers to imports of many items, including toys. So, many of the toy manufacturers had second thoughts about setting up a factory here,” says Gautam.Labour-intensiveGautam’s tryst with Toy City has been fortuitous. Starting in a small room in Kalkaji in South Delhi with an investment of Rs 1,500, he came to Toy City in 2006. Today, he is one of India’s biggest wooden toy manufacturers, employing over 300 people in his Toy City factory spread across three floors, boasting a range of laser machines, computer-controlled milling machines and freight saw machines, among others.“ We are able to compete with China as we are into labour-intensive manufacturing. China cannot beat us in any labour-intensive industry, ” says Gautam. Tarun Chetwani, director of Natkhat Toys, a soft toy maker, says Toy City had teething troubles. “When we started construction of our factory in 2002, many villagers from Habibpur, the village whose land was acquired for the development of the Toy City, came and forced to stop the construction, saying they had not received the promised compensation. The construction was held up for two weeks,” say Chetwani. That was not the end of the troubles. In 2003 May, when he finally started production, he realised the electricity was a major problem, with his captive generator running for hours every day. “ We never faced this problem in Delhi, and began to wonder whether we made the right decision by shifting our factory here, but decided to stay on, and have no regrets today, ” says Chetwani, who had a small manufacturing unit in Chilla village in Delhi, before he shifted to Toy City. “We were manufacturing about 600 toys a day before we came here, and 6,000 soft toys a day until the coronavirus lockdown. While we depend on China for fabric, we have been able to match them in quality and cost, ” says Chetwani, who supplies toys to some of India’s biggest consumer retail chains. Many plastic toy manufacturers, Chetwani says, did not move to Toy City, and some even left because of the electricity problem. “Their machines took time to heat up and frequent power outage was a problem. But I think those who had been allotted plots should have shown more ‘fighting spirit’ and set up factories instead of surrendering and selling their plots,” adds Chetwani. He says the Indian toy industry needs to match China in terms of the economics of scale “The problem is many international chains we supply to sign buyer-seller agreement only for a year. Unless there is a long-term agreement with our buyers, we cannot afford to invest in enhancing capacity beyond a point. Manufacturing, after all, is governed by market forces,” says Chetwani. “ Indian wholesale traders are also part of the problem; they go to China where they are willing to pay a huge advance and place bulk orders , but they always hold up our payment and never place large orders with us. ”Ease of doing business Most of the manufacturers in Toy City say they flourished despite competition from China because their toys cannot be mass-produced on automatic machines. Paresh Chawla , director of Tin Treasurers, perhaps India’s biggest tin toy manufacturers, set up a unit in Toy City in 2003 at a time when most tin toy factories were shutting down. The company, he says, exports 95% of its toys to countries such as Germany, Spain, the US and Australia. “ We are competing with some of the biggest and best companies in Europe and China,” says Chawla, sitting in the spartan office of his 24,000 square factory spread across three floors. The factory is equipped with a range of hand- press machines, CNC (computer numerical control) wire cut machines for , automatic hydraulic machines, shearing machine and a tool room, among others. He says the government needs to improve ease of doing business if the country is to meaningfully increase its share of the global toy industry, which is worth an estimated Rs. 7 lakh crores. The global market research firm, IMARC estimates India’s toy market to be worth around Rs.10,000 crore. “What toy manufacturers needs is a design centre, a further easing of the import of machines, tools, dyes under the existing export promotion schemes,” Chawla says. “ Besides, the existing policies and schemes should be implemented properly so that manufactures can easily avail of them,” adds Chawla, whose office also serves as the office of Toy City Development Society, an association of toy manufacturers in the Toy City . “We meet once every month to discuss the issues and problems relating to Toy city and find a solution. We also organise training and awareness programmes for employees.”His business has been growing 10% a year, and like most other manufacturers in Toy City, he has booked a plot in the new Toy Park along the Yamuna Expressway. “ The idea is to set up laser-cut machines and scale up our capacity there,” he says. Raj Kumar, 80, founder, Creatives Educational Aids, a company that makes educational toys, and the first person to shift to the Toy City in 2001 , says the government should focus on building the Toy Design & Development Institute (TDDI) in Toy City. “The 5- acre plot earmarked for it is still lying vacant. The toy industry desperately needs a state-of-the-art design centre and it will be fitting if it comes up in the original Toy City, ” he says. Satish Sundra , who runs Ram Chander & Sons , perhaps the country’s oldest toy shop in Connaught Place, agrees, “India needs to invest in research and development facilities to match the quality and variety of Chinese toys.” Meanwhile, 92 applications have been received from domestic toy manufacturers for the upcoming Toy Park along the Yamuna Expressway and many hope it does not eventually meet the same fate as the Toy City. “Allottees will not be able to sell the plots before 10 years and not without setting up and running a toy factory on it for at least five years,” says Arunveer Singh, CEO, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-first-toy-making-hub-pins-hopes-on-vocal-for-local/story-zZqiCfY3GXBPPBCi3cHkHM.html
12-09-2020||India||‘Pranayam, regular exercise’: Goa CM Pramod Sawant on his Covid ‘recovery’||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant recommends pranayam, a healthy diet and regular exercise, saying it helped him recover from coronavirus.Addressing a press conference via video for the first time since he tested positive, Sawant said that he will continue to remain in isolation for at least another seven days after which he expects to resume his regular duties.“I felt mild symptoms on September 1 on account of which I took a test and was found positive. But other than fever and body ache for a day, I had no other symptoms and have recovered,” Sawant told media persons.“From my own experience I can say a healthy diet, regular exercise and pranayam has helped me recover from the disease. Many have experienced the need for post-Covid care and I would recommend the regular pranayam, drinking ample liquids and a good diet,” Sawant, who himself is an ayurvedic practitioner, said.Pranayam is a breathing technique that has health benefits.The CM went on to say that the state government would now be setting up centres for post-Covid care since many patients continued to experience symptoms even after they have recovered. They complain of fibrosis in the lungs or muscle pain or a persistent cough and other symptoms that require rehabilitation, he said. After testing positive on September 2, the CM isolated himself at home and said that he increased his exercise time and followed it religiously over the past 10 days.Cases in Goa are at nearly 25,000 while deaths have reached 276 with six to ten deaths being recorded daily. Critical care beds are in short supply in the state which has led to patients being accommodated on the floor of the state’s premier Goa Medical College and Hospital.The state has four dedicated Covid-19 hospitals with the fourth hospital having only just been commissioned.While Goa has among the highest per capita testing rates, cases are also among the highest in the country and positivity rate remains high at nearly 30% far higher than the national average and much higher than the recommended 10% or below.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranayam-regular-exercise-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-on-his-covid-recovery/story-zQAc371wFVXRJFePHjhVLN.html
12-09-2020||India||6.4mn may have had Covid-19 by May||An estimated 6.4 million people were infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid -19) in India by early May, show the findings of the first national serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Population-weighted seroprevalence after adjusting for test performance was 0.73 per cent... Males, living in urban slums and occupation with high risk of exposure to potentially infected persons were associated with seropositivity. A cumulative 6,468,388… adult infections were estimated in India by the early May,” said the findings published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR).However, till May-end the country’s official caseload was about 200,000, which is roughly 3% of the estimated cases found in the survey. The country’s current case load is close to 4.6 million, hinting at inadequate testing for the disease, experts said. “That has always been the concern that testing was not adequate as India was largely testing symptomatic cases and asymptomatic positives is a huge number that may have been missed. It was important to cast the net wide, more so for asymptomatic people. It only boils down to the fact that we need to increase our testing,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR. As part of the community-based survey, which was held from May 11 to June 20, a total of 30,283 households were visited and 28,000 individuals were enrolled for the study across 21 states. According to the survey, those between the age group of 18-45 years were the worst-affected with 43.3% of them having developed antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Those with a past infection between 46 and 60 years of age comprised 39.5% of the sampled individuals. “The results, however, appear to be more correct to the ground reality at that point in time, and it is a huge number” said Dr Kant. The published literature indicates that the IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 infection start appearing by the end of the first week after symptom onset and most cases are IgG positive by the end of second week, according to the researchers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-4mn-may-have-had-covid-by-may/story-3APyMrxeFKsqx7Uca7b6uK.html
12-09-2020||India||Centre tells states not to restrict oxygen supplies||The Union health ministry on Friday asked states not to place restrictions on transport or supplies of medical oxygen after the Madhya Pradesh government claimed Maharashtra was doing this and at least three other states -- Punjab, Karnataka and Telangana -- reported problems in getting regular supplies. On Friday, less than 3.7% of 943,480 active cases in India were on oxygen support, the ministry said, adding that for moderate and severe cases, adequate oxygen support, appropriate and timely administration of anti-coagulants and widely available and inexpensive corticosteroids, were the mainstay of Covid-19 therapy. Several states have seen up to five-fold increase in demand with Covid cases in the country rising to over four million.“It has come to the knowledge of the Union health ministry that few states are trying to curb the free inter-state movement of oxygen supplies by exercising provisions under various Acts and also mandating the manufacturers/suppliers located in the State to restrict their oxygen supplies to only the hospitals of the State,” the health ministry said in a statement issued on Friday.According to senior officials in the health ministry, the letter was sent in response to a Maharashtra government order under the disaster management Act, that sought to prohibit movement of oxygen from outside the state. “This may have built into a chain reaction with other states following suit. As of now there is no shortage but since major oxygen manufactures in the country are not equitably distributed, this could have led to a problem later on as states such as Delhi don’t have a manufacturer and gets its supply from Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand,” this person said, asking not to be named. “India’s actual oxygen consumption is about 2000 metric tonnes per day, and the production capacity per day is about 6,400 metric tonnes that is also used by the industry. As the number of cases is rising and experience of treating doctors tells us that oxygen therapy saves lives, the consumption of oxygen is also going up and needs to be addressed,” the health ministry official added.The Madhya Pradesh government reported shortage of oxygen after Maharashtra stopped supplies on September 7, reserving 80% of production in the state for Covid hospitals in the state. “Since chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had a talk with his Maharashtra counterpart yesterday, a positive outcome is expected soon,” said an MP health department official, asking not to be named. The official shortage of oxygen was reported mainly from Jabalpur, Damoh, Chhindwara . Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has increased quota of oxygen supply from manufacturers within the state to hospitals in the state from the earlier 50% to 80% under Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. he added that this is to meet the increase in demand because of rising Covid cases. The rest of the oxygen can be provided for industrial purpose or to other states, he explained. Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, becoming the only state to cross the million-infections marks on Friday.State chief secretary Sanjay Kumar confirmed that district administrations had stopped oxygen supply to neighbouring states. “I have had calls from Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka for oxygen. We are trying to sort it out. Some districts thought that there was not enough oxygen for patients there and hence the local administration had stopped supply to other states,” the official said. Like Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka health department officials also reported shortage of supply and said the state government via a circular dated August 26 directed the manufacturers ‘to augment production and supply of liquid oxygen to meet demand’. A health department official, on condition of anonymity, said all assistant drug controllers across the state have been adequately empowered to ensure that oxygen demand is addressed.Punjab also reported shortages. Principal secretary (industries and commerce) Alok Shekhar wrote to his counterparts in Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand to direct manufacturing plants in their area to increase supply of liquid oxygen to hospitals as well as manufacturers and refilling units in Punjab so as to reduce the shortage of oxygen in hospitals of the state.Officials in most states, however, said there was no need to panic as the situation was being brought under control. “We have already instructed district health officials to procure dura oxygen cylinders on priority and has received the demands from 16 districts,” Dr Archana Patil, director of health, Maharashtra.S Dhanraju, the nodal officer for oxygen supply to the health facilities in Madhya Pradesh, said, “We have 120 to 130 metric tonnes of oxygen every day in the state and we have sufficient stock for the Covid patients in the state.” The state plans to increase the oxygen supply per day to 150 tonnes by September 30. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said while the daily requirement by both Covid and non-Covid patients was 25 metric tonne per day, the state produces 37.86 metric tonne of oxygen per day. “We have drawn up a plan to become fully self-sufficient in oxygen very soon. In the meantime, we are trying to cope with the demand by getting oxygen from the neighbouring states,” Samir Kumar Sinha, principal secretary (health) said on Friday. NS Nigam, West Bengal health secretary, said the state has worked on the plan to meet the increase in demand even though there was no shortage. Officials in health departments of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Uttarakhand too said there was no shortage of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-states-not-to-restrict-oxygen-supplies/story-7yCE7zAV0QTVawLhZ6EktN.html
12-09-2020||India||House panel backs e-courts||Virtual courts and hearings through video conference should continue even during non-pandemic times with the consent of parties in certain categories of cases such as appeals and final hearings where physical presence of parties or their counsel is not required, a parliamentary panel suggested, saying this will pave way for cheaper and faster means of delivery of justice.The panel observed that such hearings have gained immense ground during the Covid-19 pandemic and will remain the new reality. It suggested that these be extended permanently for appellate tribunals such as the Telecom Dispute Settlement Appellate Tribunal, Intellectual Property Appellate Tribunal, and National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. “This will cut down the cost and increase efficiency in disposal of the cases without unnecessarily being adjourned. Virtual courts can deliver faster results with fewer resources. They can also reduce commute time to courts and waiting time,” the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice said in an interim report submitted to Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday.The report on “Functioning of virtual courts/ court proceedings through video conferencing” underlined that digital justice is cheaper and faster. The panel added it addresses locational and economic handicaps, ensures the safety of vulnerable witnesses providing testimony besides expediting processes and procedures.Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Bhupender Yadav-led panel said virtual courts are an improvement over traditional ones “as they are most affordable, citizen-friendly and offer greater access to justice”.Court proceedings have been held digitally for over five months to adhere to social distancing norms as part of the measures to check the spread of the pandemic. Physical hearings of cases in the Supreme Court were suspended on March 23. The apex court has been hearing cases via video conferencing since then. The Supreme Court late last month notified standard operating procedure (SOP) to govern physical court hearings which were expected to commence soon but that has not happened yet.The panel’s recommendations come even as the Bar Council of India and various bar associations have questioned the efficacy of the digital proceedings and pointed to limitations in the infrastructure required for them. They have said digital proceedings favour tech-savvy advocates besides depriving opportunities to many lawyers to change the course of arguments based on the changing dynamics of a case during hearings.In their submissions to the panel, a representative of the Bar said that at least 50% of advocates, mostly at the district and lower levels, do not own laptops or computers and lack the skills required for virtual proceedings.The panel’s report said that virtual courts will promote access to justice since litigants in remote areas will be able to access the Supreme Court without spending money on travel to Delhi. The panel also suggested necessary amendments to the law to give legal validity to virtual courts and their proceedings so that they are not questioned before courts.As many as 13 out of the 25 high courts in the country have introduced and enabled electronic filing of cases. But district and subordinate courts at many places have been lagging behind due to lack of infrastructure and experience in handling and transitioning to virtual hearings.The committee, in its report, acknowledged these difficulties and said massive investments would be required to put in place the infrastructure necessary to support digitised hearings. It has suggested the feasibility of new financing approaches like the public-private partnership model for the purpose.The panel also pointed out that there is no mechanism currently to segregate simple cases from complex ones involving cumbersome procedures and multiple witnesses.“The principle of Proportionate Justice requires that the expense, speed, complexity, and the extent of combativeness of any case should be proportionate to the substance and scale of that case. Petty cases should be dealt with swiftly in a reasonable timeframe. Such cases should not require cumbersome procedures.”Virtual courts, the report said, can address this issue.The committee concluded that physical courts alone will not be sufficient. It added virtual courts will have to be integrated into the country’s legal ecosystem. As a first step towards this, the judiciary should identify cases that can be heard by virtual courts, it suggested.It also recommended extending virtual courts to cover arbitration hearings. Other recommendations include setting up of E-Sewa Kendras at all court complexes, speedy execution of National Broadband Mission, the introduction of computer courses for law students, and developing an indigenous software platform to ensure data privacy and safety.Yadav said: “We have effectively used virtual courts during the lockdown period wherein more than 1.8 million cases were registered across the country, of which nearly 800,000 have been disposed of.”Congress MP and member of panel Vivek Tankha said: “Virtual Courts through VC will be an integral part of court hearing in times ahead. It will change meaning of the word court - it will reflect a system of seeking justice than just a place of legal work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-backs-e-courts/story-F5GNGVNcYT3dTHHdx4uMHJ.html
12-09-2020||India||SC seeks Centre’s reply on death row convict’s mercy plea pending for 8 years||The Supreme Court on Friday sought Centre’s response on a death row convict’s plea seeking commutation of sentence to life imprisonment for the failure on part of the Central government to decide on his mercy petition filed eight years ago.The convict, Balwant Singh Rajoana, was sentenced to death for the murder of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh who died in a bomb explosion in Chandigarh on August 31, 1995. The petitioner has been in custody for nearly 25 years.Rajoana filed a mercy petition before the President on March 25, 2012 but has heard nothing on it till date. Several attempts to seek progress on his mercy petition under the Right to Information (RTI) Act did not succeed.Last year, on September 27, the Centre decided to commute the death penalty of Rajoana to life sentence on the special occasion of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. Almost a year has passed but the decision is yet to be implemented.Citing these reasons, Rajoana decided to approach the apex court and seek benefit of a 2014 decision passed in Shatrughan Chauhan v Union of India where undue, inordinate delay in deciding mercy petitions was held to be a ground to commute punishment of death row convicts. The judgment declared that prolonged delay in execution of the death sentence has a “dehumanizing effect” on the death row convict.Rajoana’s lawyer Rupesh Kumar said, “From July 31, 2007 the petitioner is on death row. He is suffering from clinical depression and anxiety disorder along with various other ailments. After moving the mercy petition, he and his family moved four RTI petitions between 2016 and 2018. On every occasion, the Centre responded by saying the matter is under consideration. No reason for delay was cited and so we decided to approach the top court.”A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued notice to the Centre on Rajoana’s petition and posted the matter after four weeks. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who appeared for Rajoana, argued that all that the convict was seeking was life sentence and not a pardon.The bench asked Rohatgi, “You have been convicted for killing the chief minister of a state. Has there been a precedent in the past where the President of India has pardoned anybody who is convicted of killing a chief minister.”Rohatgi said that in 2014 soon after the apex court laid down the law that inordinate delay in deciding mercy petitions will lead to automatic commutation, persons who were convicted of assassinating former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi got benefited under the rule. He cited the case of Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar who too got the benefit of this decision as the Centre failed to act on his mercy petition for eight years.“There is clear violation of his fundamental rights ensuing from inordinate delay caused at the hands of the executive in deciding the said mercy petition,” Rohatgi said. With the Centre now issuing directions for commutation of Rajoana, Rohatgi asked the Court to direct the Centre to clarify its stand.The incident involving Rajoana involved a bomb explosion in the porch of the Punjab and Haryana Civil Secretariat, Chandigarh, which led to the death of the then Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh along with 16 others.Rajoana was named in the FIR along with 15 others and taken into custody on January 14, 1996. On July 27, 2007, a Chandigarh court awarded the death sentence to Rajoana which was confirmed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on October 12, 2010.Rajoana did not prefer an appeal against this decision and instead filed a mercy petition before the President under Article 72 of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-death-row-convict-s-mercy-plea-pending-for-8-years/story-FvZpS1krlaN3IQuQrDmwQN.html
12-09-2020||India||Forest ranger hacked to death by Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district||A 49-year-old forest ranger was allegedly hacked to death by Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s insurgency-hit Bijapur district on Friday, police said.The incident took place at around 3 pm when forest ranger Rathram Patel had gone to Kondronji village under Jangla police station limits to pay wages to villagers for road construction work in the forest area, inspector general of police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI.At least 15 militia cadres of Maoists were involved in the attack, he said.Patel, a native of Balodabazar district, was posted at Indravati Tiger Reserve at Bhairamgarh forest range, the official said.Two forest guards who accompanied Patel, managed to flee the scene when the ultras attacked him with sharp weapons, he said. A police team reached the spot and recovered the body, the IG said, adding that a case has been registered in this regard and a search operation has been launched for the ultras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-ranger-hacked-to-death-by-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-s-bijapur-district/story-5R3aumudj1tea3dIUABTFM.html
12-09-2020||India||Visions for the future: The post-pandemic home||In July, the Indian Railways announced that it was working on a prototype coach with foot-operated soap dispensers, fixtures with anti-microbial titanium dioxide coating and air purification equipment in air conditioner ducts that would sterilise the interiors using ionised air — all to safeguard mass transit in a post pandemic future. Sachin Goyal, 35, read the news and rejoiced for a different reason. His family, comprising wife Ekta (35), daughter Divisha (4) and two sexagenarian parents had moved out of a bungalow in New Delhi’s Anand Vihar and into a rental apartment in Gurugram, a month before the national lockdown was announced on March 24 to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Since then, he was on the look out for the right kind of air conditioning system (ACs), since air circulation was a crucial factor in the transmission of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. Goyal searched online for the equipment that the national carrier planned to use, and found a company, Plasma Air, that sold it in India. He then made a call to his AC service provider to procure eight pieces of the ionised air purifier.But that’s not the only thing that Goyal did to prepare for a post-Covid reality. The chartered accountant with his own logistics firm asked Dinesh Panwar — an architect-designer who drew up the plans for the Goyals’ newly bought apartment in Gurugram and into which they plan to shift in a few months — to make some significant design modifications.Panwar, who runs Delhi-based architecture and design firm Urbanscape, said that Goyal swapped the designs for a 250 sq ft area with the adjacent 450 sq ft area. Earlier, the smaller area was meant to be a living room, with a small dining area, the television and recliner seats — essentially, the family lounge room. The larger area was to be a drawing room with two seating areas to entertain a large number of guests. Now, the larger area will now house the family lounge; a wall has even been designated for a projector that will be connected to the computer so that four-year-old Divisha won’t need to stare at the laptop screen during online school and activity sessions.“I wanted a big, alishaan drawing room where we could entertain many guests. But now, we don’t know what the future will bring. In case of another pandemic or a lockdown, the area that we use daily should be more luxurious and comfortable. The drawing room for guests should also be separate from the rest of the house,” Goyal said. WATCH: What the independent villa could look like As the Sars-CoV-2 virus continues to ravage India — the country now has the second-worst outbreak of the disease in the world, behind only the United States — many begun to turn their homes into multi-functional spaces. The house, which has now turned into a school, playground and workspace, must cater to a variety of demands. What’s more, furniture makers have come out with a range of work tables with adjustable heights and ergonomic chairs to cater to what they forsee will be growing market, as tech giants such as Infosys and Wipro, Dell and Google, among others, ask their employees to work from home for the foreseeable future.“Work from home furniture which comprised about 3% of company’s sales has increased to 15 %. Overall, June, July and August achieved 60%, 70 % and 85 % of the normal demand with improvement seen month after month. We believe we will achieve normalcy from forthcoming festival season, which will also be supported by marriage season,” said Subodh Mehta, senior vice president (B2C) Godrej Interio, the furniture making arm of Godrej.Two products that have done well since they were launched during lockdown are a work desk with a separate hutch and a swivel arm that can allow more than one user to use the desk at the same time, and a chaise that allows a user to stretch out while working on laptops/tablets and thus create a comfortable working corner, Mehta said.WATCH: What an 1,800 sq ft apartment could look likePanasonic has come out a desk and 4-ft high partition which can be assembled at home to create a work cubicle at home. It is currently only available in Japan.German manufacturing company Vitra recently published a “set of hypotheses” on the future of the home. Among the most radical of post-pandemic design implications was a so-called broken plan — hive off existing spaces to create new multifunctional spaces for family members. READ: Post-Covid design: Envisioning the home in the new normal“Now that we are spending more time at home and having to share that limited area with our cohabitants, we need to work on optimising the available space. Partitioning off or zoning our interior between various activities and people, or during different times of the day, presents an easy option. The so-called broken plan — with screens, curtains and plants in the absence of walls — creates digital detox zones while other members of the household carry on with their work. The home might even adopt some well known typologies from open space offices, such as soundproof phone booths or objects with higher walls,” the document stated.“It’s not just about designing a two BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) or a three BHK anymore; it’s about designing a multifunctional space, since spaces inside a home can’t any longer have a singular purpose. So, customers are asking us to create collapsible partitions. They are experimenting with the idea of sound-proofing through acoustic panels and false ceilings. Customers are saying, ‘give me open spaces (like skylights or balconies) for the future’,” said Neelima Ronanki, vice president of design for HouseJoy, a company that provides a suite of services from appliance repair to interior design, construction and even home salon services.In Bengaluru, a client recently requested a design that would give her and her husband much-needed silence during work hours, and their two children private space after school. Ronanki’s team came up with an elegant solution: a mezzanine floor, between the ground floor and the first, “like a sort of box in an in-between space” where “the children can play video games or chat with friends without disturbing parents,” Ronanki pointed out.This focus on the interior is here to stay, said Amar Tendulkar, chief of design at Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited. Tendulkar’s team conducted a survey among a small sample size of 125 families in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (across middle, and upper middle class, he said) over the past three months to gauge how their needs from their home and community has evolved over the course of the pandemic. Some of the themes that emerged included the need to re-evaluate the spatial configuration of interiors, flexibility being key; a need for sanitisation spaces in the lobbies and entrance areas of apartments; a shift from indoor, air-conditioned community spaces to outdoor ones (like gymnasiums); and, the need for balconies.“Balconies and decks have re-emerged in the Covid era as more families realise their importance. Balconies are like your own private outdoor space,” Tendulkar said, adding, “We are looking at doing this in some of our upcoming housing projects in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.”WATCH: What an 800 sq ft flat could look like  His own big take away from the lockdown, he said, was the re-emergence of the kitchen as an important space within the home. High-end appliances and a screen in the kitchen — something that current designs don’t usually take into account — are gaining importance and modern-day kitchens must account for this.“I used to love cooking, but I wouldn’t get much time to cook earlier. Now, having spent time in kitchen [during the lockdown], I realise the importance of smart appliances. Other male friends of mine are also realising this — a screen in the kitchen, for example, which can play recipes on YouTube,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visions-for-the-future-the-post-pandemic-home/story-XLWAaBc8vPfwAdl9ZSUx1H.html
12-09-2020||India||Post-Covid design: Envisioning the home in the new normal||As the Sars-CoV-2 virus continues to ravage India — the country now has the second-worst outbreak of the disease in the world, behind only the United States — many have begun to turn their homes into multi-functional spaces. The house, which has now turned into a school, playground and workspace, must cater to a variety of demands. German manufacturing company Vitra recently published a “set of hypotheses” on the future of the home. Among the most radical of post-pandemic design implications was a so-called broken plan — hive off existing spaces to create new multifunctional spaces for family members. “Now that we are spending more time at home and having to share that limited area with our cohabitants, we need to work on optimising the available space. Partitioning off or zoning our interior between various activities and people, or during different times of the day, presents an easy option. The so-called broken plan — with screens, curtains and plants in the absence of walls — creates digital detox zones while other members of the household carry on with their work. The home might even adopt some well known typologies from open space offices, such as soundproof phone booths or objects with higher walls,” the document stated.The designers and architects whom HT spoke to said that they are being asked to designing spaces that can be flexible. “It’s no longer about designing a two BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) or a three BHK anymore; it’s about designing a multifunctional space, since spaces inside a home can’t any longer have a singular purpose,” said Neelima Ronanki, vice president of design for HouseJoy, a company that provides a suite of services from appliance repair to interior design, construction and even home salon services. HT reached out to three architects to share their visions of what a post-pandemic home could look like. Take a look at what they came up with. 800 SQ FT — ‘THE HOME IS PART OF THE COMMUNITY’ By Akshat BhattThese past few months, as we’ve been forced to stay indoors under lockdown, our homes have re-emerged as sanctuaries –– places of safe and socially-distanced work, leisure, and engagement –– and our verandahs, balconies, and terraces are thresholds from which we’ve stayed connected with the outside. The fundamental way we live, how we interact with our families or move within our homes hasn’t changed much (apart from repurposing rooms for quarantine or creating a dedicated quiet zone for work) and I don’t believe it will. I hope, however, that this pandemic acts as the catalyst of change towards more minimal, sustainable living. Our value systems need an urgent rethink. And this must start with an evaluation of what is essential for sustenance and how our homes connect to the outside world for delivery of these products or public services. What if our homes could be off the grid?   For the Covid-19 age, I envision low-rise residential developments, three to four storeys tall and navigable by foot. When compared to high-rise apartment buildings with high densities and large numbers of elevator banks and common spaces, this scheme would allow for easier and more efficient isolation and hence, curb the spread of the contagion. Each dwelling unit — around 800 sq ft —or a sector with three to four dwelling units, would have independent administrative control and access points serviced by small, autonomous public travel capsules, which would ply frequently with flexible routes right to the traveller’s destination, limiting physical interaction with others.  The architecture of the units would be based on modularity and create open-ended frameworks for flexible dwelling systems; open plan studio apartments with collapsible partition walls and roofs and flexible storage systems will allow residents to reconfigure their homes, enclosing and combining spaces or lending them to the greens, as needed. Within the unit, distinct zones would be created based on degree of sterility , from community spaces such as arrival courtyards, foyers, and formal living rooms to host guests, to spaces for the family to engage, to private rooms for individual inhabitants, which could be easily sealed off with movable partitions when needed. Isolation wards could be housed in the basement with direct access to the outdoors via sunken green courtyards for fresh air and light.Most importantly, these homes would be entirely self-sufficient. They will rely on ground water to meet their potable water needs and generate their own power with solar panels or photovoltaic arrays. Thermal massing will reduce heat gain and light wells will double as wind tunnels and enhance passive cooling; the reduced mechanical cooling requirements could be met with geothermal energy through earth air tunnels and displacement ventilation (conditioned air supply with diffusers near the floor and exhaust from ceiling height level to reduce mixing as opposed to conventional air conditioners that supply air from the side). Individual pockets of greens and open spaces on multiple levels will not just aid ingress of natural light and fresh air but also house grow-rooms for farming food through techniques such as hydroponics and aeroponics. All dry and wet waste generated will be treated on site with the compost being utilised as feed for farming, while all outgoing waste to the grid will be taxed to incentivise responsible resource consumption.We can no longer afford to think of homes in isolation, but as part of neighbourhoods and communities that promote safe and healthy living. Akshat Bhatt is the founder of the Delhi-based multi-disciplinary firm Architecture Discipline-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1,800 SQ FT — ‘DEMARCATE SPACE IN TERMS OF FUNCTION AND USAGE’ By Meena Murthy KakkarA global crisis usually turns the world upside down but the Covid-19 pandemic has turned our world inside-out. Until early 2020, one visualised schooling, working, exercising, eating and entertaining as outdoor tasks; the home was perceived as a retreat to disconnect oneself from the flurry of activities of the outside world. Today, however, the home must perform a multitude of these very functions, indoors. The pandemic certainly marks a shift in our psychology and behaviour, and it would be interesting to see how society changes as a result of it. One of the paradigm shifts that we may see altering is our architectural consciousness. As our relationships with our homes change, there will be a greater need to demarcate spaces in terms of functionality and usage. As the home becomes a space for both work and schooling, it will be necessary to create a balance between privacy and company. One can expect common areas to be connected in order to accentuate the feeling of togetherness. At the same time, privacy may need to be emphasized either through physical demarcations such as dancing doors, accordion doors, or bookshelves with planters, acoustic insulation to permit focus-driven activities, and creating activity-specific zones for different individuals (with staggered timings) within a shared space.  In a 1500 sq ft apartment house, with three bedrooms to accommodate an inter-generational family of four adults and two children, certain features like a large drawing room (to entertain guests), a closed kitchen (to provide privacy and keep the sounds out of the entertainment unit) are common. However, in a post-Covid home, large gatherings are not expected. So the space of the drawing and dining room can be reconfigured to create a tech-enabled home office, with video conferencing and screen projection facilities, as well as the space to accommodate a visitor. The master bedroom can also be reconfigured to create another home office, which is sound-proofed, well-lit, and well ventilated.  For the children, either of these spaces can double as a learning space during school hours; the adults could use the space afterwards in a staggered time approach. An open kitchen can turn into a meeting point for family members, even as the store or utility room at the entrance of the house can be turned into a dedicated zone to allow multiple sanitation functions: cleaning vegetables, sanitising deliveries, cleaning up after returning from the outside. A clear path should be demarcated for the elderly to walk unimpeded in the house.A similar emphasis will need to be paid to indoor air quality. Natural ventilation and sunlight are keys to a healthy indoor space. A happy space is one that takes into account the physical, emotional and mental well-being of its inhabitant. This period, thus, certainly calls for us to take a serious relook and redesign the physical spaces that we live in. Meena Murthy Kakkar is an associate professor at the School of Planning an Architecture, New Delhi and the head of design and partner at the firm, Envisage ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 3,000 SQ FT — ‘A RADICALLY DIFFERENT HOME’ By Amit KhannaLet us sneak a peek inside your post pandemic home.You enter your home carrying essentials that guarantee you a quarantine time of about a week. Consumed by the fear of contaminating your home, your safe place, you hesitate. You now find yourself in need of a ‘buffer zone’ — a place where you can leave groceries, online deliveries, and sanitise yourself before entering the house. You need enclosures for activities and for that, historical architecture has a solution: the foyer, the hallway or the verandah. Integrating a wet area for cleaning up (powder toilet) and a dry one (with spacious storage for cleaning/ sanitising material; shoes), gives us Zone 1. Similarly, domestic help and staff have an independent room even if they visit daily. This gives them privacy and a space to wash up, change and enter the home just as anyone entering the house and interacting with other inbound members, is expected to do.Social stability and work necessitated that we lived in fluid, multi-generational homes. In a post-Covid world however, this prevents effectively isolating the young and the elderly. However, this can be managed by staggering the time that three generations carry out different types of activities, across the morning and evening; in other words, multiple uses of distinct spaces.A garden is attached to the kitchen. You rely on homegrown produce for salads, vegetables and even the occasional fruit. Since everyone in the family cooks these days, the kitchen is open and is spectacularly clean. Every surface is anti-microbial and can be wiped down. The kitchen flows into a dining room and a living room. The open spaces provide much needed human interaction for the family — leisure for grandparents, a playroom for the children and the dining table can be converted into a work zone for everyone. All bedrooms have attached bathrooms, including the guest — this allows any one room to be a possible isolation area. This is Zone 2. Now we enter the zone of the “call”. Someone in the house is always on a call and it’s often video. You need a productive environment, a quiet space. Unaccommodating of the mid-day naps and the running children or those sunning themselves on the balcony, the call must be taken. Here we find that WiFi has rightly earned its place at the bottom of Maslow’s hierarchy. The call requires the strongest WiFi available, and the bandwidth is being split amongst the kids taking online classes and several instances of Prime, Netflix and Youtube.For those of us lucky enough to have not seen the inside of a hospital this year, this is the most enduring image of the pandemic: Grown adults running out of, or into rooms, desperate for the minimal background noise necessary to have a conversation on the phone. Your post pandemic home will be designed around the need for robust Wi-Fi. The open plan, a legacy of modern 20th century design, will be replaced by more enclosed spaces with more focus on spaces designed around specific activities.Your post pandemic home will be radically different. For the foreseeable future, it has to double up as the office, the school, the mall, the gym and the park. It’s these changes that will allow us to remain productive and safe within our homes.The experience of lockdown will, no doubt, have a lasting effect on us all. Many will be rethinking the kind of life they want to live post-pandemic, along with the role their homes could play in this.Amit Khanna is an architect, urbanist and educator and his special focus is on the transformation of cities. He is the founder of the architecture firm AKDA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-covid-design-envisioning-the-home-in-the-new-normal/story-Qyux60j1Dqgkag03gYlFTJ.html
