13-09-2020||India||Modi backs Nitish, says CM transformed state||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, saying the state had shown in the past 15 years that inclusive economic development is possible with the right government in place, taking the right decisions and following the right policies.Modi, who dedicated to the nation three petroleum sector projects in Bihar worth more than ₹900 crore through video conferencing, said his central government was working for the growth of all sectors in Bihar. The PM praised the young people of Bihar, which he termed a “powerhouse” of talent. He said there was a time when some people would question what one could do in Bihar other than work on farms. He said the absence of big educational institutes used to force the young to step out of the state in search of opportunities. “Institutes of higher learning — agriculture, medical and engineering colleges, including an IIT {Indian Institute of Technology), IIM {Indian Institute of Management}, NIFT {National Institute of Fashion Technology} and a national law institute each — have come up fast under Nitish Kumar in Bihar,” he said. Modi’s speech came ahead of assembly elections due in Bihar, where his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is part of a coalition government headed by Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD(U). Chief minister Kumar thanked the PM for the projects launched on Sunday. Modi said Startup India, Mudra Yojana and such schemes had provided a boost to entrepreneurship and opened up self-employment opportunities to the young people of Bihar. He also referred to a significant improvement in the state’s power situation over the last six years, where villages earlier used to get electricity for 2-3 hours and cities for 8-10 hours a day. Modi said Bihar was earlier plagued by a mindset that saw people sneer at road projects on the grounds that these were of no use to people without vehicles. Modi said there was no dearth of capability or resources in the state. Yet, Bihar and other eastern India states always lagged behind in development because of political and financial reasons as well as apathy. He also spoke about the shift in the state government’s work culture from the days when one generation would witness the foundation laying ceremonies of projects and the next generation would witness their completion. The PM said a special package announced for Bihar a few years ago focused much on the state’s infrastructure. He said the special package given for Bihar had 10 big projects related to petroleum and gas worth ₹21,000 crore. The projects dedicated on Sunday include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur pipeline augmentation project and two liquified petroleum gas bottling plants — one at Banka of Indian Oil Corporation and another of Hindustan Power Corporation Limited at Harsidhi in East Champaran. He said the effort to connect eastern India with Paradip on the eastern seaboard and Kandla on the western seaboard began under the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Yojana and seven states would be connected through this pipeline, which is about 3,000km long; The line from Paradip - Haldia will now be extended to Patna and Muzaffarpur and the pipeline from Kandla, which has reached Gorakhpur, will also be connected to it. When the entire project is ready, it will become one of the longest pipelines in the world. The PM said due to these gas pipelines, big bottling plants were being installed in Bihar. The two pipelines launched on Sunday have a capacity to fill more than 125 million cylinders every year. These plants will meet the LPG requirement of Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj and Pakur districts and some areas of Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. Reminding people that the good work done in the last 15 years must continue, he said, “We must ensure ‘sushasan’ (good governance)”. “The PM’s comments, praising chief minister Nitish Kumar, smacks of political opportunism,” said political analyst DM Diwakar, a former director of the AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna.“It was Modi who completely ignored Kumar’s fervent request with folded hands to declare Patna University a central varsity during its centenary function in 2018. Kumar, on the other hand, had raised a brouhaha {in 2015} over the PM’s DNA comment and vowed to never ever come together with the BJP again. However, with elections around the corner, the situation is much different today and both the leaders are singing paeans to each other,” he said. It was a reference to a comment by Modi that there seemed to be something wrong with Nitish Kumar’s DNA, recalling a dinner invitation by the latter which he cancelled. “There have been improvement in infrastructure, roads, power sector and literacy, but employment has not increased, migration and poverty have not reduced and income transfer has not taken place, as a result of which it is debatable whether Bihar’s story is one of inclusive growth,” Diwakar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-backs-nitish-says-cm-transformed-state/story-Z2UsToDl2qna8rVWkMmGHO.html
13-09-2020||India||Surat bizman launches Manikarnika’ styled saree to express support for Kangana Ranaut||In order to express his support to actor Kangana Ranaut, a Surat-based textile businessman has manufactured a ‘Manikarnika’ styled saree with the actor’s portrait imprinted on it.Rajat Dawar who owns shops in the Universal textile market in Gujarat’s Surat has come up with this saree and said that what happened with the actor is something that cannot be accepted.Speaking to ANI, he said, “She wanted to raise her voice to support something but her voice was suppressed and her office was demolished. So we wanted to support her and came up with this idea to manufacture the saree with ‘I support Kangana’ written on it.”He further said, “We launched this saree yesterday and have already received multiple orders. The price range starts from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 depending upon the fabric on which it has been made.”On being asked about the permission to imprint Kangana’s portrait on the fabric, Rajat added, “We have not made this saree to promote our brand in any way, but only with the motive to support her in her fight.”Ranaut has been involved in a bitter war of words with Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut after her remarks that she feels unsafe in Mumbai and has no trust in the Mumbai Police after the death of the actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Besides this, Kangana’s office in Pali Hill, Bandra was partially demolished on Wednesday by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Moreover, the actor allegedly received threats following which she was provided Y plus security. On September 9, she arrived in Mumbai amid tight security. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-bizman-launches-manikarnika-styled-saree-to-express-support-for-kangana-ranaut/story-fW4W8fyjzFFjXGNsvK77vK.html
13-09-2020||India||Kangana meets Maha guv, says injustice done to her||MumbaiActor Kangana Ranaut on Sunday met Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and complained to him about the treatment given to her by the state government. She was accompanied by her sister Rangoli and met the governor for around 20 minutes.“A short while ago I met His Excellency the Governor of Maharashtra Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari Ji. I explained my point of view to him and also requested that justice be given to me it will restore faith of common citizen and particularly daughters in the system,” tweeted Ranaut after the meeting.Ranaut has been locked in a war of words with the Shiv Sena over the Sushant Singh Rajput case -- especially after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation demolished her Bandra office, citing violation of building norms.Talking to reporters after the meeting at Raj Bhavan, the actor said, “I met the governor. He heard me as a daughter. I came to meet him as a citizen. I have nothing to do with politics. I told him about the injustice meted out to me and what happened was improper. It was indecent behaviour,” she said.Commenting on the meeting, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said “Anyone can meet the governor.” He further said the party would not speak about her but all her statements would be noted. “We will just listen to what she says but will not react to her. We will however take note of all her statements,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-meets-maha-guv-says-injustice-done-to-her/story-di5SYX1wh1g65saF1MeUWN.html
13-09-2020||India||Vaccine may be ready by 1st quarter of 2021: Harshvardhan||India is likely to reach a consensus soon on emergency authorization for a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and fontline health-care workers, senior citizens and people with comorbidities shall be receive the vaccine on a priority basis whenever one is ready, Union health minister Dr. Harshvardhan said on Sunday.To calm any fears over the safety of the vaccine, he said he will be happy to take the first dosage.“I shall be the first to offer myself for receiving Covid vaccine, if people have a trust deficit,” he told his social media followers in an interaction on Twitter.He also said that while no date has been set for the launch of a potential vaccine, it may be ready by the first quarter of 2021.“Government is taking full precautions in conducting the human trials of the vaccine and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 under the chairmanship of Dr. V K Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, is drawing up a detailed strategy on how to immunize a majority of the population. Issues like vaccine security, cost, equity, cold-chain requirements, production timelines etc., are also been discussed intensely,” he said.Elaborating on the vaccine candidates and their development in India, he also said that Department of Biotechnology (DBT) as well as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have been proactive in responding to the emerging situation to support the advancement of vaccine candidates.Adverse events were not seen in animals immunized with a two-dose vaccination regimen of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, the company’s vaccine candidate to protect people from the coronavirus disease, shows the animal study data published by one of India’s two Covid-19 vaccine candidates currently in human trials. The other indigenous vaccine in human trials is being developed by Zydus Cadila.The vaccine, being developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the ICMR is in phase 1/2 of human clinical trials. The other indigenous vaccine in human trials is being developed by Zydus Cadila.India is actively partnering with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and trials are underway in different phases in Indian laboratories (private or public) and hospitals.“It is hoped that a consensus will emerge in next few months over the desired level of protective herd immunity in any community,” he added.The minister covered a multitude of queries concerning not only the Covid-19 vaccine landscape, but also the government’s approach to it, and the likely changes expected in a post-Covid-19 world.He highlighted how the pandemic became a turning point for Indian manufacturing. From the time when there were no indigenous manufacturers of personal protection equipment (PPEs) with requisite standards, nearly 110 indigenous manufacturers of PPEs have lauched operations and meeting quality standards.“The country is in a position to not only meet its own demands but also export to help out fellow nations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-may-be-ready-by-1st-quarter-of-2021-harshvardhan/story-BCix3tNysgHwcMksSUcubL.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19 no deterrent for medical aspirants||New DelhiOf the over 1.5 million candidates who registered for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), 85-90% appeared for the exam on Sunday that’s the basis for determining admissions to undergraduate medical and dental courses.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, while disclosing the turnout, also thanked state governments, many of which had even arranged transport for the candidates, given the difficulties they faced amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“NTA{National Testing Agency} informed me that around 85-90% students appeared in #NEET exam today. I sincerely thank all Chief Ministers and @DG_NTA for proper arrangements made to facilitate student participation. #NEET participation reflects the tenacity and grit of young, ” Pokhriyal said in a tweet.The NEET turnout was higher than the attendance at the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) figure of around 74 %. NTA officials have attributed this to the fact that JEE (Main) is held twice every year.Many students who had already taken the exam in Januaray may have decided to skip the test in September because of Covid-19-related concerns.Reports from across states suggested that students did face inconvenience, but still made it to the examination centres for the career-defining test. Thousands of medical and dental course aspirants travelled to Patna to write NEET, held across 178 centres. In Bihar, altogether 78,960 students had registered to write the exam.Most students said precautionary measures adopted at exam centres were satisfactory. Many said they faced inconvenience because exam centres were in two districts (Patna and Gaya), which forced them to travel 100 to 200 km.A NEET aspirant, Anup Kumar of Saran district, said: “I left my home at 7 am to reach exam centre at 11 am. Travelling for long hours and a three-hour waiting period before commencement of the exam exhausted me. For the first time, I wore a mask for six straight hours. It caused suffocation.”Candidates seemed relieved after taking the exam, which they said ranged from moderate to difficult.Jyoti Kumari, who took the exam at A N College, said: “I found physics more difficult than biology. Few questions of botany section were tough. Physics questions were time-consuming .”In Jharkhand, the exam was held in 36 centres in Ranchi, Bokaro and Jamshedpur. The attendance was around 85%. In Ranchi, the examination was conducted in 25 centres where around 12,600 students were supposed to appear.The city coordinator for NEET, Ram Singh, who is also the principal of Delhi Public School (DPS), Ranchi, said: “The examinations passed off peacefully without any trouble. Around 85% students wrote the papers in Ranchi.”NEET aspirants took the test at over 269 examination centres in six cities of Rajasthan. Although the examination was held from 2 pm to 5 pm, aspirants started arriving at examination centres from 11 am onwards in line with the reporting specified by NTA to ensure Covid-19 social distancing.The candidates were frisked by hand-held metal detectors and allowed into examination centre after hand sanitization and thermal scanning at the entry points. A maximum of 12 aspirants were seated in every examination hall.The Rajasthan government made special arrangements for NEET aspirants to reach the testing centres by providing free bus service.The Centre’s decision to conduct NEET and the JEE had drawn criticism from several opposition leaders who questioned the wisdom of the move when the pandemic continues to rage. The education ministry emphasized that not holding the test could lead to a zero year, which would not be in students’ interest. (With state inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-no-deterrent-for-medical-aspirants/story-988D1veO2yB36bHdjgcAWJ.html
13-09-2020||India||No ban on taking photos on-board, clarifies DGCA||New Delhi: Passengers on board commercial panes will be allowed to take photographs in flight, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) clarified on Sunday, adding that a ban by the regulator only applied to recording equipment and behaviour which compromises air safety, creates chaos and violates norms.“It is clarified that a bonafide passenger travelling in an aircraft engaged in scheduled air transport services may do still and video photography from inside such an aircraft when in flight; takeoff and landing... however, this permission does not include use of recording equipment which imperils or compromises air safety; violates prevalent norms; creates chaos or disruption during operation of flight or expressly prohibited by crew,” the DGCA said in a statement.The clarification came a day after the aviation regulator issued an order for commercial flights, stating that an airline’s service on a particular route can be suspended for two weeks if it fails to act against crew or passengers who violate in-flight norms such as a ban on mid-air photography. The suspension would stay in place until the airline takes action for violation of norms.“In case of any violation of Rule 13 of Aircraft Rules 1937 on any passenger aircraft, the schedule of flight for that particular route shall be suspended for two weeks from the next day,” the DGCA statement read. The rule cited by DGCA, deals with conditions of photography and videography on board commercial passenger flights.The aviation regulator added on Saturday that despite these regulations, airlines had often failed to follow the rules primarily due to lack of diligence on their part. “Needless to say that such deviations result in compromise in maintaining the highest standard of safety and therefore is not to be allowed,” it said.The order came in the aftermath of an incident involving media personnel filming on board an IndiGo flight in which actor Kangana Ranaut was travelling from Chandigarh to Mumbai on Wednesday. A video of media personnel recording inside the flight and creating a ruckus went viral on social media.The DGCA had on Friday asked IndiGo to take “appropriate action” after the regulator found alleged violation of safety and social distancing protocols by the media on the airline’s Chandigarh-Mumbai flight.“We have seen some videos wherein mediapersons are standing too close to each other on board the 6E264 flight on Wednesday. It seems to be a violation of safety and social distancing protocols,” a DGCA official said.The aviation regulator cited multiple issues with the incident, prominent among which was photography on board a flight in violation of Aircraft rule 13, visible violation of Covid-19 protocols and alleged unruly behaviour by a few passengers.The aviation regulator is also planning to take action against the media personnel on board the IndiGo flight for violating in-flight norms following a probe on the incident, officials aware of the development said.“Action may be initiated against those persons found in violation of the guidelines,” the DGCA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ban-on-taking-photos-on-board-clarifies-dgca/story-FAQVTmSGIk2DVTTWmmdlZN.html
13-09-2020||India||Farooq confirms House attendance||Srinagar: National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, the member of Parliament from Srinagar, will attend the monsoon session of Parliament starting on Monday.This will be the first session he will be attending since Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was divested of its special status with the effective nullification of Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two Union territories — J&K and Ladakh. The former CM and his son Omar Abdullah were detained in a crackdown that accompanied the constitutional changes. “Yes, I am going to attend Parliament. Though they have kept no provisions to ask question, we will have to sit four hours daily,” Abdullah told HT. “Nevertheless, I will raise our issues there, “ he said. During the debate in Parliament last year when the erstwhile state’s special status was revoked and his absence was felt in the House, Abdullah told the media in an interview in Srinagar that he had to break open his door to come out from detention within his house and denied the home minister’s remarks that he was free.The monsoon session will be held between September 14 and October 1 amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and will have a shorter daily duration. The last parliamentary session was cut short on March 25 following the viral outbreak. The government has decided to do away with the Question Hour; the government will only provide written replies.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained hours before the central government effectively nullified Article 370 of the Constitution.Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released on March 13 and March 24, 2020, respectively.In an interview with HT last month, Farooq and Omar Abdullah, another former CM of J&K, said that they will contest the constitutional changes related to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) pushed through by the Centre last year both politically and legally. Another former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti is still under detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-confirms-house-attendance/story-dnOB1o2HcFrFlOr9HhAWiJ.html
13-09-2020||India||In Odisha, three leopard skins seized, 4 held over illegal wildlife trade||Odisha wildlife department officials have seized three leopard skins and arrested four young men in Nabarangpur district for allegedly being involved in smuggling.Chief wildlife warden HS Upadhyay said a team of wildlife officials of Nabarangpur district intercepted two vehicles at different places on Saturday and recovered 3 leopard hides. While one team intercepted a motorcycle in a bordering area of Kalahandi and Nabarangpur districts at around 11.30 am and recovered one leopard skin from them, another team seized two leopard hides from another two-wheeler in Nandahandi block of the district at around 3:30 pm.“We disguised as regular customers and caught the accused red-handed. We will produce photographic evidence in court,” said Nabarangpur DFO Magar Dhanaji Raoso.The arrested persons are Surendra Naik and Trinath Naik from Thuamul Rampur area in Kalahandi district and Gupta Prasad Traki and Prahallad Nayak of Nabarangpur district. The accused have been booked under multiple sections of the IPC and Wildlife Protection Act. Efforts are on to ascertain the possible involvement of other people in the racket, said officials.Earlier this month, forest officials in Mayurbhanj district had seized a leopard skin and arrested one person over his alleged involvement in illegal wildlife trade.In June this year, the Special Task Force of the Odisha Crime Branch had arrested two persons including a teacher and recovered two leopard skins and bones from them in Nayagarh district. Leopards are protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Over the last 10 years, at least 155 leopards have been poached across Odisha. Leopards are routinely poached for their skins and body parts. At least 27 leopard skins were seized in Odisha in the last two years and as many as 35 men arrested most of them in operations carried out by the Crime Branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-three-leopard-skins-seized-4-held-over-illegal-wildlife-trade/story-PkK2PBmnLO5gSpBfoYQ5KM.html
13-09-2020||India||‘I lost a year’: Bihar boy travels 700 kms, misses NEET by 10 minutes||Santosh Kumar Yadav, a resident of Darbhanga in Bihar, travelled for more than 24 hours and changed two buses to cover a 700-odd kilometre distance to reach Kolkata for his National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). Unfortunately, he was late by 10 minutes. Yadav was not allowed to enter the examination centre at a school in Salt Lake, a township located to the east of Kolkata. “I pleaded the authorities but they said I was late. The examination started at 2 pm. I reached the centre around 1.40 pm. The last deadline for entering the centre was 1.30 pm,” Yadav told a local television channel. “I lost a year,” he added. Also read: Covid-19 vaccine possible by 2021 first quarter, says Harsh VardhanIncidentally, NEET examinees were asked to report at least three hours in advance in view of the time taken for security and health checks amid the Covid-19 crisis. Describing his ordeal, the student said, “I boarded a bus at Darbhanga at 8 am on Saturday to reach Muzaffarpur. From there I took a bus to Patna but there was a traffic jam on the route and I got delayed by almost six hours.”“I took another bus from Patna at 9 pm. The bus dropped me near Sealdah station (in Kolkata) at 1.06 pm. A taxi brought me to the examination centre,” said Yadav.The school authorities could not be contacted but inconvenience faced by NEET examinees became a subject of political debate as many had to shell out huge amount of money to travel from one part of the state to another in hired cars. Also read: NEET 2020 - 85-90% of over 15 lakh students take exam amid Covid-19 concerns“The Supreme Court (while dismissing a petition for delaying NEET and JEE) said that students should get all help to travel and get accommodation. During the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), examinees in West Bengal had to face a lot of difficulty and the chief minister had said 70 percent of them could not take the test. This government is not at all sympathetic towards students,” said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Dilip Ghosh. The state government did not deny that examinees had to face an uphill task on Sunday. “We knew that students would face trouble. The metro railway can carry them within Kolkata but what about those from other districts? Chief minister Mamata Banerjee cancelled the state-wide lockdown on Saturday only to help students travel. But they still faced problems because of the pandemic situation,” said state education minister and Trinamool Congress secretary general Partha Chatterjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-lost-a-year-bihar-boy-travels-700-kms-misses-neet-by-10-minutes/story-tI0utqgzXNd771drTQdQaK.html
13-09-2020||India||Ahead of MP bypolls, BJP and Congress spar at public meetings||Ahead of bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, the ruling party BJP and the opposition Congress accused each other on Sunday at public meetings held in two different regions of the state of, what they said, betraying people after making promises for their welfare. The bypolls are due for 27 assembly constituencies dates of which are yet to be announced by the Election Commission. While laying the foundation stones for several projects in Bhander assembly constituency in Datia district and Gohad assembly constituency in Bhind district, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “Congress sought votes of people by projecting the face of Jyotiraditya Scindia in the run-up to 2018 assembly elections but when it formed its government Kamal Nath was appointed the chief minister. He hardly moved out of the secretariat to meet people and redress their grievances. Also, he dumped several welfare schemes launched during the BJP regime earlier for farmers, students, youths, women and other sections of society.”Chouhan asked people, “Was this act of Congress not like stabbing people in the back?”Also read: India may see 7 million Covid-19 cases by October, says studySenior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, home minister Narottam Mishra, cooperative minister Arvind Bhadoria and women and child development minister Imrati Devi also addressed the gatherings.Scindia said, “It was for the first time when Gwalior-Chambal region gave tremendous support to the Congress in 2018 assembly elections by giving 26 seats out of total 34 in the region to the party. People thought the Congress government would draw a bigger line of development than that in the BJP government in the previous years. But the Congress chief minister didn’t come out of Vallabh Bhavan (state secretariat). Instead of setting the record of development, the Congress government set a record in corruption. Sand mafia, liquor mafia and transfer industry had their say in the government.”Scindia asked, “Digvijaya Singh projected himself as well-wisher of Dalits. I want to ask him if he is really a well-wisher of Dalits then why didn’t the Congress send Phoolsingh Baraiya to Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh?”Scindia said, “The ensuing bypolls are not for certain constituencies but concerns the entire state. The entire country is looking forward to this election. We have to ensure victory of the BJP on all the 27 seats and give a befitting reply to corrupt Congress.”While BJP leaders attacked the Congress in Gwalior-Chambal region, state Congress president Kamal Nath took a dig at the BJP in Malwa region.Addressing a public meeting in Sanver assembly constituency in Indore in support of the party candidate Premchand Guddu, the former chief minister said, “The BJP in its 15 years of rule from 2003 to 2018 only produced labourers in Madhya Pradesh while in its present regime it is only making false promises to people.”Nath asked people, “Have you ever seen labourers from Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Kerala? However, if you have seen labourers on TV screens, they must be labourers from Madhya Pradesh (returning home during the Covid-19 crisis). This is what the BJP government gave to Madhya Pradesh in all these years. People can see how the BJP has brought the state to such a sorry pass.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-mp-bypolls-bjp-and-congress-spar-at-public-meetings/story-7fsanCT2hbthtxcAAs5bQP.html
13-09-2020||India||In Meghalaya, 30 Raj Bhavan staff test positive for Covid-19||The Meghalaya Raj Bhavan on Sunday witnessed a chaotic day with as many as thirty employees, including the secretary to Governor Satya Pal Malik, testing positive for Covid-19Governor Malik, however, tested negative while his wife is out of station.This was confirmed by the state Director of Health Services (DHS) Dr. Aman War to HT over telephone “Its true that 30 employees of Raj Bhavan have tested positive for the virus and we are making sure that no one is left out of the tests,” the DHS said, adding, “Measures are being taken to ensure that all protocols are put in place.”Besides the Secretary to the Governor, other senior officials include the Deputy Secretary, House Controller, Superintendent, Accountant, Hindi Stenographer and the attendant to Lady Governor.Others who work in the main building include 3 room bearers, 2 table bearers, 2 room sweepers and a nurse. These people work in the main building and often come into contact with the Governor or visitors. The others are Grade 3 and 4 staff of the Raj Bhavan Secretariat which is located in the premises but away from the main building and some police personnel.Speaking to HT over phone, Commissioner and Secretary of Health Sampath Kumar said the origin of the virus infiltrating Raj Bhavan is being ascertained while admitting candidly that it was quite a challenge.“Many people visit Raj Bhavan and especially since the present Governor has just assumed office many come to greet him. In the process tea and snacks are served and in order to consume them one has to remove the mask which is potentially dangerous,” Kumar said adding, “In such cases social distancing does not apply, it is merely physical distancing.The Commissioner revealed, “The government is contemplating issuing necessary directions to not allow consumption of any eatables or beverages during meetings.” He said if someone wishes to have tea or snacks or both, one can do so on their own separately.When asked if the premises would be declared a containment zone considering the large number of positive cases, Kumar said, “The area is fully gated anyway but as far as the quarters are, we leave it to the wisdom and discretion of the Deputy Commissioner (DC).HT contacted East Khasi Hills DC Isawanda Laloo, who has just assumed office on September 8 and she informed that all protocols have been put in place. “We have sealed off the main premises as well as the staff quarters on the rear side of Raj Bhavan across the road, Laloo said over phone adding, “Essential commodities will be delivered to all at their doorstep so they don’t have to venture out. A police team overseen by the Superintendent of Police and a magistrate will ensure strict adherence to the administration’s directions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-meghalaya-30-raj-bhavan-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-t91lxZodF8o3FO3nQau1pM.html
13-09-2020||India||India may see 7 million Covid-19 cases by October, says study||India may witness over seven million Covid-19 cases by the first week of October, surpassing the US and emerging as the country with highest number of infections, a team of researchers from BITS Pilani, Hyderabad said on Friday.The Union health ministry data on Friday said the number of coronavirus cases in India breached the 45 lakh mark while a data released by a national public health institute in the US said the number of infections in the North American country crossed six million as of September 8.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The team has been engaged in forecasting Covid-19 pandemic in India using advanced statistical learning techniques, lead researcher Dr TSL Radhika of the Department of Applied Mathematics, BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus said.The team has recently communicated its findings to the ‘International Journal of Infectious Diseases’ published by the well known publisher Elsevier.“Our results, obtained using a model based on statistical learning techniques applied to the existing data, indicate that India is likely to become the top COVID-19 country in the world, surpassing the United States by about the first week of October, that is in about a month’s time.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The total number of cases is also likely to cross the 70 -lakh mark by this time.The figure however is contingent on the number of tests being carried out,” Dr Radhika said in an email communication to PTI.The researchers are now working on refining their model based on advanced machine learning techniques to make predictions for the longer term, the researcher added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-see-7-million-covid-19-cases-by-october-says-study/story-lReVJ9aYTKkhUTYtm23IjL.html
13-09-2020||India||Parliament Monsoon session to begin tomorrow amid Covid-19 pandemic: All you need to know||Compulsory mask-wearing, entry to only those who test negative and carrying out country’s parliamentary proceedings in two shifts will be among the focal points of this year’s Monsoon session which begins on Monday. This is the first time a parliamentary session is taking place amid a viral disease outbreak. Monsoon session in Parliament is usually conducted around mid-July. This year’s monsoon session got deferred after Covid-19 cases in India showed an upward trend since March, forcing authorities to strictly observe safety norms such as social distancing and avoidance of large public gathering. Just a day before the parliamentary session is expected to begin, India’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday breached 47 lakh mark after 94,372 people across the country tested positive for the viral contagion in the last 24 hours. Here is all you need to know about this year’s Parliament monsoon session:• The session will start from Monday, September 14 and is expected to conclude on Thursday, October 1. All the days, including weekend days – Saturdays and Sundays – will be working days for member of parliaments. • A total of 18 sittings spread over a period of 18 days will mark this monsoon session.• Total of 47 items – including 45 bills and two financial items – have been identified for being taken up during the monsoon session.• This will be first-of-its-kind monsoon session will see Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha sitting in two different shifts. Keeping Covid-19 safety protocols in consideration, special seating arrangements have been made for MPs in adherence to social distancing guidelines.• This year’s session will be marked by unprecedented logistics and infrastructure arrangements, including ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in air-conditioning systems to kill or inactivate microorganisms, 10 display screens for live proceedings, earmarked seats for top leaders and special communication cables linking both Houses.• For marking MPs’ attendance, a mobile app will be in place for registering presence. The seats in both the houses will be separated with poly-carbon sheets. • Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will be adjourned for an hour after obituary references to former president Pranab Mukherjee and other members of the parliament who have passed away during the interregnum. • Senior Opposition leaders like Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh will be giving this monsoon session a miss due to medical reasons. While Gandhi has left for abroad for a routine medical check up, 87 year old Manmohan Singh has been strictly advised by his doctors to not leave his house. • The Opposition will push for debate on economy, the India-China border conflict and Covid-19 management, to corner the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-to-begin-amid-covid-19-pandemic-all-you-need-to-know/story-PVEdYE5YSGroz7tNSUxC2M.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Threats won’t deter cadres from defeating nefarious designs of terrorists’: Congress||Congress has strongly condemned the threat to several political leaders including Congress party and termed it a cowardly act of frustrated cadres of Pakistan-sponsored terrorists. Reacting to Hizbul’s letter, Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said that such cowardly acts would not deter the Congress cadres committed to defeating the designs of terrorists and their mentors in Pakistan.However, Sharma said that the top leadership of the Congress party and party cadres are carrying on the political activities against militants at a great risk to their lives. He said the present dispensation under the command of ruling BJP has either withdrawn or downgraded the security cover of most of the party leaders.Sharma hoped the security agencies would take due cognizance of the situation and do the needful required in such matters to ensure proper security cover to all those who are vulnerable to terrorist threats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threats-won-t-deter-cadres-from-defeating-nefarious-designs-of-terrorists-congress/story-vPjw3gda9nVRnLbfDHMrwO.html
13-09-2020||India||Pak using underground tunnels to push terrorists, drones to drop arms: J&K DGP||Pakistan is using cross-border underground tunnels to push terrorists into India and drones to drop weapons for them, the chief of Jammu and Kashmir police said Sunday.Director general of police Dilbag Singh, however, said the anti-infiltration grid is active and anti-tunnelling operations are underway to scuttle “nefarious designs”.“Digging of tunnels beneath the IB is part of the nefarious designs of Pakistan to facilitate infiltration of terrorists into this side to step up terrorism,” Singh told reporters in Samba district after inspecting the recently discovered 170-metre tunnel at Galar village along the IB.The tunnel with a depth of 20-25 feet and originating from Pakistan was found by a BSF team near the border-fencing on August 28.“I saw this huge tunnel which is almost similar to the one detected in Chanyari in 2013-14. After the Nagrota encounter, we had received specific inputs that infiltration had taken place through a tunnel and was searching for it,” the DGP said.Three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists were killed in the encounter in Nagrota in January this year.“The investigation is on but the ground indicators suggest that the tunnel was used by Pakistan in the past to push infiltrators,” he said but did not rule out the possibility of more such tunnels.He said BSF and police personnel are searching the area for any other tunnel.On the recent recovery of sophisticated weapons, including an M-16 rifle, from a Kashmir-bound truck near Qazigund, he said the investigation is going on and it is believed that the arms were airdropped using drones in Samba sector.Two overground workers of JeM, who were transporting the weapons in a truck, have identified the place in Samba from where they picked up the consignment for delivery to terrorists active in south Kashmir, officials said.Asked about the possibility of presence of overground workers of terrorists in Jammu, Singh said the region has always been on the radar of Pakistan and it is evident from suicide attacks on military installations in Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts over the years.“We have made adequate deployment and are taking all necessary precautions to frustrate the designs of Pakistan both along the border and in the hinterland,” he said.Officials said the DGP reviewed the overall security situation, especially along the IB, in the district during his visit and was also briefed by senior police and BSF officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-using-underground-tunnels-to-push-terrorists-drones-to-drop-arms-j-k-dgp/story-Nb1FgwRQUtGsLtkLYtZ1SN.html
13-09-2020||India||After over 40 years, Odisha plans another repeal of 700 obsolete and redundant laws||Over 40 years after Odisha repealed more than a hundred obsolete and redundant Acts through Odisha Repealing Act 1976, the state government is planning to undertake a similar exercise to repeal of about 700 Acts and laws.A proposal moved by the law department to various departments of Odisha government early this week has proposed whether 699 laws that were passed between 1973 and 2016 need to be repealed as many of them may have become obsolete and redundant.Principal secretary of law department Shashikant Mishra, in his proposal to various departments, asked them to draw up a schedule of discussion for the repealing of unnecessary legislation from the statute book.“We have asked the departments to give their suggestions on whether the 699 Acts and laws that we have sent them need to be repealed. Once we get their reply then we would move the state law commission to examine them for further action. This would take a considerable time as lots of discussion needs to take place,” he said.Also read: Search on for survivors as wildfires torch millions of acres in US WestThe law department has asked 33 departments whether the Acts (amendment acts and validation acts) have become redundant and obsolete over the passage of time and whether any provisions of the Act is currently under challenge by any court. It has also asked whether any provisions of the Acts that can be repealed are yet to be brought into force and if any provisions of the Act are independent of the principal Acts and are necessary.The departments that have been sent the list of Acts that can be repealed are finance, housing and urban development, parliamentary affairs, Panchayati raj and drinking water, revenue and disaster management, public works, home, steel and mines, water resources, general administration and public grievances, rural development, among others.The last time Odisha had repealed over 100 old and obsolete Acts was in 1978 when the Janata Party government, headed by the then chief minister Nilamani Routray, was in power in the state. In Centre, the Narendra Modi government has repealed more than 1,400 obsolete Acts after it came to power in 2014. The move came after the Law Commission found that a large number of Appropriation Acts passed earlier still continued.Also read: PM Modi’s ‘nudges’ had critical effect on Covid battle - StudyAmong the 699 Acts and laws that the Odisha Repealing Bill 2020 wants to scrap is the Odisha Lokpal and Lokayuktas (Amendment)Act, 1983 that has become redundant after Odisha Lokayukta Act 2015 came into existence. Similarly, Acts like the Orissa Police Amendment Act, 1976 - which regulates black-marketing in cinema halls - and Orissa Police Amendment Act, 1975 - which made it liable for people of an area to pay penalty if they failed to provide timely help in case of destruction of property - have also gone redundant.Likewise, Acts such as Orissa Eyes (Authorities for use for therapeutic purposes) Act, 1985, is no longer valid after Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act was passed by the Parliament in 1994. Other Acts, like Orissa Fireworks and Loudspeakers Amendment Act 1979 that empowered the district collectors to stop display of fireworks and use of loudspeaker in an area for six months, is being seen as archaic and redundant. Similarly, at least eight Acts under Bihar Odisha Excise Amendment Act between 1974 and 1998 have become obsolete after the Odisha Excise Act 2005 was passed.However, among the Acts that the law department has proposed to repeal were passed as late as 2016. Former parliamentary affairs minister Panchanan Kanungo said repealing old and obsolete Acts was fine but good laws that were enacted to ensure political accountability should not be repealed in the name of cleansing the statute books. “If a law could not be enforced it does not mean it was unworkable. It simply means the executive could not implement it,” said Kanungo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-over-40-years-odisha-plans-another-repeal-of-700-obsolete-and-redundant-laws/story-X5A9tAj27tAI0Iiu3EMpOP.html
13-09-2020||India||When mother said to Vikas: ‘You can’t give up on your country…’||Past few months have introduced the inspiring humanitarian side of Michelin-star chef Vikas Khanna to the world, hugely. During the ongoing pandemic, the known restaurateur, author and filmmaker turned his focus to his motherland that made him provide millions of meals to the needy and less fortunate. “My team has been working for various causes for long but when this pandemic happened and lockdown brought of the world’s largest country on standstill, we thought of doing something for those who suffered greatly under the Covid 19 lockdown. And that’s how things got on a roll. Today, we have achieved the threshold of providing over 31 million meals across India,” said Vikas over the phone. Vikas remembers how once he gave the idea of the entire mission, he said, “It was in March when I, along with my team, send out mailers asking people to understand the project and join in as we were in New York and required more hands working on the ground level. Soon there was tremendous support that inspired us to take the pledge. A guy in Bangalore who joined us from there was to take the meals to an old age home. After all transactions were through that guy just vanished from the face of the earth. Our contact numbers were blocked and we knew that we have been duped. I lost all hope and gave up the idea.” Disheartened he called up his mother. “I narrated her everything and it was she who made me stand again. ‘You belong to family of freedom fighters how can you give up on the country and its people just because of one such incident. Remember it’s because of India’s vast culinary heritage that you are one of best chef in the world…Its time to give back betaji…’ she said. And hence, FeedIndia took off with a bang. Being the real multitasker, Vikas has come up with a restaurant in Dubai and work on his next film. “I love doing multiple things at a same time. The idea behind the new restaurant was to provide jobs to young jobless. Making cinema and writing books makes me reach to so many people in just a go. My film ‘The Last Color’ that was based in Vrindavan and Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh. My next directorial will see the legendary actor Shabana Azmi as the central character based in NY. It is slated for next year,” he shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/when-mother-said-to-vikas-you-can-t-give-up-on-your-country/story-xFDED0WQyUOOU4uvuzECQL.html
13-09-2020||India||In Bengal, neighbour kidnaps minor boy for ransom, kills him||A 12-year-old boy was kidnapped and hacked to death by his neighbour in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district on Friday, the police said on Sunday afternoon. The incident happened at Uttarpara village in Baruipur. Munirul Sheikh, the accused, allegedly lured Tushar Chakraborty, a class 6 student, saying he would get the boy a parrot from the trees near his house. Since the boy knew Sheikh, he went out with him without telling his parents. He was never seen again. On Saturday, Tushar’s father received a call from an unknown mobile phone and the caller demanded Rs 5 lakh as ransom for releasing the boy. “After the boy went missing his father had lodged a complaint. We started tracking the number and it led to Munirul’s arrest. He confessed that he killed the boy after kidnapping him and called his father the next day,” said Rashid Munir Khan, superintendent of police, Baruipur. Police found that Sheikh had taken a loan of Rs 50,000 from someone and had no substantial income to pay it off. “When we asked him why he killed the boy, Munirul said he got scared. The body was found near Munirul’s house,” said the SP. Sheikh was produced before the local court on Sunday afternoon and remanded to police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-neighbour-kidnaps-minor-boy-for-ransom-kills-him/story-vCXv4M6wn4MqP6j5zwSS7O.html
13-09-2020||India||Is Covid-19 less fatal in India’s villages?||The Covid-19 pandemic started as an urban phenomenon in India. But it is now spreading at a faster rate in rural areas. An HT analysis on August 26 had shown that 55% of new Covid-19 cases reported in August were in districts where the rural population had a share of more than 60%. These districts had reported only about 23% of new cases in April.With the pandemic spreading to rural areas, fatality should have gone up. India’s rural population is poorer compared to their counterparts. According to the 2011-12 consumption expenditure survey (latest available estimates) average monthly per capita expenditure was ₹1,430 in rural areas compared to ₹2,630 in urban areas. This has a direct bearing on ability to access health services. India has among the higher share of out of pocket expenditure (62.4%) in total health spending in the world (average 18.2%). Health infrastructure in rural areas is also significantly worse compared to urban areas. According to the National Health Profile 2019, there were 1.2 government hospital beds per 1000 people in urban areas compared to just 0.3 in rural areas.An HT analysis based on data compiled by How India Lives throws a counter-intuitive result. Rural areas seem to be doing better in terms of case fatality rate (CFR). CFR is defined as the cumulative number of deaths as a share of the cumulative number of cases.The analysis classifies districts into five categories based on the proportion of the rural population – entirely urban (under 20% of the rural population), mostly urban (20%-40% rural), mixed (40%-60% rural), mostly rural (60% to 80% rural) and entirely rural (over 80% rural population). The proportion of the rural population is based on the 2011 census (the latest data available). The proportion of rural population in 94 districts created after 2011 has been assumed to be the same as the districts they were carved out of. The analysis shows that CFR drops sharply from urban to rural districts. It is 2.66% in the 16 ‘entirely urban’ districts to as low as 0.98% in the 357 ‘entirely rural’ districts. As a result of this variance, urban areas account for a disproportionate share of Covid-19 deaths. Forty-nine ‘entirely urban’ and ‘mostly urban’ districts have reported 39% of India’s Covid-19 cases but a majority 54% of the country’s Covid-19 deaths. Similarly, districts with higher rural population have a higher share of confirmed cases and a lower share of deaths. What explains the fall in CFR from urban to rural areas? Experts are divided on the issue. Some believe this to be a result of poor data collection on cause of death in rural areas, while others think lower co-morbidities and a relatively younger population in rural areas could be the reason. The truth, as is often the case, could be somewhere in the middle.Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said poor data reporting could be one possible reason. “In the best of times as well, India’s health management system does not monitor deaths. Also, the quality of data will be much better in urban areas than in rural areas,” he said. Data from the ministry of home affairs support this line of argument. While 86% of deaths are registered in India, the cause of death is medically certified in only 21% of registered deaths. A state-wise analysis shows that the share of medically certified deaths to total registered deaths was lower in states which have a higher share of ‘mostly rural’ and ‘entirely rural’ districts. Of the 584 ‘mostly rural’ and ‘entirely rural’ districts in India, 211 are in five states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. These states are among the laggards in terms of the share of deaths that have a medically certified cause. “A large number of non-Covid deaths in rural India go unreported, do we know that it is not true for Covid-19 as well?” asked Satyajit Rath of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. “We may be undercounting deaths... It is quite possible that confirmed Covid-19 patients staying at home might die there and not be reported,” he said. Experts also cited lower share of population with co-morbidities in rural India as a possible reason for lower fatality rate there. “People in villages are relatively healthier and prevalence of diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure is lower in rural areas,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director at Delhi’s Maulana Azad Medical College. “People in rural areas generally have a healthier lifestyle, they breathe cleaner air, have good food and also do a lot of physical activities,” he said. People with diseases such as diabetes are at a higher risk of developing serious consequences and dying due to Covid-19. According to the fourth National Family Health Survey, conducted in 2015-16, diabetes and hypertension was more prevalent among both men and women in urban areas. For example, in urban areas, 2.6% women and 2.1% men reported diabetes compared to 1.2% women and 1.5% men in rural areas. To be sure, even as the prevalence of diseases such as diabetes is lower in rural areas, life expectancy at birth – the number of years a new-born can expect to live – is higher in urban areas (72.4 years) than in rural areas (67.7 years). The government does not release data on the age-structure of patients at the district-level. However, the Census 2011 data shows that rural areas in India have a slightly higher proportion of younger population than urban areas. For example, nearly 52% of people in rural areas were under 24 years of age while this figure was 46% in urban areas. But the proportion of persons above 50 years old was similar in both urban and rural areas, about 16%. Another piece of evidence suggests that data coming from rural districts might not be as good as its urban counterpart. The ‘entirely rural’ districts have not caught up with the trend of dropping fatality rates in India. In three months between June 1 and September 1, the fatality rates dropped in all groups of districts except in the 357 ‘entirely rural’ districts where it hovered around 1%. It dropped by nearly one percentage point elsewhere. Here, only the period after June 1 has been compared as all groups of districts had at least 15,000 confirmed Covid-19 cases by then. Even if rural India is less vulnerable to Covid-19, at least in terms of deaths, there is merit in pushing for better data collection and monitoring to fight the pandemic better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-covid-19-less-fatal-in-india-s-villages/story-j5rE5enrzPBOTVkS716KYO.html
13-09-2020||India||Maharashtra reports one-day jump of 22,543 Covid-19 cases, recoveries near 7.5 lakh||Maharashtra’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surged past the one million mark with 22,543 new infections and 416 deaths in a single day, the state health department said on Sunday.The western state continues to be the worst-affected region in the country with 1,060,308 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease while its death toll has climbed to 29,531.Amid the rising Covid-19 cases, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned on Sunday that the situation is likely to become more severe in the coming days. He advised people to take precautions and follow social distancing norms as the coronavirus pandemic, he pointed out, could take a “monstrous form”.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The scenario that I was afraid of is before us now. The cases of coronavirus are rising and will continue to rise. The cases have again started increasing in Mumbai and other areas. They are spreading in rural areas as well. There is a concern that it can take a disastrous form. The World Health Organization (WHO) too has stated that this can be an indication for another major crisis,” Thackeray said.“Like other countries, the state will have to start penalising people for violating social distancing. For instance, people will be fined for not wearing a mask at a public place; action against people for crowding a public place etc. We will have to take such steps as people are not following the norms seriously,” the chief minister added.Data showed Covid-19 cases in Mumbai have reached 169,741 with 2,085 fresh infections and the city’s toll has gone up to 8,150.Even with new Covid-19 cases on the rise, Maharashtra has its hopes up as the state also has the highest number of people who have recovered from the viral infection. As of Sunday, as many as 740,061 people had been discharged from the hospitals or had recovered in home isolation with 11,549 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department.Maharashtra has reported 17.2% of the total recovered cases in the country, the Union health ministry had said earlier on Sunday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage To tackle the pandemic, the state government launched a state-wide campaign, ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ on Sunday. The campaign will aim at achieving effective health care education for the control of Covid-19 outbreak, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner IS Chahal. Under the campaign, authorities will survey 22.5 million families twice a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-one-day-jump-of-22-543-covid-19-cases-recoveries-near-7-5-lakh/story-VWpChebr2SQdmB3fakdfHL.html
13-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi records over 4,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth day in a row and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records over 4,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth day in a row: Explained in 10 pointsDelhi on Sunday recorded 4,235 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the cumulative tally past 218,000. The death toll in the national capital due to the viral disease climbed to 4,744 after 29 new fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours.Read more. NEET 2020: 85-90 % of over 15 lakh students take exam amid virus concernsOf the over 15 lakh candidates who had registered for the NEET examination, around 85 to 90% of students appeared in the exam on Sunday. The Union Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank while disclosing the figures also sought to thanks states, many of them had even arranged transport keeping in view the difficulties faced by the candidates due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Read more. Covid-19 vaccine possible by 2021 first quarter, says Harsh VardhanUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan said no date for launching the Covid-19 vaccine has been fixed yet. “It may be ready by the first quarter of next year,” the minister said as he addressed the first episode of his Sunday Samvaad — a social media interaction programme.Read more. ‘Nudges’ from PM Modi were critical in India’s Covid battle: Cambridge studyUsing nudge theory that involves subtly leading people to desired directions, a study of India’s public policy response to Covid-19 has concluded that nudges from Prime Minister Narendra Modi were critical in creating herd effect on lockdown and social distancing norms across the country.Read more. Indians must now get their priorities right | OpinionWe are going through a variety of crises. China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has encroached into Indian territory. Indian soldiers fought back and 20 were killed. A virus that originated in China has devastated the world, and India is among the top two nations when it comes to the number of infections, and the number is only rising. Not since the Spanish Flu have we seen such a destructive epidemic.Read more. Paytm KYC scams are on a rise: How you can safeguard yourselfPaytm is arguably one of the most popular payment apps in the country. With over 100 million downloads on the Google Play Store, it wouldn’t be a stretch to say that the payments platform is used by people from all walks of life.Read more. ‘I’ll get that one ball which gets him out’: Kesrick Williams confident of dismissing Virat KohliWest Indies fast bowler Kesrick Williams has had a couple of interesting encounters with India captain Virat Kohli. In 2017, Williams dismissed Kohli and followed it with his trademark ‘notebook celebration’.Read more. Chris Evans’ fans ask for his privacy after accidental nudes leakHollywood star Chris Evans’ very wholesome fandom is standing by the actor, asking everyone to respect his privacy after a nude photo mishap. Chris, by mistake, shared a picture of himself in the nude on Instagram Stories.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-records-over-4-000-covid-19-cases-for-fifth-day-in-a-row-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lIM78zRLlpRTkVVg0mN4AM.html
13-09-2020||India||Maharashtra’s coastal districts to have marine animal rescue centres before next monsoon||Maharashtra’s coastal districts will have their own marine animal rescue centre before next monsoon and the state through the Mangrove Foundation has allocated a budget of Rs 65.5 lakh to develop new centres and upgrade existing ones. While two new centres have been proposed at Rs 20 lakh each at Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, an existing structure at Alibag will be revamped with various facilities at a cost of Rs 4 lakh. Additionally, Rs 10 lakh will be used to upgrade an existing centre in Dahanu while remaining funds have been allocated for the maintenance of existing centres.These marine animal transit-and-treatment units cater to cases of cetaceans and sea turtle strandings, injuries, post-mortems, and rescues.“Final execution of our projects is expected by May before the monsoon when maximum cases are reported,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell). “We are in consultation with experts to further enhance our infrastructure at each centre by including better equipment, a variety of tanks, medical apparatus and providing artificial sea salt (suitable for sea turtles to stay in).”Also read: Delhi records over 4,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth day in a row - 10 pointsAccording to data from the mangrove cell, a total of 110 sea turtles (100 alive and 10 dead) washed ashore or got trapped in fishing nets between November 2019 and September 2020. Of these, 101 were Olive Ridley, seven Green sea turtles, and two were Hawksbill turtles. During the same period, 23 cetaceans - nine Indian Ocean humpback dolphins, five Baleen whales, five finless porpoise, and two striped dolphins - washed ashore along the state coastline. Equipped with two 1,000 litre and five 500 litre tanks, an operation table, medicines, equipment and visiting veterinarians, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) got its first marine animal treatment centre on July 26 at the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre at Airoli, Navi Mumbai. In 2018, the forest department with various non-profit groups began a marine respondent network to coordinate fast response to marine treatment cases but a designated centre was not present. Only one treatment centre had been functional in Maharashtra in Dahanu, Palghar, over 10 years. This year, 38 turtles were brought to Dahanu while three were taken to Airoli for treatment.According to a forest officer, who spoke to HT requesting anonymity, the 38 sea turtles were in critical health that washed ashore at Dahanu. “While 20 succumbed to death, seven were successfully released after treatment and 11 remain critical under our care,” the officer said.Dr Dinesh Vinherkar, appointed in-charge of the Dahanu rescue centre by the Maharashtra forest department, confirmed the details. “This year, the annual mortality and injury rate of turtles has been much higher. Cases involving accidents with boats, propellers or getting caught in fishnets has led to complete blood loss (anaemia), damage to lungs, decapitated flippers or harm to their digestive tract due to plastic, ropes, rubber and foreign bodies in their stool due to coastal pollution - all leading to floating syndrome (wherein a turtle is unable to swim into deep waters and is brought to shore during high tide). Thus, we could only release those that are fit to find food,” he said.Marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation Harshal Karve said, “Developing district-wise centres will help provide treatment on time and boost further research. Data collected will help understand the causes of stranding and aid future conservation practices.”Veterinarian Dr Rina Dev, consultant with the mangrove cell at the Airoli centre said, “If every district becomes self-sufficient by providing immediate treatment to marine animals rather than putting pressure on one centre, the entire rehabilitation and conservation process becomes a successful model. The mangrove cell has already begun workshops with all coastal stakeholders explaining specifics about rescues and resolving stranding-related issues.”Dr Vinherkar added, “There is a need for providing treatment to these species within a short period to save their lives. It will also help form a network for better results.”Such centres would need equipment including x-ray machines, isolation tanks, dry-docking tanks, thermoregulation equipment, filtration units, artificial sea salt apart from basic apparatus, added Dr Vinherkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-coastal-districts-to-have-marine-animal-rescue-centres-before-next-monsoon/story-vZORWymQpkdrQJ27rDZ0LJ.html
13-09-2020||India||In Uttarakhand, 51 prisoners in Nainital Jail test Covid-19 positive||Nearly 51 jail inmates and one jail staffer of the Nainital district jail have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Sunday. The 52 people were found asymptomatic patients of the virus after the jail administration sent samples of a total of 71 people including jail inmates and staffers for a test in Haldwani’s Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital on September 10, said officials. Saturday’s test results have now taken the total number of Covid-19 positive inmates in the state to about 85. Manoj Arya, superintendent Nainital district jail said, “The jail administration had sent samples of 71 people for testing. Their results came on Saturday in which 51 inmates and one jail staffer tested positive.” “However, all are asymptomatic and none of them are serious. While the jail staffer has been put in home isolation, the inmates have been isolated inside the jail only as per Covid-19 guidelines,” Arya said. He also informed that the jail administration has asked the jail staff to take all necessary precautions including wearing a mask and washing hands while on duty to avoid getting infected. On May 31, for the first time amid lockdown, five prisoners had tested positive for Covid-19 in Sitarganj jail in US Nagar, ringing alarm bells among the jail authorities there. After the first coronavirus positive case was detected in the state on March 15, the jail authorities had started taking measures to ensure inmates didn’t get infected with Covid-19. Jail authorities said all people entering jails were being screened to detect the symptoms of the virus in them. Also, jail premises were being cleaned regularly to ensure cleanliness with staffers working with masks and gloves on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uttarakhand-51-prisoners-in-nainital-jail-test-covid-19-positive/story-3mBeXJV0k4SySjkPrPQTVM.html
13-09-2020||India||144 new cases take Manipur’s Covid-19 tally to 7,857, death toll rises to 46||Manipur reported a total of 144 fresh cases of Covid-19, including 11 Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) personnel to take the state’s tally to 7,875, Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department said in a statement on Sunday.The death toll in the Covid-19 pandemic in Manipur rose to 46 with an 86-year-old man succumbing in a hospital in Imphal .Sixteen of those who tested positive, had returned from other states and the rest 117 are local residents without any significant travel history, the statement said. “In the last 24 hours, one male aged 86 years from Churachandpur expired at RIMS,” it stated. “The cumulative number of deaths is 46.”In the past 24 hours, 89 people were also discharged from six Covid care facilities in the state.Out of the tally of 7,875, there are 1,812 CAPF personnel. A total of 6,191 people have been discharged so far while the number of active cases is 1,638 including 300 CAPF personnel. The recovery rate in the State is 78.61 per cent, the statement said.The statement also asked the general public to consult government doctors online from home (10 am to 3 pm) every day except Sunday by downloading eSanjeevaniOPD app at Google Play Store or go to website www.esanjeevaniopd.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/133-new-cases-take-manipur-s-covid-19-tally-to-7-857-death-toll-rises-to-46/story-HkMKRNYIZ2STK865HZwcIN.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Could spin political game,’ say experts as Harish Rawat takes charge of Cong in Punjab||The All India Congress Committee (AICC), in its recent reshuffle of leadership roles, appointed former chief minister of Uttarakhand and party national general secretary Harish Rawat as in-charge of its Punjab unit. However, political experts believe the move is not just a mere elevation but a sign of the party high command’s trust in him which could lead to new political arithmetic in the Uttarakhand unit before the 2022 Assembly elections. Rawat, who was earlier in-charge of the Assam unit, was given the charge of Punjab a few days ago. Since then, state political experts are of the view that the new role is the result of his ‘active presence in Uttarakhand as well as the mark he has left in Assam as its in-charge’. They also claim that he could soon land a major role during the upcoming 2022 state assembly polls which are going to be crucial for the state unit. “Rawat’s new role definitely says a lot about his stature in the party and his terms with the party high command which includes Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. This would surely lead to new political calculations in the Uttarakhand unit also,” said MM Semwal, political expert and professor of political science at Garhwal Central University, Pauri Garhwal. Also read: Former Union minister and Bihar leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh diesSemwal said, “Though he has been elevated in the national politics but his presence is still in the state. No leader in the state’s leadership is close to his stature and he had to work hard to reach where he is today. Both state president Pritam Singh and leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh seem to be confined to their respective constituencies only unlike Rawat who holds sway across the Himalayan state.” He also said that given Rawat’s active presence in Uttarakhand, it would not be surprising if he is assigned a vital role in the 2022 elections. “The only face which Congress could project before the public in the state is Rawat only. No other leader has a pan-state presence like him. He would definitely be utilised in the 2022 elections,” he said. SMA Kazmi, another political expert who has been keeping an eye on state’s politics for nearly two decades, said Rawat has been rewarded for his loyalty to the Gandhi family which was evident in the recent letter episode in the party national leadership.” “Rawat has played his cards very well both at the Central and well as state level. At the national level, he has been a loyalist to Sonia and Rahul Gandhi and at state level, he played the intra-state politics in a very calculative way. This has paid him dividends in the form of Punjab in-charge,” said Kazmi. On his role in the 2022 Uttarakhand Assembly polls, he said ‘his plate is full.’ “His stakes are high in both Punjab as well as Uttarakhand with the Assembly polls due in both the states more or less the same year. In Punjab, he would like to retain the power for the party while in Uttarakhand he would like the party to win and become the CM himself. Hence his role in Uttarakhand polls has now become more important,” he said. Given Rawat’s stature in the party, state Congress unit head Pritam Singh and leader of Opposition Hridayesh, who are considered to be in the opposite factions of Rawat, took to social media to congratulate Rawat for the new role. On the new responsibility and his possible role in Uttarakhand considering the 2022 elections, Rawat said that “he is always ready for any responsibility in Uttarakhand to help the party.’ “I am very grateful to Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi for giving me this opportunity to serve Punjab. This role will also help me in working in Uttarakhand also as per the requirements of the party. I work in Chandigarh in the morning and work in Dehradun in the evening on the same day. No issues for me,” said Rawat. Rawat also said that his new role will ‘actually help the party in Uttarakhand too.’ “Punjab is a very significant state for Uttarakhand in terms of culture, economic and agriculture. The Uttarakhand unit could surely take advantage of my work in Punjab. I am able to dance to the same tune in Punjab as well as in Uttarakhand,” he said. “At present, I have been working as a catalyst for the Uttarakhand unit leadership and will continue to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-spin-political-game-say-experts-as-harish-rawat-takes-charge-of-cong-in-punjab/story-bboBbdTZqz3LHnzMgMC6aM.html
13-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut vs Shiv Sena in Mumbai: Latest developments||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Sunday apprised Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari of the “unjust treatment” she received following her criticism of Mumbai Police in connection with the force’s probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.A war of words broke out between the actor and the ruling Shiv Sena after Ranaut compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir and saying she does not feel safe in the city.Ranaut, who was in her hometown of Manali in Himachal Pradesh for the past few months, reached Mumbai on September 9, the day the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) razed the ‘illegally’ built portions of her office.Here are the latest developments on the row:* Kangana Ranaut meets Maharashtra GovernorKangana Ranaut and sister Rangoli Chandel met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan. “I told him about the unjust treatment I have received. I hope justice will be given to me so that the faith of all citizens, including young girls, is restored in the system. I am fortunate that the governor listened to me like his own daughter,” Ranaut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI after the meeting.* I am no politician: Kangana Ranaut“I am no politician. I have no connection with politics. I presented my thoughts as a commoner,” Ranaut said. Her comments come amid speculations that she might join politics.* Will face all political storms: Uddhav ThackerayIn an apparent reference to political criticism over the Shiv Sena’s tussle with Ranaut, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said he was ready to face all political storms. “I will have to remove the mask of the chief minister to respond to politics. I don’t speak, it doesn’t mean I don’t have answers,” he said without naming anyone.* ‘Conspiracy’ to defame Mumbai: Sanjay RautIn his column ‘Rokhthok’ in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Sena leader Raut wrote that other Bollywood stars should have come forward to dismiss Ranaut’s remarks against Mumbai. He termed the entire row a ‘conspiracy’ to defame Mumbai. Raut named actor Akshay Kumar in the column, questioned the silence of the Bollywood fraternity as he compared the film industry to the Pandavas who remained silent when Draupadi was being disrobed.*Sena accuses BJP leaders in Maharashtra of helping ‘outsiders’ vilify Mumbai’s image“Once again the efforts to vilify the image of Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai have begun. These attempts are made by the ‘outsiders’. But, as per tradition, the moles inside our own house are to make them stronger. In the intervening period, Mumbai was called Pakistan. BMC was referred to as ‘Babar’ after the municipal corporation took action on the illegal construction of an actress (Kangana Ranaut) who insulted Mumbai,” Raut wrote in his article in Saamana.* Y-plus security cover for Ranaut on her father’s request: Union ministerRanaut, who will be returning to Manali on September 14, has been provided with Y-plus security cover following her father’s request to the Himachal Pradesh government, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy has said.Ranaut’s father also met Jai Ram Thakur and submitted a memorandum that his daughter was being subjected to harassment and based on his request, the Himachal chief minister informed the Centre about the situation, according to Reddy.* Bombay HC stays BMC demolition drive at Ranaut’s propertyFollowing a plea filed by the actor against the razing of alleged “illegal alteration” at her office in Mumbai, the Bombay High Court stayed the demolition drive for now and has adjourned the hearing till September 22. BMC has filed its response in the matter saying the actor’s allegations of harassment and mala fide action by BMC were false and unwarranted. Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui has sought time to respond to the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-vs-shiv-sena-in-mumbai-latest-developments/story-dQkA4SldMQlNoY6y5oG4AJ.html
13-09-2020||India||J-K’s Covid-19 recovery rate plunges further after 1,686 new cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 14 deaths and a spike of 1,686 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 54,096.The union territory has been recording more than 1,500 fresh Covid-19 cases on a daily basis for the past five days with the highest single day spike of 1,698 cases on Saturday. On Friday, the total cases crossed the 50,000 mark more than six months after first cases were reported on March 9.As many as 875 people tested positive in Jammu division, including 79 travellers, while 811 cases were reported from Kashmir, of which 37 were travellers. This month, Jammu has often witnessed more daily infections than Kashmir which in the last five months has contributed the major percentage of cases in the union territory. Some 452 more people have been cured and discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 35,737 which accounts for a recovery rate of 66%. There has been a consistent decrease in the rate of recovered patients from a high of 77.3% on September 2.Active cases have steadily increased to 17,481 on Sunday from 7,980 on August 31. A total of 12.31 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT so far.A government spokesperson said 146 people were discharged in Jammu division and 306 in Kashmir. A total of 27,798 people have been cured in Kashmir and 7,939 in Jammu division.The spokesperson said 14 more people succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday - eight in Jammu division and six in Kashmir. The death toll has now gone up to 878 out of which 727 were in Kashmir and 151 in Jammu.In Jammu division, the highest jump of fresh cases was witnessed in Jammu district with 405 cases while 94 people tested positive in Doda district. In Kashmir, the highest number of fresh cases was recorded in Srinagar where 185 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 158.Srinagar is the worst affected district in the pandemic with a tally of 11,678 including 251 deaths. Jammu district has recorded 8,352 cases and 88 deaths. Jammu district has the highest active cases at 5,570 as against 1,959 in Srinagar. Till date, 5.23 lakh people have been put under observation. A total of 41,945 are in home quarantine, 17,481 in isolation and 54,279 under home surveillance. Besides these, 4.08 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-plunges-further-after-1-686-new-cases/story-Z7HGMwOr1LhOI1ua1R1G5N.html
13-09-2020||India||ECI’s indifference to hold Bihar council polls raises eyebrows||The Election commission of India’s (ECI) silence on conducting the biennial elections for nine legislative council seats in Bihar has baffled leaders cutting across the party lines.The eight seats have been lying vacant in the upper house since May 24 even though the state legislative council has completed all formalities for elections and intimated vacancies to the ECI in advance, officials said. Another seat fell vacant after the demise of a BJP legislator in May.“Why is the ECI deferring the elections for the legislative council, which is conducted with a limited number of electors, even as it has given its go-ahead for the assembly polls to be conducted on a large scale during coronavirus pandemic?” asked a former JD(U) legislator, seeking his re-election to the council.The elections are due in four graduate constituencies of Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Kosi and four teachers’ constituencies of Patna, Tirhut, Saran and Darbhanga after the elected representatives completed their six-year tenure on May 24. The local bodies constituency of Darbhanga fell vacant after the death of BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh in May due to Covid-19.Also read: PM Modi pats Bihar CM, inaugurates petroleum projectsConstitutional expert Subhash Kashyap said that any seat to be filled up through election in the legislative council should not be left vacant for more than six months. “I hope the ECI must have kept the constitutional obligations on the issue in mind and fill up the vacancies on election-based seats within the set time frame,” said Kashyap.State Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha said, “The legislative council polls could be the testing ground for the ECI to assess the state’s preparedness for assembly elections as the latter required the mobilisation of resources on a large scale.” He added that fewer electors cast their votes in the legislative council constituencies as compared to at least 3 to 3.50 lakh voters of any assembly seat.BJP leader Nawal Kishore Yadav, who is looking to contest from Patna’s teachers’ constituency, also expressed dismay over the deferment of the polls in the name of Covid-19 pandemic. Acting chairman of the legislative council Awadhesh Narayan Singh said that the council had notified the vacancies and urged the ECI to elect the leaders before the expiry of tenures of elected leaders. Currently, as many as 21 seats in the legislative council are lying vacant in the house of 75 members. Apart from the elected representatives, the state government is yet to nominate leaders on 12 seats.Building construction minister Ashok Choudhary, information and public relations department minister Neeraj Kumar, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha, Dilip Kumar Chaudhary (of JDU), NK Yadav, among others have ceased to be the members of legislative council on the expiry of their tenure and are seeking re-election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-s-indifference-to-hold-bihar-council-polls-raises-eyebrows/story-rFvGE1eN90lAdoHa2x0NCJ.html
13-09-2020||India||Landslides block 62 roads in Uttarakhand, MeT predicts more rain||Heavy overnight rainfall triggered landslides in many places across Uttarakhand on Sunday affecting Char Dham yatra and blocking over 62 roads in the state, officials said. Officials from the State Emergency Operations Centre said that till Sunday evening, 62 roads were blocked across the state including national and state highways and other motorable roads. Most of the roads blocked were link roads connecting villages. On Saturday, a stretch of a link road leading to Yamunotri shrine washed away due to heavy rain after which around 30 pilgrims were safely rescued by district administrations. Officials from the district control room said that yatra is likely to remain affected over the next ten days. The India Meteorological Department has predicted that light to moderate rainfall or thundershowers are likely to occur at many places in Dehradun, Pauri and Nainital districts and at few places in Tehri, Udham Singh Nagar, Almora and Pithoragarh districts on Monday. It further predicted that lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in Uttarakhand. According to the MeT department, Uttarakhand has already received 907.2 mm of rainfall from June to September 9 compared to 1063.3 mm (the normal range) for these months. Bageshwar district has received the maximum rainfall with a 157% departure from normal rainfall limit and Champawat has received the least rainfall with a negative 50% departure. The state is in an overall 15% rainfall deficit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslides-block-62-roads-in-uttarakhand-met-predicts-more-rain/story-lDydBiyw7ySoSQ41n27i4H.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Northeast can become economic, political superpower’: Meghalaya CM||Meghalaya chief minister and national president of National People’s Party (NPP) Conrad K Sangma on Sunday said the northeast can become ‘economic and political superpower’ if the people and states in the region can come together and the NPP provides the platform.CM Conrad who arrived in Imphal from New Delhi on Saturday was addressing the party workers at Wangoi assembly constituency in Manipur’s Imphal West district in connection with proposed upcoming by-elections in the state.Requesting the party workers to work hard to push every voter to vote for the party, he said, “Time is coming for the NPP to lead, that is why the 2022 election is very important. We all must work together because that is what the people of Manipur want and they are all looking towards the NPP to provide the leadership.”Also read: Meghalaya minister, CM Conrad Sangma’s brother tests positive for Covid-19“Not only the state of Manipur but also throughout the Northeast today because of the kind of value and kind of vision that we stand for which is to bring Northeast people together and to show that if the northeast people and states can come together and the NPP can provide the platform, our region can be an economic and political superpower,” he added.The NPP national chief, who arrived to inaugurate a new NPP state unit office in Imphal on Saturday, is also confident that the intending candidate Khuraijam Loken Singh of the party, who lost Wangoi assembly constituency seat to Congress candidate O Lukhoi by a margin of just 36 votes in assembly elections in 2017, will win this time considering the ongoing political dynamics in the constituency.Manipur deputy chief minister Yumnam Joykumar Singh-led NPP leaders also spoke during the day’s meeting at Wangoi which was attended by ministers L Jayantakumar (health & family welfare), N Kayisii (tribal and hill areas development, fisheries) who is the interim president of the NPP state unit, and others.In the 2017 election, the NPP, which became a national party in June 2019, won four assembly seats out of the state’s 60. All four NPP legislators are ministers in the BJP-led government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeast-can-become-economic-political-superpower-meghalaya-cm/story-zJF5OMSQ85ilUyGEBgMSLL.html
13-09-2020||India||Ganga erosion destroys homes, temples in Bengal’s Murshidabad, displaces hundreds||Fresh erosion along the banks of the Ganga has washed away more than 50 houses, two temples and acres of agricultural land in the Shamsergang area of Bengal’s Murshidabad district since Friday night. Most people of the affected Dhusuripara village have left home with their belongings to settle down elsewhere. The erosion in the Shamserganj area started with the destruction at Dhanghara village around a month ago. With the river in spate because of heavy rainfall in north India, the second village to face nature’s wrath was Natun Shibpur. Large tracts of agricultural land, bamboo groves and mango orchards were also washed away. Fresh erosion at Dhusuripara has become a cause for concern for the administration and local people. Kalu Singha, a resident of the village, said, “The river started eroding its banks on Friday afternoon but the real devastation started after 8 pm. Two temples and more than 50 houses were washed away within hours.” Sumati Das, another resident, said, “The erosion started so suddenly that many villagers did not even get the time to salvage essential items from their homes. We have taken shelter in a local school. We don’t know who will provide us food and where we will go from here.” Since Saturday, residents of many houses that are likely to be destroyed by the river have started demolishing their own homes. They are ferrying the doors, window frames, furniture and bricks to safer areas. Amirul Islam, Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator from Shamserganj, said, “We cannot understand why the erosion started again in new areas. Irrigation department officials are working on war footing.” The local TMC unit has provided tarpaulin and food to the homeless people, he added. Sujit Das, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Murshidabad (North) organisational district, said, “The state government has failed to tackle the erosion in Murshidabad. It can be done only if the state works in coordination with the Centre.” Joydeep Chakraborty, the block development officer of Shamsarganj, said, “The irrigation department is trying to save the banks in some areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-erosion-destroys-homes-temples-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-displaces-hundreds/story-3UGn03LkNm2cGeHyisCRVL.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Law always respected in Maharashtra’: Sanjay Raut on assault on ex-navy officer by Shiv Sena workers||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Sunday law will take precedence over political affiliations after his party’s workers were arrested for assaulting a retired officer of the Indian Navy, who forwarded a cartoon mocking Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Madan Sharma, the former Indian Navy officer, was assaulted on Friday in the Kandivali area of Mumbai allegedly by a group of workers of the ruling Shiv Sena.“The law is always respected in Maharashtra. The accused were arrested immediately, irrespective of the party they were associated with,” Raut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read: Why rest of Bollywood is silent, Shiv Sena trains gun on Akshay KumarRaut said that the incident of assault could have happened to anyone. He pointed to the call made by defence minister Rajnath Singh and the number of attacks on ex-servicemen in Uttar Pradesh – a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state – as well.“Maharashtra is a big state. Something like this can happen to anyone. Do you know how many ex-servicemen have been attacked in UP? But the defence minister didn’t call them. Our government believes that no innocent person should be attacked,” Raut told ANI.The Sena leader was referring to Singh’s call to the retired naval officer on Saturday.Also read | ‘If that girl apologises...’: Sanjay Raut on Kangana Ranaut’s ‘Mumbai-PoK’ comment“Spoke to retired naval officer, Shri Madan Sharma who was attacked by hooligans in Mumbai and enquired about his health. Such attacks on Ex-Servicemen is completely unacceptable and deplorable. I wish Madanji a speedy recovery,” Singh tweeted.Sharma had forwarded Thackeray’s cartoon on a group on WhatsApp. The six Sena workers asked Sharma to meet them at his housing society’s gate in Thakur Complex. The six men, including shakha pramukh Kamlesh Kadam, then assaulted the ex-serviceman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-always-respected-in-maharashtra-sanjay-raut-on-assault-on-ex-navy-officer-by-shiv-sena/story-fQyNDIqK348BecteVqjWNJ.html
13-09-2020||India||Nation condoles Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s demise, PM asks Nitish to fulfil veteran’s last wishes||Days after creating ripples in Bihar politics by deciding to quit his parent party, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh passed away at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, on Sunday morning following breathing complications for last one day during treatment post Covid-19. He was 74 and is survived by his two sons and a daughter. Incidentally, the demise of the mathematics professor-turned-politician, fondly known as ‘Brahma Baba’ for his off the straight talk and simple lifestyle, was more dramatic coming just three days after he stirred the political poll plot in Bihar quitting the RJD. Apparently, his RJD exit came over his marginalisation in the party. He wrote an emotional letter to jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad to “forgive him after standing behind him for 32 years after death of Jannayak Karpoor Thakur( former chief minister of Bihar)”. Singh was a prominent Rajput face in the RJD and had opposed the induction of his rival and strongman Rama Singh, a former Vaisali MP, in the RJD.There were speculations the five term Vaisali MP could join the ruling Janata Dal ( united) after his recovery. But that was not to be. The last rites of the departed leader will take place on the banks of Ganga in Vaisali on Monday with full state honours after his body is flown in from New Delhi and taken to his native village, Panapur Shahpur in Mahnar, Vaisali today, according to close aides. Also read: The importance of Raghuvansh Prasad SinghPoliticians and leaders across the country condoled Singh demise. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during a video conferencing event on Sunday, paid rich tributes to the veteran socialist stating that his death had created a void in national and Bihar politics and called him a leader who understood poverty and dedicated his life to stand for his ideals and principles. President Ram Nath Kovind too condoled Singh’s death along with Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan. PM Modi also made an oblique reference to Singh’s resignation from the RJD three days back, saying the leader was going though “Manthan ( introspection)” about how he couldn’t continue with those he had stayed long and worked. “Raghuvansh ji had expressed his sentiments in a letter 3-4 days back. But he was equally concerned about the development of Vaisali and expressed it in series of letters. I will urge chief minister Nitish Kumar that we try to fulfill his sentiments in his last letter,” PM Modi said. The PM also recalled his long association with Singh referring to his interaction with the latter in TV debates and also as Gujarat CM when the veteran socialist was serving as Union rural development minister in UPA-1 government. The CM Nitish Kumar also extended regret on Singh’s death. “Singh was a grassroots leader, a prominent socialist. His death is a personal loss to me and an irreparable loss for political, education and social fields,” Kumar said. In series of letters written by Singh from his hospital bed in his last few days, he demanded from the Bihar CM that work under the job scheme should be allowed on the land of general farmers so that farmers get more work by making necessary changes through an ordinance. In his political career spanning over four decades, the Singh’s socialist high point was his stint as rural development minister in UPA-1 government when he had piloted the implementation of MGNREGA under the then PM Manmohan Singh. He had also demanded that alms bowl of Lord Buddha should be brought to Vaisali from Kabul Museum and national flag should be hoisted at Vaisaligarh on Independence Day and Republic Day to mark the importance of his native district as the world’s first republic. On the other hand, Lalu Yadav chose to make a guarded response over Singh’s death. Jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad expressed grief and bewilderment over Singh’s death, saying “Raghuvansh Babu. What did you do! Only two days back, I told you that you aren’t going anywhere. But now you have gone so far. I am speechless, saddened. You will always be remembered,” he tweeted. Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also called Singh’s death a personal loss recalling how the departed leader stood by him at his time of crisis and always guided him like a guardian. The RJD, as a mark of respect, has cancelled all party functions for next seven days to mourn the Singh’s death. Professor Nawal Kishore Choudhary, a political observer, said during his last days, Singh had raised pertinent questions on dynastic politics and there are chances the NDA may try to cash in on his legacy to corner the RJD. “But Singh was a leader who had a pan India image and never assertive of his caste identity. There could be some politics in his name but it would have marginal effect,” he said.But many in the RJD felt Raghuvansh’s demise has put the party in trouble ahead of the Bihar assembly polls as the former’s bid to denounce dynastic politics in an oblique attack on RJD chief’s bid to promote his son and other family members in series of letters in last few days has given enough ammunition to the ruling JD(U) and BJP to berate the opposition party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-condoles-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-s-demise-pm-asks-nitish-to-fulfil-veteran-s-last-wishes/story-zvwpg84K9RiUTVLXYI7EZN.html
13-09-2020||India||Maharashtra loses 13th tiger this year, sub-adult male killed in infighting in UPK sanctuary||The Maharashtra forest department found the decomposed carcass of a male sub-adult tiger at the Umred Paoni Karhandla (UPK) Sanctuary on Saturday evening, officials said Sunday.This is the 13th tiger death in the state this year. Last year, the state recorded 18 deaths, 19 in 2018, and 21 in 2017.Forest officials said they spotted the carcass at Wanoda beat of Kuhi wildlife range of the sanctuary around 8.30 pm during daily patrol. They suspect the tiger was killed three to four days ago.Since it was already dark, the post-mortem was carried out on Sunday.According to the post mortem report, the tiger died during an infighting (internecine fight) incident with another tiger.“The tiger was approximately two years old and was one of three sub-adult cubs of dominant tigress T17 in UPK. Based on the bodily injuries and circumstantial evidence, we believe the tiger may have come in conflict with an 11-year-old adult tiger T22, whose movements we have documented in this area,” said Ravikiran Govekar, field director, Pench Tiger Reserve. UKP is located across Bhandara and Nagpur district, 60 km from Nagpur city. “T22 was born in the UKP but dispersed to Bramhapuri, and may have now returned to this area in search of territory,” Govekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-loses-13th-tiger-this-year-sub-adult-male-killed-in-infighting-in-upk-sanctuary/story-dferVgKJMO8RXU1puHTYoO.html
13-09-2020||India||In-flight photography allowed, prohibition on recording that leads to chaos, clarifies DGCA||Passengers on board commercial flights will be allowed to do photography inside the flight, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) clarified on Sunday adding that the prohibition is only for recording equipment which compromises air safety, creates chaos and violates norms.“It is clarified that a bonafide passenger travelling in an aircraft engaged in scheduled air transport services may do still and video photography from inside such an aircraft while in flight, take off and landing... however, this permission does not include use of recording equipment which imperils or compromises air safety; violates prevalent norms; creates chaos or disruption during operation of flight or expressly prohibited by crew,” the clarification said.The clarification comes a day after the aviation regulator issued an order for commercial flights stating that violations of in-flight norms, including photography, will invite a suspension of that scheduled route for two weeks.ALSO READ | DGCA warns airlines over violations of in-flight norms after Kangana rowThe suspension would stay in place till the airline completes taking action against those violating these norms.“In case of any violation of Rule 13 of Aircraft Rules 1937 on any passenger aircraft, the schedule of flight for that particular route shall be suspended for two weeks from the next day,” the DGCA statement read. The rule cited by DGCA, deals with conditions of photography and videography on board commercial passenger flights.The aviation regulator added that despite these regulations, airlines have often failed to follow rules primarily due to lack of diligence on their part. “Needless to say that such deviations result in compromise in maintaining the highest standard of safety and therefore is not to be allowed,” the statement said.The order came in the aftermath of an incident involving mediapersons filming on board an Indigo flight in which actor Kangana Ranaut was travelling from Chandigarh to Mumbai on Wednesday. A video of mediapersons recording inside the flight and creating a ruckus went viral on social media.The DGCA had on Friday asked IndiGo to take “appropriate action” after the regulator found alleged violation of safety and social distancing protocols by the media on the airline’s Chandigarh-Mumbai flight.“We have seen some videos wherein mediapersons are standing too close to each other on board the 6E264 flight on Wednesday. It seems to be a violation of safety and social distancing protocols,” a DGCA official said.The aviation regulator cited multiple issues with the incident, prominent among them were related to photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules 13, visible violation of Covid-19 protocols and alleged unruly behaviour by a few passengers on board the flight.The aviation regulator is also planning to take action against the media persons on board the IndiGo for violating in-flight norms following a probe on the incident, officials aware of the development said.“Action may be initiated against those persons found in violation of the guidelines,” DGCA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-flight-photography-allowed-prohibition-on-recording-that-leads-to-chaos-clarifies-dgca/story-l13Newjyib4ygwEpfZJOZN.html
13-09-2020||India||Am not a politician, says Kangana: What transpired in her meeting with governor||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut met Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari on Sunday amid the ongoing tussle between her and the Shiv Sena, which went a notch higher after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) razed the allegedly illegal portion of her Mumbai office on September 9.BMC’s demolition drive was later stayed by Bombay High Court.  A short while ago I met His Excellency the Governor of Maharashtra Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari Ji. I explained my point of view to him and also requested that justice be given to me it will restore faith of common citizen and particularly daughters in the system. pic.twitter.com/oCNByhvNOTAlso Read | Kangana Ranaut meets Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, says he listened to her like his own daughterHere is what transpired in the 45-minute meeting* Kangana said she apprised the Governor about the situation — how she has been subjected to ‘injustice’ by the government* Kangana said to the governor that she is being harassed for raising her voice. She doesn’t feel safe.* “I am no politician. I have no connection with politics. I presented my thoughts as a commoner,” Kangana said after the meeting. Her comments come amid speculations that the actor might join politics.* “I hope justice will be given to me. That will restore the faith in system,” Kangana said.* “I started from scratch in this city. The city has given me so much. Suddenly, I am being subjected to such treatment,” the actor said.* Kangana also thanked the Governor for listening to her as “a daughter”, the actor said.Kangana was accompanied by her sister Rangoli Chandel as she went to meet the governor. Before meeting the governor, the actor met Karni Sena leaders who visited her residence on Sunday. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday addressed a press conference where he said the Maharashtra government will brave all political storms, without naming Kangana or mentioning the issue. Earlier, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government distanced itself from BMC’s action regarding Kangana’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/am-not-a-politician-says-kangana-what-transpired-in-kangana-koshyari-meeting/story-jNFEHVcXpuwOVjqWVmQ7QI.html
13-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Listened to me like his own daughter’, says Kangana Ranaut after meeting Maharashtra guv and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Listened to me like his own daughter: Kangana Ranaut meets Maharashtra guvBollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Sunday reached Raj Bhavan in Mumbai to meet Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari amid a row over the demolition of her office in the city by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Read more Culture ministry goes digital, plans web series, virtual toursThe Ministry of Culture is planning a massive overhaul into its usual functioning and will introduce a host of digital initiatives including a web-series on India’s struggle for independence and virtual tours of important monuments. Read moreChina, Russia key adversaries to world order: Top UK intel officialIn a rare media interaction, the chief of Britain’s Defence Intelligence (DI) on Sunday identified China and Russia as key adversaries challenging the existing world order without promoting direct conflict, and operating in the expanding grey zone between war and peacetime. Read more ‘Nudges’ from PM Modi were critical in India’s Covid battle: Cambridge studyUsing nudge theory that involves subtly leading people to desired directions, a study of India’s public policy response to Covid-19 has concluded that nudges from Prime Minister Narendra Modi were critical in creating herd effect on lockdown and social distancing norms. Read more Twinkle Khanna writes on Rhea Chakraborty’s media trial: ‘They took a young woman and cut her in half’Twinkle Khanna has written about the media trial faced by Rhea Chakraborty ever since the death of her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput. The author drew the allegory of a magician’s act to get her point across. Read more Royal Enfield Himalayan BS 6 road test review: India’s own ADVover the years, Royal Enfield introduced several updates on the bike and recently we got to ride the most recent BS 6-version of the Himalayan. Read moreCIA shares ‘spot the difference’ post. Can you find them all?The foreign intelligence service of the federal government of the United States, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) shared a post on Twitter testing people’s observations skills. “Put your observation skills to the test. Can you spot the 10 differences in the photo below?” they wrote and shared two images. Read more ‘Raghuvansh’s death has left a void in political sphere of Bihar, nation: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolences at the demise of former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. “Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is no more with us. I pay tributes to him. His demise has left a void in the political sphere of Bihar as well as the country,” said PM Modi. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-listened-to-me-like-his-own-daughter-says-kangana-ranaut-after-meeting-maharashtra-guv-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7SjUUeSmjMdTq9qIQ2IcnN.html
13-09-2020||India||Two inmates including rape accused escape from jail in Madhya Pradesh||Two inmates including a rape accused allegedly escaped from a jail in Dewas district, 153 kilometres south east of Bhopal on Saturday night, police said on Sunday. According to police, the two jail inmates, both undertrials- Chhote Lal and Mukesh, both residents of Uday Nagar, scaled the wall of the jail with the help of a rope made of pieces of blankets, said police. Additional superintendent of police, Dewas Suryakant Sharma said, “The rape accused Chhotelal was lodged in the jail since August 26 while Mukesh was brought to the jail on August 21. Both cut blankets into several pieces to make a rope with the same and scale the wall of the sub-jail.” The police officer said, “An FIR was lodged on the complaint of the jail authorities. Several teams of police have been formed to nab the accused. However, no arrest has been made so far.” Earlier, in the second week of August four undertrials escaped another sub-jail in Indore, the neighbouring district of Dewas by scaling the 17-foot wall. However, all the four were captured by jail staffers with the help of villagers who raised an alarm on seeing them outside the jail. All the four accused were allegedly involved in kidnapping and murder of a businessman, according to police. As per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)’s prison statistics of India, 2018 report as many as 673 prisoners including 14 from Madhya Pradesh escaped during 2018 of whom 113 escapees had escaped from the police custody and 560 escaped from judicial custody. Of those who escaped from judicial custody 52 escaped from inside jail during the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-inmates-including-rape-accused-escape-from-jail-in-madhya-pradesh/story-jdzJ6yQxQIdNCqmchaEBjM.html
13-09-2020||India||Can weather political storms, coronavirus, says Thackeray||In his address to the state through social media platforms, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday focused on the worsening Covid-19 scenario even as he alleged that attempts were being made to defame the state and that he could weather both, political storms and the coronavirus. Thackeray asked people to take precautions and follow social distancing norms the as coronavirus, he pointed out, could take a “monstrous form”. He also warned them that the state will have to start penalising those violating social distancing norms to curb its spread. While he did not make a political speech, the chief minister said that attempts were being made to defame Maharashtra and his silence should not be taken as a weakness or failure to respond. “Right now, I won’t talk about politics but attempts are on to defame Maharashtra. I don’t talk, that doesn’t mean, I don’t have answers. I am sitting on the chair of the chief minister and have to act accordingly,” he said.He made no mention of actor Kangana Ranaut and the political controversy that unfolded in the city last week over the Mumbai civic body demolishing parts of an office owned by the 33-year-old celebrity. Senior Shiv Sena leaders said the chief minister had decided not to give any importance to the actor and had asked all leaders to follow suit by ignoring her. Recently, Ranaut had likened Mumbai to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), triggering a sharp reaction from Sena leaders who accused her of insulting the city and its police.On coronavirus, Thackeray said: “The scenario that I was afraid of is before us now. The cases of coronavirus are rising and will continue to rise. The cases have again started increasing in Mumbai and other areas. They are spreading in rural areas as well. There is a concern that it can take a disastrous form. The World Health Organisation (WHO) too has stated that this can be an indication for another major crisis.”“Like other countries, the state will have to start penalising people for violating social distancing. For instance, people will be fined for not wearing a mask at a public place; action against people for crowding a public place etc. We will have to take such steps as people are not following the norms seriously,” the chief minister added.He said that the state government doesn’t want to re-impose lockdown restrictions but this can be avoided only when people start taking all the precautions, he warned.Thackeray also challenged the Opposition’s charge that he was missing in action on the ground. He said, “They make allegations that I don’t go on field but with the help of video-conference technology, I have already reached the remotest areas where they have yet to reach.” He also asked people to share responsibility while mentioning that the government’s new initiative of house-to-house survey will begin from September 15. The survey called ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ aims to identify each and every citizen for Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and citizens with co-morbidities. A team of health workers will inspect every person of a family and suggest available services for the diseases. Those with Covid symptoms will also be recommended for swab test etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-weather-political-storms-coronavirus-says-thackeray/story-xTmGfJy8v4uRxKLtFRwAqO.html
13-09-2020||India||PM Modi pats Bihar CM, inaugurates petroleum projects||In a pat to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that in the last 15 years, Bihar has shown that development happens with the right government, decisions and policies. PM Modi, who launched three petroleum sector projects in Bihar worth more than Rs 900 crore through video conferencing, said his government was working for the growth of all sectors in Bihar. The prime minister praised the youth of Bihar and termed the state a ‘powerhouse’ of the country’s talent. He said there was a time when people would ask what could possibly be done in Bihar other than work in the fields? He said the youth had to suffer gross injustice as no big institutes developed there which forced them to step out of the state in search of opportunities. “Institutes of higher learning — agriculture, medical and engineering colleges, including an IIT, IIM, NIFT and a national law institute each — have come up under Nitish Kumar’s governance in Bihar,” the PM said. Also read: At petroleum project inauguration, PM says Bihar intrinsic to India’s riseHe said Start-up India, Mudra Yojana and many such schemes have provided the necessary amount of self-employment to the youth of Bihar. He also referred to the significant improvement in the state’s power condition over the last six years. Earlier, villages used to get electricity for 2-3 hours and cities used to get power for 8-10 hours in a day. He said Bihar was earlier plagued by the mindset where road projects were sneered at with many asking what was it worth for those without vehicles. The prime minister said there was no dearth of capability or resources in the state. Yet, Bihar and other eastern India states always lagged in development projects because of political and financial reasons as well as indifferent priorities. He also spoke about the shift in work culture from the days when one generation would witness the foundation laying ceremony of projects and the next generation would witness their completion. The PM said the special package announced for Bihar a few years ago focused much on the state’s infrastructure. He said the special package given for Bihar had 10 big projects related to petroleum and gas worth Rs 21,000 crore. Among these, today it is the seventh project which is being dedicated to the people of Bihar. He also listed the other six projects which had been completed in Bihar earlier. The projects unveiled on Sunday include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur pipeline augmentation project and two LPG bottling plants — one at Banka of the IOCL and another of the HPCL at Harsidhi in East Champaran district. PM Modi said, when CNG and PNG were reaching many cities in Bihar and eastern India, people here should also get these facilities easily. He said the Bhagiratha effort to connect eastern India with Paradip on the eastern seaboard and Kandla on the western seaboard began under the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Yojana and seven states would be connected through this pipeline which is about 3,000 kilometre-long of which Bihar also has a prominent role. The line from Paradip-Haldia will now be further extended to Patna, Muzaffarpur and the pipeline coming from Kandla, which has reached Gorakhpur, will also be connected to it. He said when the entire project is ready, it will become one of the longest pipeline projects in the world. The PM said due to these gas pipelines, big bottling plants were being installed in Bihar of which two new plants had been launched today in Banka and Champaran. Both these plants can fill more than 125 million cylinders every year. These plants will meet the LPG requirements of East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar in Bihar; Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj, and Pakur districts in Jharkhand and some areas of Uttar Pradesh.The prime minister said the fertiliser factory of Barauni, which was closed in the past, would also commence working soon after the construction of this gas pipeline. Reminding people that the good work done in the last 15 years must continue, he said, “We must ensure ‘sushasan’ (good governance)”. Earlier, expressing his condolence at the death of former Central minister and long-standing RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh at AIIMS-Delhi on Sunday, the PM said his demise had left a void in Bihar and national politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pats-bihar-cm-inaugurates-petroleum-projects/story-l46OcbOfiRIoSpiNydMAPP.html
13-09-2020||India||Culture ministry goes digital, plans web series, virtual tours||The ministry of culture is planning a massive overhaul into its usual functioning and plans to introduce a host of digital initiatives including a web-series on India’s struggle for independence and virtual tours of important monuments, officials told Hindustan Times. “We are trying to ensure that all information can be made available online,” Union minister for culture Prahlad Patel told Hindustan Times. “We are working on many initiatives and hope they will help the people,” he added. The Ministry reached out to the National Film Development Corporation of India (NFDC), the government’s body that looks after film financing, production and distribution, three weeks ago about the web-series. It is likely to be 20 episodes long and may even air on platforms such as SonyLIV, Netflix and Amazon Prime. “The NDFC has to tell us the framework within which the web series can be done, what kind of budget is needed, how many directors etc,” said an official on condition of anonymity. “We have reminded them again.” A second official said that the ministry may reach out to platforms such as SonyLIV and Zee5, and perhaps even Netflix and Amazon Prime, to stream the series online so that it can gain as wide an audience as possible. The series is likely to go on air before August 15 next year. The ministry is also planning virtual tours of monuments that will require a 360-degree videography of the monuments and compile these online. “We are assessing the costs of the same,” said the first official. “But it will be a major change as more people who are unable to travel will be able to learn about monuments that are far away while experiencing the feel of being in them.” The move becomes especially crucial in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis as limits on travel and the fear of contracting the virus continue to curtail Tourism. “We are working on the project and will launch a pilot soon, but this is time intensive work,” said the first official. The virtual tour will allow viewers to see monuments at different times of the day, including at night, to experience the feel of being in a place. The virtual tour may also be followed by a quiz for students viewing the tours, to help augment learning. With the help of the states and officials in the districts, the ministry has also begun a cultural mapping of districts. The cultural mapping includes a detailed knowledge of the dance forms, paintings, food and festivals of the districts. This, say officials, will help create a compendium of knowledge at the national level and is a continuous process that has been going on for some time now. “It will capture the tangible and the intangible heritage of any given place and help create a complete documentation of India’s heritage,” said the second official. The information will simultaneously be uploaded on ‘e-heritagepedia’, a Wikipedia-like website, where information about any and all aspects of Indian culture will be made available. “From the Paranthewali Gali, to the food habits of Hampi, it will have all the information,” said the first official. Simultaneously, the ministry is also developing e-artistpedia, which will contain information of all Indian artists and an e-market place, where indigenous art and goods can be purchased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-move-to-revamp-operations-culture-ministry-to-launch-web-series-virtual-tours/story-fSXb1YRdHVZzBR8jkAznXM.html
13-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut meets Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, says he listened to her like his own daughter||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut said on Sunday she told Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari about the “unjust treatment” she has received during their meeting amid her war of words with the state’s ruling Shiv Sena.Ranaut, who was wearing a beige sari, met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan along with her sister, Rangoli Chandel.“I told him about the unjust treatment I have received. I hope justice will be given to me so that the faith of all citizens, including young girls, is restored in the system. I am fortunate that the governor listened to me like his own daughter,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Ranaut’s meeting comes in the backdrop of her tiff with the Shiv Sena over her comments on Mumbai’s tackling of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.The 33-year-old actor has alleged that she received threats from Shiv Sena leaders after she compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir in one her tweets regarding Rajput’s death probe, following which she was provided Y plus security.Ranaut arrived in Mumbai on September 9, the day the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) razed the ‘illegally’ built portions of her office in the city.She will leave for her hometown of Manali in Himachal Pradesh on September 14.Earlier in the day, in an apparent reference to political criticism over his party’s tussle with Ranaut, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said he was ready to face all political storms.“I will have to remove the mask of the chief minister to respond to politics. I don’t speak, it doesn’t mean I don’t have answers,” he said without naming anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-at-raj-bhavan-to-meet-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari/story-jShSFUL5oZ2bV6BPnvhMrK.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Nudges’ from PM Modi were critical in India’s Covid battle: Cambridge study||Using nudge theory that involves subtly leading people to desired directions, a study of India’s public policy response to Covid-19 has concluded that nudges from Prime Minister Narendra Modi were critical in creating herd effect on lockdown and social distancing norms across the country.Published in science journal PLOS One, the study at the University of Cambridge used machine learning and AI-based algorithms to identify key nudges in policy responses across various government departments to deal with the pandemic, including the lockdown.“India is a vast and diverse country, what was easier for the western world where digitalisation has penetrated to last-mile homes, India is yet in the nascent stages,” said Ronita Bardhan, assistant professor and co-author of the study.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Hence these prompt nudges were required while simultaneously generating the digital backup infrastructure. It was a mammoth task given the transition state of India, where poverty and affluence co-exists.”The study noted that the prime minister’s nudges drove preparedness, action and mitigation strategies in the country, adding that his frequent public appearance was “the most significant factor that created nudges” in keeping a country of 1.3 billion people under strict lockdown and social distancing measures.Also read: Covid-19: 70k recoveries on average every day over past month, says govt dataRigorous media campaigns and Modi’s public assurances nudged in creating the herd effect across pharma, economic, health and public safety sectors that enabled strict national lockdown, the study by Bardhan and Gates Cambridge Scholar Ramit Debnath said.“Most of the interventions were targeted to generate internal motivation by using triggers that potentially produces lasting desired behaviour in repeat settings (i.e, repeated broadcasting of information through multi-media channel and engaging Bollywood to use songs, poems and dramatisation); also, the use of nostalgia in the form of Ramayana and Mahabharata telecast to encourage people to stay at home”, the authors said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The study also noted that successful application of behavioural control measures such as nudging in the public health sector (e.g: compulsory wearing of masks in public spaces; Yoga and Ayurveda for boosting immunity), transport sector (e.g: old railway coaches converted to isolation wards), micro, small and medium enterprises (e.g: rapid production of personal protective equipment and masks for frontline workers), science and technology sector (e.g: the rapid development of indigenous diagnostic kits, use of robots and nano-technology to fight infections), home affairs (e.g: people adhering to strict lockdown rules even at high economic distress), urban (e.g: drones, GIS-mapping, crowdsourcing) and education (e.g: work from home and online learning).Primary data for the study was collected from the Press Information Bureau in the form press releases of government plans, policies, programme initiatives and achievements. A text corpus of 260,852 words was created from 396 documents. Also read: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate up at 77.87%, Maharashtra among 5 states with most recoveriesAn unsupervised machine-based topic modelling using Latent Dirichlet Allocation algorithm was performed on the text corpus by the authors to extract high probability topics in the policy sectors. The topics were then interpreted through a nudge theoretic lens to derive critical policy heuristics of the government, with the results showing that most interventions were targeted to generate endogenous nudge by using external triggers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nudges-from-pm-modi-were-critical-in-india-s-covid-battle-cambridge-study/story-9Xgy7rYQErV5EtHn3tuGmM.html
13-09-2020||India||Rescuers fish out body of 22–yr-old Kashmiri man from Yamuna in Dehradun||The body of a 22-year-old man from Jammu and Kashmir was fished out of the Yamuna river in Vikas Nagar area of Dehradun on Sunday after he was reported missing on Thursday, the state disaster response force (SDRF) said. He had been missing since September 10 when he slipped into the river while bathing there with his friends, Praveen Alok, SDRF spokesperson said, The deceased was identified as one Khalid, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir who was living in Dehradun where he was pursuing his studies, said officials. “The youth was missing since September 10 when he had gone to Yamuna river with his three friends to celebrate his birthday. While bathing in the river, he slipped and was washed away in the waters.” Alok said.“An SDRF team had rushed there, after receiving the information from local police and initiated a search operation to find him. After efforts of about two days, the SDRF fished out his body from the river with the help of its divers,” said Alok. The body was then handed over to the police in Vikas Nagar.Rajiv Rauthan, station house officer, Vikas Nagar police station said, “The youth’s family members reached Dehradun on Saturday after being informed by police. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination after which it will be handed over to them.” Meanwhile, another youth on Saturday went missing in Yamuna river in Vikas Nagar area only. He too had gone there to bathe in the river with three of his friends. “Search efforts are on, but so far the SDRF team hasn’t been successful,” said Alok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescuers-fish-out-body-of-22-yr-old-kashmiri-man-from-yamuna-in-dehradun/story-JwhouG6eTDJopZVBF1cO9J.html
13-09-2020||India||Bengal college teacher accused of asking for Rs10k to ‘help’ student pass||A political science teacher of Siliguri College in north Bengal has been accused of demanding Rs 10,000 from a final-year undergraduate student to help her pass the examination by using his influence with the North Bengal University (NBU) authorities. The NBU authorities filed a complaint at Matigara police station in Siliguri on Saturday after audio clips, in which the teacher was purportedly heard demanding money from the student to help her pass the undergraduate examination, went viral on social media two days ago. Siliguri College is affiliated to the NBU.Also read: Thief returns stolen phone to man in West Bengal after he fails to operate it“We received a complaint from Siliguri College. The student alleged that Amitava Kanjilal, the teacher, had demanded money from her. He had said he knew staff members of the university very well,” said Dilip Sarkar, registrar, NBU. Sarkar said he has urged the police to question Kanjilal and ascertain his alleged contacts in the university. On Friday, the student lodged a complaint with Sujit Ghosh, the principal of her college. Kanjilal denied the allegation. “I am being targeted by some people who have vested interests,” he said. The college authorities have barred Kanjilal from all examination-related work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-college-teacher-accused-of-asking-for-rs10k-to-help-student-pass/story-HK4Q1j9xrewvmW9TRQqiFO.html
13-09-2020||India||Jharkhand’s 75% Covid deaths among patients aged 50 and above||The Covid-19 pandemic is proving deadly for people above 50 years of age in Jharkhand, as about 75% of the deaths among coronavirus patients in the state were recorded among this category.Out of the total 536 Covid deaths in the state, 399 were patients aged 50 years and above. While 267 of these 399 people were in the age group of 51-70 years, the rest were over 70 years of age.According to the state Covid-19 bulletin, the maximum number of deaths (267) occurred in the age group of 51-70 years, accounting for around 50% of the state’s total Covid toll.The bulletin, which categorises five age groups, disclosed that only three deaths occurred among children under 10 years of age and 132 casualties took place among people above the age of 70. Besides, 21, 113 and 267 deaths took place among people in the age group of 11-30 years, 31-50 years and 51-70 years, respectively.Jharkhand has so far reported 59,040 Covid-19 cases, including 15,176 active cases, 43,328 recoveries and 536 deaths.The pandemic’s seven days’ growth rate stood at 3.48% and the doubling period of the disease was 18.11 days. The recovery rate was 73.38% and mortality rate was 0.90%.Among the four aforementioned parameters, Jharkhand, however, fared well to keep the fatality rate under check. In comparison to the national average of 1.72%, the state’s mortality rate is 0.90%.“A large number of Covid cases found in urban areas provide a fertile ground for the virus to spread. The high prevalence of co-morbidities in people living in urban areas is also responsible for the higher number of deaths. Out of 536 deaths, 501 occurred due to co-morbid conditions,” said Dr Praveen Karn, state epidemiologist.He added, “Some reasons for higher mortality rate in cities could be late detection of cases, lack of timely access to health care or larger spread of the virus in the community. It has been seen that Covid patients in home isolation opt for hospitalization at a belated stage, which proves to be fatal sometimes.”“Our main focus is to check the mortality rate. Real time tracking of patients in home isolation is being strictly done,” he said.Also Read: PLFI ultras gun down Jharkhand man on suspicion of girl traffickingBarring few exceptions, it has been noticed that districts with a large number of cases also reported a high number of deaths.Ranchi, which has so far reported maximum 12,562 cases, recorded 88 deaths, whereas East Singhbhum, with its headquarters in Jamshedpur, reported 238 deaths out of its 10,275 positive cases.Also Read: Jharkhand CM meets Lalu Yadav, says ‘will contest Bihar polls together’Among all 24 districts, East Singhbhum reported the maximum mortality rate of 2.31%.In decreasing order of number of Covid deaths, the state’s top 10 districts are Jamshedpur (238), Ranchi (88), Dhanbad (43), Hazaribag (21), Koderma and Bokaro (17 each), West Singhbhum (16), Deoghar (14), Ramgarh (13), Giridih and Sahebgunj (9 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-s-75-covid-deaths-among-patients-aged-50-and-above/story-f1wL7AovO1RPucaDnDmJ6J.html
13-09-2020||India||What Uddhav Thackeray says on Maratha quota row||After the BJP blamed the Maha Vikas Aghadi government for failing to defend Maratha reservation before the Supreme Court, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the state government will move the Supreme Court again on the issue of reservation. Urging Marathis to not take to the streets, the CM said the government and the opposition, too, are fighting for the cause.Also Read | State failed in defending Maratha quota in Supreme Court: FadnavisAll recent developments on Maratha quota issue* On September 9, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the 2018 Maratha quota law of the state and referred the petitions challenging the law to a larger constitution bench.* The Supreme Court in its order said Marathis do not need reservation. The state government has not shown any “extraordinary situation” which warrants the reservation.* In the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018, Maratha community was declared as a socially and educational backward class. * Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis blamed the state government for failing to present the case in front of the Apex Court. “Tamil Nadu and our situation is the same. Despite that, while referring to the constitutional bench, the apex court didn’t stay the reservation declared by them but in our case, it was stayed. We need to see where we lacked in explaining the case effectively before the apex court,” Fadnavis said. * The Supreme Court verdict is a major set back for the MVA government, which presently has around 64-65% reservation, including 12-13% Maratha quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-uddhav-thackeray-says-on-maratha-quota-row/story-vNqkVhmANEckvX8lAlgHPM.html
13-09-2020||India||‘A good parliamentarian and a grassroot level leader’: Political leaders condole Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s death||Leaders across the political spectrum condoled the death of former Union minister and senior Bihar politician Raghuvansh Prasad Singh on Sunday and remembered his role in strengthening rural India with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).Singh, the former Union minister for rural development in the first term of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Sunday. He was 74.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Singh’s demise has left a void in Bihar. “Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is no more among us. His demise has left a void in the political sphere of Bihar as well as the country,” PM Modi said.President Ram Nath Kovind also condoled the death of the “outstanding leader” known as the architect of MGNREGA. “The passing away of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is tragic. An outstanding leader rooted to ground, Raghuvansh Babu was a true stalwart with phenomenal understanding of rural India. With his Spartan and sagely lifestyle, he enriched public life. Condolences to his family and followers,” Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in his condolence message Singh’s struggle for social justice will always be remembered. “With the demise of Shri Raghuvansh Prasad Singh ji, a strong voice of the village and the farmer is lost forever. His service and dedication for the upliftment of villages and farmers and his struggle for social justice will always be remembered. My heartfelt tribute,” Gandhi said in a tweet.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu said he will always be remembered for his role in implementing the rural employment guarantee scheme.“Saddened to learn about the sudden demise of former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. A good parliamentarian and a grassroot level leader, he strove for the upliftment of the poor and rural masses,” Naidu tweeted.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav tweeted an emotional message soon after Singh’s death. “Dear Raghuvansh Babu! What did you do? I told you the day before yesterday, you are not going anywhere. But you went so far. I am speechless. I am sad. Will miss you very much,” he tweeted in Hindi.Singh had resigned from the RJD on Thursday as he was miffed over his marginalisation in the party in the last few years.The condition of Singh, who had been undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Delhi for more than a week after testing positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in June, had deteriorated late on Friday. He was put on ventilator after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-good-parliamentarian-and-a-grassroot-level-leader-political-leaders-condole-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-s-death/story-FVBeuiL9RqqPUwgPrswtYK.html
13-09-2020||India||DGCA to take part in Boeing’s pilot training plan for new 737 Max||Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), the country’s civil aviation regulator, has decided to take part in Boeing’s proposal for training pilots to fly the revamped 737 Max that is expected to start in London from Monday. DGCA will join aviation regulators and pilots from several countries, including the United States of America (USA), Brazil, Canada and the European Union (EU), who have also agreed to review Boeing’s proposal. “We are in discussions with Boeing and other stakeholders. We will participate in the training exercise,” said Arun Kumar, director-general (D-G), DGCA .Also read: DGCA seeks report from IndiGo for violating social distancing norms on a flight with Kangana Ranaut aboardEarlier, DGCA had announced the grounding of all Boeing 737 Max planes on March 12, 2019, following the decision of aviation bodies in the USA and European countries to remove the accident-prone aircraft model from service. Boeing’s 737 Max was involved in the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines flight on March 10, 2019, killing over 180 passengers and crew members.A flight of Lion Air, an Indonesian low-cost carrier, had also crashed in October, 2018, leading to suspicion over design faults in the aircraft model.A statement issued by DGCA in March last year had stated that no 737 Max would be allowed to enter or transit Indian airspace. Two Indian airlines, SpiceJet Ltd and the now defunct Jet Airways, are the only airlines to possess 737 Max aircraft. All 17 of SpiceJet’s 737 Max have been grounded since March, 2019. The US regulator, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), had proposed a wide range of changes that included updating flight control software, revising crew procedures and rerouting internal wiring. FAA is set to review Boeing’s proposal for training pilots to fly the refurbished 737 Max aircraft. The review exercise is likely to begin from Monday at London’s Gatwick Airport in a bid to ensure that the changes carried by the American aircraft manufacturer comply with FAA’s safety regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-to-take-part-in-boeing-s-pilot-training-plan-for-new-737-max/story-J34dJJFpX6FePiK6WXqLhN.html
13-09-2020||India||Will face all political storms, says Maharashtra CM Thackeray amid Kangana Ranaut row||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that a conspiracy has been hatched to malign the state by several people amid criticism over the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the row involving Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut.“Some people may feel that now coronavirus disease is over and they should start their politics again. I will not talk about politics but there is a conspiracy to discredit Maharashtra,” Thackeray said in a televised public address.He, however, did not name anyone.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the country, has seen more than a million cases of the coronavirus disease. There has also been a controversy recently over Ranaut after her office was demolished by the state government-controlled civic body Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The chief minister assured people that he is ready to face any “storm” be it a political one or that of the coronavirus disease. “Whatever political storms come, I will face them... I will fight the coronavirus pandemic too,” Thackeray said.“My silence doesn’t mean that I don’t have answers,” he added.In his latest address, which came a day after Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 1 million mark, Thackeray also said that his government has done effective work to tackle the pandemic.Speaking on Covid-19 situation in the state, Thackeray said that it is likely to become more severe in the coming days. He also urged people to follow all social distancing norms to control the virus spread.Ranaut and Thackeray-led Shiv Sena have been engaged in a bitter war of words after the critically acclaimed actor said she feels unsafe in Mumbai and has no trust in Mumbai Police after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.On Wednesday, Ranaut’s office in Bandra was partially demolished by BMC, triggering criticism from several political leaders and her Bollywood colleagues. Flanked by security guards provided by the Union home ministry, Ranaut had reached Mumbai hours after the BMC carried out the demolition.Maharashtra is among the worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic. On Sunday, the state reported 22,084 new cases, pushing its tally to 10,37,765 including 7,28,512 recoveries and 279,768 active cases, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-face-all-political-storms-says-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-amid-kangana-ranaut-row/story-TwKRrosVDLPNzgFB27uOQP.html
13-09-2020||India||Taj Mahal’s reopening to give Agra’s marble trade a new lease of life||The decision to reopen the Taj Mahal for tourists from September 21 has given a ray of hope to Agra’s marble traders after the Covid-9 pandemic had all but flattened their business.Adding to that hope is the optimism after the decision to lift weekend market curbs in the city. “The Rs 2,000 crore marble work business in Agra had suffered a setback even before the lockdown. There used to be Chinese tourists in large numbers in February but visas were disallowed to Chinese tourists as corona was at its peak in China during that phase,” said Prahlad Agarwal, a prominent marble trader of Agra and Agra Tourist Welfare Chamber president. “Besides, there used to be many tourists from Iran where the New Year is celebrated in the first quarter of the year but they too were in the grip of coronavirus and could not come to Agra this year and thus, the marble trade in Agra suffered,” Agarwal stated. However, despite markets opening now, marble emporium owners say business is still tepid as there are few tourists in the city. “Road and rail transport is not at its optimum. With the end of weekend closures we expect domestic visitors from the city and in and around Delhi on weekend trips to Agra,” Agarwal opined.“Still it is a tough track to revival as international flights are still not functioning. We need foreign tourists for handicraft trade, especially marble. Out of total of Rs 2,000 crore marble trade, Rs 700 crore is by way of export internationally and Rs 1,300 crore trade comes through emporiums which are still to open in Agra,” said Agarwal. “The US government has issued an advisory against visiting India due to Covid-19 pandemic. The European nations pay heed to such advisories thus we have to work around this advisory if we hope to revive tourism,” he said. “The business through emporiums is still to pick up although exports are picking up at a steady pace with shipments moving. Things have improved in European nations and Christmas is only a few months away. Thus we can see improvement in exports but a major component of trade through emporiums is dependent upon the Taj opening and staying open,” he said. There are about 30,000 to 35,000 families relying on marble work in Agra. The skill of working on marble is mostly hereditary with the son following the footsteps of the father.“However, this corona pandemic has caused erosion in this hereditary trend, and unable to find suitable returns, many artisans are deviating from their traditional source of income,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-s-reopening-to-give-agra-s-marble-trade-a-new-lease-of-life/story-NQciCBpCoBLwEuITGIjhoN.html
13-09-2020||India||Vande Bharat and other special trains back on track | All you need to know||As Indian Railways has been calibrating its services post-lockdown, several trains, including India’s first semi-high speed Vande Bharat Express, is now back on track. Indian Railways resumed its services in May through Shramik Specials which were to ferry migrant workers to their home states. Following Shramik Specials, Indian Railways introduced several special trains, the latest being Vande Bharat.Here are the latest updates on the resumption of railway services:1. New Delhi-Varanasi Vande Bharat Express train is back on track from Saturday after a gap of 170 days. This train will run five days a week, except Mondays and Thursdays.2. The occupancy of the Vande Bharat Express on day one was low, with only 2 per cent booking. 3. This is the first time the railways resumed Express services on an existing route. All 310 trains plying at present are special trains. Among these 310, there are 30 Rajdhani-type trains. 4. Another existing Vande Bharat route is between Delhi and Katra. Services on this route has not resumed yet.5. 80 special trains started from September 12.6. The railways said out of the 230 trains resumed earlier, the occupancy in 12 is very less. The railways will reduce the number of coaches in those trains.7. In general, the occupancy in all these special trains is around 80 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-latest-updates-vande-bharat-and-other-special-trains-back-on-track-all-you-need-to-know/story-nZUpVGJdAUjpjm01r0ZOCK.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19 situation likely to become more severe in Maharashtra, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is likely to become more severe in the coming days, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned on Sunday as the state continued to record high number of infection.“The state government can take some harsh decisions to ensure social distancing norms are being followed,” he said. He added that the state government may impose fine on people violating the Covid-19 rules.“Now, people will have to share the responsibility by strictly following all the social distancing norms,” said Thackeray.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe chief minister also asked people to actively participate in a statewide house to house survey from September 15 in which details of senior citizens, people with co-morbidities, etc will be collected. The survey is going to be conducted twice a month.Also read: What Kangana Ranaut has said so far on joining politicsDuring the address, Thackeray also urged the Maratha community to not organise any demonstration in the state, in view of the pandemic.“I request the Maratha community not to organise any protest as the state government is with them and making all the efforts to provide them reservation. Protests are justified only when government is not listening to your demands,” said the chief minister.A day after Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 10-lakh mark, Thackeray also said that his government has done effective work to tackle the pandemic.Maharashtra which is the most affected by the pandemic reported 22,084 new cases, 13,489 discharged cases and 391 deaths today. The total number of cases in the state rose to 10,37,765 including 7,28,512 recoveries and 2,79,768 active cases, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-likely-to-become-more-severe-says-maharashtra-cm/story-Jf6SIrCAapuEcryQhmKJIP.html
13-09-2020||India||Congress says ordinances will hurt farmers, affect food procurement system||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday said that Congress fully supports the agitating farmers who are protesting against the three ordinances passed by Centre while addressing a virtual press conference. The senior Congress leader said that these ordinances will break the agrarian foundations of this nation which has been built over the last 50 years. Ramesh while speaking to media persons in a virtual press conference said, “The ordinances will pave way for contract farming as well as private farming. Public procurement of foodgrains which is done by the Food Department of India (FDI) will be adversely affected and there are apprehensions that foodgrains will be sold at lesser minimum selling price (MSPs).”He further added, “I request the government to not break the pillar of food security and protection.”Farmers in Haryana and Punjab started agitating against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, three ordinances that the Centre had passed during the lockdown period.Cong says PM Modi should discuss LAC issue in monsoon sessionFarmers under the leadership of Gurnam Singh, Haryana unit chief of Bharatiya Kisan Union, blocked the NH 24 near Pipli, Kurukshetra on Thursday when they organised a rally. Farmers were lathicharged by the police for breaking Covid-19 prohibitory rules and were charged for destruction to public property. On Saturday, a BJP delegation consisting of BJP’s Haryana unit chief Om Prakash Dhankar, Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh met the farmers and assured them that procurement based on MSPs will not be affected.BJP has accused the opposition political parties of creating panic among the farmers. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said that Congress MPs will speak to other opposition members from other parties and raise this issue in the monsoon session. He asked the government to consider taking back the ordinances which hurt the Indian farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-ordinances-will-hurt-farmers-hurt-food-procurement-system/story-Lc3gMvoPyhLU2YwgmLmR1L.html
13-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate up at 77.87%, Maharashtra among 5 states with most recoveries||Five states, including worst-hit Maharashtra, account for 58% of the recovered cases of the coronavirus disease in the country as 3.7 million people have been cured of Covid-19 so far, the government said on Sunday.India’s Covid-19 tally mounted to 4,754,356, with 94,372 new infections and 1,114 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard at 8am. The death toll has climbed to 78,586, data showed.The country’s recovery rate now stands at 77.87% after 78,399 patients were cured of Covid-19 between Saturday and Sunday morning, according to the Union health ministry.The government said Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh are among the states that have contributed to the 3,702,595 recoveries. Maharashtra has reported 17.2% recovered cases, Tamil Nadu 13.1%, Andhra Pradesh 12.2%, Karnataka 7.9% and Uttar Pradesh 7.8%, the Union health ministry said.Maharashtra continues to lead with more than 13,000 recoveries while Andhra Pradesh has contributed over 10,000 to the single-day recoveries, it said.Also read | Rise in Mumbai cases prompts rethink, BMC mulls roping in more private hospitalsThe same five states also account for 60% of the 973,175 active Covid-19 cases in the country. Of the 94,372 new infections that have been reported in the past 24 hours, Maharashtra alone has contributed to more than 22,000 cases. It is followed by Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka with more than 9,000 cases each, the ministry said.“Nearly 57% of the new cases are reported from five states. These are also contributing 58% of the new recovered cases,” it said.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine latest developments: AstraZeneca resumes trial, China develops nasal sprayThe health ministry’s data showed there are 973,175 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, which comprises 20.47% of the total caseload. Maharashtra has more than 280,000 cases followed by Karnataka with more than 97,000 cases, the ministry said.Maharashtra (28.79%), Karnataka (10.05%), Andhra Pradesh (9.84%), Uttar Pradesh (6.98%) and Tamil Nadu (4.84%) account for 60% of the active Covid-19 cases in the country. Out of the 1,114 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the western state has reported the maximum of 391 deaths followed by Karnataka with 94 deaths, whereas Tamil Nadu has seen 76 deaths.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-up-at-77-87-maharashtra-among-5-states-with-most-recoveries/story-vSknC4YvhJOvD1NYkPkA0N.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra positivity rate over 20%||The positivity rate for Maharashtra continues to rise with the spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state.Positivity test is an indicator of the prevalence of Covid-19 infection in the community. Positivity rate reflects the proportion of people who test positive among those who are tested. On Saturday, the positivity rate stood at 20.09% till now; 1,037,765 people tested positive of the 5,164,840 tested so far. On Friday, it stood at 20% with 1,015,681 people testing positive of the 5,072,521 tested. On Thursday, the positivity rate was 19.9 % as the number of positive stood at 990,795 of the total 4,974,558. On Wednesday, the positivity rate was 19.81 % as there were 937,349 positive cases of the total 4,883,006 tested. Also read: For fourth consecutive day, India’s daily Covid-19 numbers hover around 95,000According to health expert Dr Ameet Mandot, this points at fatigue setting in. “People are becoming casual and are not taking adequate precautions, like wearing masks or observing social distance. It has been over five months of lockdown and people are tired,” said Mandot. “The government needs to spread awareness and start campaigns to drive home the point that Covid-19 is still present and adequate care needs to be taken,” he added.The number of daily positive cases in the state has also seen a spike with 22,084 cases reported on Saturday. On Friday, Thursday and Wednesday, the figure stood at 24,886, 23,446 and 23,816 positive cases respectively. Ever since the state government started the unlock process, ‘Mission Begin Again’, from June 3, there has been a surge of Covid-19 cases. The government has been cautious in opening and till now has not allowed some places, like religious places and restaurants, to open. Even the local trains services have been restricted for the government and health sector employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-positivity-rate-rises-to-20/story-1ZmfIjiEqt6X4ISWxPt1wN.html
13-09-2020||India||Flight operation from Darbhanga under regional connectivity scheme to begin in November||Flight operations under regional connectivity scheme (RCS) will begin from Bihar’s Darbhanga airport in the first week of November, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday. The minister who reviewed ongoing work at Darbhanga, Deoghar (Jharkhand) and Patna airports on Saturday said booking for daily flights from Darbhanga to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru will begin before September 30. “Flight operation will begin in the first week of November, before the auspicious festival of Chhath Puja. This will be a boon for 22 districts of north Bihar,” said Puri. Spicejet will operate flights from Darbhanga to Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai under RCS. Meanwhile, the number of daily flights from Patna airport will increase from next week. The government was likely to increase the cap on restricting flight operations from existing 60% to 75% of the flights approved in the summer schedule (effective Mar 29) from Patna airport. The state had pitched for completely removing the restriction on the number of flights being operated from Patna, to which Puri did not agree at this point in time. Airline sources say most of the 32 daily scheduled flights were operating with full passenger load as of now. The Patna airport, which used to handle an average 54 daily departures during the pre-Covid period, currently handles 32. Raising the cap on flights would mean an increase of five flights, airport officials said. The flights from Patna were expected to increase on the Delhi and Bengaluru sectors. The work on construction of a new terminal building at the Patna airport, at a cost of Rs 1216.90 crore was now likely to be complete by March 2023, said senior officials. The earlier deadline was October 2022. Once complete, the terminal building will be able to handle 8 million passengers per annum, with peak hour passenger handling capacity of 3,000 passengers and apron capacity to park 11 aircraft at a time, besides cargo handling capacity of 10,000 metric tonnes annually, said airport director BCH Negi. The existing domestic terminal building capacity was 0.7 million passengers per annum (MPPA) prior to the extension and modification. In 2019-2020, the airport handled about 4.8 million passengers. Talking about the Darbhanga airport, Puri said that this would be one more step under the ambitious UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme to provide air connectivity to the interior regions of the country under the motto ‘Sab Uden, Sab Juden.’ Meanwhile, the state government has told the Centre about the operational shortcomings at Darbhanga airport. “We have apprised the civil aviation secretary that with the navigational aid currently available at the Darbhanga airport, and the foggy conditions during winters, operation of flights may not be possible between, December and March due to low visibility. The secretary has assured us to look into it,” said Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary, cabinet coordination department, Bihar, who also holds the charge of the civil aviation department in the state. Kumar said the state government had spent Rs 120 crore on acquiring 31 acres of land for the civil enclave at Darbhanga, which will be given to the IAF. The latter will transfer equitable land in lieu of it to the Airports Authority of India (AAI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-operation-from-darbhanga-under-regional-connectivity-scheme-to-begin-in-november/story-vrNODO9vlhLiZo8BB3DGRL.html
13-09-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah to step into Parliament for 1st time after Article 370 abrogation||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah will attend the monsoon session of Parliament starting Monday, more than a year after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019, and local leaders were put into pre-emptive detention. “Yes, I am going to attend Parliament. Though they have kept no provisions to ask questions but we will have to sit four hours daily,” Abdullah told HT. “Nevertheless, I will raise our issues there,” he added. Abdullah is likely to command considerable attention this session in the backdrop of allegations that some leaders in Jammu and Kashmir were kept under illegal detention after J&K’s status was changed.During the debate on revocation of Article 370 last year, several opposition leaders had demanded that Abdullah, a seasoned parliamentarian, be allowed to attend Parliament. Abdullah had told the media in an emotional interview in Srinagar that he had to break the door of his house to come out of detention and had rejected Union home minister Amit Shah’s claim that he was free to move. Also Read: Congress says PM should discuss LAC issue in monsoon sessionThe monsoon session will be held between September 14 and October 1 amid the coronavirus pandemic. The last parliamentary session was cut short on March 25 following the viral outbreak. The government has decided to do away with the Question Hour and instead only written replies will be given. Also Read: Govt decides against holding all-party meet ahead of sessionAbdullah’s presence is also likely to bring focus back to Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti’s continued detention. While most of the mainstream political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir have been released, including Farooq and his son Omar Abdullah, on March 13 and March 24, 2020, Mufti continues to be held under the Public Safety Act (PSA).In an interview with HT last month, Farooq and Omar Abdullah said that they will contest the constitutional changes related to J&K, pushed through by the Centre last year, both politically and legally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-to-step-into-parliament-for-1st-time-after-article-370-abrogation/story-tq9gulCZTffb5fVD135BVK.html
13-09-2020||India||Odisha: BJD MP, state minister take ill; admitted to Covid hospital||A Biju Janata Dal (BJD) member of Parliament (MP) and a minister in the Odisha government have been admitted to a dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospital in Bhubaneswar after they complained of difficulties in breathing days after they were infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes the disease. Padmini Dian, minister for textiles, handlooms and handicrafts; and Nabarangpur MP Ramesh Chandra Majhi, both of whom belong to the BJD, were shifted to a Covid-19 hospital in Bhubaneswar. Also read: 70k recoveries on average every day over past month, says govt dataThey had tested Covid-19 positive around nine days ago and were quarantined at home. Dian’s husband Sadashib Dian, a police officer, who had also tested Covid-19 positive, was also shifted to the same hospital, where his wife is undergoing treatment. Her son and nephew are quarantined at home after they, too, contracted the viral infection.So far, 20 members of the Odisha legislative assembly (MLAs), six ministers and four MPs from the state have tested Covid-19 positive. Minister for women and child development and Mission Shakti Tukuni Sahu; minister for rural development Susant Singh; minister for higher education Arun Kumar Sahoo, minister for food supplies and consumer welfare Ranendra Pratap Swain; and minister for tourism Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi have tested Covid-19 positive. Manjulata Mandal (BJD), Suresh Pujari (Bharatiya Janata Party) and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan (BJD) are the other three MPs, who have been afflicted with the contagion.The MLAs who tested Covid-19 positive are Sadasiva Pradhani (Nabarangpur), Prabhu Jani (Laxmipur), Bhagirathi Sethy (Anandpur), Soumya Ranjan Patnaik (Khandapada), Bishnubrata Routray (Basudevpur ), Susant Rout (Bhubaneswar North), Ananta Narayan Jena (Ananta Narayan Jena), Bikram Panda (Berhampur), Byomakesh Ray (Chandbali), Debi Prasad Mishra (Badamba), Pritam Padhi (Pottangi), Sanjib Mallick (Bhadrak), Sunanda Das (Bari), Srikant Sahu (Polasara), Sudhanshu Shekhar Parida (Remuna), Prasanta Muduli (Jagatsinghpur), Sashi Bhushan Behera (Kendrapara), Saroj Meher 9Patnagarh), Prasant Behera (Salipur) and Sukant Nayak (Nilagiri).Odisha has reported over 150,000 Covid-19 cases to date. Dr Jayant Panda, a consultant to the state health department, estimated that Odisha could report over 200,000 Covid-19 cases by end-September.“The viral infection cases are likely to come down after September,” he said. The pandemic has cast a shadow over the upcoming monsoon session of the Odisha assembly, which is scheduled to be held in end-September. Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro announced last week that all ministers, MLAs and staff of the assembly would have to compulsorily undergo Covid-19 test two days before the assembly starts. A counter will be set up in the assembly for the real-time reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test and only those, whose test results show Covid-19 negative, will be allowed to take part in the assembly proceedings. The Question Hour session will not be held during the monsoon session.Rapid antigen detection (RAD) test will be conducted for all the officers, who will attend the assembly session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bjd-mp-state-minister-take-ill-admitted-to-covid-hospital/story-1zYI2S1gu6UD5QXklozBMO.html
13-09-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates 3 key petroleum projects in Bihar, says the state has been exemplary in taking Centre’s scheme to people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Bihar’s administration has been exemplary in making sure that government schemes reach the common people.He said, “In the last 15 years Bihar has shown that if the right government is elected in a state, benefits of government’s schemes can reach its people.” PM Narendra Modi inaugurated the three petroleum sector projects in Bihar which cost more than Rs 900 crores. The projects include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur Pipeline Augmentation Project and two Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) Bottling Plants in Banka and Champaran, according to news agency PTI. These two LPG plants will be able to fill gas cylinders for several districts not only from Bihar but also for Jharkhand and few districts of Uttar Pradesh as well, Narendra Modi said. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Bihar deputy CM Sushil K Modi were among those who were present in the virtual inauguration ceremony. PM said that the Centre has worked extensively in developing all energy related projects in the state. He said, “We do not live in the age where one generation saw the inauguration of a project and another generation saw its completion. New India and new Bihar believes in fast-paced development.” He further added that the age when someone owned a gas connection was considered a bigwig is now a thing of the past. He also highlighted that Centre’s schemes like Ujjwala has also empowered women and made sure that they do not spend hours collecting firewood which would later when burnt to cook would also cause respiratory ailments. PM said eastern India and Bihar’s infrastructure was never prioritised. He further said that earlier people never imagined that they could get access to developed infrastructure because there were economic and political issues to which no one paid attention to despite the fact that the region is teeming with natural as well as human resources.PM Modi specially thanked people who delivered gas cylinders to common people’s homes amid the Covid-19 pandemic while inaugurating the scheme. PM Modi lauded Nitish Kumar, Bihar chief minister, for pushing Bihar’s youth and ensuring that the state’s education system nurtures talents. He said, “You can look at any sector in India - education, income tax, labour or healthcare. The contribution of Bihar in every sector is clearly visible. Bihar has assisted India in its growth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-3-key-petroleum-projects-in-bihar-says-the-state-has-been-exemplary-in-taking-centre-s-scheme-to-people/story-hPZ7e10hDuqMGNAa6AufkM.html
13-09-2020||India||Has left a void: PM Modi condoles ex-Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday mourned the loss of former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. He was 74. “Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is no more among us. His demise has left a void in the political sphere of Bihar as well as the country,” PM Modi tweeted.Singh, who had resigned from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Thursday, was undergoing treatment at AIIMS for more than a week after developing post-Covid-10 complications. He was critically ill and was put on a ventilator late on Friday.The former Union minister for rural development had resigned from the RJD, apparently peeved over his marginalisation in the party in the last few years.President Ram Nath Kovind also extended his condolences to the late leader’s family and followers.“The passing away of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is tragic. An outstanding leader rooted to the ground, he was a true stalwart with a phenomenal understanding of rural India. Condolences to his family & followers, said the President.Former chief minister of Bihar Lalu Prasad Yadav also reacted to the tragedy. “Dear Raghuvansh Babu! What did you do? I told you the day before yesterday, you are not going anywhere. But you went so far. I am speechless. I am sad. Will miss you very much,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-left-a-void-pm-modi-condoles-ex-union-minister-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-s-death/story-tvjptPDGOoqslULgxTMK5H.html
13-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM should discuss LAC issue in monsoon session, says Congress and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress says PM should discuss LAC issue in monsoon sessionCongress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday addressed a virtual press conference where he said that India cannot tolerate the encroachment of its territory by China in Ladakh. Read moreFormer Union minister and Bihar leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh diesFormer Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Sunday, a day after he was put on a ventilator. He was 74. Read more‘You will come to know his impact’: Gautam Gambhir names most underrated player in T20 cricketWith so much franchise cricket being played all around the world, team managements are on a constant look-out for talent for their sides. Even in the Indian Premier League, all the franchises scout different talents to discover the next superstar in cricket. Read moreCuriosity rover spots ‘dust devil’ on Mars, NASA shares animated videoMagnificent and mysterious, those are just two among many adjectives which people often use to describe Mars. Read morePrakash Raj takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut: ‘If one film makes Kangana think that she is Rani Laxmi Bai, then...’Actor Prakash Raj took potshots at Kangana Ranaut and joked about her frequent references to playing Rani Laxmi Bai of Jhansi in her film, Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi. Read moreAssaulted ex-Navy officer’s message for Uddhav Thackeray: ‘If you can’t...’Ex-Naval officer slammed Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray after being physically attacked. Madan Sharma was attacked allegedly by Shiv Sena workers. Read moreWhatsApp’s latest beta update reveals new ‘wallpaper dimming’ featureWhatsApp has rolled out a new update for its beta app on Android. The latest update brings bug fixes and shows a glimpse of a new wallpaper feature. Read more‘I married my best friend’: YouTube’s interabled influencers break another stigma with their fairytale weddingOur faith in love and ever lasting relationships that beat the odds got re-instilled as YouTube’s influencer couple, Shane Burcaw and Hannah Aylward, broke another stigma with their interabled marriage last week. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-should-discuss-lac-issue-in-monsoon-session-says-congress-and-all-the-latest-news/story-v09RPZgvQV4NRmxUd1ETFN.html
13-09-2020||India||US West Coast chokes as wildfire continues to displace thousands||Wildfire smoke that posed a health hazard to millions choked the West Coast on Saturday as firefighters battled deadly blazes that obliterated some towns and displaced tens of thousands of people, the latest in a series of calamities this year.For people already enduring the coronavirus pandemic, the resulting economic fallout and political tensions evident in the Black Lives Matter protests and far-right counter protests, the fires added a new layer of misery.“What’s next? You have the protests, coronavirus pandemic, now the wildfires. What else can go wrong?” lamented Danielle Oliver, 40, of Happy Valley, southeast of Portland.The death toll from the fires in California, Oregon and Washington stood at 31 and was expected to rise sharply. Most of the fatalities were in California and Oregon.Oregon’s emergency management director said officials were preparing for a possible “mass fatality event” if many more bodies turn up in the ash. And the state fire marshal resigned after abruptly being placed on administrative leave. The state police superintendent said the crisis demanded an urgent response that required a leadership change.Oliver has an autoimmune disorder that makes her vulnerable to wildfire smoke, so she agreed to evacuate. She was nervous about going to a shelter because of the virus, but sleeping in a car with her husband, 15-year-daughter, two dogs and a cat was not a viable option.The temperature checks and social distancing at the American Red Cross shelter helped put her mind at ease. Now the family waits, hoping their house will survive. She has previously experienced homelessness.“I’m tired. I’m tired of starting all over. Getting everything, working for everything, then losing everything,” she said.Those who still had homes were not safe in them. A half-million Oregonians were under evacuation warnings or orders to leave. With air contamination levels at historic highs, people stuffed towels under door jambs to keep smoke out. Some even wore N95 masks in their own homes.Some communities resembled the bombed-out cities of Europe after World War II, with buildings reduced to charred rubble piled atop blackened earth. Residents either managed to flee as the flames closed in, or perished.Millicent Catarancuic’s body was found near a car on her 5-acre property in Berry Creek, California. The flames came so quickly she did not have time to get out.On Tuesday, she packed several of her dogs and cats in the car but later called her daughter to say she decided to stay. Firefighters had made progress battling the blaze. The wind was calm. The flames still seemed far away. Then they rushed onto the property.“I feel like, maybe when they passed, they had an army of cats and dogs with her to help her through it,” said her daughter, Holly Catarancuic.In Oregon alone, more than 40,000 people have been evacuated and about 500,000 are in different levels of evacuation zones, Gov. Kate Brown said.Fires along Oregon’s Cascade Range grew Saturday, but at a slower rate than earlier in the week, when strong easterly winds acted like a bellows, pushing two large fires — the Beachie Creek Fire and the Riverside Fire — toward each other and the state’s major population centers, including Portland’s southeastern suburbs.Fire managers did get a spot of good news: Higher humidity slowed the flames considerably.In California, a total of 28 active major fires have burned 4,375 square miles, and 16,000 firefighters are trying to suppress the flames, Cal Fire Assistant Deputy Director Daniel Berlant said. Large wildfires continued to burn in northeastern Washington state too. In all, 22 people have died in California since wildfires began breaking out across the state in mid-August.President Donald Trump will visit California on Monday for a briefing on the West Coast fires, the White House announced. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and the governors of California, Oregon and Washington state — all Democrats — have said the fires are a consequence of global warming.“We absolutely must act now to avoid a future defined by an unending barrage of tragedies like the one American families are enduring across the West today,” Biden said.The same smoke that painted California skies orange also helped crews corral the state’s deadliest blaze of the year by blocking the sun, reducing temperatures and raising humidity, officials said.Smoke created cooler conditions in Oregon too, but it was also blamed for making the dirtiest air in at least 35 years in some places. The air quality index reading Saturday morning in Salem, the state capital, was 512.The scale normally goes from zero to 500.“Above 500 is literally off the charts,” said Laura Gleim, a spokesperson for the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.Because past air quality was rarely so poor, the government’s yardstick for measuring it capped out at 500, Gleim said. The department started monitoring in 1985.The weather conditions that led up to the fires and fed the flames were likely a once-in-a-generation event, said Greg Jones, a professor and research climatologist at Linfield University in McMinnville, Oregon.A large high-pressure area stretching from the desert Southwest to Alaska brought strong winds from the east toward the West Coast, reducing relative humidity to as low as 8 per cent and bringing desert-like conditions, even to the coast, Jones said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-west-coast-chokes-as-wildfire-continues-to-displace-thousands/story-ju64wbYGmM8IcaUOXMJLMO.html
13-09-2020||India||Meghalaya power minister injured in accident in Assam, stable||Meghalaya power minister James K Sangma sustained minor injuries in a road accident in Assam’s Nagaon district on the early hours of Sunday while on his way to Shillong from Imphal in Manipur. Four persons in the pilot car leading the minister’s vehicle also suffered injuries in the accident.Earlier, James, the elder brother of Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma had tested positive for Covid-19 when he and Conrad, who had reached there on Saturday from Delhi, underwent a rapid antigen test at the Imphal airport.While James decided to return to Shillong after the positive result, Conrad and his OSD-cum-press secretary, Saidul Khan, who tested negative, decided to stay back and return on Monday. “The pilot car of the Meghalaya minister hit a stationary truck at Nonoi on the early hours of Sunday. The pilot vehicle overturned and four persons in the vehicle sustained injuries. The minister’s car, which was following the pilot car, hit it moments after. None of the injured persons were critical and they continued their journey to Shillong,” Nagaon superintendent of police, Gaurav Abhijit Dilip, said. CM Sangma’s press secretary Saidul Khan told HT from Imphal that the minister sustained minor injuries as a result of his car hitting the pilot car. His condition is stated to be stable. The brothers had gone to Imphal to inaugurate the new building of the Manipur state unit of the National People’s Party (NPP) headed by Conrad as its National President, followed by intense discussions with local leaders on strengthening the state unit in Manipur.(With inputs from Utpal Parashar in Guwahati)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-power-minister-injured-in-accident-in-assam-stable/story-dZqElCFbTXQPzneDgn2XwJ.html
13-09-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu undergoes Covid-19 test ahead of monsoon session||Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has undergone a Covid-19 test ahead of the monsoon session in Parliament, informed the Vice President’s Secretariat on Sunday.The secretariat further informed that it is mandatory for all members of the Upper House to undergo a Covid-19 test before attending the session.“Preparing himself to preside over the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament beginning on September 14, 2020, Chairman, Rajya Sabha, M Venkaiah Naidu underwent Covid-19 test today. It is mandatory for each member to undergo Covid-19 test (RT-PCR) before attending the upcoming session, according to an advisory issued to all Rajya Sabha members,” the Vice President Secretariat said in a statement.As per the secretariat’s statement, the members have been asked to get their test done within 72 hours before the commencement of the session at any hospital/laboratory authorised by the government or at Parliament House Complex.The secretariat further said that in order to ensure social distancing norms, the Rajya Sabha chamber, galleries, and the Lok Sabha chamber will be used to seat members--57 of whom will be accommodated in the chamber and 51 in galleries of Rajya Sabha. The remaining 136 will be seated in the chamber of Lok Sabha. In all, there are 244 members and one seat is vacant.“Four large display screens in the chamber will show the members speaking and there will be seamless live telecast of the proceedings on Rajya Sabha TV. In addition, six smaller display screens and audio consoles have been installed in the four galleries,” the statement read.Various Parliamentary papers including List of Business, Bulletins, Bills/ and ordinances would be sent to members only through an electronic mechanism. Members can access their portal accounts. “Accordingly, the circulation of hard copies of these papers is being discontinued. Members may bring their e-Reader devices to the House to refer to the Parliamentary papers or carry print-outs of the same for their use,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-undergoes-covid-19-test-ahead-of-monsoon-session/story-xdRrGKb3pRTIs1nKZH4L4J.html
13-09-2020||India||No nationwide lockdown from September 25, Centre calls viral order fake||In the backdrop of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, a purported copy of an order from the National Disaster Management Authority urging the Centre to reimpose nationwide lockdown from September 25 in doing the rounds. The Press Information Bureau has clarified that the order is fake and no nationwide lockdown is being imposed again. Claim: An order purportedly issued by National Disaster Management Authority claims that it has directed the government to re-impose a nationwide #Lockdown from 25th September. #PIBFactCheck: This order is #Fake. @ndmaindia has not issued any such order to re-impose lockdown. pic.twitter.com/J72eeA62zl“In order to contain the spread of Covid-19 and decrease the mortality rate in the country, the National Disaster Management Authority, along with the Planning commission, hereby urges the government of India and directs the Prime Minister office, ministry of home affairs to re-impose a strict nationwide lockdown of 46 days starting from midnight September 25, 2020. Maintaining the supply chain of essential commodities in the country, therefore hereby NDMA is issuing a prior notice to the ministry to plan accordingly,” the fake order, bearing the date of September 10, says.Also Read | Bengal observes September’s 2nd Covid lockdown, it will probably be the lastA nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus in India. From June, Centre started unlocking process, which entered the fourth stage in September. Activities which were prohibited during the two-month lockdown have resumed in a graded manner. In between, rumours of fresh lockdown spread several times, but the Centre maintained there will be no nationwide lockdown — apart from the restrictions already imposed in containment zones.India on Sunday registered 94,372 new Covid-19 new cases, which pushed the overall tally to above 4.75 million. This is the fourth consecutive day when the new Covid-19 cases in the country have hovered around 95,000.According to Union health ministry update on Sunday, the number of active cases has reached 9,73,175 and 37,02,595 patients have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-nationwide-lockdown-from-september-25-centre-calls-viral-order-fake/story-VW35lonW88LaLYqsCREUNM.html
13-09-2020||India||Cong says PM Modi should discuss LAC issue in monsoon session||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday addressed a virtual press conference where he said that India cannot tolerate the encroachment of its territory by China in Ladakh.Ramesh also sought transparency into how the PM-CARES fund is being regulated. He claimed that several Chinese companies have donated to the relief fund, there is alleged oversight and it needs to come under the purview of the Right to Information (RTI) Act. “How can Chinese companies donate to the PM-CARES fund when they are encroaching territories in Ladakh and altering status quo at the LAC?” asked Ramesh.The Congress leader said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has weakened the country by his statement where he said that there has been no encroachment at the LAC. He also demanded that there should be a debate on the issue of standoff at the China border. Ramesh referred to the 1962 war between India and China and said at that point of time Parliament was in session and then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru had attended those sessions.He said, “During the 1962 war, the parliament was in session and then PM was in the Lok Sabha and listened to the criticisms of his policies made by senior parliamentarians including those made by former PM Atal Behari Vajpayee.”Ramesh’s press conference focussed on the new ordinances brought in the farming sector, banking sector and the LAC issue. He demanded that the PM address these issues in the monsoon session of the parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-pm-should-discuss-lac-issue-in-monsoon-session/story-d1FJLBxp8jEJbbfDWngikK.html
13-09-2020||India||Former Union minister and Bihar leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh dies||Former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who had resigned from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) days ago, died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Sunday after he was put on a ventilator. He was 74.The condition of the former Union minister for rural development in the first term of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had deteriorated late on Friday. Singh had been undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Delhi for more than a week after testing positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in June.Also Read| The importance of Raghuvansh Prasad SinghKnown as the architect of India’s biggest welfare programme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), Singh represented Bihar’s Vaishali constituency in the Lok Sabha. He was also a long-time associate of former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav.Also Read | RJD leader quits, Lalu says ‘you aren’t leaving’The senior leader had resigned from the RJD on Thursday, apparently peeved over his marginalisation in the party in the last few years. He had stepped down as the RJD’s national vice president more than two months ago.Yadav tweeted an emotional message soon after Singh’s death was confirmed. “Dear Raghuvansh Babu! What did you do? I told you the day before yesterday, you are not going anywhere. But you went so far. I am speechless. I am sad. Will miss you very much,” he tweeted in Hindi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also tweeted his condolence after Singh’s death. “Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is no more among us. His demise has left a void in the political sphere of Bihar as well as the country,” PM Modi said.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury also extended their condolence.“I have received the sad news on the death of former MP Shri Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. I pay my respects at his feet. May god help his soul rest in peace and support his family and supporters in this difficult time. Om Shanti,” Chouhan tweeted in Hindi.“I am shocked at the news of Raghuvansh Babu’s death. Very sad news. We have been together in many struggles for decades. His absence will be felt a lot in today’s time. Memories of his work and behaviour will inspire us. Heartfelt condolences to his family and friends,” Yechury also posted on Twitter.Singh had sent a handwritten resignation letter addressed to RJD chief. On the same day, Lalu Prasad sent a letter to Singh from Ranchi, making an emotional appeal to not to leave the party.He had also written a series of letters with one addressed to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, in which he had demanded changes in MGNREGA job scheme and development of Vaishali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-minister-and-bihar-leader-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-dies/story-Nz0RkjolEOogED06Ngc9GO.html
13-09-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for complete check up before Parliament session||Union home minister Amit Shah has been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi again on Sunday after undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease for a complete medical check-up before the upcoming Parliament session, hospital authorities said.The monsoon session of Parliament begins on Monday.“Union Home Minister Amit Shah was discharged from AIIMS after post-Covid care on August 30. As per advice given at discharge, he has now been admitted for a complete medical checkup before the parliament session for 1-2 days,” the hospital’s media and protocol division said in a statement.Shah, 55, was admitted to the hospital at 11 pm on Saturday. He was earlier admitted to AIIMS on August 18 for post-coronavirus care. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2.Shah had announced his health status on Twitter after testing positive for the virus, and urged those who came in contact with him in recent days to isolate themselves and get tested.The home minister tested negative for the disease on August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-admitted-to-aiims-for-complete-check-up-before-parliament-session/story-f8ziYpZJ4AEGm85Td7fZnI.html
13-09-2020||India||Why rest of Bollywood is silent, Shiv Sena trains gun on Akshay Kumar||Other Bollywood stars should have come forward and dismissed Kangana Ranaut’s slander against Mumbai, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has written in his column ‘Rokhthok’ in party mouthpiece Saamana, terming the entire episode a ‘conspiracy’ to defame Mumbai.Taking Akshay Kumar’s name, in particular, the editorial questioned why other Bollywood actors who have earned name and fame in Mumbai are silent. “Is Mumbai only for making money?” Raut asked mincing no words.Questioning the silence of the Bollywood fraternity, Sanjay Raut compared Bollywood with the Pandavas who maintained silence while Draupadi was disrobed.Also Read | What Kangana Ranaut has said so far on joining politicsCommenting on the ongoing probe into the SSR death case by Mumbai Police, Kangana Ranaut had compared Mumbai/Bollywood with Pak-occupied-Kashmir, which triggered a long-drawn battle between Kangana and Shiv Sena. Kangana alleged that she had received threats from Sena leaders after her comments on Mumbai, following which she was provided Y-plus security by the Centre. The day she reached Mumbai from her hometown Manali, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation razed an allegedly illegal portion of her Mumbai office. The matter has reached the Bombay High Court, which stayed the demolition drive. Kangana is scheduled to meet Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari on Sunday before she leaves the city.While the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra has distanced itself from the ongoing controversy, Shiv Sena is carrying forward the battle riding on Maratha pride. “Those who come to Mumbai to try their luck in this industry first stay on the footpath and then shift to Juju, Pali Hill and Malabar Hill to build their bungalows. All these people have always been grateful to the city and the state which allowed them to chase their dreams and make it big. They have never betrayed Mumbai but have also contributed to the growth of the city,” Saamana’s Saturday editorial noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-rest-of-bollywood-is-silent-shiv-sena-trains-gun-on-akshay-kumar/story-xMfXt5kgLinEM5Q2fSww8O.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19: 70k recoveries on average every day over past month, says govt data||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recoveries have witnessed a steep rise -- from about 50,000 in May to nearly 3.6 million patients recovering till September so far, Union health ministry data shows.At least 70,000 recoveries on average have been reported every day over the past one month, making the number nearly 3.8 times the active cases (under 1/4th the total cases), according to the data.Also read: For fourth consecutive day, India’s daily Covid-19 numbers hover around 95,000The Covid-19 death rate in the country is also improving steadily and is currently at 1.67%. The government aims to bring the death rate down to 1% or below.In a high-level review meeting on Saturday, PK Mishra, the principal secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, directed all concerned stakeholders to further strengthen Covid-19 management measures. He emphasised the need for continuous caution and prevention by maintaining social distancing, use of mask and hand wash.“The care of elderly and the need to strictly follow the norms of physical distance and preventive measures was re-emphasised. The concerted behaviour change campaign will again be taken up to re-emphasise that unlocking does not mean lowering our guard against infection. The need to unlock, work and still follow the non-pharmacological preventive measures was strongly recommended,” he had said.The Centre is also looking at ensuring no essential supplies related to Covid-19 management are hit.As some states have been trying to curb free movement of medical oxygen supplies to other states, the Union health ministry recently sent out a letter asking states to make certain seamless movement of the supplies between states to ensure there was no shortage anywhere in the country in the wake of increased demand during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-70k-recoveries-on-average-every-day-over-past-month-says-govt-data/story-f2PGX1I4OF3LSDutIEPtwL.html
13-09-2020||India||For fourth consecutive day, India’s daily Covid-19 numbers hover around 95,000||India registered another huge spike of 94,372 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, which pushed the overall tally to above 4.75 million. This is the fourth consecutive day when the new Covid-19 cases in the country have hovered around 95,000.According to Union health ministry update on Sunday, the number of active cases has reached 9,73,175 and 37,02,595 patients have been discharged.Another 1,114 people died due to the disease which pushed the death toll to 78,586, the health ministry update showed.Amid a record surge in coronavirus infections in the country, PK Mishra, the principal secretary to the Prime Minister, reviewed the Covid-19 response in the country on Saturday.He directed all concerned to develop an evidence-based preparedness on all aspects of the disease with the active participation of districts and states for effectiveness.The various stages of vaccine development and plans for its distribution were also discussed at the meeting, which was attended by Cabinet Secretary, Member NITI Aayog Dr Vinod Paul, Principal Scientific Adviser K Vijay Raghavan, all empowered action group convenors concerned as well as secretaries of departments concerned.Integration of AYUSH for prophylaxis and mitigation of syndrome was also discussed, as well as the need for District Health Action Plans for long-term management of various aspects of coronavirus infection.Mishra emphasised on the need for caution and prevention by maintaining a two-metre distance, use of mask and washing hands. Care for the elderly, the need to strictly follow the norms of physical distancing and preventive measures was re-emphasized at the meeting.The health ministry, meanwhile, said on Sunday that the number of recoveries in India has seen an exponential rise in the past few months. From 50,000 in May, the number of recovered patients has crossed 36 lakh-mark, it said.The ministry credited aggressive testing and prompt surveillance for this milestone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-fourth-consecutive-day-india-s-daily-covid-19-numbers-hover-around-95-000/story-np0F1CBlgvd07dYwN1A3EN.html
13-09-2020||India||Indigenous cycle to help railway staff maintain tracks better||An indigenous and cost-effective unique track-cycle will help inspecting railway staff and trackmen in maintaining the rail tracks throughout the day. Designed and built by a team of experts, led by assistant divisional engineer (line), Bhupesh Pandey and senior section engineer (PA) Abhay Kumar of engineering department of Prayagraj division, North Central Railway (NCR), the invention promises to drastically reduce the labour and stress faced by railway trackmen in the country.Also read: Indian Railways to start 80 new special trainsCosting just Rs 3,000, this innovative rail-bicycle will help trackmen quickly travel on rail tracks for inspection, monitoring, and urgent repairs. It is convenient and can ferry two people at a time. It will also help in reducing response time to mitigate track issues, said officials. The prototype of this special cycle was recently tested by the divisional regional manager (DRM) Amitabh and senior divisional engineer (coordination), Santosh Gupta, officials added. PRO, Prayagraj division, Keshev Tripathi said that the track-cycle was made out of scrap. Experts joined two cycles side by side while modifying the ordinary cycle. “Both the rear wheels of this cycle are similar to an ordinary cycle while the front frame is longer than the usual frame. The front wheel, made of Teflon, is made in such a way that it fits into the railway track and when the user pedals, it works like any other cycle,” explained the PRO. The cycle weighs just about 25 kilograms. The PRO said the cycle will be a great help to trackmen who have to undertake urgent repairs/ inspections of tracks during inclement weather too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-cycle-to-help-railway-staff-maintain-tracks-better/story-pDccZ8IQNJPcpzYUhzpRhM.html
13-09-2020||India||Man in Gaya carves out 3-km-long canal to irrigate parched fields||A man has carved out a three-kilometre-long canal to take rainwater coming down from nearby hills to fields of his village, Kothilawa in Lahthua area of Gaya.“It took me 30 years to dig this canal which takes the water to a pond in the village,” said Laungi Bhuiyan who has dug out the canal single-handedly in Gaya.“For the last 30 years, I would go to the nearby jungle to tend my cattle and dig out the canal. No one joined me in this endeavour... Villagers are going to cities to earn a livelihood but I decided to stay back,” he added. Kothilwa village is surrounded by dense forest and mountains, about 80 km away from Gaya district headquarters. This village is marked as a refuge for Maoists.The main means of livelihood for the people here are farming and animal husbandry. During the rainy season, the water falling from the mountains used to flow into the river which used to bother Bhuiyan following which he thought of carving out a canal. He worked hard in order to save water coming from the mountains and utilise it. “He has been carving out the canal for the last 30 years that too single-handedly. This will benefit a large number of animals and to irrigate the fields as well. He is not doing it for his own benefit but for the entire area,” said Patti Manjhi, a local. Ram Vilas Singh, a teacher who resides here praised Bhuiyan for benefiting the villagers and their fields. “A lot of people will benefit here. People are now getting to know him because of his work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-gaya-carves-out-3-km-long-canal-to-irrigate-parched-fields/story-BXOPNHtq7vSt1B6AGXdxKI.html
13-09-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav says UP police means injustice, cites cases to back up claim||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav has attacked the Uttar Pradesh chief minister and the state’s police chief over the law and order situation and alleged that the police force has become synonymous with ‘injustice’ under the BJP government.“Under the BJP government, the police, instead of becoming people-friendly, had become synonymous with injustice and atrocities,” he alleged.In a press statement, the party chief added that some police officers were hand in glove with the criminals. “Why wouldn’t the criminals become fearless when one police officer or the other is found hand-in-glove with criminals in some part of the state?”Irrespective of “lecturing”, the police’s work-culture in the state would not change, Akhilesh said.The former chief minister cited a robbery incident in Aligarh to claim people and their properties were no longer safe in the state.“Only yesterday (Friday), criminals looted Rs 35 lakh worth jewellery and Rs 40,000 from a jeweller in Aligarh at gunpoint and the incident is an example of the collapsed law and order in the state,” he said.“People are all the more insecure because officers are patronising criminals and protecting them… Imagine, in Bijnor, a woman police officer felt unsafe from an ASP (assistant superintendent of police) rank officer. A woman cop is not feeling safe in this system!” he added.Also Read: NSA to be imposed against men suspected of murdering Dalit man The SP chief cited a couple more cases of alleged complicity or laxity of policemen in the state.“One Ramu Kushwaha in Lalitpur, died by suicide when he could not get justice in connection with his complaint that police had snatched his cell phone and Rs 20,000 cash. In Gorakhpur, a woman died by suicide when the Pipganj police station personnel did not act on her complaint. In Kannauj, a youth died due to torture in police custody,” Akhilesh said, adding that the incidents of custodial death, loot and murder were affecting UP’s image in the country and worldwide, he said.Also Read: UP don Mukhtar Ansari’s wife, her two brothers booked under gangsters actAkhilesh’s assault on the law and order situation comes amid criticism that UP police was using extra-judicial methods to deal with gangsters and history sheeters. The state administration has also been slapped on the wrist for the alleged ‘misuse’ of the National Security Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-says-up-police-means-injustice-cites-cases-to-back-up-claim/story-nGnBYjpxChhR2xLBbeZobJ.html
13-09-2020||India||More exam centres, strict Covid-19 protocols: Here are the precautions taken by govt for NEET||The crucial National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is being held across the country on Sunday amid stringent checks in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The National Testing Agency (NTA), which is organising the exam, has taken a slew of measures like increasing the number of exam centres and reducing number of students in a room to ensure the coronavirus disease doesn’t create any problem.The NEET comes days after another prestigious exam - the JEE (Main) - was held across the country. Here are the things to know about how the NTA is conducting these exams:• The number of exam centres have been increased from originally-planned 2,546 to 3,843. The number of candidates per room has been halved - from earlier 24 to 12. Also Watch | NEET 2020: Preparation at exam centres amid Covid; minister wishes luck• A total of 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the exam.• According to the NTA, the exam centres will ensure staggered entry of students. The candidates have also been given a set of instructions (or guidelines) on dos and don’ts for proper social distancing.• All the candidates have been asked to come to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, but once they enter, the students will have to use the masks provided by the examination authority. “Each candidate will be offered a three-ply mask at the time of entry and are expected to wear the same during the examination in order to avoid any form of unfair means at the time of examination,” an official of the NTA was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.• Making hand sanitisers available at the entrance of the examination centre and inside the exam hall at all times, replacing the process of checking the admit cards of candidates with barcode readers, increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the other steps the NTA has taken.• The NEET, a pen and paper based test unlike engineering entrance exam JEE, has already been deferred twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26, and then to September 13.• A number of students had protested seeking the postponement of the exam further due to the pandemic, but the government opposed the move. The students had approached the Supreme Court too with their demand, but the apex court dismissed their plea, saying a “precious year” of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.• Several Opposition leaders, including Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik, DMK president MK Stalin and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had also demanded that this, as well as the JEE, be postponed. However, their petitions were dismissed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-exam-centres-strict-covid-19-protocols-here-are-the-precautions-taken-by-govt-for-neet/story-bR1IwItLh0VQJW09Hk8PeM.html
13-09-2020||India||Low pressure area off Andhra coast to bring heavy rain in peninsular India||A low-pressure area has formed over west central Bay of Bengal off the Andhra Pradesh coast on Sunday, which is likely to result in increased intensity and distribution of rains in Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yaman, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin released on Sunday morning.The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) lies south of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal). The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift further southwards due to formation of a low-pressure area over west central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh coast by around tomorrow.Heavy to very heavy rains are likely over Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam on Sunday; Telangana on September 13 and 14 and Gujarat on September 16.A cyclonic circulation is also lying over east central Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast. The east-west shear zone-- area of change in wind direction and velocity-- is running across peninsular India and is likely to persist during the next 3-4 days.An off-shore trough at mean sea level is also running from north Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast. Under the influence of these favourable conditions, widespread rain with isolated heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over west peninsular India during the next 4-5 days.Heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places is very likely over Konkan, Goa, Kerala and Mahe on Sunday and also over south interior Karnataka, parts of Saurashtra and Kutch.Also Read: Pune registers 31mm rainfall on Friday, Khadakwasla discharge beginsMonsoon rain since June 1 is in 6% excess with 0% excess recorded over east and northeast India, 12% deficient rains over northwest India, 15% excess over central India and 23% excess over south peninsula.In September, there is 23.5% deficiency over the country with 41.5% deficiency over northwest India, 22.5% deficiency over east and northeast India, 41.4% deficiency over central India and 50.7% excess over south peninsula.Also Read: 71 per cent less rains in Delhi in September so farRainfall is likely to be deficient at least until September 13 in most parts of the country, including northwest and central India, before intensifying after September 17, according to the IMD’s extended range forecast. Normally, withdrawal of monsoon is supposed to begin from September 17 when rain begins reducing across the country until completely withdrawing on October 15.But this year IMD’s extended range forecast shows extensive and heavy rains along the west coast between September 11 and 24 and then until October 1 over several parts of central India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-area-off-andhra-coast-to-bring-heavy-rain-in-peninsular-india/story-zWwBbdhT7S3e7ZKuDxHkaJ.html
13-09-2020||India||Chyawanprash, yoga among suggestions in health ministry’s post-Covid care management guidelines||The Centre on Sunday issued guidelines for patients recovering from the deadly coronavirus disease.“After acute Covid-19 illness, recovered patients may continue to report wide variety of signs and symptoms including fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat, difficulty in breathing, etc,” the health ministry said in an advisory where it listed chyawanprash, yoga, pranayama and walks among the suggestions.“A holistic approach is required for follow up care and well-being of all post-Covid recovering patients,” it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAt an individual level, the government advised patients to continue following the Covid-19 appropriate behavior like wearing a face mask, washing hands, maintaining social distance, and other respiratory hygiene.It also suggested carrying out regular household work “if health permits”. “Professional work should be resumed in a graded manner,” the ministry stated in the advisory.Stressing on the need to self-monitor the health at home, the ministry advised those recovering from Covid-19 to take the temperature and check blood pressure on a regular basis. It also asked them to take oxygen readings on pulse oximeter on the advice of doctors.Diabetic patients have been advised to check the levels of their blood sugar regularly.At the community level, the government advised individuals who recovered from the Covid-19 to share their experiences with their friends and relatives and spread awareness regarding the virus.“The sharing of these experiences on social media,” said the ministry, “will help create awareness, dispel myths and stigma.”“Take support of community-based self-help groups, civil society organizations, and qualified professionals for recovery and rehabilitation process (medical, social, occupational, livelihood),” it also said.The ministry further advised patients to seek mental health support if there is a need.The issue of post-Covid management protocol comes as the country is recording the highest number of daily cases. In the last seven days, India has been registering more than 90,000 cases daily, which has pushed the tally to above 46 lakh-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chayawanprash-yoga-among-suggestions-in-health-ministry-s-post-covid-care-management-guidelines/story-nW8hMvlW6mb4wmzlaO3Z7K.html
13-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: 50th biannual BSF-BGB high-level talks to begin in Dhaka today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.50th BSF-BGB high-level talks begin in Dhaka todayThe biannual talks between Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) director-general Major General M Shafeenul Islam and Border Security Force (BSF) head Rakesh Asthana will begin on Sunday in BGB’s Pilkhana headquarters in Dhaka. The meeting will last for six days and end on September 18. Read moreDelhi to have partly cloudy, humid Sunday: IMDDelhi is likely to have a partly cloudy sky with high moisture levels on Sunday. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, though there will be clouds, no rainfall activity is expected in the national capital until early next week. Read moreAkshay Kumar thanks fans for celebrating his birthday: ‘I exist because of you’, watchActor Akshay Kumar, who turned 53 earlier this month on September 9, took to Twitter to thank fans for celebrating his birthday. He released a video to express his gratitude. Read moreWatch him, see how he plays, observe his technique: Zaheer Abbas asks Pakistan players to learn from Indian batsmanLegendary Pakistan batsman Zaheer Abbas named an Indian batsman he ‘really likes’. Abbas heaped praise on India’s limited-overs vice-captain Rohit Sharma and termed him a ‘classical player.’ Read moreNew Google Groups interface rolling out to all G Suite users on Sept 15The new version Google Groups came out of beta and officially launched earlier this year in May. But the new interface of Google Groups could be turned off by group admins. Google is now changing that and making the new Groups default for all G Suite users. Read moreChemistry problem gets a Nicki Minaj rap inspired twist, leaves tweeple in fitsTwitter is often a goldmine for odd content that excites and educates netizens, often all at once. Case in point is this post by a Twitter user named Elise Morgan which showcases a chemistry problem. And while usually, numbers mixed with elements from the periodic table often make people cry, this post is doing the exact opposite by making many people chuckle. Read moreNew York: Anti-China protest by Tibetans; Indian Army martyr eulogizedThe Tibetan community in USA reportedly held a protest against China. The protest was reportedly held in New York’s Jackson Heights. Demonstrators also paid their respects to an Indian army martyr. The protestors eulogised Nyima Tenzin, a soldier of special frontier force. Tenzin died at LAC in ladakh amid tension with china. He was killed in a landmine blast near Pangong Tso. Tenzin is probably the first S.F.F. soldier to have been given a public funeral. The S.F.F. is a secretive unit of Indian Army with Tibetan and Gurkha soldiers. The Indian tricolour and the Tibetan flag were also hoisted at the protest. India has been a haven for Tibetans fleeing Chinese persecution. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-50th-biannual-bsf-bgb-high-level-talks-to-begin-in-dhaka-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZNrv7n1OmqToqMNi6CnUrK.html
13-09-2020||India||‘From 50,000 in May to over 36 lakh in September, India’s Covid-19 recoveries rise exponentially’: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Sunday said that India’s Covid-19 recovery has witnessed a steep exponential rise and attributed it to aggressive testing and prompt surveillance. The country’s recovery rate stands at 77.77 per cent.“India’s Covid-19 recoveries have witnessed a steep exponential rise - from 50,000 in May to over 36 lakh in September. A high level of more than 70,000 recoveries reported every day. Recoveries are nearly 3.8 times the active cases (under 1/4 total cases),” the ministry said in a statement.“Focussed, collaborative, responsive and effective measures of early identification through high and aggressive testing, prompt surveillance and tracking coupled with standardised high-quality clinical care have in tandem led to these encouraging outcomes,” it further said in the statement.The ministry had said on Saturday that India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate further dropped to 1.66 per cent.Sixty per cent of the total recovered cases are being reported from five states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, the ministry said.The country recorded highest ever single-day recoveries of 81,533 on Saturday, according to the ministry.India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 46,59,984 on Saturday with a record 97,570 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 77,472 with 1,201 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours.Sixty nine per cent of the fatalities are concentrated in five states and union territories of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-50-000-in-may-to-over-36-lakh-in-september-india-s-covid-19-recoveries-rise-exponentially-health-ministry/story-flob7QwOcaNcSN5rC9zYZL.html
13-09-2020||India||Hospitalised with no heartbeat after electricity shock, boy regains consciousness after 36 hours||A 16-year-old boy who was rushed to a city hospital with no heartbeat following a severe electric shock from a high-voltage live wire, regained consciousness after 36 hours, thanks to quick response by doctors.The boy came in contact with the live wire that had fallen on an iron railing at his shop in the old quarters of Delhi on August 1 following heavy rains. He was found stuck motionless to the railing with electricity still running through his body, doctors said.He could be rescued after 10 minutes when the electricity supply was cut from the powerhouse of that area. The boy was rushed to Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals and admitted to the emergency department, they said.Dr Priyadarshini Pal, Emergency Head, Emergency and Critical Care, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals said the patient had no heartbeat, an absent pulse rate and progressively falling blood pressure owing to the damage caused by a continuous flow of electricity through his body.“Upon evaluation, it was discovered that due to the severe and prolonged electric shock he suffered a cardiac arrest. He had exceptionally low chances of survival. But doctors at the Emergency and Critical Care unit quickly responded to his critical condition.“We immediately gave him CPR. The process was extremely critical because any delay in CPR after a cardiac arrest could have led to possible irreversible brain damage. We were able to revive the patient after CPR that lasted for an unusual time of almost 45 minutes,” Dr Pal said. The doctor said with timely treatment, the boy regained consciousness after 36 hours and was discharged on August 5.Dr Sudheer Tyagi, senior consultant, Neurology, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said that such cases are very critical and any slight delay can cause irreparable damage to the patient’s brain.“Had this patient not given CPR immediately it could have led to a condition of decrease in the flow of oxygen to the brain. That could have manifested brain damage in the form of severe neurological deficit-delayed or complete inability of the patient to regain consciousness and weakness/numbness in different parts of the body” he said.Even if the patient had regained consciousness, there was a possibility that his cognitive brain functions like memory, responsiveness and recognition would be adversely affected, Dr Tyagi said.“Timely treatment and quick response to his deteriorating condition are what saved the patient’s life.” Expressing his gratitude to the doctors the patient’s brother said, “We had lost hope when initially the doctors informed us that chances of my brother’s survival were slim. But Dr Pal and her team put in all their efforts and brought him back from the jaws of death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hospitalised-with-no-heartbeat-after-electricity-shock-boy-regains-consciousness-after-36-hours/story-95sxZgLET14DRlhGh2RjQL.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19 patients must not be denied beds, provided prompt treatment: Health Ministry to hospitals||Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday affirmed the government’s resolve to ensure that patient of Covid-19 must not be denied beds and must be provided prompt treatment.He said the collective goal must be to have a health system that is available, affordable and accessible to all and the aim of the Centre along with the states was to achieve a mortality rate of less than one per cent.Bhushan inaugurated a virtual conclave for private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment in the country organised by the ministry in collaboration with FICCI and AIIMS New Delhi.“He reiterated the resolve of the Government to ensure that patient of Covid-19 must not be denied beds and must be provided prompt treatment. The collective goal must be to have a health system that available, affordable and accessible to all. He highlighted that the aim of the Centre along with the state/UT governments is to achieve a mortality rate of less than one per cent,” the release said. During the meeting, the importance of timely treatment of co-morbid patients to reduce fatality was stressed.An official release said hospitals were asked to ensure seamless admission of patients.They were also encouraged to protect healthcare workers by adopting all practices on infection prevention and control and keep the staff motivated.The importance of evidence-based treatment protocols and reducing heterogeneity in treatment to Covid-19 patients was also underscored.Senior doctors from private sector hospitals also shared their experiences and challenges about their battle against Covid-19.Several best practices were shared by private hospitals. Concerns around delayed referral of patients from smaller facilities and financial stress owing to lack of health insurance were also discussed. The conclave was attended by more than 150 hospital representatives, senior doctors and clinicians from across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-must-not-be-denied-beds-provided-prompt-treatment-health-ministry-to-hospitals/story-5XoPLlAhjBeQpD3xVQPncP.html
13-09-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate three petroleum projects in Bihar on Sunday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate an LPG pipeline project and bottling plants in Bihar on Sunday. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will also be present on the occasion.The projects include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur pipeline project and two LPG bottling plants, an official statement said.The 193-km long Durgapur-Banka pipeline section, built by state-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC), is a part of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur Pipeline Augmentation Project, for which the foundation stone was laid by PM Modi on February 17, 2019.Durgapur-Banka section is the extension of the existing 679-km long Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur LPG pipeline to the new LPG bottling plant at Banka in Bihar.The pipeline of 14-inch diameter passes through West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar.While LPG is presently injected into the pipeline at IOC’s Paradip and Haldia refineries, the completion of the whole project would enable the facility to be also available from the Paradip import terminal and Barauni refinery.The bottling plant has been built at an investment of around Rs 131.75 crore to serve the districts of Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar in Bihar, along with the districts of Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj, and Pakur in Jharkhand, the statement said.With the LPG storage capacity of 1,800 tonnes and bottling capacity of 40,000 cylinders per day, this plant would generate direct and indirect employment opportunities in Bihar.Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd’s (HPCL) 1,20,000 tonnes per annum LPG bottling plant at Harsidhi in East Champaran district has been built at a cost of Rs 136.4 crore.This plant has been constructed on 29 acres of land and its foundation stone was laid by PM Modi on April 10, 2018.The bottling plant will cater to the LPG requirement of East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Gopalganj and Sitamarhi districts in Bihar, it added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-three-petroleum-projects-in-bihar-on-sunday/story-1brnnz7vundaiFzPtWzETP.html
13-09-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid care ahead of Parliament session||Union Home Minister Amit Shah was admitted to AIIMS last night for post Covid-19 care. “As per advise given at discharge, he has now been admitted for complete medical checkup before parliament session for 1-2 days,” said the hospital in a statement.He was also admitted to the hospital on August 18 for post-coronavirus care.Shah, 55, had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2.He had announced his health status on Twitter after testing positive for the virus, and urged those who came in contact with him in recent days to isolate themselves and get tested.The home minister tested negative for the disease on August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-admitted-in-aiims-for-round-2-of-post-covid-care/story-FODxA34DBeFiv7PhtQtdyM.html
13-09-2020||India||Obesity, diabetes raise Covid-19 death risk||Young adults with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) usually get mild symptoms, but risks of complications and death rise significantly for people under 35 with obesity, hypertension and diabetes, according to a new research. An analysis of clinical profiles of 3,222 young adults (aged 18-34 years; mean age of 28.3 years) hospitalised for Covid-19 between April 1 and June 30 in 419 hospitals in the US revealed that 21% of them needed intensive care, 10% required mechanical ventilation, and 2.7% died. Morbid obesity, diabetes and hypertension were the most common risk factors in young adults, with those having more than one of these conditions facing risks comparable to older adults having no pre-existing illnesses, reported a study published in JAMA Internal Medicine, which is the journal of the American Medical Association. The study found that 36.8% of hospitalised young adults were obese, 24.5% were morbidly obese, 18.2% had diabetes, and 16.1% had hypertension (morbid obesity, hypertension and being male are associated with greater risk of mechanical ventilation and death). In India too, men with Covid-19 are twice more likely to die than women, with men accounting for 69% of all deaths, reveals health ministry data. People under 40 with Covid-19 account for fewer than 10% of total Covid-19 deaths in India, with deaths being the highest in the 61-70 years age group in both genders. “People under 40 usually have mild disease and most cases can be managed at home or in Covid Care Homes. Those who are hospitalised almost always have co-morbidities like obesity, diabetes and hypertension, and less than 5% need ICU admission. But if they do and are put on ventilator, their vascular risk increases and their chances of getting a heart attack or stroke becomes the same as older adults,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman Institute of Critical Care and Anaesthesiology, Medanta The Medicity, Gurugram. Covid-19 has also been called a vascular disease as it leads to the formation of blood clots in arteries and veins, which can block blood supply to the heart, brain and lungs and lead to stroke, heart attack and respiratory failure. “If you are obese, you are likely to be diabetic or have hypertension, and vice versa, so the risk is compounded,” said Dr Mehta. The progression of Covid-19-induced thrombosis is very rapid in young adults, with deaths often occurring within 24 hours of hospitalisation. “Older adults die of pneumonia and other Covid-19-related complications, but sudden, unexpected death is more common in young adults in their 20s and 30s, whose condition dips very rapidly. In such cases, the cause of death is usually cardiovascular, with abnormal clotting in brain, lungs and heart leading to cardiac arrest,” said Dr Shiv K Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi. At Max SuperSpecialty in New Delhi’s Saket, people under 40 account for less than 4.5% deaths, with 29% deaths occurring in those between 40 and 59 years old, and 47% deaths in the 60-74 age group. Those over 75 years account for 18% deaths at the hospital. “Young people have mild disease and rarely need hospitalsiation, but they need to be isolated to break the chain of infection, which makes testing, tracking and treating important, as does social distancing and wearing masks,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, clinical director, Max Healthcare. “We should not look at the absolute number of cases and deaths; those will always be high, given India’s large population. What we must look at is deaths per million, and India has 56 deaths per million compared to 596 for the US and 61 for Brazil, which remain far lower than other countries even if you factor in some amount of under-reporting...,” said Dr Budhiraja. Four young adults, the takeaway is that those with obesity, diabetes, and hypertension share the same risks as older adults. So they must seek Covid-19 treatment under supervision from the moment they get their test results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obesity-diabetes-raise-covid-19-death-risk/story-PdyqYSpjyAwF070marzeMK.html
13-09-2020||India||After 5 months, Odisha migrant workers leave for workplace in Gujarat via special trains||Months after lakhs of Odia migrant workers returned home by Shramik Special trains in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown, over 1,800 of them today started their journey back to their workplaces in Gujarat and Chhatisgarh after Indian Railway decided to run five special trains for them.In Berhampur town of Ganjam district, a Covid-19 hotspot till last month, over 1,400 migrant workers queued up to board the Khurda Road-Ahmedabad express. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance, the migrant workers with their families were screened before they could board the train. Of the 1,800-odd people who boarded the trains, at least 1,651 were headed for Gujarat as they boarded the 02843 Khurda Road-Ahmedabad express that will run four days a week. Similarly, over 150 boarded the Bhubaneswar-Durg express today from different stations across Odisha.“I have not been able to get any work after I returned to Ganjam four months ago. As Covid-19 cases have come down in Ganjam, I have decided to travel back to Surat. At least I can earn something as the textile mills have started running,” said Jagdish Nayak from Ganjam. Also read: Jharkhand CM meets Lalu Yadav, says ‘will contest Bihar polls together’Another migrant worker Shiva Sahu of Kukudakhandi block in Ganjam district too boarded the train to Surat that would reach Gujarat on Monday. “I would never have come back had the mills not closed down. I faced a lot of difficulty after coming back home. I have almost no money left and was waiting to go back. I did not want to take the bus ride as there have been several road accidents,” he said.“While Puri-Ahmedabad, Puri-Okha and Puri-Gandhidham Express will run from Khordha Road station, the Bhubaneswar-Durg trains will run from Bhubaneswar. The trains will be fully reserved ones. Stoppages of the train will be restricted in view of the suggestions of the state governments,” said Kaushalendra Khadanga, chief PRO, East Coast Railway. The stations from where the passengers would board have been thoroughly sanitised to keep them free from infection.Railways officials said the rush for the seats in these special trains is so much that there are no seats available till September 20. In Khurda Road-Okha weekly special, no tickets are available till September 20 while Bhubaneswar-Ahmedabad weekly express is packed till September 23.Also read: Serum Institute to resume Covid-19 vaccine trial after DGCI gives nodThe special trains started running a couple of days after Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan wrote to Union railways minister Piyush Goyal urging him to resume the Shramik Special Train services from Odisha to other states to facilitate the return of migrant workers to their workplaces.Pradhan, on September 7, had written to Goyal requesting him to start Shramik special trains from Odisha to states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra so that the migrant workers could go back to their respective workplaces.“There was a mass exodus of migrant workers from states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra to Odisha in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown. These workers have highlighted their plights due to the unavailability of livelihood options and difficulty in travelling back to their workplace for re-joining work. Even though some employers are willing to offer bus transport service from Odisha, a long and arduous journey via road is neither feasible nor safe for such long distances due to prevailing monsoon conditions,” Pradhan wrote after 8 migrant workers of Ganjam district were killed on their way to Surat in a bus accident. The bus was carrying about 60 migrant workers from Aska in Ganjam district to Surat.Since lockdown, more than 9.26 lakh migrant workers of Odisha had returned home after losing their livelihood at their workplaces in Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bengal, Delhi and Haryana. Of these, 3.58 lakh workers came by 256 Shramik Special trains while the rest came by buses, cars, taxis and cycles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-5-months-odisha-migrant-workers-leave-for-workplace-in-gujarat-via-special-trains/story-1zRYtvgD3lnDYir6pJc0IN.html
13-09-2020||India||SC judges speak out over ‘gossip, slander’||Judges have become targets for criticism, especially on social media, and their freedom to defend themselves is limited, the two senior most judges in the Supreme Court said at an event on Saturday -- comments that become significant in light of criticism of recent orders of the apex court, and its own dealing of such criticism. Judges have become soft targets on social media and are subject to relentless criticism and juicy gossip, justice NV Ramana said on Saturday at an event, adding that they restrain themselves from speaking in their own defence.Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, speaking at the same event, concurred with justice Ramana’s views, saying “freedom of speech of judges is curtailed by the same laws and machinery that uphold the freedom for others who use it to criticise the judiciary and judges”. The chief justice’s reference is to the convention that judges do not speak of their judgments, or defend themselves from criticism of the same. Justice Ramana, next in line to become the Chief Justice of India, said judges have to be very circumspect when it comes to their social life as they have no platform to respond to criticism and can speak only through their judgments and judicial work.“Judges are restrained from speaking out in their own defence. Today, judges have become soft target of criticism and especially with the advent of social media , they have become subject to juicy gossip. There seems to be a misunderstanding that judges lead a life of luxury in their ivory towers. That is not true. Judges have to balance their social lives in order to be independent,” he said in his speech at the launch of a book authored by recently retired Supreme Court judge, justice R Banumathi.The remarks come in the backdrop of a case involving activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan. On August 31, the apex court imposed a “nominal fine” of Re 1 on Bhushan after he was convicted for criminal contempt for two tweets that it deemed were against the judiciary, saying he has attempted to “denigrate the reputation of the institution of administration of justice”.Justice Banumathi’s book titled ‘Judiciary, Judges and the Administration of Justice’ was released by CJI Bobde, who handed over the first copy to justice Ramana.Justice Ramana said that from his own experience, he can say that the life of a judge is not better than that of others and that even their family members have to make sacrifices in the interests of duty. Judges do not speak about cases before them or respond to any criticism as a matter of propriety and convention. Besides, “Restatement of values of Judicial Life”, which was a charter adopted by a full court of the Supreme Court in 1997, broadly governs conduct of Supreme Court and high court judges. It says that judges should not enter into public debate or express their views in public on political matters or on matters that are pending or are likely to arise for judicial determination. It also says that judges should not give interviews to media and a judge is expected to let his or her judgments speak for themselves.Justice Ramana will take over as CJI from justice Bobde on April 24, 2021 and will serve for almost a year-and-half before he retires in August 2022.“Judges are becoming victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social media posting,” he said.Last week, another Supreme Court judge, justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, said that courts are increasingly being asked to decide on policy issues that are brought before it under the guise of public interest litigations and that as a result, they face a lot of criticism.The courts, he maintained, have their limitations and have not been tasked with the responsibility of running the country and cannot perform the role of the government.Separately, at the same event, CJI Bobde warned of the surge in pendency in cases on account of the pandemic and suggested mediation as a way to resolve the logjam.“There will be huge pendency of cases due to the pandemic. I don’t think there is a way out of it but only a way through it. I think it can be resolved through mediation. I am not suggesting that we should go for mediation in every case but I don’t think we can go about it in the usual way. We will have to put our minds together (to find a solution),” he said.The CJI also highlighted the significance of mental health during the pandemic, saying the Supreme Court has come up with an initiative to provide mental health support and the secretary general will be making an announcement in this regard soon.The CJI said the judiciary belongs to the nation and its achievements are the result of “unflinching dedication” and commitment of numerous individuals on and off the bench.He said that for judges and consequently for the judiciary, the biggest challenge is to ensure that the nation inches towards the goal set in the Constitution.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judges-speak-out-over-gossip-slander/story-h0Foih4IkTxODujmy1o33O.html
13-09-2020||India||Govt takes stock as Covid-19 cases still high||India reported 94,392 infections and 1,108 deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, according to data from states that show the country continues to report some of the grimmest numbers in the world, which has prompted officials and experts of late to make repeated appeals to people to not become complacent. The country is now recording the highest numbers of new cases. The average number of daily infections is well over the 90,000-mark in the last seven days. This number was around 24,000 two months ago and 58,000 a month ago. India’s new case counts are more than double of the United States’s and Brazil’s – the other two countries with the largest outbreaks.The latest appeals for caution come from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Jab tak dawai nahi, tab tak dhilai nahi. Do gaj ki doori, mask hai jaroori (No complacency till a medicine is found. Face mask and maintainting distance of two yards is necessary),” PM Modi said at an event to mark the handover of 175,000 houses built in rural pockets of Madhya Pradesh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY).According to a statement from the government, the PM’s principal secretary PK Mishra chaired a high-level meeting to “comprehensively review the Covid-19 preparedness and response”, where the case management, vaccine development and distribution, and long-term strategies were discussed. “Based on the many projections scenarios, the principal secretary directed all concerned to build on the knowledge and analysis that has been developed over the last few months to work out a detailed action plan for the coming months. The need for continuously upgrading and augmenting human resources, getting the right mix of testing for effective case management, contact tracing and isolation, uninterrupted oxygen supply and other medical equipments, were all discussed at length,” said the statement. On Thursday, India recorded its highest number of single day cases yet, 99,181, according to HT’s dashboard of Covid-19 statistics. In all, the country now has had 4,751,763 cases and 78,614 due to the viral disease. Across the country, there are 976,555 active cases.Delhi -- which has seen a spike in daily new cases in recent weeks, largely owing to the increase in testing -- on Saturday added 4,321 infections that took the city’s total tally to 214,069, and 28 more fatalities that pushed cumulative fatalities to 4,715. It also conducted 60,076 tests in 24 hours, the city’s highest so far, according to the official state health bulletin. The central government on Saturday said around 60% of the total cases have been from five states – Maharashtra (21.8%), Andhra Pradesh (11.8%), Tamil Nadu (10.6%), Karnataka (9.5%), and Uttar Pradesh (6.4%), according to the Union health ministry data. Experts reiterated that taking precautions such as wearing a mask in public and maintaining social distance is the only way to slow down the spread of the infection. The way forward for India would be to, “prevent crowded super-spreader events, reduce urban to rural transmission, micro-containment in urban areas, syndromic surveillance of households through primary health care teams with early identification for testing, isolation and local contact tracing, promote greater adherence to masks and physical distance through local community and NGO networks,” said Dr Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). Dr Shobha Broor, former head of microbiology department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said, “Masks and social distancing are the only vaccines available to us at the moment and the only thing that we can do to prevent further spread of the infection. I think people are fatigued of following these measures and have relaxed slowly... People need to understand the importance of wearing mask and how to wear it properly.” There has been an increase in the number of cases along with India scaling up testing to over 1 million a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-takes-stock-as-cases-still-high/story-n8oocKO8V0bimpMlXMccxJ.html
13-09-2020||India||EC sets up panel to look into technologies that enable remote voting||New DelhiThe Election Commission of India (ECI) has set up a four-member panel to assess technologies to enable remote voting, people familiar with the matter said. The panel, which has members from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bhilai, IIT-Bombay, IIT-Madras and the National Informatics Centre, will soon present a concept to the ECI to enable a two-way transfer of vote and ballot. The panel was set up four months ago, said Rajat Moona, director IIT-Bhilai. “The tech advisory group is exploring a spectrum of options, including blockchain technology, to enable remote voting,” said Moona. “We are hoping to demonstrate a prototype in the next two months, then the commission will take a call,” he added. However, there are many concerns yet to be addressed, one of the people cited above said. “The remote voting exercise is not only for academic purposes. The machines will have to have flexibility and will have to ensure privacy and security of the vote,” the person added. The panel is advising the ECI’s IT division on various aspects such as electoral rolls and storing data, as the dependence on technology in the conduct of elections increases, the person said. Currently, postal ballots are meant only for service voters such as army personnel who cannot return to vote. The panel will also consult parties, as and when a concept enabling remote voting is found.“The question of remote voting came up when we talked about whether postal ballots can have a two-way transfer system,” said Moona.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-sets-up-panel-to-look-into-technologies-that-enable-remote-voting/story-Rys47ymNbrUaxdVtiPboUK.html
13-09-2020||India||Congress dissenters chart next step||A day after Congress president Sonia Gandhi carried out a major organisational reshuffle, some of the 23 party leaders who earlier called for sweeping reforms appeared “unhappy and disappointed” and met on Saturday to discuss their next course of action, people familiar with the developments said.A leader present in the meeting, who did not want to be named, said they were not satisfied with the changes as these “do not in any way” address the concerns raised by them in their August 7 letter to Sonia Gandhi that triggered a flutter. “The reshuffle is disappointing. We are displeased and unhappy. It does not reflect any attempt on the part of the leadership to take the party on the revival path...,” he added. In their letter, the 23 signatories called for full-time and active leadership and introspection behind the “steady decline” of the 135-year-old organisation while outlining an 11-point action plan. Those who signed the letter included Kapil Sibal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Jitin Prasada, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari. Saturday’s meeting, the leader quoted above said, was attended by 18 of the 23 letter-writers. “The fallout of this futile exercise of reshuffle has been such that there were many new participants in the meeting today. We will reveal their names at the appropriate time,” he added.HT couldn’t independently confirm the names of the attendees or the number. The letter-writers, who drew flak from the party, also demanded an election process for members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, and not nomination, as announced on Friday. Soon after, on Friday, Kapil Sibal said: “The wisdom of great minds has prevailed. Nomination seems to be the rule and election is not even an exception.” The rejig bore a clear imprint of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi as many leaders (including Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken and Jitendra Singh) considered close to him were appointed general secretaries. The reconstituted CWC, too, is dominated by those close to Rahul Gandhi. The party removed some key faces, including senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mallikarjun Kharge, as general secretaries. Both of them were, however, retained in CWC.Of the letter-writers, apart from Azad, three others (Mukul Wasnik, Anand Sharma and Jitin Prasada) who were already part of CWC, have been retained in the body — an indication, according to some functionaries, that the party leadership was trying to strike a conciliatory note. The letter-writers have decided, for the time being, that they will focus on the monsoon session of Parliament beginning Monday, and try to corner Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government over several issues. “Once the monsoon session is over and the Congress president returns after undergoing health check-up, we will once again raise our issues,” the person cited in the first instance said. Sonia Gandhi, accompanied by Rahul Gandhi, left for the US on Saturday for a routine health check-up. Surjewala, who has been a gainer in Friday’s reshuffle, separately said Sonia Gandhi formed a five-member Central Election Authority (CEA) and set in motion the process of elections to the party president’s post. At an online press conference, he also commented on the organisational changes, saying they were part of a continuous process. “A lot of new people have got a chance, many old people of the party have got a chance, a lot of colleagues who were already there have got more strength to continue serving the organisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissenters-chart-next-step/story-ljqD2Sb0bA9PCJhJ7TfDDN.html
13-09-2020||India||Afghan-led peace talks key: India||New Delhi on Saturday made it clear that any new dispensation that emerges from the intra-Afghan dialogue process must ensure that the soil of Afghanistan is never used for anti-India activities. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who joined the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha, Qatar, via video conference, reiterated India’s support for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process and sought an immediate ceasefire in the war-torn country. Teams comprising representatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban will come face-to-face for the first time on Monday for peace talks in Qatar’s capital for a negotiated settlement after nearly two decades of war. The talks were to have begun in March but were delayed by differences over the release of prisoners. Jaishankar, who joined the event at the invitation of Qatar’s deputy prime minister and foreign minister Mohammad bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani, said: “Our friendship with Afghanistan is strong and unshaken, we have always been good neighbours and will always be so. Our expectation is that the soil of Afghanistan should never be used for any anti-India activities.” The peace process, he said, has to address the violence in Afghanistan and the neighbourhood and also protect the interests of minorities and women. Jaishankar said, “It [the peace process] has to respect national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. It should promote the values of human rights and democracy that can foster development. The interests of the minorities, women and vulnerable must be ensured. “And most important, the issue of violence across the country and its neighbourhood has to be effectively addressed. The rising levels of violence cannot be allowed to continue and, like others, we support an immediate, comprehensive ceasefire.” India, which is the region’s largest provider of development aid to Afghanistan, has watched a recent spike in violence and attacks on minorities such as Sikhs with growing concern. Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme for a period of five years. Jaishankar referred to India’s role in development aid and talked about the infrastructure created by the Indian partnership that spreads across all 34 provinces, “be it the Parliament house for the nation, transmission lines and hospitals in Kabul, the friendship dam in Herat, the Afghanistan national agricultural science and technology university in Kandahar”. “Equally impactful have been capacity building projects, scholarships and training of youth,” he said, adding that India has supplied more than a million tonnes of food grains in recent years. To address the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, India provided more than 15 tonnes of life-saving drugs and medical equipment and facilitated the travel of Afghan citizens to India for medical treatment. He added, “These are but examples of our deep commitment to the welfare, prosperity and stability of the Afghan nation, and today, these are the very objectives that bring us here to discuss peace and reconciliation. Our approach in that regard has always remained consistent – any peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.” A senior official delegation led by JP Singh, joint secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) in the external affairs ministry, also participated in the inaugural ceremony in Doha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-led-peace-talks-key-india/story-VhLoHRFDlnkwluHIQHR91O.html
13-09-2020||India||Govt decides against holding all-party meet ahead of session||The government has decided not to hold an all-party meeting ahead of the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, people familiar with the matter. Generally, an all-party meet is conferred before a session of Parliament to set targets. According to a person aware of the details, the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of both Houses of Parliament is scheduled to meet on Sunday to take decisions on allocation of time for businesses that will be taken up during the monsoon session, which is scheduled to take place from September 14 To October 1. According to a person familiar with the details, the BAC will be attended by representatives from all parties that have more than three members of Parliament (MPs) and all vice-chairpersons in addition to MPs who are part of the BAC. “Since there will be representatives from nearly all parties except those that have fewer than three MPs it will nearly be an all- party meeting,” said the person quoted above. The government is expected to face questions on the border standoff with China and the handling of the pandemic during the meeting.“The government will have to make a statement on the Chinese aggression and India’s response. The government has kept the opposition informed. PM Modi met all opposition leaders in June to inform them about the developments along the LAC and most of the parties barring the Congress supported the Indian government’s response,” said a Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) functionary on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-decides-against-holding-all-party-meet-ahead-of-session/story-z9rxfOhACSCrFyPbYATscN.html
13-09-2020||India||BJP MPs meet farmers protesting in Haryana||A three-member panel of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday met farmers who have been protesting in Haryana, seeking a roll back of three ordinances promulgated by the Centre. The panel, constituted by BJP’s Haryana unit chief Om Prakash Dhankar, comprises Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh. The meeting came two days after the protesting farmers blocked a national highway in Kurukshetra’s Pipli and clashed with Haryana police. Farmer’s bodies have called the ordinances -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance --- ‘anti-farmer’, and sought their rollback. Following the meeting, Dharambir said, “A few people are misleading the farmers over the ordinances. But we have briefed the farmers about the benefit of these ordinances. We are taking suggestions from farmers and will discuss the same with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.” Brijendra Singh said introducing structural reforms in agriculture was the main objective behind brining in the ordinances. “There are efforts being made to spread confusion regarding the three ordinances. The reality is that these ordinances will neither abolish the existing Mandi system nor abolish the minimum support price,” he said. All India Kisan Sabha vice-president Inderjit Singh said that the ordinances under contention were against farmers and the MPs should raise the issue in the Parliament. “The Haryana government should pass a resolution to withdraw these ordinances, otherwise farmers will be destroyed. We have submitted our grievances in the written to the three members MPs committee,” he said. Targetting the BJP government, farmers’ leader, Preet Singh, said, “The committee formed by Dhankar is an eyewash. The BJP government has become arrogant and we are surprised how a state president of the ruling party can form a such committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mps-meet-farmers-protesting-in-haryana/story-BbEPOgeuXGNaSMLhIzp7jN.html
13-09-2020||India||Paneer thali to chicken biryani likely to be on menu this monsoon session||A paneer thali with chapati, sweets, dal, pickles and jeera rice for Rs 105, a south Indian thali of idli, vada, mini dosa and utthapam with sambhar and chutney for Rs 110, both prepared by a Bengali Market-based private restaurant are among the food boxes lawmakers and others in Parliament can choose from during the upcoming monsoon session that starts Monday with stringent health protocols. Parliament staff and media will have to place orders and pay a day in advance, officials familiar with the matter said. The officials added that they really don’t know how many people will avail the food box option, given that most people are wary of eating out during the pandemic. Non-veg food boxes will also be available -- Rs 150 for a chicken cutlet, croissant, boiled vegetables and a dab of butter, or Rs 100 for chicken biriyani and raita will be available. With the northern railway-run parliament canteen closed due to the coronavirus disease and no cooking allowed in the Parliament complex for this session, the food served will be sourced from outside. Railways will distribute and serve the food inside the House complex, and manage the payments. These, officials insisted, are temporary measures during the extraordinary circumstances and the best option after considering various factors. In the next session, the government’s tourism arm ITDC will take over the House canteen. As the Bengali Market-based restaurant only specializes in vegetarian food, the non-vegetarian items will be prepared at an MPs’ canteen in North Avenue, close to the Parliament estate. “This canteen was closed for the past few months. But it will be opened if the non-vegetarian menu is approved. Meanwhile, two cooks from parliament canteen have been deployed there to help the staff,” one of the officials said. The breakfast menu— cheese rolls, sandwiches, veg patties, samosas, and kachories —will be brought to the parliament complex before 7.30 AM. Sweets will also be served. The early morning deadline will be strictly followed as visitors’ movement will be restricted once the House will start functioning at 9 am for the morning shift. Barring the inaugural day, Rajya Sabha will sit from 9 AM and the Lok Sabha will start its session from 3 PM. There will be no weekend breaks during the 18-day long session that ends on October 1. The lunch will be brought in hot cases by 1 PM, said officials. The Rajya Sabha secretariat has already issued a circular to its officials saying those “desirous of availing the food items may place the order and make payment to northern railway one day in advance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paneer-thali-to-chicken-biryani-likely-to-be-on-menu-this-monsoon-session/story-3y9VtNX75aLGLZEzAuMRMN.html
13-09-2020||India||Indian vaccine candidate passes animal trials test||Adverse events were not seen in animals immunized with a two-dose vaccination regimen of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, the company’s vaccine candidate to protect people from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), shows the animal study data published by one of India’s two Covid-19 vaccine candidates currently in human trials. The vaccine, being developed in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research is in phase 1/2 of human clinical trials, but the results of the animal study had not been released. The study also substantiated the immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate -- showing that it offered extensive safety and generated effective immune responses against the target virus.“…we have developed and assessed the protective efficacy and immunogenicity of an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (BBV152) in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulata). Twenty macaques were divided into four groups of five animals each. One group was administered a placebo while three groups were immunized with three different vaccine candidates at 0 and 14 days…” a pre-print paper on the study, published on Research Square said. All the macaques were exposed to SARS-CoV-2 14 days after the second dose was administered. According to the data, the protective response was observed with increasing SARS-CoV-2 specific IgG and neutralizing antibody titers from the third week post-immunization. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) is a long-lasting antibody that develops at least a week after exposure to a virus.“Viral clearance was observed from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, nasal swab, throat swab, and lung tissues at seven days post-infection in the vaccinated groups. No evidence of pneumonia was observed by histopathological examination in vaccinated groups, unlike the placebo group which showed features of interstitial pneumonia and localization of viral antigen in the alveolar epithelium and macrophages by immunohistochemistry. Data from this study substantiate the immunogenicity of the vaccine candidates…” the paper added. Bharat Biotech initiated phase-1 clinical trials of Covaxin across the country on July 15, in the form of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in 375 volunteers in India. Companies can launch such studies only after presenting drug regulators with pre-clinical studies (usually on animals) that show safety and efficacy. The company is developing the vaccine in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that isolated the virus strain at its National Institute of Virology in Pune, and transferred it to the company on May 9.The indigenous, vaccine candidate, based on an inactived virus, is being developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) High Containment facility located in Genome Valley, Hyderabad, India.Covaxin got the Drug Controller General of India’s approval for Phase I/II clinical trials on June 29.“Only after department’s subject experts studied the animal trials data and were satisfied with the results that the permission for human trials was granted. The process is being closely followed as everyone is waiting for a vaccine against Covid-19, and we have to ensure that what comes out is safe and effective after going through robust regulatory processes,” said a senior official in the drug regulator who asked not to be named.The other indigenous vaccine in human trials is being developed by Zydus Cadila.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-vaccine-candidate-passes-animal-trials-test/story-3MSbEW0kBJ9K9vig2OiFvI.html
13-09-2020||India||Delhi riots hate speech: Key FB executive summoned before Delhi House panel||The Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee has summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan in connection with complaints about the social media company’s “deliberate and intentional inaction “ in controlling hateful content on its platform. -- the second time in weeks that the Facebook executive will be appearing before a government panel to justify the company’s behaviour. The panel, headed by Aam Aadmi Party legislator from Rajendra Nagar, Raghav Chadha, has issued a notice, asking Mohan to appear before it on September 15 at the Delhi Vidhan Sabha premises. “The summons were issued on the basis of scathing depositions of key witnesses as well as incriminating material submitted by them on record,” the committee said in an official statement Saturday. The notice came weeks after the committee, in its second hearing on August 31, said that prima facie, it has found that Facebook was allegedly complicit in aggravating the February riots in north-east Delhi that left 53 dead and at least 400 injured. These primarily have to do with posts on its platform ahead of and during the rites. The committee is investigating the matter after it took cognisance of “several complaints” received from people based on an article published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14. The article alleged that the social media company ignored its own hate speech guidelines and decided not to act against comments posted by a lawmaker from the Bharatiya Janata Party at the instance of its (Facebook’s) top lobbyist in India. The report titled ‘Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics’ stated that Facebook officials, especially its top public policy executive in India, Ankhi Das, cited business imperatives while choosing not to apply hate-speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in India. BJP leaders have since complained that the social media company is actually biased against it -- and law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has shot off a letter to the effect to the company. Facebook did not respond to e-mails, text messages and calls seeking comment . HT has seen a copy of the notice that the Delhi assembly’s deputy secretary sent to Mohan on September 10. It reads, “We hereby summon you (Ajit Mohan) to appear before the committee on September 15, 2020 at 12 Noon at MLA Lounge- 1, Delhi Vidhan Sabha, for the purpose of recording your deposition on oath and participating in the proceedings carried out by the committee,” In the last hearing, the committee said there should be an independent investigation, leading to the filing of a supplementary charge sheet, in the ongoing cases related to the Delhi riots on the basis of supportive and corroborative material during the course of the purported investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-hate-speech-key-fb-executive-summoned-before-delhi-house-panel/story-rxPlT2eRuVJOuVijeWIkyN.html
13-09-2020||India||North-East Delhi riots accused names leaders in statement||A charge sheet related to the north-east Delhi riots case, filed last month by Delhi police, created a stir on social media on Saturday, after it emerged that one attachment to it has a statement by an accused, claiming that general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, former MLA Chaudhary Mateen and advocate Mahmood Pracha had instigated the protestors. To be sure, their names do not appear in the charge sheet itself. Delhi Police moved immediately to clarify that none of these people have been charged. The unit’s spokesperson, Anil Mittal said, “Nobody has been charged. We have not even made any recommendation to the court because they are not an accused. The names are part of the disclosure statement of one of the accused in connection with organising and addressing anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. The disclosure statement has been truthfully recorded as narrated by the accused person. A person is not arraigned as an accused only on the basis of disclosure statement. However, it is only on the existence of sufficient corroborative evidence does further legal action is taken. The matter is currently sub judice.” HT has reviewed a copy of the charge sheet. The statement in question was from a person called Gulfisha Khatoon, in which she names people who “fuelled the feeling of discontent among protesters by calling CAA and NRC anti-Muslim...” Khatoon, a student activist and alleged member of Pinjra Tod, was arrested on July 28 . Police have claimed that members of the women’s collective Pinjra Tod, including Devanga Kalita and Natasha Narwal, orchestrated the riots by mobilising people through their speeches during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. Responding to Saturday’s online furore, Mahmood Pracha, said: “Political masters in the Home Ministry are misusing police to remove me from the scene either by physically eliminating me or falsely implicating me in these cases. I have thoroughly exposed them by the process of law.” Pracha is also Khatoon’s counsel in the case. Yechury too criticised Delhi Police. He tweeted, “56 people died in the riots. There are videos of people delivering inflammatory speeches but police are not taking any action against them. They have clear orders to suppress the oppression. There will be protests against this.” DU professor Apoorvanand said the whole thing is “disappointing because the actual violence is not a concern for the Delhi police”. “Delhi had suffered violence in February and we want to know the truth. Instead, Delhi police is deploying its energy, talent and time in weaving a fiction of a crime they know does not exist. To criminalise a legitimate act of protest against an act of the government is an ideological exercise and professional body like the Delhi police is not expected to be a part of it .” Yadav and former MLA Chaudhary were not immediately available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attachment-in-n-e-riots-charge-sheet-names-yechury-yadav-police-say-they-are-not-charged/story-DiXhJdAIfodgA0ONCAIPiI.html
13-09-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to miss monsoon session of Parliament, to travel outside India for medical check-up||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will be travelling outside the country for a routine medical check-up which could not take place earlier due to the ongoing pandemic situation, party officials said on Saturday.The Congress president will be accompanied by her son and party leader Rahul Gandhi.Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi is travelling today onwards for a routine follow up & medical check up, which was deferred due to the pandemic.She is accompanied by Sh. Rahul Gandhi.We take this opportunity to thank everyone for their concern & good wishes.Both Opposition leaders will give the upcoming monsoon session in Parliament a miss which starts on Monday next week.HT had reported that many senior lawmakers are likely to give the much-awaited monsoon session of Parliament a miss, on account of fears of exposing themselves to the coronavirus disease despite efforts from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha authorities to ensure a safe session.Also read: Several senior leaders may skip monsoon session due to Covid-19The list includes senior political leaders who have been advised to exercise caution during the ongoing Covid-19 disease outbreak. Former prime minister and senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh is likely to attend Parliament’s inaugural session but is expected to skip rest of the session on advise from his doctors. The 87-year-old political leader has been strictly asked to not leave home by his doctors.Another Congress leader and former defence minister AK Antony, 79, may not attend the House daily but be there on some days, HT had reported. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also said some of her senior party leaders who are old or suffering from an ailment will skip the upcoming parliament session. The ongoing pandemic has raised concerns among leaders across party lines who have decided to skip the parliament. Two days before the session is expected to begin, India reported globally the highest ever recorded cases of Covid-19 — 97,570 —in a span of 24 hours. India reported another 1,201 deaths Saturday, bringing total deaths to 77,472, the third highest in the world.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu have been personally overseeing all preparations to implement Covid-19 safety protocols . On Thursday, Birla spent a few minutes in the gallery of the Lok Sabha to supervise how MPs will participate in the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-to-miss-monsoon-session-of-parliament-to-travel-outside-india-for-medical-check-up/story-RBM4Dn2VWFXu0spYNMU7ZP.html
13-09-2020||India||Serum Institute to resume Covid-19 vaccine trial after DGCI gives nod||After pharma company AstraZeneca announced the resumption of its Covid-19 vaccine trial in the UK, its India partner Serum Institute said it will also restart the trials once the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) gives the nod.DGCI has earlier sent a show-cause notice to the Pune-based firm, questioning why it has not stopped trials while trials have been stopped in four other countries after a UK volunteer reportedly showed symptoms of neurological disorder which affects the spinal cord. Following this, Serum Institute of India paused the phase 3 trial in India, which was scheduled to begin next week.Also Read | Oxford’s coronavirus vaccine AstraZeneca trial resumes after UK green light“Clinical trials for the AstraZeneca Oxford coronavirus vaccine, AZD1222, have resumed in the UK following confirmation by the Medicines Health Regulatory Authority (MHRA) that it was safe to do so,” AstraZeneca said in a statement on Saturday. As I’d mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events are a clear example why we should not bias the process and should respect the process till the end. Good news, @UniofOxford. https://t.co/ThIU2ELkO3“As I’d mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events are a clear example why we should not bias the process and should respect the process till the end. Good news, @UniofOxford,” Serum Institute of India’s CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted after AstraZeneca announced it is resuming the trials.The World Health Organization’s (WHO) chief scientist on Thursday said AstraZeneca’s pause of an experimental vaccine for the coronavirus after the illness of a participant is a “wake-up call”. “This is a wake-up call to recognise that there are ups and downs in clinical development and that we have to be prepared,” Soumya Swaminathan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-to-resume-covid-19-vaccine-trial-after-dgci-gives-nod/story-1pT8EeMSdwYmUyOJBnz29I.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Greater cooperation’: India, ASEAN adopt plan of action for 2021-25||India and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) on Saturday adopted the plan of action for 2021-25 that envisages greater cooperation in areas ranging from trade to maritime security and counter-terrorism.The plan of action will help the two sides to work towards the ASEAN 2025 vision for an economically integrated and rules-based grouping that narrows the development gap and enhances connectivity. Both sides will also cooperate on common challenges and enhance coordination at international forums. The virtual ASEAN-India ministerial meeting, co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Thai counterpart Don Pramudwinai, adopted the plan of action. The meeting, which was joined by the foreign ministers of the 10 ASEAN states, also discussed ways to strengthen cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and witnessed an exchange of views on regional and international developments.Also read: Afghanistan’s soil shouldn’t be used for anti-India activities - JaishankarThe meeting reviewed the ASEAN-India strategic partnership in several areas, including maritime cooperation, connectivity and people-to-people contacts. It reviewed preparations for the upcoming ASEAN-India Summit and progress in implementing key decisions made at the last summit in Bangkok in November 2019.Under the new plan of action, the two sides will further strengthen the East Asia Summit “as a premier leaders-led forum for dialogue and cooperation on broad strategic, political and economic issues... with the aim of promoting peace, stability and economic prosperity in the region”.The plan envisages India’s active participation and co-chairing of joint exercises and activities, and strengthening of practical defence cooperation to address challenges in maritime security, counter-terrorism, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, peacekeeping operations, and cyber-security.Also read: India needs a refined toolkit to manage ChinaThe two sides will also promote maritime security and safety, freedom of navigation and overflight, unimpeded commerce, the non-use of force, and the resolution of disputes by peaceful means, in accordance with international law, including the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).In the field of economic cooperation, the two sides will continue efforts to make the ASEAN-India Free Trade Area (AIFTA) more user-friendly and trade facilitative by initiating a review of the ASEAN-India Trade in Goods Agreement and work towards ratification of the ASEAN-India Investment Agreement to facilitate further economic integration.In the realm of connectivity, the two sides will work closely to promote physical connectivity by “completing the missing links between South and Southeast Asia, including, but not limited to, expediting the completion of relevant sections of the India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway and supporting steps to build an economic corridor along it and its extension to Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Vietnam”. They will also encourage private sector participation in developing roads and railways and logistics networks.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan also participated in a virtual meeting of the foreign ministers of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) on Saturday under the chairmanship of Vietnam. The ministers exchanged views on international and regional issues. Muraleedharan presented India’s perspectives on the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative, threat of terrorism, and cooperation for a collective response to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/greater-cooperation-india-asean-adopt-plan-of-action-for-2021-25/story-NPLjEa3Mcj8JPxtC671CQI.html
13-09-2020||India||DGCA warns of ban for photography||An airline’s service on a particular route can be banned for two weeks if it fails to act against crew or passengers in case someone violates rules such as the ban on photography mid-air, the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) said on Saturday as it took note of an incident on an IndiGo Airlines flight where members of the media began video recording mid air.The flight on which the violations occurred took off on September 9 and had among its passengers actor Kangana Ranaut, who has recently been in the middle of a public spat with the Maharashtra government. Crews of several TV channels followed the actor on the Chandigarh-Mumbai flight and were seen jostling for her attention while still in the cabin once the aircraft landed at its destination.Shortly after the incident, the DGCA sought a report from the airline, which on Friday said the passengers did not obey their cabin and cockpit crew who repeatedly requested them to maintain social distancing and switch off video recordings.“As per rule 13 of the Aircraft Rules 1937, no person shall take, or cause or permit to be taken, at a government aerodrome of from an aircraft in flight, any photograph except in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of a permission... This permission is, however, not applicable when such aircraft is landing, taking off or on ground at a defence aerodrome. In spite of these regulations, it has been noted that at times, airlines have failed to follow these stipulations primarily because of lack of diligence on their part. Needless to say that such deviations result in compromise in maintaining the highest standards of safety and therefore, is not to be allowed,” said the DGCA order following the airline’s report. The order added that they have decided that in such violations on a scheduled passenger aircraft, the schedule of the flight for that particular route will be suspended for a period of two weeks from the next day and will be restored only after the airline has taken all the punitive action against those responsible for the violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-more-fotos-near-planes-dgca/story-vflt9lgrqOaGGlAkRHwa7N.html
13-09-2020||India||GoAir yet to upgrade 20 engines in A320neo aircraft despite three-month extension||Despite receiving a three-month extension to replace all its aircraft engines powered by Pratt & Whitney (P&W), GoAir is yet to replace around 20 of them in its A320neo planes. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) continues to ground the aircraft whose P&W engines are yet to be modified.Top sources from the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) also confirmed to HT that GoAir was yet to replace all its P&W engines. “Currently, around 20 of their engines have to be replaced,” the ministry official said. Also Read: Air passengers entitled to refunds due to lockdown, Centre tells SCThe regulator had asked all P&W engines to be replaced with modified/ upgraded engines till January 2020, failing which the fleet would be grounded. The deadline was however extended again to May 31 and then to August 31. DGCA had granted the extension to the low-cost carrier, along with the country’s largest airline IndiGo, to refurbish engines in their A320neo fleet after supply chains and production lines were hit due to the nationwide lockdown. Unlike GoAir, IndiGo has met the extended deadline. “The replacement of P&W engines has been completed for Indigo. Some GoAir engines are yet to be replaced. However, we have stopped them from flying aircraft without both modified engines. If an aircraft has to fly, it has to have both modified engines. Effectively, those without both modifications remain grounded,” Arun Kumar, director general of DGCA, told HT.Also Read: Only 19% Indians willing to travel this festive season due to Covid-19, finds surveyThe P&W engine-powered A320neo planes in IndiGo and GoAir fleets have been facing glitches both mid-air and on the ground since April 2017, following which DGCA, at the end of 2019, directed that the two low-cost airlines replace them with the modified version by January this year. “GoAir, along with Pratt & Whitney, have upgraded the third stage of the low-pressure turbine (LPT) on all PW1100G-JM engines in service. The upgraded turbine has been performing flawlessly to date. In line with the GoAir policy of “safety first” and as mandated by Directorate General of Civil Aviation, all the aircraft are operating as per the safety standards. This progress was made during the pause in air travel and subsequent early recovery period with the support of Pratt & Whitney,” said the airline spokesperson. However, Pratt & Whitney said some GoAir engines were yet to be replaced. A P&W spokesperson said, “The vast majority of engines in GoAir’s fleet have been upgraded, and we are working with GoAir to schedule the remaining few. All aircraft operating in India today fly with upgraded GTF engines. The upgraded turbines in engines have performed flawlessly to date.” According to DGCA, IndiGo has 106 P&W powered A320neo aircraft in its fleet while GoAir has 43. Each A320neo plane is powered by a twin engine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goair-yet-to-upgrade-20-engines-in-a320neo-aircraft-despite-three-month-extension/story-hPDcY7IkF9e535TXEn0M7H.html
