14-09-2020||India||JD(U)’s Harivansh re-elected as RS dy chairperson||NEW DELHI: Janata Dal (United) MP Harivansh was re-elected as the deputy chairperson of the Rajya Sabha for a second consecutive term on Monday after defeating the Opposition’s candidate, the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Manoj Jha. The result was announced after a voice vote.Congratulating him on his win and appreciating how he conducts the House, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that with his re-election as the deputy chairperson, Harivansh, who hails from Bihar, will take forward the legacy of the state, which he dubbed as “the land of democracy”.“When anyone who is a seeker of democracy, from the land of democracy, Bihar, from JP’s (Jayprakash Narayan) and Karpuri Thakur’s land, from Bapu’s (Mahatma Gandhi) Champaran, steps forward to take responsibility, this is what happens… what Harivansh has accomplished,” the PM said.Commenting on his fair play and impartiality and referring to him as the “umpire” who has the challenging task of ensuring that all “rules are adhere to”, PM Modi: “We have seen attempts being made in the House to allow everyone to speak freely, to ensure work is not stalled … this enhances the dignity of the House of Elders and this is what our Constitution framers expected.”The PM said the way he runs the House shows that he has earned the respect he commands and had fulfilled all the expectations the members had from him. “Last time, I had said that I am hopeful that just as Hari belongs to all, Harivansh too will be fair to all sides... We have seen how it is more difficult for umpires than the players to ensure the games are played as per the rules. It is challenging to convince people to play as per the rules and he has shown his decisiveness and won the confidence of those who didn’t know him.”Commenting on the productivity of the House last year, which was the highest in a decade, the PM said many bills that changed the direction of the country were passed. “This House made a new record for being the most productive even when it was an election year. This is a great matter of pride that apart from productivity, positivity also grew in the House,” he said.Earlier in the day, Bihar chief minister and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar sought the support of BJD president and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik for backing Harivansh’s re-election. YSRCP, which is not a part of the NDA, also supported Harivansh. BJP president JP Nadda moved the motion to elect Harivansh as the deputy chairperson of the Rajya Sabha and Thawar Chand Gehlot seconded it. From the opposition side, Ghulam Nabi Azad moved the motion that RJD’s Manoj Jha be chosen as the deputy chairperson and it was seconded by Anand Sharma. DMK’s T Siva and SP’s Javed Ali Khan also supported Jha. The Opposition, however, did not press for division of votes and the election was announced on the basis of a voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-s-harivansh-re-elected-as-rs-dy-chairperson/story-m3GJfkVuNhPafjdmgj4jHK.html
14-09-2020||India||Govt: No data on migrants’ deaths during lockdown||New Delhi: The Centre told Parliament on Monday that no data is available on the number of migrant workers who lost their lives during the 68-day lockdown enforced on March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, but assured the House that it has acted to mitigate their hardship.At least 10 million migrant workers left the cities and returned home to the countryside in states such as West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh in the aftermath of the lockdown.On Monday, the labour ministry’s response was sought in the Lok Sabha to a question whether the government was aware that a number of migrants lost their lives during their return home; the questioner sought state-wide details of the deaths and wanted to know “whether the Government has provided any compensation/economic assistance to the victims’ family.”The labour ministry that no such data has been maintained; it added that the question of compensation did not arise in the absence of recorded data. It also said no data was available on job losses among migrant workers since the pandemic’s outbreak. “In order to mitigate the financial crisis of the migrant workers and protect them against the economic disruptions due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and country-wide lockdown, the Central Government has taken numerous measures to provide them financial assistance, food packages, ration and other benefits,” the labour ministry added.On May 30, Hindustan Times reported that almost 80 deaths took place on board Shramik Special trains (meant for stranded migrant workers and their families) between May 9 and May 27, citing data from the Railway Protection Force. The labour ministry also said more than 10.4 million migrants had returned to their home states; the highest number of returnees headed home to Uttar Pradesh (3.24 million) followed by Bihar (1.5 million) and Rajasthan (1.3 million). It added that Indian Railways operated 4,611 Shramik Special trains and they ferried 6.3 million migrants to destinations in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and other states.The railway ministry said last month that many migrants have begun returning to the places where they worked, adding that this indicates economic activity is picking up after India began easing lockdown restrictions.“The unplanned lockdown created a humanitarian crisis of epic proportions. The BJP {Bharatiya Janata Party} government has shunned its basic responsibility of not even knowing who bore the maximum brunt of the lockdown. Their response indicates their continued callousness towards the poor. What is worse is that there is still no announcement of any cash support or universalisation of rations,” said Rajendran Narayanan, an assistant professor at Azim Premji University.The labour ministry said states and Union territories were told to take adequate steps to streamline the migration of workers to mitigate their hardship.“The States/UTs have been advised to implement the advisory guidelines by quickly gearing up their labour law enforcement machinery and ensuring statutory compliance by all the stakeholders which could provide migrant workers much needed help to mitigate the financial crisis and empower them to deal with the pandemic. The States/UTs have also been advised to maintain updated data of the migrant workers to facilitate the administration to extend benefits of the welfare schemes of the Government to the migrant workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-no-data-on-migrants-deaths-during-lockdown/story-oKl2M0L3DZ9jlcoEf2CpdM.html
14-09-2020||India||Up to 78k lives saved due to curbs: Centre||The nationwide lockdown that followed the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic prevented between 1.4 million and 2.9 million cases of the viral infection, and 37,000 to 78,000 deaths, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday, the first day of Parliament’s monsoon session.India also has been able to limit coronavirus cases to 3,328 per million population and deaths to 55 per million, which is one of the lowest in the world, the minister said in a statement on Covid-19 management.The four-phase lockdown was enforced on March 25 and remained in effect until May 31. The first phase of Unlock began on June 1. India’s tally of infections has reached 4,926, 778 and death toll to 80,807 as of Monday night. Besides limiting the number of coronavirus disease infections and fatalities, the lockdown offered India a chance to reinforce its health infrastructure to tackle the disease, Harsh Vardhan said.The lockdown was used to enhance human resource and produce within India critical elements such as protective personal equipment (PPE), N-95 masks and ventilators, he said. “A case in point is increase in dedicated isolation beds by 36.3 times and dedicated ICU {intensive care unit} beds above 24.6 times to what existed in March 2020. Whereas there was no indigenous manufacturing of PPE, with the requisite standards, at that point in time, we are now self-sufficient and in a position, to even export the same,” he said.Health experts are divided on how effective the lockdown has been.““India has managed to keep the numbers low both in terms of cases and deaths considering India’s huge population and densely populated areas. More than the cases, what matters is how many lives we have managed to save, and the numbers say the country has done a decent job of bringing the fatality rate to below 2%. Measures such as implementing early lockdown were instrumental in giving the government adequate time to prepare to manage the outbreak. Lockdown wasn’t meant to stop cases, it was meant to give us the time to prepare to manage the pandemic, which we did successfully,” says Dr Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital. Dr T Jacob John, former head of the virology department at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, differed.“The lockdown has not been a lockdown in the true sense of the word in India because if it were then you wouldn’t see cases going up by leaps and bounds right under the lockdown,” he said.The maximum number of cases and deaths have been reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Bihar, Telangana, Odisha, Assam, Kerala and Gujarat. All these states have reported at least 100,000 cases.“Many of the epidemiological parameters such as mode of transmission, subclinical infection, period of virus shedding, role of immunity etc are still being researched. Once a person is exposed to the infection, the disease may develop anytime between 1-14 days,” the health minister said in the Lok Sabha.The government has taken several measures to contain the spread of the disease, including creation of a group of ministers (GoM) on February 3, under the chairmanship of Vardhan. The GoM consists of the minister of external affairs, minister of civil aviation, minister of state for home affairs and minister of state for shipping, among other senior government functionaries, and has met 20 times since its inception.On March 29, 11 empowered groups were created to manage the Covid-19 pandemic. On September 10, the groups were restructured based on needs and the evolving scenario.The idea is to take an informed decision on issues ranging from medical emergency planning, availability of hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities, disease surveillance and testing, ensuring availability of essential medical equipment, augmenting human resources and capacity building, supply chain and logistic management to coordination with the private sector, among other things.For appropriate management of Covid-19 cases, a three-tier arrangement of health facilities: Covid Care Centres with isolation beds for mild or pre-symptomatic cases; dedicated Covid Health Centres with oxygen supported isolation beds for moderate cases; and dedicated Covid Hospital with ICU beds (for severe cases) has been put in place.As of September 12, 2020, a total of 15,284 Covid treatment facilities with 1,314,646 dedicated isolation beds without oxygen support have been created. Also, a total of 231,093 oxygen-supported isolation beds and 62,717 ICU beds (including 32,575 ventilator beds) have been readied.“Constant monitoring of the disease trend, analysis of available infrastructure and planning in advance for the future has averted a major crisis as was faced by many developed countries. In addition, a total of 12,826 quarantine centres with 5,98,811 beds have been created,” Vardhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-78k-lives-saved-due-to-curbs-centre/story-Wl9pQY5UQSMXRygcNX2FsJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Kashmir’s feisty weddings bear lacklustre look amid Covid-19 pandemic||This season, Kashmir’s feisty weddings are looking lacklustre owing to the Covid-19 crisis. Besides the postponement of marriages, the pandemic has forced many people to go for innovations which they consider as ‘safeguards’ against the disease.Jammu and Kashmir has recorded more than 50,000 Covid-19 cases till date and around 850 deaths, forcing many to defer their weddings.In Kashmir, the peak marriage season falls between August to November. Those who are going for marriages contrary to past have drastically curtailed the number of guests. Needless to say, masks and sanitisers have become part of the wedding paraphernalia.“This season Kashmir is witnessing very few weddings and number of guests are limited to just 100 to 150,’’ says Haji Shabir Ahmad who works as a wholesale dealer of disposable wedding items.“Earlier for every average wedding we used to sell disposables worth around Rs 60,000 to 1,50,000. Now, our bills remain squeezed between Rs 20,000 to 30,000. Even the number of weddings has come down by around 70 percent.’’ He, however, says that now they have added sanitisers, masks and PPE kits in the list of items.Also read: Won’t be enough Covid-19 vaccines till 2024 - Serum Institute’s Adar PoonawallaDue to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, many families after mutual understanding have postponed their weddings for the next year. ‘’My brother was getting married this year and all arrangements were almost done but the growing number of Covid-19 cases have forced us to defer the marriage until next year as we don’t want to take the risk and a Kashmiri wedding without a big gathering looks very dull,’’ says Adnan Ahmad of old city.In Kashmiri marriages, the host serves a couple of feasts comprising seven to twelve course Kashmiri Wazwan served in big copper plates. Each plate is consumed by four people. While a simple marriage lasts for two days, affluent families stretch their marriage ceremonies to four to five days where quintals of mutton delicacies prepared by trained chefs (Wazas) are served. As a precaution, many families now serve Wazwan in single copper plates instead of bigger plates known as (Trami). Some have replaced even the plates with clay bowls to serve Wazwan in them. “I recently attended a marriage at Iqbal Nagar, Sopore, it was a simple function, the guests were served in clay pots instead of copper plates. Many people like the way our ancestors used to eat in the clay pots,’’ says Shiekh Haroon who attended the wedding. ‘For many, it was an innovative thing, besides, guests were also given masks and sanitisers.’’ Also read: 25 Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha MPs test Covid-19 positive - Here’s a listThe curtailment of the guest list has also made the marriages simple and easy, many even skipped the Wazwan and solemnised the marriage function serving tea or Khewa (green tea with saffron).“My cousin is getting married next week. Last time when we had a marriage in our house the function lasted for four to five days and we ended up serving seven quintals of meat to nearly 1,000 guests. This time we are preparing just 100 kilograms of meat and our guest list is not more than 100,’’ says Peer Ishfaq. ‘’My cousin will go with seven to eight guests to bride’s house which wasn’t possible earlier.’’“Earlier, people had to book chefs (Wazas) months ahead of the ceremony, the chefs are out of work from August 5 last year and now pandemic has hit our industry badly. The people who go for marriages have curtailed their expenses by around 80 percent as people don’t want to take any chances,’’ said Mohammad Yaqood, a chef from north Kashmir. “Kashmir’s wedding was a big trade, now it is at its lowest point. Hope situation will improve when the pandemic ends.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-s-feisty-weddings-bear-lacklustre-look-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-99QuijtTqruuzPBIc40snJ.html
14-09-2020||India||SG opposes same-sex marriage plea in HC||New Delhi: The Centre on Monday opposed a plea seeking legalisation of marriage for gay couples under the 1955 Hindu Marriage Act even as the Delhi high court observed that changes were taking place around the world and it needed to be examined whether it was applicable to India. The petition was filed last week by four members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) community who invoked Article 14 (right to equality), Article 21 (right to life) and Article 25 (freedom of religion) to argue that right to marriage for same-sex couples was a part of that fundamental right.“These marriages run contrary to the provisions which are already in place in our society. Our values do not recognise a marriage, which is sacrosanct, between two people of same sex marriage,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told a bench comprising Chief Justice of the Delhi high court DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan. Mehta clarified that he was expressing his personal opinion.The Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed on September 8 claimed that Section 5 of the Hindu Marriage Act did not specify that the marriage must be between a Hindu man and a Hindu woman, but instead refers to marriage between “two Hindus”. “It does not concur with constitutional values,” Mehta said.To this, Justice Jalan said that changes have taken place across the world and when two men marry in a foreign country, neither is considered a wife. He further said that all aspects of the plea would need to be examined.The Supreme Court had decriminalised homosexuality, but not provided for anything further, Mehta told the court, referring to the September 6, 2018 judgment of a five-judge Constitution bench headed by the then chief justice of India Dipak Mishra, which read down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code.Mehta later clarified to the Hindustan Times that while he was yet to receive instructions from the Centre, he had pointed out to the court the legal provisions to show that the law did not permit same sex marriages. “I said culture of any country is codified in a statutory law like Degrees of Prohibited relationship, special or additional rights to “wife”, different age limits for “husband” and “wife”, use of the terms “husband” and “wife” (which cannot be determined in same sex marriage) etc, special protection to “wife” in criminal law such as section 498-A of the IPC etc. Unless several statutory provisions are altered (which the court cannot do) the relief as prayed for cannot be granted,” Mehta said.Appearing for the petitioners, Raghav Awasthi told the court that the fundamental rights of gay couples were getting hampered, even as there was no legal prohibition on such marriages.There are many benefits extended under the Hindu Marriage Act which cannot be availed by his petitioners, he said. “Today the matter was listed before the honourable Delhi high court. The learned chief justice has asked us to file details of people who have tried to get married and failed to do so after the passing of the Navtej Johar judgment. We shall be doing the same,” Awasthi told HT. The petition has been filed by intersex rights activist Gopi Shankar, founder of lesbian collective Sakhi Giti Thadani, transgender rights activist G Oorvasi and writer Abhijit Iyer Mitra.The bench stated that the aggrieved party could have moved court in their personal capacity instead of a filing a PIL, and asked the counsel to bring on record all persons whose marriages were not registered on account of being a same-sex marriage. The matter will be taken up for hearing on October 21.The petition pointed out that in 2018, the Supreme Court read down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalised homosexuality.“The non-recognition of the rights of gay couples, especially when their sexuality has been recognised as such as valid by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India is violative of various provisions of the Constitution of India as well as various conventions that India as a sovereign state is signatory to,” the petition stated.“Change in marriage laws has to be secular and broad-based. To contend that the Hindu Marriage Act should recognise same sex marriages because Hinduism does, suffers from two errors. The Hindu Marriage Act is decidedly anti-scriptural. It was brought in 1955 to amend Hindu law and undo the regressive elements of the scriptures which were incorporated in the law. The Act was an attempt at reformation, rather than incorporating venerated practices of the scriptures. Secondly, it matters little whether the Hindu scriptures recognise same sex marriage or not. There will be a lot of debate either was, but that’s beside the point. Marriage for members of the LGBTQI community has to be allowed because the Constitution demands it,” said Supreme Court advocate Saurabh Kirpal who appeared for the petitioners in the Navtej Johar case, which led to decriminalisation of homosexuality in 2018.(With inputs from Murali Krishnan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sg-opposes-same-sex-marriage-plea-in-hc/story-QWrhRtiQMiY0phHsQpc1yK.html
14-09-2020||India||Assam student bodies form political party||GUWAHATI: Two of Assam’s biggest student organisations, the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), came together on Monday to formally announce the formation of a new political party, Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), ahead of next year’s assembly elections. The new regional party is among several outfits that have formally launched recently or are in the process of being formed. Both the AASU and the AJYCP had earlier formed a 16-member advisory committee of prominent personalities to suggest a way forward. Based on their suggestions, the decision to form a new political party “to secure the future of Assam and Assamese people” was taken. “Work on our party begins from now. The organisation set up across all districts will be completed by October and the party’s state-level political convention will be held in November,” said Basanta Deka, former professor of Handique Girls College, one of the two convenors of the advisory committee. He added that the new party will follow the slogan, “ghore ghore ami (we are in each household)” with the aim of reaching out to every house across Assam ahead of the next polls in the eastern state ruled by a coalition of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF).“The constitution of the party is nearly complete and its aims and ideologies would be unveiled at a later date. The party’s flag, symbol and office-bearers would be announced at the November convention,” said former Gauhati University professor Krishnagopal Bhattacharya, the other convenor. This will be the second political party to be formed by leaders belonging to the AASU, after the AGP, which came into being in 1985 after the signing of the Assam Accord that ended the six-year-long anti-foreigner agitation that saw an active participation of both the AASU and the AJYCP. Both these organisations spearheaded the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) stir in the state, opposing the Centre’s move to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan—which many in Assam feared would lead to large scale influx of Bangladeshis to the border state. Activist Akhil Gogoi’s Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), another outfit that took part in the anti-CAA stir, has announced its plan to launch a political party.Journalist-turned-politician Ajit Bhuyan, who became a Rajya Sabha MP earlier this year with support of Congress and the AIUDF, too has floated an outfit called Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM). Lawyer Arun Borbora launched the United Regional Party, Assam, last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-student-bodies-form-political-party/story-eJlnndqen3tVdeamSawE8H.html
14-09-2020||India||Bhushan files review plea in contempt case||Advocate Prashant Bhushan filed a review petition before the Supreme Court on Monday, challenging his conviction by the apex court in a criminal contempt of court case, hours after he deposited the fine of Re 1 imposed on him by the top court as punishment. Bhushan maintained that depositing the fine did not signify that he was in agreement with the top court’s verdict.“I am going to the Supreme Court registry to deposit Re 1 fine imposed on me in relation to the contempt of court case. That I am depositing the fine does not mean I am accepting the judgment. I will be filing a review petition against the judgment today,” Bhushan told journalists outside the Supreme Court on Monday morning.Later in the day, he filed the review petition. The apex court, on August 14, held Bhushan guilty of contempt of court for two tweets, one criticizing the Supreme Court and the other targeting Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.The court then held a separate hearing on the punishment to be handed down to the activist lawyer. During the hearing on sentencing, Bhushan was offered opportunities by the court to apologise, but he stood his ground.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra pronounced its sentence on August 3,1 imposing a token fine of Re 1 on Bhushan. He was asked to deposit the fine with the registry of the court by September 15, failing which he would undergo three months’ imprisonment and be debarred from practising before the Supreme Court for three years.In his review petition, Bhushan challenged the August 14 judgment, contending that the judgment suffered from various errors and also rendered any criticism of the Supreme Court an offence of criminal contempt.The review petition said that a detailed reply was filed by Bhushan in defence of his tweets, but the court did not take into account the contents of his reply while convicting him. He also questioned the manner in which the court initiated the case and heard him, which he contended was in violation of the principles of natural justice because he was not afforded a proper opportunity to present his case.Bhushan highlighted the fact that court took note of his tweets after an advocate, Mehek Maheshwari, filed a petition before the Supreme Court on July 9, seeking the initiation of contempt of court proceedings against him for the tweets.“A copy of the petition of Mr. Maheswari that was the basis for initiating the suo motu {on its own motion} proceedings was not supplied to the review petitioner (Bhushan). It is respectfully submitted that this violation is fundamental and goes to the very root of the matter, as the review petitioner could not address before the court whether the basis on which the court formed its view was substantial or not,” the review petition said.Importantly, Bhushan submitted that the case should not have been heard by justice Arun Mishra given that the same judge had on previous occasions orally accused Bhushan of committing contempt of court when he had merely mentioned that it may be inappropriate for judges to hear cases in which conflict of interest was involved.Bhushan has already filed a petition before the Supreme Court on September 12 praying that an additional legal remedy should be provided in those cases where persons are convicted by the Supreme Court in original criminal contempt cases.Original criminal contempt cases are those which are heard directly by the Supreme Court in the first instance. In such cases, if a person is convicted, he or she is left with no further remedy as the Supreme Court is the highest court in the country.Bhushan argued that in such a case, the convict should be afforded the right to an intra-court appeal, i.e. a larger bench of the Supreme Court different from the bench which convicted a person, should hear an appeal against the conviction.There is a chance of “arbitrary, vengeful, and high-handed decisions” in such contempt cases where the apex court is not only the aggrieved party, but also the “prosecutor, the witness, and the judge,” raising the fear of bias, Bhushan’s September 12 plea said.Bhushan also told the media on Monday that he received Re 1 from various people across the country expressing their solidarity with him; this, he said, was part of larger campaign called “Rupee one, Everyone”. He said that the money so collected would be used to set up a fund called “Truth Fund” which will be used to fight legal cases for the benefit of people who have been arrested for speaking out against the government.“Yesterday, Umar Khalid was arrested only for the reason that he is in support of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The government in India today is cracking down on dissenters to silence them. The Truth Fund will be utilised to defend such persons,” Bhushan said.Activist Khalid was arrested under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for the role he allegedly played in a conspiracy behind the February riots in the national capital.Earlier in the day, retired Supreme Court judge Madan Lokur spoke out in support of Bhushan and also decried the arbitrary use of sedition laws by the government machinery.Lokur was speaking at a video conference organized by the non-government organization, Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms, and the social and political organisation, Swaraj Abhiyan, in support of Bhushan. Lokur said many citizens who expressed their opinions are slapped with sedition cases while those who call for violence don’t face any state reprimand.“State is using sedition as an iron hand to curb free speech, which I think is an overreaction to people expressing their views. On the other hand, those who call for violence and breaking up things, nothing happens to them,” Lokur said.He also highlighted an episode from Uttar Pradesh in which a person whose speech called for unity of citizens was detained by the government on grounds that the speech threatened the integrity of the country.His reference was the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan, who was imprisoned under the National Security Act because of a speech delivered by him in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on December 12, 2019 relating to the CAA.. The Allahabad high court quashed Khan’s detention on September 1, observing that his speech did not promote hatred or violence; rather, it deprecated violence and called for national integrity and unity.“He was kept under detention for six to seven months because his speech was misinterpreted. Thus, free speech is curbed is by misreading the statements of citizens,” Lokur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhushan-files-review-plea-in-contempt-case/story-cy8ucutS541wwgRdyxVMrL.html
14-09-2020||India||Khalilzad to meet Jaishankar, discuss Afghan peace process||New Delhi US special envoy for Afghanistan reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad will hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday on the intra-Afghan negotiations underway in Doha against the backdrop of calls for an immediate ceasefire in the war-torn country. According to diplomats in Doha and New Delhi, Khalilzad will share details of the latest developments in the Afghan peace process. He is also expected to express his appreciation for India’s role in the Afghan reconstruction process during his brief trip to India. Khalilzad’s visit to New Delhi follows a trip on Monday to Islamabad, where he held talks with the top civilian and military leadership. There was no official word from the US or Pakistani side on the discussions. The intra-Afghan negotiations were inaugurated in Doha on Sunday, six months later than planned due to disagreements over a prisoner swap agreed in February and the continuing Taliban offensive and attacks on high value targets in Kabul.Jaishankar laid down India’s expectations from the peace process in his address during Sunday’s inaugural ceremony. New Delhi expects that Afghan soil will never be used for any “anti-India activities”, and supports an “immediate, comprehensive ceasefire” since the rising levels of violence cannot be allowed to continue, he said. Khalilzad had been expected to impress on the Imran Khan government the need to pressure the Taliban to reduce violence in Afghanistan if the talks to end the 19-year war are to succeed. The US interlocutor wants to ensure the Pakistani military takes steps so that the Taliban stays on course in the peace talks. It is widely believed the Taliban, if it hadn’t been under pressure from the US military, would have preferred to militarily take over Afghanistan and turn it into an Islamic emirate as it had done in 1996. At the opening ceremony on Sunday, the Afghan government and its allies, including the US, called for a ceasefire. Abdullah Abdullah, the head of the peace process for the Afghan government, said the Taliban could offer a ceasefire in exchange for the release of more jailed fighters. But there was no mention of a truce by the Taliban. Ahmad Nader Naderi, a member of the government’s negotiating team, tweeted on Sunday: “The first meeting between the contact groups of the two negotiation teams took place today. In this meeting code of conduct between two sides, schedules of upcoming meetings and relevant issues were discussed and progress [was] made.” Apart from the US, Afghanistan, the Taliban and Qatar, which is hosting the talks, Sunday’s ceremony was attended by representatives from India, Pakistan, Russia, Germany, Indonesia, Uzbekistan, Norway and the UN. The event was attended by a delegation led by joint secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) JP Singh of the external affairs ministry and including Deepak Mittal, the Indian envoy to Qatar and a Pakistan-Afghanistan expert. Singh also met Abdullah Abdullah in Doha over the weekend to discuss the peace process. During the meeting, Abdullah thanked India for its continued support. Pakistan has persistently opposed any role for India in Afghanistan but the US, its allies and the Afghan government have been deeply appreciative of New Delhi’s assistance to the reconstruction effort in the war-ravaged nation. The Afghan government’s 21-member negotiating team is led by Masoom Stanekzai, a former intelligence chief. The Taliban side is led by Abdul Hakim, the terror group’s chief justice and a close aide of the its chief Haibatullah Akhunzada. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo, who was in Doha for the opening ceremony, said the negotiations would be difficult. “We will undoubtedly encounter many challenges in the talks over the coming days, weeks and months,” he said, calling for the warring sides to “seize this opportunity” to secure peace. Khalilzad told Afghanistan’s Tolo News channel there some people in Afghanistan who prefer the current volatile situation to peace with the Taliban, while some are attempting to keep Washington engaged in war so that it could pay the price, “It is not acceptable and there is a solution to every problem, and a solution must be found. We are ready to help if the country’s interests come first and personal interests do not come first. I am confident a solution will be found and we will not allow personal interests to take precedence. This is the promise of the US to the people of Afghanistan,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khalilzad-to-meet-jaishankar-discuss-afghan-peace-process/story-AiPI0ytrlQzmUH5ksldCSL.html
14-09-2020||India||Chinese envoy hails 5-pt plan||New Delhi Chinese envoy Sun Weidong on Monday said the five-point roadmap agreed to by India and China to address tensions on the disputed border provides “political impetus” to efforts to ease the situation, even as he blamed New Delhi for trespassing the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and altering the status quo. Sun made the remarks in a lengthy statement issued by the Chinese embassy three days after the two sides finalised the five-point roadmap during a meeting of external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow on Thursday. Despite the roadmap, sharp divergences remained between the two sides, with experts pointing out that the joint statement issued after the Jaishankar-Wang meeting made no mention of the restoration of status quo on the LAC as it existed in April. Sun said the five-point roadmap – which includes following consensus between the top leaders, easing tensions, maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas, continuing diplomatic communications, and expediting work on new confidence-building measures – “is an important step towards the right direction, and will provide political impetus to ease the border situation and promote the bilateral relations”. He added: “I hope and believe that as long as the two sides earnestly implement the consensus reached by the two foreign ministers to the frontline troops and adhere to the correct means of dialogue and negotiation, the two sides will find a way to overcome the current difficulties.” The Chinese envoy contended that “public opinion in India” was generally positive towards the five-point roadmap, and was of the view that “both sides have demonstrated political will to resolve the border situation”. However, Sun referred to statements by relevant Indian ministries that Indian troops “pre-empted” Chinese military activity on the south bank of Pangong Lake, and contended this “obviously revealed that there are illegal trespassing the LAC and status quo change in the border areas.”. He noted that sections of the Indian media had quoted government sources to disclose that the “Indian Army fired shots on two different occasions”, and said, “For the first time since 1975, the calm in the border areas was broken by gunfire.” Sun further noted that Wang had reiterated during his meeting with Jaishankar that the “imperative is to immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violate the commitments made by the two sides”, and that it is “important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed”. He added, “The frontier troops must quickly disengage so that the situation may de-escalate. The Chinese side supports enhanced dialogue between the frontier troops on both sides to solve specific issues, and will stay in touch with the Indian side through diplomatic and military channels.” The Indian side has blamed the tensions on the LAC on unilateral efforts by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to alter the status quo in the Ladakh sector. It has also blamed the latest flare-ups on the LAC on “provocative military manoeuvres” by the PLA. The external affairs ministry has said the PLA engaged in such manoeuvres during August 29-30 to change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Lake and Indian troops responded with “appropriate defensive measures”. The Indian Army has accused the PLA of firing in the air when Chinese troops were prevented from closing in on an Indian forward position on September 7. The Chinese envoy said the “way ahead for [a] solution is very clear” – he pointed to the agreement reached by the two foreign ministers that as the situation eases, the two sides should expedite work on new confidence-building measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquillity in the border areas. Sun said the top leadership of the two countries had reached a series of consensus, including the basic judgement that China and India are partners rather than rivals. “Therefore, we need peace instead of confrontation; we need to pursue win-win cooperation instead of zero-sum game; we need trust rather than suspicion; we need to move our relationship forward rather than backward,” he said. He reiterated Wang’s observation that it is normal for China and India to have differences, but it is important is to put these differences in a proper context vis-a-vis bilateral ties. “At present, the challenge we’re facing is to fight the epidemic, revive the economy and improve people’s livelihoods,” he said. There was no immediate response to the Chinese envoy’s remarks from Indian officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-envoy-hails-5-pt-plan/story-ynrNTjvZ3OTO7xN4tin86H.html
14-09-2020||India||BSP MP Ritesh Pandey to marry UK-based psychology student Katharina||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Ritesh Pandey on Monday made an announcement on social media about his wedding to Katharina, a UK-based psychology student. Taking to Facebook, Pandey shared a picture of him with Katharina and wrote, “I am happy that Katharina and I have decided to complete the journey ahead as life partners. Both of us have taken this decision with the blessings of elders and parents of our families.”Considering the restrictions imposed in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Pandey said there won’t be any wedding function. However, if a decision is made depending on the circumstances in next couple of months,then an announcement will be made, he said.“The entire world including our country is going through a period of crisis. In such a situation there is no possibility and circumstance to hold a function as of now. But if anything is decided in the coming months considering the circumstances, we will definitely inform you,” read Pandey’s post, originally shared in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-mp-ritesh-pandey-to-marry-uk-based-psychology-student-katharina/story-uZ1VBMFO6gVorZRcIWL8iI.html
14-09-2020||India||‘Will not dismantle encroachment without joint decision of Centre, Delhi govt’: Railways||The ministry of railways on Monday said it will not dismantle any encroachment referring to demolition of slums situated along the city’s railway tracks, without a “proper decision” taken in consultation with the urban development ministry and the Delhi state government.The statement by the railways comes in the backdrop of a political storm caused by the Supreme Court’s decision on August 31 directing railways to remove the 48,000 slums situated in the railways safety zone within three months. The court further directed that no court in Delhi would stay the demolition process.“The railways have been taking all the measures for complying with the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s order in M.C. Mehta v/s Union of India dated 31.8.2020,” a statement issued by the Northern Railways said. Railway officials are holding regular meeting with all stake holders including Delhi government; Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB)and the ministry of urban development to find means and ways to “comply with Hon’ble Supreme Court Order”, northern railways said.“Further, Railway will not dismantle any encroachment without proper decision along with MOUD and state government. The same stand has been taken by the Ministry of Railways in hearing of Ajay Maken’s petition in Hon’ble Supreme Court listed today. Railways have also started the drive in large scale and have removed 5-6% garbage lying along the track till date. The garbage cleaning will be completed within three months as given in the order by Hon’ble Supreme Court,” it added.The Northern Railways had submitted a report to the Supreme Court stating that the slums along the railway tracks were acting as a hindrance towards keeping them clean.The Congress last Friday had moved the Supreme Court against the demolition of around 48,000 slums near railway tracks in Delhi.“The removal order was passed without hearing the slum dwellers. If slums are removed, more than 2,50,000 people will be out on the roads,” Congress leader Ajay Maken had said in his petition to the apex court. The apex court on Monday, however, informed that the Centre and Delhi government are in the process of making a decision with regard to the clearing of 48,000 slums situated adjacent to railway tracks in Delhi.The Delhi government last week had written to the Northern Railway, urging it to not to demolish slums situated along the city’s railway tracks without first rehabilitating its dwellers.The letter, from the government’s Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), said the slum dwelling units, which the rail utility is set to demolish in pursuance of a Supreme Court order, are protected under the provisions of the NCT of Delhi Laws (special provision) Second Act, 2011.It is estimated that around 2.4 lakh people live in slums in Naraina Vihar, Azadpur, Vihar, Shakur Basti, Mayapuri, Sriniwaspuri, Anand Parbat, Okhla and other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-dismantle-encroachment-without-joint-decision-of-centre-delhi-govt-railways/story-d9EihNkg090ol0v70UXnlO.html
14-09-2020||India||3,186 ceasefire violations along LoC in Jammu region this year till September 7: Govt||There have been 3,186 incidents of ceasefire violations along the Line of Control in Jammu region in this year (from January 1 to September 7, 2020), MoS for Defence Shripad Naik said in a written reply today in the Rajya Sabha.“In addition, 242 incidents of cross-border firing have occurred along India-Pak International Border in Jammu region in this year (January 1 to August 31, 2020),” the Minister added.There have been 8 fatal casualties and 2 non-fatal casualties of Army personnel occurred in J-K in this year (till September 7, 2020). In addition, there have been 5 non-fatal casualties of BSF personnel that occurred along the International Border and Line of Control in J-K.The Minister further said, “Appropriate retaliation to the ceasefire violations, as required, has been carried out by Indian Army/BSF. In addition, all the cases of ceasefire violations are taken up with Pakistan authorities through the established mechanisms of hotlines, flag meetings, Directorate General of Military Operations talks as well as diplomatic channels between the two countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-186-ceasefire-violations-along-loc-in-jammu-region-this-year-till-september-7-govt/story-c2Qd1vkoVdAzRxBfJs6arJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Mumbai airport sets up 24x7 RT-PCR testing facility to test international passengers||After the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) allowed arriving international passengers to get tested for Covid-19, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has set up a 24x7 express Covid-19 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test facility. The test would cost around Rs 1,600 and the results will be available within eight hours. The airport operator, Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) has advised passengers to book their onward flight only after a gap of 8-12 hours. The MIAL will also make the facility available for departing passengers. Passengers will be able to register on www.suburbandiagnostics.com. The airport operator has set up a helpdesk at the arrival terminal for RT-PCR test enrollments. MIAL spokesperson said, “Upon submission of test samples, arriving passengers will be at the waiting lounge with special food and beverage (F&B) arrangements while waiting for their test report. Alternatively, passengers can also opt to book a room at the airport hotel with the approval of the state authorities. Passengers who have tested negative will be allowed to proceed onward to their final destinations; they will receive a stamp indicating home quarantine by the state officials. In the event of a positive report, passengers will be transferred by the state authorities to a designated institution.”Also read: Won’t be enough Covid-19 vaccines till 2024 - Serum Institute’s Adar PoonawallaThe spokesperson also said passengers departing from Mumbai will soon be able to undergo RT-CPR test at CSMIA and have their reports emailed to them. As per an earlier initiative, all international arriving passengers could choose to be exempted from institutional quarantine by filling an online self-declaration form as well as uploading the results of an RT-PCR test undertaken within 96 hours before their take off. International arriving passengers leaving from Mumbai airport were allowed to display the results of the RT-PCR test in order to escape institutional quarantine and instead observe a 14-day home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-airport-sets-up-24x7-rt-pcr-testing-facility-to-test-international-passengers/story-x99rWPfhQVp233WCuLz92I.html
14-09-2020||India||Armed Forces Tribunal stays action in matter related to Mi-17 friendly fire incident till Sept 30||The Armed Forces Tribunal on Monday stayed further action against two Indian Air Force officers in a matter related to the shooting down of a Mi-17 V5 helicopter in friendly fire near Srinagar on February 27, 2019 due to non-compliance of various statutory provisions during the IAF court of inquiry (CoI) into the incident, people familiar with the developments. The helicopter was shot down the day Pakistan launched its jets to target Indian installations in Jammu and Kashmir in response to an Indian airstrike on a terror camp in Balakot. The military court has stayed action against the officers till the matter comes up for hearing again on September 30, said counsels Ankur Chhibber and Karn Deo Baghel who are representing the petitioners at the AFT. Group Captain Suman Roy Chowdhury and Wing Commander Shyam Naithani, the two officers who moved the AFT, were then posted at the Srinagar air base. While the former was the chief operations officer of the base, the latter was in charge of the air traffic control. “Both the officers had challenged the CoI as well as its findings on the ground of violation of Rule 156 (2) of the Air Force Rules as well as issues related to the composition of the CoI,” Chhibber told Hindustan Times. He said after hearing the parties, the military court said there were violations in the conduct of the CoI and directed that no action be taken against the officers on the basis of the inquiry till September 30, the next date of hearing. The two officers, among the five held blameworthy for the incident, moved the AFT’s principal bench in January 2020 with the plea that the IAF be directed to provide them the entire proceedings of air force CoI into the February 27 incident. A surface-to-air missile brought down the Russian-origin utility helicopter and left six IAF personnel on-board and a civilian on ground dead, raising questions about whether ground crew, including air traffic controllers, had followed standard operating procedures. The IAF was on its highest alert levels the day when the helicopter was brought down. It expected Pakistan to respond to the unprecedented peace-time cross-border airstrike on a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror camp in Balakot on February 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-tribunal-stays-action-in-matter-related-to-mi-17-friendly-fire-incident-till-sept-30/story-PCCIGPwnyC8ZdNQwAnSqFO.html
14-09-2020||India||‘Rename Agra’s Mughal Museum after Shivaji’: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced the decision to rename the under-construction Mughal Museum in Agra after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the chief minister’s office said in a statement.“How can Mughals be our heroes?” the press statement quoted Yogi Adityanath as saying.“The very name of Shivaji will invoke a feeling of nationalism and self-esteem,” Yogi added, according to the statement.The CM issued instructions to officers on renaming the museum at a meeting that he held from his official residence via video link to review Agra division’s development works and the Covid-19 situation.The Rs 141 crore museum, being built by the state tourism department, was the brainchild of former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav who announced its construction in 2016.Also read: ‘He was compelled’ - Raghuvansh Singh’s letter sparks row after his demise“Much of the work has been completed but the finishing touch is yet to be given. There was a paucity of funds because of the lockdown and the work stopped,” said Amit Srivastava, deputy director of Uttar Pradesh tourism office in Agra.“The museum was to house historical artefacts from Mughal and Braj culture. It is located about 2 kilometres from the eastern gate of Taj Mahal,” added Srivastava.Reacting to the decision to change the museum’s name, Samajwadi Party’s Agra city president Wazid Nisar blamed the Yogi regime of focusing only on changing names instead of developmental works.“This Mughal Museum was the dream project of then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. The BJP government is not releasing the required funds for the completion of the project,” he said.Fadnavis welcomes Yogi’s decision Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who is the leader of opposition in the state legislative assembly, welcomed Yogi’s decision on renaming the Mughal Museum after Shivaji. Soon after the Agra divisional review meeting, Yogi had tweeted in Hindi, “The under-construction museum in Agra will be named after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. In your new Uttar Pradesh, there is no place for any symbols of subservient mentality.” Responding to Yogi’s tweet, Fadnavis tweeted, “Jai Jijau, Jai Shivrai ! Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaji Ki Jai!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rename-agra-s-mughal-museum-after-shivaji-yogi-adityanath/story-fOeZWS4erbNwfjXDSKx8WP.html
14-09-2020||India||Supreme Court to organise mental health workshop for court staff||The Supreme Court will organize on Tuesday an interactive workshop titled “Mind Matters”, in collaboration with the Director, Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences, in order to help court staff manage stress and anxiety caused by the prevailing uncertainty due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The workshop, a Supreme Court press note dated September 14, said was to “ensure overall wellness and to create awareness amongst stakeholders i.e. officers and officials of the registry, advocates as well as litigants to enable them to deal with the strain, fear and anxieties induced by the pandemic.”All officers of the rank of registrars and additional registrars will join the workshop which will be held at 3.30 pm in the multipurpose hall in Block C of the additional building complex, the note added. The initiative is the brainchild of Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde, who on September 12, spoke about the importance of mental health during the pandemic and said that the court was in the process of setting up a mental health initiative.Monday’s announcement was the “first step” in that regard. There are plans for setting up mental wellness helpdesks and tele-consultation, the press note added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-organise-mental-health-workshop-for-court-staff/story-t1aNt6NJl98qcAOP3mJHKN.html
14-09-2020||India||Days after cheque fraud, SBI returns Rs 6 lakh to Ram Janmabhoomi Trust||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Monday refunded Rs 6 lakh to Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust in lieu of the amount that was fraudulently withdrawn from the trust’s bank account through two cloned cheques earlier this month. The trust operates two bank accounts from the SBI’s main branch in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh.On Monday, the trust tweeted from its official twitter handle, “The amount of 6 lakh rupees, which was fraudulently transferred from the bank account of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra using fake cheques & signatures, has been duly returned to the trust’s account by SBI. Our gratitude to SBI management for their swift action.”Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, also confirmed the return of the money.Also read: ‘He was compelled’ - Raghuvansh Singh’s letter sparks row after his demise“The SBI has returned to the trust the Rs 6 lakh which was fraudulently withdrawn from the bank account of the trust,” said Champat Rai.On September 1, a fraudster had transferred Rs 2.5 lakh and on September 8 another Rs 3.5 lakh from the trust’s bank account at SBI, Ayodhya, through two cloned cheques and forged signatures into an account at Punjab National Bank, Lucknow. The fraud came to light when Rai received a verification call from the SBI regarding another cheque worth Rs 9.86 lakh on September 9 apparently issued by the trust. Rai, who was in Ayodhya, verified that the cheque, with the number quoted by the bank, was still in the trust’s chequebook. By then, two other cloned cheques had already been used to defraud the trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-cheque-fraud-sbi-returns-rs-6-lakh-to-ram-janmabhoomi-trust/story-XK8AOcILQXFB2dfBSkJYLI.html
14-09-2020||India||Good cinema can make a better community, says Vikram Kochhar||Actor Vikram Kochhar believes in portraying his characters realistic and relatable. And, to prepare for that he does a lot of homework. “Events and incidents from my own life, research on YouTube, narration of character and interaction with locals are my tools. I collect everything, I try to make it my own and then give my best,” said the multi-faceted actor.Probably that’s the reason his earthy roles such as Sanki Pandey in ‘Raktanchal’, Mattu in ‘Sacred Games’, Gulab Singh in ‘Kesri’ and Dukhi Daroga in ‘Sumit Sambhal Lega’ connected with audiences. An NSD alumnus, he talked about his training process. “In acting, it’s best to remain closest to truth but in films we need to create drama around reality. The fact is that viewers relate to real stories. That is why, more than big superstars, people relate more with actors like Naseer(uddin Shah) Saheb, Om Puri Saheb or Irfaan Saheb and connect with them — from the heart. “I personally believe that cinema has the power to change society. That power you have in your hand! The more you relate to people, the more they will relate to you. And, if we make good cinema, then we can become a better community.”The actor said that many times, it depends on the character sketch and on the scope you have to develop it within the story line. Inputs from locals play a big part in building a character, like he did in ‘Raktanchal’, where he got an open hand, he said.The son of an army official, he has travelled a lot which is helping him. “My maternal side is from Uttar Pradesh as my mother’s hometown is Jhansi. I am a Punjabi, born in Binaguri (West Bengal) and have lived in Saharanpur, Firozpur, Dalhousie, Bikaner, Gurgaon and Delhi,” he said.The actor has just wrapped up his shoot. “We finished the schedule of OTT series ‘Simple Murder’ in Delhi with actor Zeeshan Ayub, Amit Sial, Priya Anand and Sushant Singh. Here we largely did outdoor shoots and exteriors. The major shooting was done in Ramoji Film City in Hyderabad.” Last winter, he simultaneously shot for ‘Raktanchal’ in Varanasi and ‘Aashram’ in Ayodhya and is expecting to do its next seasons later this year. He is next shooting for a web film that stars Deepak Dobriyal. “Kafi time khali baithey rahe…ab paisa bhi kamana padega thoda! Besides, I have a good friend circle in which some are earning while some are not. So, our aim is that whatever work is coming we must do and earn so the support-system for everyone is maintained.”Kochhar is happy that he is getting to portray different kinds of characters on OTT. “Because of the lockdown, suddenly, the audience has increased which gave a boost to OTT releases. Releases of ‘Raktanchal’ during total-lockdown gave it a big viewership; now ‘Aashram’ is getting a lot of love.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/good-cinema-can-make-a-better-community-says-vikram-kochhar/story-MC6LeI9UtK0TB9vZdAoAwI.html
14-09-2020||India||Environment ministry allows virtual public hearings, email submissions||The Union environment ministry on Monday issued guidelines on holding public consultations for various large infrastructure projects like mining or industry which were on hold since March.Environmental experts have red-flagged certain clauses in the environment ministry’s office memorandum because they could dilute the consultation process in remote areas where local people have no access to internet or other means of submitting responses in writing.The guidelines state that 100 people can gather for a hearing while maintaining social distancing as per the home ministry’s order under Unlock 4. If more than 100 people are required to gather then hearings can be staggered to more than one hearing. The guidelines have also provided the option of holding online or virtual hearings in addition to physical public hearings. The guidelines also state that state pollution control boards can obtain responses from local communities in writing “from concerned persons having plausible stake in the environmental aspects of the project or activity, through electronic means”. The guidelines do not clarify if the written submissions are in addition to physical hearings.On completion of the virtual or physical hearing the pollution control boards will submit a summary of the issues raised during the hearing in person or virtually or through email along with a response of the project proponent along with a certificate of the district magistrate or his authorised representative to the ministry or other regulatory authority, the guidelines, seen by HT state.“For the ministry or project proponents, public hearings may be just one step closer to the grant of an environment clearance. For affected people, these are not just platforms for receiving information but a rare and critical opportunity for a direct interface with their government. The guidelines are designed to push through public hearings and not take socio-ecologically informed decisions. Those who choose to attend them will do so at a grave health risk and for many others, particularly in remote areas the hearings will be efficiently wrapped online or offline, even before people can wrap their heads around these new guidelines,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research.“Demand has reduced across sectors including mining leading to a slump. Public hearings had stopped. We had been demanding that public hearings should begin so that our operations can start again,” said Ashish Das, Federation of Indian Mineral Industries joint director.Senior environment ministry officials were not reachable for a comment on the clauses on Monday but press information bureau representatives confirmed that the office memorandum had been issued on Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-allows-virtual-public-hearings-email-submissions-on-hold-since-march/story-tPpyzoXfR934D95M11zAMI.html
14-09-2020||India||‘Outgoing Bihar assembly has 136 MLAs facing criminal charges’: Report||The outgoing Bihar assembly has 136 MLAs, over 55 percent, facing criminal cases and while 94 MLAs, nearly 39 percent, have serious criminal cases against them, said a report by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Bihar Election Watch released on Monday. Assembly elections in the state are due in October-November.The report has brought to spotlight the Supreme Court order passed in February this year which made it mandatory for all political parties to publicise, on their respective party websites, social media handles and in newspapers, the details of candidates with criminal background.It also said that parties must explain the reasons for selecting the candidate and why someone without a criminal record was been selected instead.The ADR report, which analysed the 2015 election affidavits of 240 sitting MLAs (three seats are vacant), said 11 MLAs had declared cases related to murder, 30 related to attempt to murder and five declared cases of crime against women, including one of rape.Also read: ‘He was compelled’ - Raghuvansh Singh’s letter sparks row after his demiseThis analysis is based on the affidavits submitted by the candidates before the 2015 assembly elections and bypolls conducted thereafter.Party-wise, out of 80 MLAs of RJD, 45 (56%) had criminal cases, while 34 (49%) out of 69 MLAs from JD(U) had criminal cases against them.JD(U)’s alliance partner in the NDA, the BJP, was not far behind, with 34 (63%) of its 54 MLAs facing criminal cases, followed by 14 (56%) out of 25 MLAs from Congress, two out of two (100%) of LJP, three (100%) out of 3 MLAs from CPI(ML)(L) and four (80%) out of five Independent MLAs.The outgoing assembly had 160 (67%) crorepati MLAs, which works out to Rs 3.06 crore per MLA. Of these, 51 (74%) out of 69 MLAs are from JD(U), 51 (64%) of 80 MLAs are from RJD, 33 (61%) of 54 MLAs are from BJP, 17 (68%) of 25 MLAs from INC, 2 (100%) out of 2 MLAs from LJP, 1 (100%) of 1 MLA from All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen and 5 (100%) out of 5 MLAs from Independent have declared assets valued more than Rs 1 crore.“The average assets per MLA for 80 RJD lawmakers analysed is Rs 3.02 crore, Rs 2.79 crore for 69 JD(U) MLAs, Rs.2.38 crore for 54 BJP MLAs and Rs 4.36 crore for 25 Congress MLAs,” reveals the study.Similarly, 94 (39%) MLAs have declared their educational qualifications to be between 5th pass and 12th pass while 134 (56%) MLAs have declared having an educational qualification of a graduate or above.Nine MLAs have declared in their affidavits that they are just literate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outgoing-bihar-assembly-has-136-mlas-facing-criminal-charges-report/story-fUvIUzWxvPl5dVY4Uh3nHN.html
14-09-2020||India||Bengaluru drug probe: Actor Ragini Dwivedi’s custody extended||In the Bengaluru drug racket case in which leading actors and other personalities are accused of being involved, a court in the city has extended their judicial custody. In the 1st ACMM court, actor Ragini Dwivedi who had been arrested on September 4 on charges of drug procurement, consumption, and peddling was remanded to 14-day judicial custody along with other accused, Prashant Ranka, Loum Pepper, Rahul Tonse, and Niyaz Ahmed. All of them have been lodged at the Central Prison in Parpanna Agrahara.Authorities indicated that Ragini Dwivedi had been placed in the barrack next to another high profile prisoner Sashikala Natarajan a close aide of former TN CM J Jayalalithaa who is serving a four-year prison sentence.The same court also granted the Central Crime Branch (CCB) request for police custody of Sanjjanaa Galrani, Viren Khanna and Ravi Shankar for three more days till September 16. CCB police said that further questioning needs to be done for the three accused. Vaibhav Jain another accused is already in police custody.In an unrelated development, but as a part of a broader crackdown on drug peddlers, Bengaluru Commissioner of Police Kamal Pant said that two inter-state drug peddlers had been arrested in JP Nagar locality of the city and 50 kilograms of ganja had been seized from them. Cases under relevant sections of NDPS and CrPC have been filed against the alleged drug peddlers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-drug-probe-actor-ragini-dwivedi-s-custody-extended/story-JDASGkZgFjsrnFlMgVX5rI.html
14-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh likely to make statement in Parliament on Sino-India issue: Report||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to make a statement in Parliament on Tuesday on the continuing standoff between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, Parliamentary sources said. The statement would assume significance in the backdrop of demands made by the Opposition for a debate on the issue. Singh had met his Chinese counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe in Moscow recently.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi had also met in Moscow a few days ago. Meanwhile, the Union Cabinet and the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs are also likely to meet over video conferencing on Tuesday afternoon, government sources said. During the monsoon session, which began on Monday, the opposition is seeking to corner the government on its handling of the standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, the COVID-19 situation, economic downturn and unemployment, and is pressing for discussions on these issues. The Congress and other opposition parties raised these demands in the first business advisory committee (BAC) meeting for Lok Sabha chaired by Speaker Om Birla on Sunday, but no time has been allocated yet for these discussions.The BAC for Lok Sabha will be held again on Tuesday afternoon to further discuss the first week’s business schedule.Similar demands have been raised by the Congress in the BAC for Rajya Sabha as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-likely-to-make-statement-in-parliament-on-sino-india-issue-report/story-GPoE1WyEA8fTwTej0cnv8N.html
14-09-2020||India||China’s envoy cheers Jaishankar-Wang roadmap, then blames India for tension||Chinese envoy Sun Weidong on Monday said the five-point roadmap agreed to by India and China to address tensions on the disputed border provides “political impetus” to efforts to ease the situation, even as he blamed New Delhi for trespassing the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and altering the status quo. Sun made the remarks in a lengthy statement issued by the Chinese embassy three days after the two sides finalised the five-point roadmap during a meeting of external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow on Thursday. There was no immediate response to the Chinese envoy’s remarks from Indian officials. Despite the roadmap, sharp divergences remained between the two sides, with experts pointing out that the joint statement issued after the Jaishankar-Wang meeting made no mention of the restoration of the status quo on the LAC as it existed in April. Sun said the five-point consensus – which includes following the top leaders’ consensus, easing tensions, maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas, continuing diplomatic communications, and expediting work on new confidence-building measures – “is an important step towards the right direction, and will provide political impetus to ease the border situation and promote the bilateral relations”. He added, “I hope and believe that as long as the two sides earnestly implement the consensus reached by the two foreign ministers to the frontline troops and adhere to the correct means of dialogue and negotiation, the two sides will find a way to overcome the current difficulties.” The Chinese envoy contended that “public opinion in India” was generally positive towards the five-point roadmap, and was of the view that “both sides have demonstrated political will to resolve the border situation”. However, Sun referred to statements by relevant Indian ministries that Indian troops “pre-empted” Chinese military activity on the south bank of Pangong Lake, and contended this “obviously revealed that there are illegal trespassing the LAC and status quo change in the border areas (sic)”. He noted that sections of the Indian media had quoted government sources to disclose that the “Indian Army fired shots on two different occasions”, and said, “For the first time since 1975, the calm in the border areas was broken by gunfire.” Sun further noted that Wang had reiterated during his meeting with Jaishankar that the “imperative is to immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violate the commitments made by the two sides”, and that it is “important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed”. He added, “The frontier troops must quickly disengage so that the situation may deescalate. The Chinese side supports enhanced dialogue between the frontier troops on both sides to solve specific issues, and will stay in touch with the Indian side through diplomatic and military channels.” The Indian side has blamed the tensions on the LAC on unilateral efforts by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to alter the status quo in the Ladakh sector. It has also blamed the latest flare-ups on the LAC on “provocative military manoeuvres” by the PLA. The external affairs ministry has said the PLA engaged in such manoeuvres during August 29-30 to change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Lake and Indian troops responded with “appropriate defensive measures”. The Indian Army has accused the PLA of firing in the air when Chinese troops were prevented from closing in on an Indian forward position on September 7. The Chinese envoy said the “way ahead for [a] solution is very clear” – he pointed to the agreement reached by the two foreign ministers that as the situation eases, the two sides should expedite work on new confidence-building measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquillity in the border areas. Sun said the top leadership of the two countries had reached a series of consensus, including the basic judgement that China and India are partners rather than rivals. “Therefore, we need peace instead of confrontation; we need to pursue win-win cooperation instead of zero-sum game; we need trust rather than suspicion; we need to move our relationship forward rather than backward,” he said. He reiterated Wang Yi’s observation that it is normal for China and India to have differences, but it is important is to put these differences in a proper context vis-a-vis bilateral ties. “At present, the challenge we’re facing is to fight the epidemic, revive the economy and improve people’s livelihoods,” he said. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-point-roadmap-gives-political-impetus-to-efforts-to-ease-border-row-chinese-envoy/story-1T7dYKte4v406HqXLFHuDP.html
14-09-2020||India||News Updates from Hindustan Times: Raghuvansh Singh’s letter sparks row after his demise and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.‘He was compelled’: Raghuvansh Singh’s letter sparks row after his demiseEven before the mortal remains of former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh could be consigned to flames, an ugly verbal spat has broken out between Grand Alliance and NDA leaders over the letter written by Singh from his hospital bed in New Delhi days before his death. Read moreRhea Chakraborty names Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and designer Simone Khambatta, says NCBActor Rhea Chakraborty, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with its ongoing investigation into allegations of drug abuse and distribution in the case of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has named actors Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh and designer Simone Khambatta in her statement, officials said on Monday. Read moreDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tests positive for Covid-19Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that he has tested positive for coronavirus. Taking to Twitter to make the announcement, the deputy CM said that he has gone in self isolation. Read moreWon’t be enough Covid-19 vaccines till 2024: Serum Institute’s Adar PoonawallaAdar Poonawalla, the chief executive of Serum Institute of India (SII), has warned there won’t be enough vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for everyone in the world till the end of 2024, according to a report on Monday. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘If a captain is believing in you, what more do you want’: Piyush Chawla glad to be back with ‘world’s best captain’ MS DhoniChawla is excited to be back working with Dhoni as CSK head into the IPL as a side that possesses one of one of strongest spin attacks among all eight franchises. Read moreLG Wing launched: Check out price, specs, features hereAs far as the availability is concerned, the LG WING will be available in South Korea starting next month in Aurora Gray and Illusion Sky colour variants. There is no word on the pricing yet. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law on life 3 months after the actor’s death: ‘We are partly still in trauma’Sushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law Vishal Singh Kirti has written a long note on how the family is dealing with their loss. He said the family is trying to heal but is still partly in trauma. Read moreSaif Ali Khan’s sizzling look even at the age of 50 is credited to this secretSaif Ali Khan’s age-defying looks may come as a surprise to some but we’re here to spill the beans on his sultry and handsome hunk avatar, even at 50. Read moreWatch | ‘Insult’, ‘apologise’: Nirmala Sitharaman faces TMC MP’s jibe in LS, BJP livid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-raghuvansh-singh-s-letter-sparks-row-after-his-demise-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sAhJTveYSKfk694uE1NHhM.html
14-09-2020||India||Ahead of 2021 assembly polls, AASU-AJYCP tie up to form Assam Jatiya Parishad||Two of Assam’s biggest student organizations, All Assam Students Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) came together on Monday to formally announce formation of a new political party, Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), ahead of next year’s assembly polls. The new regional party is among several outfits that have formally launched recently or are in the process of formation to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party-led ruling coalition comprising the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) in the April election. Both AASU and AJYCP had earlier formed a 16-member advisory committee of prominent personalities to suggest a way forward and based on their suggestions the decision to form a new political party “to secure the future of Assam and Assamese people” was taken. “Work on our party begins from now. The organization set up across all districts will be completed by October and the party’s state-level political convention will be held in November,” said Basanta Deka, former professor of Handique Girls College, one of the two convenors of the advisory committee. He added that the new party will follow the slogan-‘ghore ghore ami’ (we are in each household) with the aim of reaching out to every home across Assam ahead of next year’s assembly polls.“The constitution of the party is nearly complete and its aims and ideologies would be unveiled at a later date. The party’s flag, symbol and office bearers would be announced at the November convention,” said former Gauhati University professor Krishnagopal Bhattacharya, the other convenor. Incidentally, this will be the second political party to be formed by AASU leaders after Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), which came into being in 1985 after signing of the Assam Accord that ended the six-year-long anti-foreigners agitation--in which both AASU and AJYCP played a key role. Both organizations had spearheaded the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) stir in the state opposing the Centre’s move to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan—which many in Assam feared would lead to large scale influx of Bangladeshis to the state. “We have got very good response from the public and other organizations to the new party. Everyone who loves Assam and its people and even those in other parties with similar views are welcome to join us,” said veteran politician Jagadish Bhuyan, coordinator of AJP. Earlier, the leadership of both AASU and AJYCP had stressed that formation of the new party won’t affect the organizations and they would retain their non-political character. Incidentally, AJP isn’t the only political party that will make its debut in the next assembly polls. Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), another outfit which spearheaded the anti-CAA stir has announced its plan to launch a political party. The outfit’s leader Akhil Gogoi, who is at present in jail since last December for his role in the anti-CAA stir, has urged all outfits to come under one umbrella. Journalist-turned-politician Ajit Bhuyan, who became a Rajya Sabha MP earlier this year with the support of the Congress and AIUDF, has also floated an outfit called Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM). Noted lawyer Arun Borbora had launched the United Regional Party, Assam last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2021-assembly-polls-aasu-ajycp-tie-up-to-form-assam-jatiya-parishad/story-dTLwHkIOcqMebPAceZs8GI.html
14-09-2020||India||25 Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha MPs test Covid-19 positive: Here’s a list||As Parliament’s monsoon session began on Monday, 25 members from both the Houses tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). While 17 MPs of the Lok Sabha have contracted the disease, as many as eight members of the Rajya Sabha were found to be infected.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said it has carried out testing of more than 2,500 samples of members of Parliament and other officials “on a war footing” over the weekend.The reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test would continue till the next week for the members of Parliament, officials have said.Here’s is a list of all 25 MPs who are Covid-19 positive:Lok Sabha members1.Sukhbir Singh Jaunpuria- BJP2.Hanuman Beniwal - BJP3.Meenakshi Lekhi - BJP4.Sukanata Majumdar - BJP5.Anant Kumar Hegde - BJP6.Goddeti Madhavi - YSRC7.Pratap Rao Jadav - Shiv Sena8.Janardan Singh - BJP9.Bidyut Baran Mahato- BJP10.Pradhan Baruah- BJP11.N Reddeppa - YSRC12.Selvam G - DMK13.Pratap Rao Patil - BJP14.Ram Shankar Katheria - BJP15.Parvesh Sahib Singh - BJP16.Satya Pal Singh - BJP17.Rodmal Nagar - BJPRajya Sabha members1.Deepender Singh Hooda - Congress2.Naranbhai J. Rathwa - Congress3.A Navneethakrishnan - AIADMK4.Ashok Gasti - BJP5.Abhay Bhardwaj - BJP6.Sushil Kumar Gupta - AAP7.V. Lakshmikantha Rao - TRS8.Shanta Chhetri - AITC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-lok-sabha-rajya-sabha-mps-test-covid-19-positive-here-s-a-list/story-lFYhgvsz6aNsho9bu9grgI.html
14-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand HC directs 3 former CMs to file response in contempt petition case||The Uttarakhand High Court on Monday directed three former chief ministers - Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Vijay Bahuguna and Bhuvan Chand Khanduri - to file their response in a contempt petition case within two weeks.The contempt petition was filed in August regarding non-compliance of the court’s earlier order regarding the non-payment of pending dues. The petitioner is Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK), a Dehradun-based NGO. Rakesh Thapliyal, counsel of Nishank, and Vikas Bahuguna, counsel of Vijay Bahuguna and Khanduri, said the court has given them two weeks to file their response in the matter. Kartikey Hari Gupta, counsel of the petitioner, said as the former CMs didn’t comply with the HC directions. RLEK filed the contempt petition against the three and the chief secretary, following which the court issued show-cause notices to them. Also read: 25 MPs test positive for Covid-19 on first day of Parliament’s monsoon session“Chief secretary Om Prakash has filed his response affidavit in the court in which he has stated that the state government has filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court in the case, hence the contempt petition may be deferred. The counsels for the three CMs also appeared and sought time to file A response. The court has given two weeks to them to file their response and ordered that the matter be posted immediately after two weeks for further hearing,” he said.On May 3, 2019, the HC had directed the ex-CMs to pay the market rent amounting to Rs 2.8 crore for the buildings occupied by them within six months. It had also directed that the amount payable towards amenities such as electricity, water, petrol, oil and lubricants be recalculated within four months and the same be intimated to the ex-CMs. The court asked the ex-CMs to pay the amount to the state government within six months.The HC had delivered the order on May 3 after hearing the PIL filed by RLEK. The PIL challenged free residence, car, security and other perks to the former CMs in 2010. On June 9, the HC declared several provisions of the Uttarakhand Former Chief Minister Facility (Residential and other facilities) Act 2019 as ultra vires (beyond one’s legal power or authority), paving way for the recovery of pending dues from the former CMs at the market rate. In January this year, RLEK filed a PIL challenging the constitutional validity of the Act passed by the state government in the winter session of the assembly in December last year. The state government, on January 15, issued a gazette notification regarding the implementation of the Uttarakhand Former Chief Minister Facility (Residential and other facilities) Act 2019, which was passed by the assembly in December and assented to by the governor on January 13. According to the notification, the appropriate rent of the government residences allotted to the ex-CMs would be recovered from the allottees from the date of the allotment. However, the notification added, the facilities provided to the ex-CMs by the state government, such vehicle along with driver, maintenance of vehicles, personal assistant/officer on special duty/public relation officer, fourth class employee, watchman, gardener, telephone attendant and security guard, would be free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc-directs-3-former-cms-to-file-response-in-contempt-petition-case/story-DEYpwoNI5frvE3LKjZKB9H.html
14-09-2020||India||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Sisodia took to Twitter to make the announcement and said he has gone in self isolation.Sisodia fell unwell on Sunday night with mild fever and took the Covid-19 test on Monday.The minister assured people that he was fine and had no major complications.“Right now there is no fever or any other complication. I am completely fine. By your good wishes and blessing, I will soon return to work,” Sisodia wrote on Twitter in Hindi. WATCH | Covid: Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia infected as capital tally crosses 2.2 lakhEarlier on Monday in Delhi Assembly, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel had informed about Sisodia’s absence from today’s special one-day session.“Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will not attend today’s session as he has fever since last night,” Goel said in Delhi Assembly.Delhi on Monday recorded 3,229 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the virus tally to over 2.21 lakh, according to Delhi government’s health bulletin. The death toll climbed to 4,770 with 24 new fatalities reported in last 24 hours.The city conducted around 44,884 Covid-19 tests in last 24 hours, of which 9,859 were RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 35,025 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-iR0thODRok8gcQR6gYww4O.html
14-09-2020||India||‘Selfie turns fatal’: Engineer dives into Odisha reservoir to save phone, dies||Clicking a selfie near a dam in Odisha’s Boudh district proved fatal for a 22-year-old engineer from Tamil Nadu. The youth drowned as he dived into the reservoir to salvage his mobile phone that had dropped from his hand.Mukundan R, an engineer working with Salunki mega lift irrigation project in Boudh district, had gone to Palajhar dam built across river Salunki on Sunday evening to take a bath along with his two colleagues. The three were clicking selfies there when Mukundan’s mobile phone accidentally slipped from his hand and fell into the water.Boudh Superintendent of Police V Jagannath Rao said Mukundan jumped into water to salvage his phone. “When he did not return, one of his friends too jumped but was about to be washed away when a fisherman rescued him. Mukundan, however, could not be traced following which Boudh fire services personnel were alerted,” said Rao.Also read: SII’s Adar Poonawalla says there won’t be enough Covid-19 vaccines till 2024Fire personnel and an Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) team reached the spot and carried out a search operation. They continued their search till Sunday evening but could not find Mukundan. On Monday, when the operation was resumed, the body of the deceased engineer was found 1 kilometre from the spot of the occurrence.Last month, two boys from Bargarh district died after slipping into the Kapildhar waterfalls at Nrusinghanath. Khirod Soni, 20, and Bijaya Mahakud, 18, of Jhitiki village had gone to Nrusinghanath on a bike and climbed up to the top of the waterfall. While they were clicking pictures up there, Khirod and Bijaya slipped from a rock, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/selfie-turns-fatal-engineer-dives-into-odisha-reservoir-to-save-phone-dies/story-l1iMnQpPh4dC9s3c0Dh33L.html
14-09-2020||India||Offences against women and children: HC pulls up cops for shoddy investigations||The Bombay High Court at Goa has directed the state Director General of Police to hold an inquiry into the conduct of his officers while noting that there was “a certain element of casualness, insensitivity and at times, even apathy in investigations particularly in matters involving sexual offences against women and children.”Upholding the acquittal in yet another case where the alleged perpetrators of crime against children, especially the girl child, the court felt that “there is real danger of investigating agencies gaining an impression that this is tolerable or that this is the new normal.“Of late, we are coming across the cases of shoddy and insensitive investigations particularly, in matters involving sexual offences against women and children. As a result, it becomes increasingly difficult for the Courts to convict or sustain the conviction of perpetrators of such crimes,” the Bombay High Court bench of Justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said.“Utmost vigilance and sensitivity is the need of the hour if we are to protect our children’s future,” the High Court said.Also read: Meet Japan’s likely next PM who begins and ends his day with 100 sit-ups“There should be a serious enquiry into the lapses in this matter and ultimately if any of the police officials involved are found to have misconducted themselves then some suitable action is taken against them in accordance with law. Such enquiry must be held and concluded as expeditiously as possible and in any case within six months from today,” the High Court noted, adding that it deliberately give an extended period in view of the pandemic.It was the second case in a matter of four weeks that the High Court came across wherein the accused were let go on account of a shoddy investigation by the police.In the first case, a man who allegedly raped an eight-year-old girl was acquitted owing to insufficient evidence both by the trial court as well as the High Court which upheld the acquittal.“The victim had earlier seen the said person in a carpentry shop near the temple [yet] no efforts were made to search him... no spot located or attempts were made to locate where the actual sexual assault took place… the Police has not made any inquiry with the younger brother of the victim who was alleged to be playing with the victim at the relevant time (when she was picked up taken to a lonely spot and allegedly raped)... no independent witnesses were called for panchanama on spot from where the victim was alleged to be picked up on a scooter… no mobile was ceased though it is claimed by the victim that the accused had shown her some obscene scenes,” the High Court noted.In the second case, wherein a family was accused of illegally keeping the custody of a minor girl as a maid, harassing her and thereby driving her to suicide, the Court pulled up the Goa Police for failing to record the girl’s statement while she lay in a hospital bed battling for life having consumed rat poison in a bid to end her life.“We found no explanation for failure to record the statement of the child [before] she, unfortunately, expired at the hospital [despite] the doctor having clearly opined that the child was fit to give a statement,” the High Court said.“There is no explanation as to why Magistrates were not contacted for the record of such a vital statement. In any case, there ought to have been less of such casualness and more sensitivity in the matter of record of statement of a minor girl who was admitted in hospital for consumption of rat poison,” the High Court noted.The High Court has now specifically asked the DGP “to take steps to see that the prosecutions against the perpetrators of crimes against minor children do not fail on account of shoddy and insensitive investigation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offences-against-women-and-children-hc-pulls-up-cops-for-shoddy-investigations/story-WhtqmnF2L4BzlkjnHKjCZM.html
14-09-2020||India||NDA nominee Harivansh Narayan Singh re-elected as Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman||JDU MP, Harivansh Narayan Singh was elected as the deputy chairperson of the Rajya Sabha on Monday. This is his second term as the deputy chairperson.JP Nadda moved the motion to elect Harivansh as the deputy chairperson of Rajya Sabha and Thapar Chand Gehlot seconded it. From the opposition side, Ghulam Nabi Azad moved the motion that RJD’s Prof Manoj Jha be chosen as the deputy chairperson, it was seconded by Anand Sharma.T Siva of the DMK and SP Javed Ali also favoured Jha. The motion to elect Harivansh was passed by a voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-nominee-harivansh-narayan-singh-re-elected-as-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman/story-x38YCWLPj3cup664KOhecN.html
14-09-2020||India||‘He has shown decisiveness’: PM congratulates Harivansh on second innings in Rajya Sabha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Janata Dal (United) MP Harivansh for being elected as the deputy chairperson of the Rajya Sabha for a second term.“I congratulate him for being elected for a second time,” the PM said adding that Harivansh was an honest journalist and he has great respect for his journalism.The PM said the members of the House have shown the same respect for Harivansh as is shown by those who know him. PM Modi said the way he runs the House shows that he has earned the respect he commands.“The House is being run in very difficult circumstances due to corona. But the House is still running and we have a duty to fulfil... I am sure that we will all remain vigilant and maintain all protocols to discharge our responsibility,” the PM said.Also read: Parliament monsoon session: Tourism ‘severely impacted’ by Covid-19, says Prahlad PatelCommenting on his conduct of Rajya Sabha, the PM said Harivansh had fulfilled all the expectations. “Last time I had said that I am hopeful that Just as Hari (Lord) belongs to all, Harivansh too will be fair to all sides... We have seen how it is more difficult for umpires than the players to ensure the games are played as per the rules. It is challenging to convince people to play as per the rules and he has shown his decisiveness and won the confidence of those who didn’t know him,” PM Modi said. “Last year many bills that changed the direction of the country were passed. This House made a new record for being the most productive even when it was an election year. This is a great matter of pride that apart from productivity, positivity also grew in Rajya Sabha,” he said.The PM also referred to Harivansh’s roots and said he was grounded because of where he came from.“When you speak to those who are close to Harivansh, we realise why he is so rooted. In his village, the school was held under a neem tree and that is where he studied. A person who sat on the ground understands the ground issues,” the PM said.Also read: 24 MPs test positive for Covid-19 on first day of Parliament’s monsoon sessionHe went on to add, “Someone once told me that once he went to high school, it was decided that he will get a pair of shoes, before that he had no shoes. A villager who used to make shoes was asked to make one for him and Harivansh would often go to see the progress. You can take a guess why he was so rooted and grounded.”The PM also spoke about how Harivansh was influenced by books. “I have also learnt that when he first got a government scholarship, his father had expected he would bring it home but he used that money to buy books. He bought all kinds of biographies and took them home”.Harivansh has been discharging his duty with honour. He has put forth his views forcefully on a range of issues, the prime minister added.“He has used his knowledge and experience to serve the country. At all international platforms he has ensured that India’s pride and stature grows,” the PM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-has-shown-decisiveness-and-won-confidence-pm-congratulates-harivansh-on-second-innings-in-rajya-sabha/story-eRB5Ec8KsizTY6YdBJKZwO.html
14-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling probe: Industry minister EP Jayarajan’s son likely to be questioned||As the demand for the resignation of Kerala higher education minister KT Jaleel,who was interrogated by the Enforcement Directorate two days ago, is getting louder; the son of another CPI (M) minister who allegedly figured in one of the incidents related to the sensational gold smuggling case, is likely to be questioned by Central agencies soon. A senior official familiar with the multi-agency probe said national agencies will soon question Industry Minister E P Jayarajan’s son in connection with the alleged commission in the Life Mission project brokered by Swapna Suresh, main accused in the smuggling case. Considered as the number two in the ministry, Jayarajan is a central committee member of the party. The minister’s son also threw a huge party for Suresh in a star hotel in 2018, for settling his cheque case in the United Arab Emirates, said the official. He later emerged as an intermediary in the Life Mission project, funded by a Gulf-based organisation Red Crescent to build free homes for the poor, and reportedly accepted commission; the official said adding that he will be summoned to obtain more details about his association with Suresh. ALSO READ | As Kerala polls draw near, top CPM leaders in limelight for wrong reasonsBut chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has brushed aside these charges saying it was an attempt to sabotage a people-friendly project. “There is a concerted move to topple one of the dream projects of the government ‘Life Mission’ which is providing shelter to thousands of homeless. Opposition parties and a section of the media are busy cooking up half-baked stories to discredit the government,” he said. But the opposition Congress and BJP have raised another serious charge against the minister’s family members who are under quarantine after he tested Covid-19 positive last week. “Flouting quarantine norms, the minister’s wife had gone to the Kerala Bank last week and opened the locker. We have information that she shifted some valuables from there after her son’s name cropped up in connection with Swapna Suresh,” said BJP state president K Surendran. Later, the bank manager also confirmed that she visited the bank on September 10 and all employees were advised to go into quarantine. The minister’s wife PK Indira later admitted that she had visited the bank for her personal needs and she was not in quarantine at that time. Indira had retired as a senior manager from the same bank a couple of years ago. What has raised suspicion is the urgency with which she opened the locker breaking the Covid-19 protocol. There are reports the ED has sought details from the bank about her visit and transactions. As the multi-agency probe gathered speed more shocking details have emerged—the Customs department has found that between 2017 and 2018 about 17,000 kg dry dates was imported by the consular office. “The office had mentioned that dates were imported for personal use. But in the small office staff members are below 20 and they never need such a huge quantity that is fit to open at least a couple of dry date shops,” a senior Customs officer said. He said Customs will examine the details of all imports from October 2016 when the consulate was opened in the state. The Customs smelled trouble when large quantities of dry fruits, tinned food and bathroom fittings came to the consulate regularly. When one such consignment came in July the External Affairs Ministry sought the UAE permission to open the consignment (under Vienna convention permission is necessary) and seized 30 kg gold hidden in bathroom fittings. Last week, the ED had grilled Bineesh Kodiyeri, CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son in connection with the Bengaluru drug haul. In a recent statement in the economic offences court in Kochi, the ED had said the gold smuggling case and drug seizure had close links. The gold smuggling case figured prominently in Parliament on the opening day. In reply to a question, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said the multi-agency probe was going in the right direction and one of the accused in the case was influential. Meanwhile, for the third consecutive day the state witnessed protests seeking the resignation of Jaleel. Many opposition party workers were injured in baton charging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-probe-industry-minister-ep-jayarajan-s-son-to-be-questioned-soon/story-lr9SYvJZ4LnKQNeOfGs4MP.html
14-09-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan deposits Re 1, files review petition against contempt of court conviction||Senior advocate Prashant Bhushan filed a review petition before the Supreme Court on Monday challenging his conviction by the apex court in criminal contempt of court case. This came hours after he deposited the fine of Re 1 imposed on him by the top court as punishment in the case. Bhushan maintained that depositing the fine amount does not signify that he agrees with the top court’s verdict.“I am going to the Supreme Court registry to deposit Re 1 fine imposed on me in relation to the contempt of court case. That I am depositing the fine does not mean I am accepting the judgment. I will be filing a review petition against the judgment today,” Bhushan told media persons outside the Supreme Court on Monday morning.Later in the day, he filed the review petition. The apex court had, on August 14, held Bhushan guilty of contempt of court for his two tweets, one criticizing the Supreme Court and the other against Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde.The court then held a separate hearing on the punishment to be handed down to the activist lawyer. During the hearing on sentencing, Bhushan was afforded opportunities by the court to apologise but he refused to do so and stood his ground.Also read: 24 Lok Sabha MPs test positive for Covid-19 on first day of monsoon sessionA 3-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra then pronounced its sentence on August 31 and imposed a token fine of Re 1. He was asked to deposit the fine with the registry of the court by September 15 failing which he would have to undergo imprisonment of 3 months and will also be debarred from practising before the Supreme Court for 3 years.In his review petition, Bhushan challenged the August 14 judgment contending that the judgment suffers from various errors and also renders any criticism of the Supreme Court an offence of criminal contempt.The review petition said that a detailed reply was filed by Bhushan in defence of his tweets but the court did not take into account the contents of his reply while convicting him. He also questioned the manner in which the court initiated the case and heard him which he contended violated the principles of natural justice since he was not afforded a proper opportunity to present his case.In this regard, Bhushan highlighted the fact that the court had taken note of his tweets after one Mehek Maheshwari, an advocate, filed a petition before the Supreme Court on July 9 seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against Bhushan for the tweets.“A copy of the petition of Mr Maheswari that was the basis for initiating the suo motu proceedings was not supplied to the review petitioner (Bhushan). It is respectfully submitted that this violation is fundamental and goes to the very root of the matter, as the Review Petitioner could not address before the court whether the basis on which the Court formed its view was substantial or not,” the review petition said.Importantly, Bhushan submitted that the case should not have been heard by Justice Arun Mishra since he has, on previous occasions, orally accused Bhushan of committing contempt of court when he had merely mentioned that it may be inappropriate for judges to hear cases in which conflict of interest was involved. The petition listed various instances wherein Justice Mishra had heard cases to Bhushan’s detriment.Bhushan had filed a petition before the Supreme Court on September 12 praying that an additional legal remedy should be provided in those cases where persons are convicted by the Supreme Court in original criminal contempt cases.Original criminal contempt cases are those which are heard directly by the Supreme Court in the first instance. In such cases, if a person is convicted, he or she is left with no further remedy as the Supreme Court is the highest court in the country.Bhushan has prayed that in such a case, the convicted person should be afforded the right to an intra-court appeal, i.e. a larger bench of the Supreme Court, different from the bench which convicted the concerned person, should hear an appeal against such conviction.There is a chance of “arbitrary, vengeful, and high-handed decisions” in such contempt cases where the apex court is not only the aggrieved party but also the “prosecutor, the witness, and the judge,” raising the fear of bias, Bhushan’s plea had said.Bhushan also told the media on Monday that he received Re 1 from various people across the country expressing their solidarity with him and this was part of a larger campaign called “Rupee one, everyone”. He said that the money collected would be used to set up a fund called “Truth Fund” which will be utilised to fight legal cases for the benefit of those who have been arrested for speaking out against the government.“Yesterday, Umar Khalid was arrested only for the reason that he is in support of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The government in India today is cracking down on dissenters to silence them. The ‘Truth Fund’ will be utilised to defend such people,” Bhushan said.Former SC judge expresses concerns over misuse of sedition lawEarlier in the day, retired Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan Lokur spoke in support of Bhushan and decried the use of sedition laws by government machinery at the drop of the hat.Lokur was speaking at a video conference meeting organized by non-governmental organization, Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms, and socio-political organisation Swaraj Abhiyan, in support of Bhushan.Lokur said that many citizens who express their opinions and views are slapped with sedition cases while those who call for violence don’t face any state reprimand.“State is using sedition as an iron hand to curb free speech which I think is an overreaction to people expressing their views. On the other hand, those who call for violence and breaking up things, nothing happens to them,” Lokur said.He also highlighted an episode from Uttar Pradesh wherein a person whose speech called for unity of citizens was detained by the government on the ground that the speech threatened the integrity of the country.The incident he was referring to was the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan who was kept in prison under the National Security Act concerning a speech relating to the Citizenship Amendment Act delivered by him at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on December 12, 2019. The detention order by District Magistrate said that Khan’s speech of December 12 instigated the students of AMU and there were continuous and violent protests by the students due to which public order in Aligarh was disturbed.The Allahabad High Court quashed Khan’s detention on September 1 observing that Khan’s speech did not promote hatred or violence, instead it deprecated violence and called for national integrity and unity.“He was kept under detention for 6 to 7 months because his speech was misinterpreted. Thus, free speech is curbed is by misreading the statements of citizens,” Lokur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-bhushan-deposits-rs-1-files-review-petition-against-contempt-of-court-conviction/story-ORv8lxCNhIfdA18JqztLbP.html
14-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Eye on polls, Mamata Banerjee launches party’s new Hindi cell on Hindi Diwas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Eye on polls, Mamata Banerjee launches party’s new Hindi cell on Hindi DiwasIn a bid to woo Hindi-speaking voters in some of West Bengal’s urban, semi-urban and industrial belts where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bagged seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Monday launched an all-new three-tier Hindi cell of her party. Read more Rajya Sabha: 16 MPs from various states take oathSixteen persons from various states, who have been elected to the Rajya Sabha (RS), took oath on Monday when the Upper House reconvened for business after five months for an 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session of Parliament amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read more Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to Delhi hospitalFormer ICICI Bank MD-CEO Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar, who has been recently arrested in connection with money laundering case, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Read more Our values don’t recognise same-sex marriage: Centre tells Delhi HCThe Centre on Monday opposed a plea seeking legalisation of marriage for gay couples under the Hindu Marriage Act (1955) filed last week by four members of the Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) community. Read more Rail over road is fast becoming preferred option to transport cars. Here’s whyTrains in India have emerged as a viable, reliable and cost-effective way to transport vehicles in the country in recent months, raking in revenue while offering a secure way for automakers to ensure products from factories reach their intended destinations without obstacles. Read more ‘He stepped out and hit Sanath Jayasuriya for a six’ - Harbhajan Singh recalls first encounter with Virat KohliHarbhajan Singh recalled an Indian Premier League match between Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore from 2008 in which a young Virat Kohli struck Sanath Jayasuriya for a six.The setup vs the shot tweets show what goes into getting that perfect photoScrolling through social media, many of us find some stunning pictures that force us to wonder how they came about. Right from the setting, to the lighting to the model’s expression in the picture - everything seems to fit in. Read more Monday motivation: Shilpa Shetty Kundra flaunts killer abs as she nails the tree pose YogaShilpa Shetty Kundra’s Monday motivation includes fitness tips for fans on finding balance ‘whether stationary or while moving’, flaunts perfect waistline in throwback pictureWatch: PM Modi asks MPs to send message of support to Army; Tharoor respondsPM Modi asked all parliamentarians send a message of support to the army soldiers who are guarding the border in tough terrains. Ahead of the parliament session, PM Modi said this session needs to send a message that the nation stands with our jawans. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-eye-on-polls-mamata-banerjee-launches-party-s-new-hindi-cell-on-hindi-diwas-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9vpcxb1K3ZwBn4AigzbbUJ.html
14-09-2020||India||7 district police chiefs among 10 IPS officers reshuffled in UP, more transfers likely||Uttar Pradesh government on late Sunday night transferred 10 IPS officers including seven district police chiefs. The list included Ashok Kumar Sharma who was posted as Superintendent of Police (SP), Jaunpur. His retirement is due in six months.The state government was mulling over setting new age bar policy for IPS officers’ field postings. The policy involves not posting those officers in fields whose retirement is due in less than 12 months.A senior police official at DGP headquarters said those IPS officers who do not fit the new age criteria or failed in crime control are likely to be moved.Similarly, eight district police chiefs were changed among 13 IPS officers who were transferred on September 10 midnight.Also read: Eye on polls, Mamata Banerjee launches party’s new Hindi cell on Hindi DiwasSharma, who has been moved as SP (Economic Offence Wing) in Lucknow, was replaced by SP Gonda Raj Karan Nayyar while the latter was replaced by SSP Bareilly Shailesh Kumar Pandey.Rohit Singh Sajhwan, who was SP Maharajganj, has been appointed as SSP Bareilly. SP (vigilance), Lucknow, Pradeep Gupta has now taken charge as SP Maharajganj while Arvind Kumar Maurya has replaced Anoop Kumar Singh as SP Shravasti. Singh was shifted as Commandant of 23 Provincial Armed Constabulary in Moradabad. SP Kasganj Ghule Sushil Chandrabhan and SP Mau Manoj Kumar Sonkar have swapped their places. Kunwar Anupam Singh has been appointed as the new SP (vigilance), Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-district-police-chiefs-among-10-ips-officers-reshuffled-in-up-more-transfers-likely/story-eTkCOtNZOoN4Pxe5zUQMEO.html
14-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha: 15 MPs from various states take oath||Fifteen persons from various states, who have been elected to the Rajya Sabha (RS), took oath on Monday when the Upper House reconvened for business after five months for an 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session of Parliament amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Former Jharkhand chief minister Shibu Soren, former railway minister Dinesh Trivedi, Tiruchi Siva of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Syed Zafar Islam were among those newly elected RS members, who took oath on Monday. Former Prime Minister Deve Gowda, who has also been elected to the Upper House, is expected to take oath on September 20.Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: No data available on migrant deaths during lockdown, says CentreTributes were paid to former President Pranab Mukherjee and 17 other former members of Parliament (MPs) and to renowned classical singer Pandit Jasraj. Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, Independent; Phulo Devi Netam, Congress; Shibu Soren, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM); MV Shreyams Kumar, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD); Fauzia Khan, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP); Wanweiroy Kharlukhi, Nationalist People’s Party (NPP); NR Elango (DMK); AP Selvarasu (DMK), T Siva (DMK), K Keshava Rao, Telangana Rashtriya Samithi (TRS); KR Suresh Reddy (TRS); Syed Zafar Islam (BJP); Jai Prakash Nishad (BJP); Arpita Ghosh, Trinamool Congress (TMC); and Dinesh Trivedi (TMC) took oath as RS MPs on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-16-mps-from-various-states-take-oath/story-TCxgONt5WUUaBe5e7ZahPK.html
14-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand man booked under Wildlife Protection Act for killing python after it tried to eat his goat||A man from Uttarakhand’s Bajpur area in Udham Singh Nagar district has been booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act for allegedly killing a python, forest officials said. Himanshu Bagri, divisional forest officer of Terai West division said that the incident happened in Bannakheda range of the division. “A man has been booked from the Bannakheda range for killing a python. The man had gone to the forest area with his goats for grazing when the python tried to eat one of his goats and the man attacked the snake with a sharp object and it died. He has been booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” Bagri said. The incident happened late on Saturday evening. The divisional forest officer further added that a python is a reptile species categorized under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, which gets absolute protection with the highest penalties. In another incident, a python was rescued from Clement Town area in Dehradun on Sunday afternoon. A forest department team led by Ravi Joshi, a member of the quick response team reached the spot and rescued the snake after an hour’s effort. The snake was then released in a forest area in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-booked-under-wildlife-protection-act-for-killing-python-after-it-tried-to-eat-his-goat/story-1H7uDEf71iXQtQZnuFt6jM.html
14-09-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh to celebrate ‘Anna utsav’ on eve of PM Modi’s birthday||Madhya Pradesh will celebrate an ‘Anna Utsav’ (food grains festival) on September 16, the eve of PM Narendra Modi’s birthday, during which 37 lakh new below poverty line (BPL) beneficiaries will be covered under the government’s scheme to provide food grains to them on highly subsidised rates, as per a decision taken by state government on Sunday evening.Under the scheme, the beneficiaries will get rice, wheat and salt at Re 1 per kg. Every beneficiary will get 5 kg of food grains per month, according to the food and civil supplies department.Earlier, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had informed PM Modi that he intended to hold the programme on the eve of his birthday.The state government made the announcement to organise the ‘festival’ after a meeting held on Sunday evening to review the preparations for mass distribution of eligibility slips (patrata parchi) to the 37 lakh new BPL beneficiaries to give subsidised ration to them.“In the Utsav, 37 lakh people covered under the Food Security Act will be provided eligibility slips to provide ration under Annapurna Yojna. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also directed authorities to cover auto rickshaw drivers too under the scheme,” said an official communique.Rural Development and Panchayatraj Department and Urban Development department in coordination with Food and Civil Supplies department will organise the programme.According to the release, the CM will also hold discussions with the beneficiaries as part of the statewide programme to be organised in Bhopal on September 16.Ministers, MPs and MLAs of the state will start the ration distribution simultaneously in programmes organised in each district of the state. Along with this, the Anna Utsav will also be celebrated in all gram panchayats and wards of urban areas, as per the official information.At present there are more than 1.16 crore below poverty line (BPL) and Antyodaya cards holders in the state covered under National Food Security Act (NFSA), as per the state government’s data.Earlier, the government had decided to cover the beneficiaries under the scheme on September 1 but it was deferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-to-celebrate-anna-utsav-on-eve-of-pm-modi-s-birthday/story-Ickfj9xG8WY4wugc8j6PJL.html
14-09-2020||India||‘Was sharing CM’s cartoon national work?’: Sena on attack on ex-navy man||A retired naval officer who was beaten up by Shiv Sainiks for allegedly sharing a satirical cartoon of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was on Monday asked by the party if he was not taught during his service period to respect constitutional authorities. The Sena, condemning the treatment meted out to the officer, asked what did ex-naval man Madan Sharma gain by mocking a constitutional authority and was it part of “national work”.The Sena, in an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana, also slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party and asked if the ruling party at the Centre will stage protests against the incident where ex-servicemen were beaten up in BJP-ruled states and by BJP representatives.“Will he [Madan Sharma] be given an award now?” the editorial asked. “They speak against the leaders of the state you live in, you earn, live happily, and if someone breaks your face, then they use ‘injustice, oppression, attack on freedom’ to politicise the issue,” it remarked.Sharma had allegedly shared a cartoon mocking chief minister Thackeray and subsequently Sena shakha pramukh and five others assaulted him in Kandivali, a northern suburb in Mumbai. The Sena workers were arrested and subsequently released on bail.“In Mumbai, a retired naval officer named Madan Sharma was attacked by the Shiv Sainiks, no one would support it, it should be condemned but what did the retired officer gain by sharing a satirical cartoon on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray who has been elected by the people of the state,” Shiv Sena said. “Honor the person sitting in the Constitutional post, wasn’t this gentleman taught in the Navy?” Sena asked.The editorial also took a jibe at defence minister Rajnath Singh after he called the ex-servicemen to enquire about his health. Sena said it was surprising that the defence minister spoke with the ex-Navy person as if sharing a satirical cartoon on a chief minister was a “great national work” he did.Continuing the attack on the BJP, the editorial raked up the Dadri lynching case victim, Mohammed Akhlaq’s son who has been serving the army, and the Amethi lynching case in which retired Army officer Amanullah was killed. “This incident happened in the BJP-ruled state recently but we never read anything about the Prime Minister or the defence minister speaking to Amanullah’s wife,” it said.It added many unfortunate incidents have taken place in the BJP-ruled states but the national party never took to the streets.“Earlier, Jalgaon BJP MP Unmesh Patil forced a Border Security Force soldier, Sonu Mahajan, to vacate his house. Patil supporters also attacked Sonu with a sword. Why did the BJP, which took to the streets for the naval officer today, not protest in favour of an ex-soldier at that time? How many attacks on ex-servicemen have happened in states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar?” Shiv Sena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-sharing-cartoon-on-cm-national-work-sena-on-attack-on-ex-navy-man/story-AoqClDwcj3KDRUDbEVMhjP.html
14-09-2020||India||BEST bus driver, who ferried essential service workers, spends 65 days in hospital battling Covid-19||55-year-old BEST driver, Dilip Paikade, has become a ray of hope for his colleagues after he spent sixty-five days in hospital battling Covid-19. Paikade was on ventilator support in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for seventeen days.A Bhandup resident, Paikade is a BEST bus driver posted at Majas depot in Goregaon. He operated bus services for essential care workers and passengers after the state government resumed bus services in the city on June 8.“I would go to work with my mask and gloves and would use it throughout my eight-hour shift,” said Dilip Paikade.However, on June 20, Paikade woke up with a fever and body pain. The body pain and fever persisted even after taking medications from his family doctor. Fearing he had contracted Covid-19, Paikade approached a government hospital in Mulund as his symptoms persisted. His reports came positive and he soon started having difficulty in breathing.He informed his son, who is studying medicine in New Delhi. His son in return informed senior BEST officials who rushed him to the Covid isolation facility at Seven Hills hospital in Andheri.Also read: 24 Lok Sabha MPs test positive for Covid-19 on first day of monsoon session“The minute I reached Seven hills hospital, the doctor hooked me up with oxygen as I was completely out of breath. I do not remember anything much after that. I remember the doctor saying mine is a critical case. I was put on a ventilator for 17 days.”Paikade’s wife had also tested positive for Covid-19 and was kept at a quarantine centre where she recovered. His children reside outside the city.“It was very lonely and emotionally draining. I had prepared for anything but my family gave me strength. My son is studying medicine which is why I was positive after speaking to him,” said Paikade.Senior BEST officials lauded his courage and said that his positive outlook motivated many others. “He has been positive and courageous. Despite spending 65 days in the hospital and on the ventilator, he has encouraged other BEST employees.” said BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade.Paikade is yet to recover completely and has difficulty breathing while climbing stairs.When asked about resuming work, Paikade said he is not thinking of resuming work just yet. “I will have to recover fully and will decide then. The doctor has told me it will take eight months to fully recover but I am positive. I step outside only to get medicines or for any important work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-bus-driver-who-ferried-essential-service-workers-spends-65-days-in-hospital-battling-covid-19/story-4ijdqEk8qm4Hfccn21Z9oO.html
14-09-2020||India||Covid-19: FM Nirmala presents first batch of supplementary demands; seeks additional Rs 2.35 lakh crore||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday sought the Parliament nod for additional spending of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, which include cash outgo of Rs 1.66 lakh crore, primarily to meet expenses for combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the total cash outgo Rs 40,000 crore is towards enhanced expenditure under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Program and Rs 33,771.48 crore have been sought for direct benefit transfer under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and National Social Assistance Programme. As part of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana Rs 33,771.48 crore have been transferred to beneficiaries of both women Jan Dhan Account holders and Old Age Pension holders. “For providing Grants-in-aid General for Direct Benefit Transfer to Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna Women Accounts Holders (Rs 30,956.98 crore) and Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension (Rs 2,814.50 crore) under the scheme National Social Assistance Programme,” the first batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2020-21 tabled in the Lok Sabha said. The government has also sought Rs 46,602.43 crore towards providing additional allocation under Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant to the states as per recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission. The first batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2020-21 includes 54 Grants and 1 Appropriations. “Approval of the Parliament is sought to authorise gross additional expenditure of Rs 2,35,852.87 crore. Of this, the proposals involving net cash outgo aggregate to Rs 1,66,983.91 crore and gross additional expenditure, matched by savings of the Ministries/Departments or by enhanced receipts/recoveries aggregates to Rs 68,868.33 crore,” it said. To augment the health infrastructure to combat Covid-19 pandemic in the country, the government has sought Rs 14,231.96 crore including Rs 5,915.49 crore for meeting additional expenditure towards Grants-in-aid General for containment of pandemic and Rs 2,475 crore to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). For meeting expenditure towards Grants-in-aid General under the scheme Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) related to the Labour Ministry, the government has sought Rs 4,860 crore. With regard to meeting expenditure towards food subsidy to decentralized procurement scheme states under National Food Security Act, Rs 10,000 crore has been sought from the Parliament. For meeting an additional expenditure towards Grants-in-aid General to National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Limited (NCGTC) for the Guarantee Emergency Credit Line (GECL) facility to eligible MSME borrowers, Rs 4,000 crore has been sought. On May 20, the Cabinet approved additional funding of up to Rs 3 lakh crore at a concessional rate of 9.25 per cent through Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) for MSME sector. Under the scheme, 100 per cent guarantee coverage will be provided by the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company (NCGTC) for additional funding of up to Rs 3 trillion to eligible MSMEs and interested Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency (MUDRA) borrowers in the form of a guaranteed emergency credit line (GECL) facility. For this purpose, a corpus of Rs 41,600 crore was set up by the government, spread over the current and next three financial years. The scheme will be applicable to all loans sanctioned under GECL facility during the period from the date of announcement of the scheme to October 31, or till the amount of Rs 3 lakh crore is sanctioned under GECL, whichever is earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-fm-nirmala-presents-first-batch-of-supplementary-demands-seeks-additional-rs-2-35-lakh-crore/story-82wPS2uNLSfdcqzB9LJWhI.html
14-09-2020||India||Turkey’s Erdogan chases Ottoman dream, ends up unsettling West Asia | Analysis||The Recep Tayyip Erdogan government will establish a museum to honour Mehmed the Conqueror, the Ottoman Sultan who captured Constantinople and took the first big steps to expand the Ottoman empire. “For the first time in Turkey, a museum bearing the name of a sultan will be built in Edirne,” Professor Zekeriya Kurşun at the Istanbul-based Fatih Sultan Mehmet Vakıf University told state-run news agency Anadolu Agency. The deadline is next year.The museum in Turkey’s Edirne province across the Bosporus strait - that forms the continental boundary between Europe and Asia - is seen as one of the continuing steps, big and small, to rebrand the Erdogan regime as a successor to the Ottoman one.Turkey’s 66-year-old leader has himself minced no words, declaring in 2018 that the Republic of Turkey was a continuation of the Ottoman empire. The son of a coast guard who lives in a 1,000-room presidential palace in Ankara, bigger than the White House or the Kremlin, Erdogan has been reinventing himself; from a model democrat in the Islamic world a few years earlier to the new champion of Islamism to fit the new role.This aspiration has pitted Erdogan’s Turkey against Saudi Arabia over its claims of global Islamic leadership. Saudi Arabia was one of the territories controlled by the Ottoman Empire during its heyday, apart from parts of Europe, northern Africa and other West Asian countries.It was also why Erdogan’s Hagia Sophia move was an unambiguous message to the Islamic world as well. It is a sign towards achieving “freedom” for al-Aqsa mosque in the old city of Jerusalem, the third holiest site for Muslims, Erdogan said as the museum was reconverted into a mosque in July.Erdogan’s ambitions are expected to further complicate the situation in the Islamic world that is already witnessing increasingly divisive trends that include sectarian strife between Shias and Sunnis, Arabs vs non-Arabs and apprehensions around the political Islam of the Muslim Brotherhood.Erdogan has sided with Qatar in its ongoing dispute with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia, closely engaging in regional hotspots against the two Arab majors, and has been hard at work to mobilise non-Arab Muslim countries.Also Read: Mike Pompeo urges diplomacy in standoff over Mediterranean gasNon-Arab Sunni majority countries such as Pakistan, Turkey and Malaysia have joined forces with Shia Iran and Arab Qatar to counter the Saudi-UAE-Egypt axis in the Islamic world. These divisions are further compounded with Shia Iran’s support to Shia-majority Iraq, Syria and sections within Lebanon, Bahrain and Yemen.At the first meeting hosted by Malaysia last year, 20 countries turned up at the summit designed to place the front powered by Turkey in competition with the Saudi-led Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, or OIC.Pakistan, which backs Erdogan’s effort, had dropped out of the summit at the last moment due to pressure from Riyadh. But Imran Khan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi did set up a diplomatic firestorm last month when he signalled that Islamabad could approach Erdogan’s Islamic front to discuss Kashmir at a ministerial-level if the OIC was unwilling. Imran Khan later appeared to back this approach when he explained, in a TV interview, that each country - he was talking about Riyadh - was entitled to act in its national interest. He left it unsaid that this principle would apply to Pakistan also.Over the past month, the Donald Trump-brokered pacts between Israel and first, the United Arab Emirates in August and last week, Bahrain, has presented Erdogan with the opportunity to criticise the kingdoms in the Gulf.Erdogan, styled himself as the defender of Palestinians, threatening to suspend diplomatic ties with UAE in retaliation. Turkey was the first Muslim-majority country to establish full diplomatic ties with Israel in 1949 but this fact hasn’t stopped Erdogan from holding forth.“The move against Palestine is not a step that can be stomached,” President Erdoğan said last month as he spoke about the possibility of snapping ties with UAE, according to a Reuters report. Israel and its two new partners, Bahrain and UAE, will sign on the dotted line in Washington on Tuesday.Already, the Turkish President has been taking a more active role in regional affairs and flexing muscles.According to the Washington Post, Turkey has a military presence in Syria, Iraq, Qatar, Somalia and Afghanistan and peacekeeping troops in the Balkans and its navy patrolling the Mediterranean and Aegean seas where it has laid claim to energy and territorial interests.The Post, which mapped Turkey’s expanding military footprint, said Ankara has also invested in Sudan to let it build a naval base on the Suakin island, once ruled by the Ottoman Empire, that would give it direct access to the Red Sea.In South Asia, Turkey’s growing proximity with Pakistan, whose voice Erdogan echoes on Kashmir, has soured relations between Ankara and New Delhi. Like when President Erdogan launched a broadside at New Delhi in August last year at the United Nations General Assembly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi cancelled his visit to Ankara in October and didn’t hesitate to condemn Turkey’s military operation in Northern Syria.On the sidelines of the UNGA, PM Modi also scheduled meetings with Cyprus, Armenia and Greece, all Turkey’s rivals in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turkey-s-erdogan-chases-ottoman-dream-ends-up-unsettling-west-asia-analysis/story-W9DE7qiTUDRPhfwLgioonO.html
14-09-2020||India||Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to Delhi hospital||Former ICICI Bank MD-CEO Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar, who has been recently arrested in connection with money laundering case, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.Deepak Kochhar has been admitted to AIIMS hospital in Delhi. Chanda Kochhar has been informed that her husband tested positive for Covid, officials familiar with the development said. The team interrogating him since Tuesday has been sent to quarantine.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested Deepak Kochhar on September 7 in connection with its money laundering investigation against him and his wife Chanda Kochhar and companies run by them.A Mumbai court had remanded Deepak in the custody of the ED till September 19 in the case.While pressing for Deepak’s remand, the ED told the court that the ongoing probe has revealed that on September 7, 2009, the ICICI bank sanctioned a loan worth Rs 300 crore to Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL).The investigation further revealed that just a day after the loan was sanctioned, Rs 64 crore out of it was transferred from VIEL to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL),the ED told court.Deepak Kochhar’s wife, Chanda is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED for alleged corruption and money laundering charges. Chanda is being probed for alleged irregularities in the granting of loans to the Videocon Group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chanda-kochhar-s-husband-deepak-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-delhi-hospital/story-MiMGZ9kq76u3lUZQYZHVIK.html
14-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: Tourism ‘severely impacted’ by Covid-19, says Prahlad Patel||Minister for Culture and Tourism Prahlad Patel said in the Lok Sabha on Monday – the first day of the 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session of Parliament -- that the tourism sector has been “severely impacted” because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The minister was responding to an unstarred question in the Lower House of Parliament. In a written reply, Patel said: “no formal study has been instituted for assessment of the impact on the tourism sector and job losses.” Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: LS passes Homoeopathy and Indian systems of medicine billsHe added: “However, several rounds of discussions and brainstorming sessions with industry stakeholders indicate massive loss of revenue and jobs. In view of the highly unorganised nature of the tourism sector, the impact in numerical terms can only be ascertained in due course.” According to another written reply submitted by the minister, the contribution of tourism in the gross domestic product (GDP) and jobs in 2018-19 was 5% and 12.95%, respectively. Patel reached out to international tourists through his response. ‘The ministry of tourism through the India Tourism Offices overseas proposes to undertake various promotional activities which include participation in travel fairs and exhibitions; advertising in the local print, electronic, outdoor and digital media; organising webinars to highlight success stories about Covid-19 in India to build confidence among foreign tour operators and travellers.” There has been no arrival of foreign tourists to the country as international flights have been non-operational since March 22. Earlier, officials had told HT that the focus would increasingly be to boost domestic tourism, as the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to continue to deter people from travelling long distances. Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: No data available on migrant deaths during lockdown, says CentreThe ministry has also undertaken Dekho Apna Desh webinars, aerial photography of key cities and cultural assets in Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Udupi, Aurangabad and iconic tourist sites across the country during the 68-day nation-wide lockdown restrictions that were enforced from March 25 in a bid to contain the spread of the viral outbreak. Patel said the ministry has launched SAATHI (System for Assessment, Awareness & Training for Hospitality Industry) for effective implementation of guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued in reference to Covid-19 and beyond for safe operations of hotels, restaurants, bed and breakfast (B&B) and other hospitality units. Patel said the ministry does not have “any regulatory authority to seek refunds of advance amount paid”. He added: “However, industry stakeholders have been requested to consider such issues and requests sympathetically.” The minister also cited the key steps taken by various ministries of the government to help the tourism sector recover. “Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended moratorium on term loans until August 31,” said Patel. “The government has further announced Atmanirbhar Bharat package through which a Rs 3 lakh crore collateral free automatic loan has been made available for MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises). The loan will have four-year tenure and a 12-month moratorium,” he added. Patel also said that a 16-member committee has been set up to look into Indian culture, spanning as far back as 12,000 years ago. The panel includes experts from a range of fields, including Archaeological Survey of India, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Vivekananda Foundation, Geographical Survey of India and Delhi University’s department of English, as well a representative from the ministry of culture. “An expert committee has been set up for conducting holistic study of origin and evolution of Indian culture since 12,000 years before present and its interface with other cultures of the world,” Patel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-tourism-severely-impacted-by-covid-19-says-prahlad-patel/story-HiIsFmNxsbS1r0YeshEWmI.html
14-09-2020||India||Our values don’t recognise same-sex marriage: Centre tells Delhi HC||The Centre on Monday opposed a plea seeking legalisation of marriage for gay couples under the Hindu Marriage Act (1955) filed last week by four members of the Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) community.“These marriages run contrary to the provisions which are already in place in our society. Our values do not recognise a marriage, which is sacrosanct, between two people of same sex marriage,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre told a bench comprising Chief Justice of the Delhi high court DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan. Mehta clarified that he was expressing his personal opinion.The Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed on September 8 claimed that Section 5 of the Hindu Marriage Act did not specify that the marriage must be between a Hindu man and a Hindu woman, but instead refers to marriage between “two Hindus”. The petition invoked Article 21, which guarantees right to life, arguing that right to marriage was part of that fundamental right.Also read: Not made Delhi HC judge due to sexual orientation, says lawyerThe Supreme Court had decriminalised homosexuality, but not provided for anything further, Mehta told the court, referring to the September 6, 2018 judgment of a five-judge Constitution bench headed by the then chief justice of India Dipak Mishra, which read down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code.“It does not concur with constitutional values,” Mehta said.To this, Justice Jalan said that changes have taken place across the world and when two men marry in a foreign country, neither is considered a wife. He further said that all aspects of the plea would need to be examined.Mehta later clarified to the Hindustan Times that while he was yet to receive instructions from the Centre, he had pointed out to the court the legal provisions to show that the law did not permit same sex marriages. “I said culture of any country is codified in a statutory law like Degrees of Prohibited relationship, special or additional rights to “wife”, different age limits for “husband” and “wife”, use of the terms “husband” and “wife” (which cannot be determined in same sex marriage) etc, special protection to “wife” in criminal law such as section 498-A of the IPC etc. Unless several statutory provisions are altered (which the court cannot do) the relief as prayed for cannot be granted,” Mehta said.Also Read: Two years after Section 377: Judgement that said it with poetry and words from literatureAppearing for the petitioners, Raghav Awasthi told the court that the fundamental rights of gay couples were getting hampered, even as there was no legal prohibition on such marriages.There are many benefits extended under the Hindu Marriage Act which cannot be availed by his petitioners, he said.The petition has been filed by intersex rights activist Gopi Shankar, founder of lesbian collective Sakhi Giti Thadani, transgender rights activist G Oorvasi and writer Abhijit Iyer Mitra.The bench stated that the aggrieved party could have moved court in their personal capacity instead of a filing a PIL, and asked the counsel to bring on record all persons whose marriages were not registered on account of being a same-sex marriage. The matter will be taken up for hearing on October 21.The petition pointed out that in 2018, the Supreme Court read down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalised homosexuality.“The non-recognition of the rights of gay couples, especially when their sexuality has been recognised as such as valid by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India is violative of various provisions of the Constitution of India as well as various conventions that India as a sovereign state is signatory to,” the petition stated.“Change in marriage laws has to be secular and broad-based. To contend that the Hindu Marriage Act should recognise same sex marriages because Hinduism does, suffers from two errors. The Hindu Marriage Act is decidedly anti-scriptural. It was brought in 1955 to amend Hindu law and undo the regressive elements of the scriptures which were incorporated in the law. The Act was an attempt at reformation, rather than incorporating venerated practices of the scriptures. Secondly, it matters little whether the Hindu scriptures recognise same sex marriage or not. There will be a lot of debate either was, but that’s beside the point. Marriage for members of the LGBTQI community has to be allowed because the Constitution demands it,” said Supreme Court advocate Saurabh Kirpal who appeared for the petitioners in the Navtej Johar case, which led to decriminalisation of homosexuality in 2018.(With inputs from Murali Krishnan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-values-don-t-recognise-same-sex-marriage-centre-tells-delhi-hc/story-ZdhMdcfWsLHmf9inXZAvhK.html
14-09-2020||India||Monsoon session: Farooq Abdullah attends first Parliament session since Article 370’s abrogation||National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah on Monday attended the first day of Parliament’s monsoon session, his first since the abrogation of Article 370 by the Centre on August 5 last year.A former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Abdullah was among several politicians from the Valley who were detained in the wake of the government’s Article 370 move.#WATCH: National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah leaves from the Parliament after attending first day of the #MonsoonSession.He was put under detention after the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year and was released on 13th March. pic.twitter.com/KB6cyQSepITwo other former chief ministers--Abdullah’s son Omar and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti-were also among those detained by the government. While Farooq Abdullah was released on March 13 this year and Omar on March 24, Mufti’s detention continues.By abrogating Article 370, the government revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and divided it into the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.Parliament’s 18-day monsoon session began on Monday with Covid-19 protocols in place, with Lok Sabha proceedings taking place in the first half of the day. The lower house was adjourned till Tuesday.Both houses of Parliament were adjourned in March due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-farooq-abdullah-attends-first-parliament-session-since-article-370-s-abrogation/story-QCjEY4y8Ck4QQm6W6gnBiI.html
14-09-2020||India||25 MPs test positive for Covid-19 on first day of Parliament’s monsoon session||Twenty-five members of Parliament tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the first day of the monsoon session, secretariat officials told Hindustan Times on Monday.Junior railways minister Suresh Angadi, the BJP’s Meenakshi Lekhi, Anant Kumar Hegde, Parvesh Sahib Singh, Rita Bahuguna Joshi and Kaushal Kishore were among the 17 Lok Saha MPs who have contracted the viral disease.In the upper house, the Congress party’s Deepender Singh Hooda and Naranbhai J Rathwa, the BJP’s Ashok Gasti and Abhay Bhardwaj, the AIADMK’s A Navneethakrishnan, the AAP’s Sushil Kumar Gupta, the TRS’s V Lakshmikantha Rao and AITC’s Shanta Chhetri were found to be infected.Lekhi later tweeted that she is currently in good health. She also requested people who recently come in contact with her to get tested for the coronavirus disease.“After the routine Parliament test for COVID & genome test it’s confirmed that I have tested positive for the virus. I am currently in good health & spirits. I request everyone who has been recently in contact with me to get tested. Together We will fight & defeat Corona,” Lekhi tweeted.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said it has carried out testing of more than 2,500 samples of members of Parliament and other officials “on a war footing” over the weekend.The reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, considered the most accurate for the diagnosis of the coronavirus disease, would continue till the next week for the members of Parliament, officials said.As the viral disease continues to pose a threat to the session, many senior MPs, cutting across political lines, have decided against attending the proceedings.On the first day of the delayed session that was attended by 359 members, nearly 200 were present in the Lok Sabha chamber and a little over 30 were seated in the visitors’ gallery located above the main chamber. Plastic shields were installed in front of the members’ benches in order to ensure distance.A giant TV screen in the Lok Sabha chamber showed very few members occupying seats in the Rajya Sabha chamber, the other venue where the lower house MPs have been accommodated keeping in mind physical distancing norms.Benches that usually accommodate six members had a numbered seating plan for only three.The Parliament session is being held in two shifts — the Rajya Sabha in the morning and the Lok Sabha in the afternoon — with members of both Houses spread across the two chambers and galleries. On the opening day, however, the Lok Sabha was held in the morning shift and the Rajya Sabha in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-lok-sabha-mps-test-positive-for-covid-19-on-first-day-of-parliament-s-monsoon-session/story-299dRDj5FHV7XBRnufoqfM.html
14-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: LS passes Homoeopathy and Indian systems of medicine bills||The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine Bill 2019 and The National Commission for Homoeopathy Bill, 2019, were passed in Lok Sabha on the first day of the monsoon session of Parliament on Monday. The bills were passed in Rajya Sabha in January, 2019, to regulate alternative systems of medicine on the lines of the National Medical Commission Bill, and create a new regulatory body for homoeopathy in the country. To introduce transparency and quality, the Indian System of Medicine bill proposes a common entrance exam and an exit exam for all graduates to obtain their license to practice Indian medicine. Catch LIVE Updates of Parliament’s monsoon session hereThe bill will replace the Central Council for Indian Medicine that regulates alternative systems of medicine. There is a provision for constituting four autonomous boards dedicated to providing Ayurveda education under Board of Ayurveda, and training in Unani, Siddha and Sowarigpa under Board of Unani, Siddha and Sowarigpa. Two common boards, which are, the board of assessment and rating to grant permission to educational institutions of Indian systems of medicine, and the board of ethics and registration of practitioners of Indian systems to maintain a national register and address ethical issues, will relate to practice under the National Commission for Indian Medicine. “This should help regulate the sector, but the idea of having an exit exam is likely to meet with some resistance,” said an Ayush researcher, requesting anonymity. The National Commission for Homoeopathy, Bill, 2018, aims to replace the Central Council for Homoeopathy, which is the current regulatory body for homoeopathy. It proposes a teacher’s eligibility test to assess the standard of teachers before appointment and promotions. The National Commission will have three autonomous boards entrusted with conducting overall education of homoeopathy by homoeopathy education board. The board of assessment and rating will grant permission to educational institutions, while the board of ethics and registration of homoeopathy practitioners will maintain the national register and address ethical issues. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan introduced the bills on behalf of Shripad Yesso Naik, the minister for Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy). The health minister also introduced the much-awaited assisted reproductive technology (ART) Bill in the Lok Sabha. “When we were introducing the Surrogacy Bill last year, we were told that we should also bring in the ART Bill as both go hand in hand. Therefore, I introduce the ART bill in the House,” he said.The bill aims to lay down guidelines for dos and don’ts of running ART clinics and conducting procedures in the country. It proposes constitution of a national board that will set the minimum standards of physical infrastructure, laboratory and diagnostic equipment and expert manpower to be employed by clinics and banks. There will be a National Registry and Registration Authority to maintain a central database and assist the National Board in its functioning. The bill also proposes for a stringent punishment for those found practising sex selection, or involved in sale of human embryos or gametes, running agencies, rackets, and also organisations found violating the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-ls-passes-homoeopathy-and-indian-systems-of-medicine-bills/story-DyDnE5HvrQAQlJkef5nC7K.html
14-09-2020||India||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar recovers from Covid-19, returns to Chandigarh||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar returned to state capital Chandigarh on Monday after recovering from Covid-19. The chief minister urged people to follow all the necessary guidelines against Covid-19 religiously.After his recovery, CM Khattar requested people to maintain social distancing and wear face masks as a caution against coronavirus.There’s no need to be afraid of Covid, but we have to remain vigilant, the chief minister had said, according to PTI.On August 24, the chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar tested positive for Covid-19, just two days before the day-long monsoon session of the state assembly. Khattar, 66, was admitted to Gurgaon’s Medanta Hospital for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-recovers-from-covid-19-returns-to-chandigarh/story-KDPLPv4TdSk4MKbaPdNT3H.html
14-09-2020||India||No home posting for newly recruited doctors in Bihar||The Bihar government has deliberately posted 3,186 doctors, appointed as general duty medical officers (GDMOs) under Bihar health services on September 11, outside their home districts. Given the urgency during the coronavirus pandemic, their recruitment and posting was done simultaneously in a record time of 36 hours since the Bihar Technical Service Commission declared their result on September 10. The recruitment of 5,000 nurses last month was also done in 48 hours. In posting the newly recruited doctors, the health department has, however, ensured that most of them were posted nearest to their home district. For instance, those belonging to Patna were posted preferably in Vaishali, 32 kms north-east of Patna — considered to be “close” by Delhi’s standard. Alternatively, they have been posted in adjoining districts of Saran, Bhojpur, Jehanabad or Nalanda, all within 64 to 85 kms radius from Patna, with a travel time of around two hours. “Merit was the top criteria for posting doctors after which we considered their location. Only a small percentage who could not be accommodated at locations adjoining their home district were considered for posting in the same division as their home district and a negligible percentage may have been posted elsewhere,” said an officer privy to the decision who did not wish to be identified. The Patna division, for instance, comprises the districts of Patna, Nalanda, Bhojpur, Buxar, Rohtas and Kaimur. Bihar is divided into 38 districts under nine divisions, including Patna, Tirhut, Saran, Darbhanga, Kosi, Purnia, Bhagalpur, Munger and Magadh. “There are two reasons for not posting doctors in their home districts. First, there is an advisory of the state cabinet coordination department to not post class II employees in their home districts; and second, to ensure better efficiency among doctors,” said the officer. Absenteeism among doctors in government facilities is a common issue, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit, found after he inspected eight of the nine state-run medical colleges within a month of his posting on July 27. He is scheduled to visit the Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri, this week. Amrit was drafted in place of Uday Singh Kumawat as Covid-19 cases were on the ascendancy and testing of samples was low. Bihar’s total Covid-19 case burden then was 41,111, having tested the highest 14,236 samples in a day (July 27), with a cumulative test count of 4,70,560. The comparative figures have now risen to a total 1,58,389 Covid-19 cases against 48,84,417 samples tested, with 1,10,500 samples tested on Saturday. Recruitment and shortage of doctors The recent appointment of doctors as GDMOs was against 4,012 vacancies advertised a year ago. The government had recruited last month around 950 specialist doctors, having post graduate degrees, against 2,400 posts advertised a year back. Bihar has been guilty of not appointing doctors in a time-bound manner, adding to a shortfall of around 5,000 as on date. As many as 4,115 of the 7,956 doctors appointed since 1990 were recruited in the last one month after Amrit joined the health department. Previously, 2,486 doctors were appointed in 2016. Prior to that, 1,355 doctors were recruited between 1990 and 2011 — 646 in 1990, seven in 1992, 29 in 1997, 12 in 2000, 272 in 2007 and 389 in 2011. “There are around 8,000-8,500 doctors against 13,500 sanctioned posts under Bihar health services. A shortage of around 3,000 doctors exists in the rank of senior medical officer to director-in-chief, even as most vacancies at the GDMO level have been filled up after this round of appointment in the basic grade,” said Dr Ranjeet Kumar, general secretary of the Bihar Health Services Association. Amrit was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-home-posting-for-newly-recruited-doctors-in-bihar/story-QqxFecASFYf016upfXWTqI.html
14-09-2020||India||Cured patients in Uttar Pradesh asked to follow Centre’s post-Covid protocol||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday said it was implementing the post-Covid management protocol announced by the union ministry of health and family welfare. Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, said out of the three lakh Covid cases in the state, 2.39 lakh had recovered. At present, there are 68,122 active Covid cases in the state.The recovered patients had been directed to follow the post-Covid management protocol announced by the central government, he said.In its advice, the union ministry of health and family stated that after acute Covid-19 illness, recovered patients may continue to report a wide variety of signs and symptoms, including fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat, difficulty in breathing, etc.A holistic approach is required for follow-up care and well-being of post-Covid recovering patients, it said.Prasad said the post-Covid follow-up protocol advised continuation of the appropriate behaviour — use of mask, hand and respiratory hygiene, physical distancing, drinking adequate amount of warm water and taking immunity promoting Ayush medicines prescribed by a qualified practitioner of Ayush (Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and homoeopathy).If health permitted, regular household work could be done and professional work was to be resumed in a graded manner, he said.The recovered patients were advised mild moderate exercises, including yogasana, pranayama, meditation, breathing exercises, daily morning and evening walk at a comfortable pace.The other suggestions include balanced nutritious diet, adequate sleep and rest, avoid smoking and consumption of alcohol and do self-health monitoring at home.“If there is persistent dry cough, do saline gargle and take steam inhalation. Look for early warning signs like high grade fever, breathlessness, SpO2 95%, unexplained chest pain, new onset of confusion and focal weakness,” he said. The protocol also advises recovered individuals to share their positive experience with friends and relatives using social media, take support of community-based self-help groups, seek psycho-social support from peers, health workers and counsellors, participate in a group session of yoga and meditation with social distancing.The first follow-up visit (physical/ telephonic) should be within seven days after discharge, preferably at the hospital where the patient underwent treatment. The subsequent treatment/visit should be with the nearest medical practitioner. If patients, who underwent home isolation, complained of persisting symptoms, they would have to visit the nearest health facility. The severe cases requiring critical care support would need more stringent follow-up, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cured-patients-in-uttar-pradesh-asked-to-follow-centre-s-post-covid-protocol/story-E8z0YM8JYPXdzccQ1SucuO.html
14-09-2020||India||In battle among doctors, patient care at Jammu hospital takes a hit||Amid a raging coronavirus pandemic, the Government Medical College (GMC) of Jammu, the major referral hospital in the Jammu region, has become a battlefield for senior doctors with patient care taking a severe hit. Peeved over indiscipline and chaos, the principal, Dr Nasib Chand Digra, a prominent surgeon, opted for a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) on Sunday evening. Dr Digra, in a two-page letter to the lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, offered to opt for VRS because of the interference in working of the hospital by “extra-institutional officials”. He, however, didn’t name them in the letter. When contacted by HT, he refused to share their names. “Let us wait and watch,” he said. In his letter to the L-G, Dr Digra said there were “few extra-institutional officers, one or two heads of departments and few faculty members who are bypassing the departmental hierarchy and approaching administrative departments in technical, professional and administrative matters”. “Such interferences in the internal working of the GMC Principal Office shall create huge space for anarchy, indiscipline and further demeaning of the office. This shall further create a space for the GMC employees to create nuisance and go scot-free from the administrative department by using all sorts of ways and means to influence the higher ups,” reads a part of his letter. It further read, “The work culture and interpersonal relations are already in deterioration mode that needs to be taken care of.” The principal also cited in the letter how the “extra-institutional officials” have severely hit his unblemished image in the society and demeaned the chair. “In view of this, if my services are not being liked by anybody, I offer to get voluntary retirement from the service,” Dr Digra’s letter concluded. Reports of shortage of oxygen cylinders at the hospital have sparked panic among the patients and their family members. Due to a spike in Covid patients in Jammu, the demand for oxygen has increased manifold and oxygen plant of the GMC is not sufficient enough to meet the requirement, said a doctor. To cater to the demand, the GMC authorities were compelled to purchase nearly 500 cylinders from outside. In a striking contrast to government claims of augmenting health infrastructure to effectively tackle Covid-19 pandemic in Jammu and Kashmir, the GMC in the winter capital has started bursting at the seams, said doctors. It may be stated here that since Friday, two patients, a four-year- old boy from Janipur and a 24-year-old woman from Karan Bagh, died due to alleged negligence of the doctors at the hospital. The minor had a head injury while the woman allegedly died in 10 minutes after she was administered an injection on Saturday in ward number 7. In the case of the woman, Jammu district commissioner Sushma Chauhan has ordered a magisterial probe to be conducted by a three-member panel within seven days. The GMC Jammu is a major referral hospital of Jammu region where patients from all the 10 districts are referred and treated. Till Sunday, the UT had total cases of 54,096 Covid patients, out of which 35,737 have been cured. However 878 have died so far. On Sunday alone, the UT saw 1,686 fresh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-battle-among-doctors-patient-care-at-jammu-hospital-takes-a-hit/story-AyhNeBzHYjVfpiV5oL7IdN.html
14-09-2020||India||PM busy with peacocks as Covid-19 cases surge: Rahul Gandhi||Minutes ahead of the commencement of the monsoon session of Parliament, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the rise in Covid-19 cases, saying he is “busy with peacocks” while the number of infections are set to cross five million in the country. Gandhi said the government had asked the people to become “aatmanirbhar (self-reliant)” which means they have to save their lives on their own. “Unplanned lockdown is the product of one person’s ego and because of it coronavirus has spread throughout the country,” he tweeted in Hindi. कोरोना संक्रमण के आँकड़े इस हफ़्ते 50 लाख और ऐक्टिव केस 10 लाख पार हो जाएँगे।अनियोजित लॉकडाउन एक व्यक्ति के अहंकार की देन है जिससे कोरोना देशभर में फैल गया।मोदी सरकार ने कहा आत्मनिर्भर बनिए यानि अपनी जान ख़ुद ही बचा लीजिए क्योंकि PM मोर के साथ व्यस्त हैं।“Modi government said become ‘aatmanirbhar’ which means save your life yourself because the PM is busy with peacocks,” Gandhi said in an apparent reference to a recent video showing the Prime Minister feeding the peacocks. He said the number of Covid-19 infections in the country will cross five million this week and active cases will surpass one million. The Congress leader has been critical of the government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi attacks Modi govt over Covid-19 management, GDP decline, job lossesThe Congress has been attacking the Prime Minister and his government for “failing to control” the spread of the Covid-19, with India surpassing Brazil to record the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world. The party has maintained that the Prime Minister should tell the nation his future strategy and the plans to contain the pandemic. India’s GDP shrank by the steepest ever— 23.9% —in the April-June period as the Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown battered an already slowing economy. India’s Covid-19 tally crossed 4.8 million on Monday with 92,071 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 79,722 with 1,136 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours. On Saturday, Gandhi had attacked the government on the decline in the GDP, job losses and the increasing number of Covid-19-related cases and deaths in the country. Taking a jibe at the Modi government, he had said its “well-planned fight against Covid-19 has put India in an abyss of 1.historic GDP reduction of 24%, 2.12 crore jobs lost, 3. Rs 15.5 lakh crore additional stressed loans, 4. Globally highest daily Covid cases & deaths. But for GOI and media ‘sab changa si’.” Apart from the ongoing India-China border standoff, the Congress and other opposition parties have decided to raise, among other issues, the Covid-19 situation and the current state of economy in the monsoon session of Parliament, beginning Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-busy-with-peacocks-as-covid-19-cases-surge-rahul-gandhi/story-naG3GPu3fHuJowj0Up3mVL.html
14-09-2020||India||Ex-member of Maoist faction killed by village mob in Jharkhand’s Gumla||Thirty eight-year-old Sandip Tirkey, a former member of the ultra outfit People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), was lynched by a mob of more than 80 villagers, including women with sticks, at Tesera village under Sadar police station in Gumla district, around 100-km from capital Ranchi, on Monday morning, police said. The PLFI is a breakaway faction of the CPI (Maoist). Gumla superintendent of police (SP) Hrudeep P Janardhanan said, “We have started identification of the villagers involved in the crime. Some people have been identified. FIR against them would be filed soon and arrests would also be made.” Janardhanan said, “Tirkey was a former member of the PLFI. He was often found roaming with PLFI members and used to threaten villagers. He was also involved in extortion in the name of PLFI. The villagers were annoyed with him. On Monday morning, over 80 villagers from his neighbouring village killed him.” The SP said, “Tirkey was involved in several crimes earlier and had also served a jail term in a case.” Tirkey, on Sunday evening, reportedly went to neighbouring village Bargaon and had beaten a youth there. He also allegedly threatened villagers with a weapon, said an eye witness. Bargaon villagers called a Panchayat on Sunday night where they decided to kill Tirkey the next day. As per the plan, they gheraoed his house at Tesera village around 6am on Monday but he was not at home. The villagers found him at a shop where he was reading a newspaper. Seeing the approaching villagers, he tried to escape, but was caught by them and was beaten to death. On the question of the panchayat planning the lynching, the SP said, “We are verifying the information. But if 70 to 80 people are coming to kill a man early morning, it is not possible without planning.” The mob lynching hogged limelight during the previous BJP government in Jharkhand, which put former chief minister Raghubar Das government on back foot several times. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM) has claimed that a total of 24 people were lynched by mob in Jharkhand from March 2016 to June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-member-of-maoist-faction-killed-by-village-mob-in-jharkhand-s-gumla/story-ifDjqEuG0IrtgCHx0Dku4O.html
14-09-2020||India||US special envoy Khalilzad to reach Pakistan today, New Delhi next stop||The US interlocutor for Afghan-Taliban talks Zalmay Khalilzad is on a short visit to India on Tuesday to hold discussions with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on the intra-Afghan talks that started on Sunday in Doha, six months later than planned due to disagreements over a prisoner swap agreed and the continuing Taliban offensive against high-value targets in Kabul.Zalmay, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, is scheduled to reach Islamabad on Monday to impress upon the Imran Khan government the need to reduce violence in Afghanistan if the talks with the Taliban to end the 19-year-long violence are to succeed.The US interlocutor wants to ensure that Rawalpindi GHQ takes steps so that the Taliban stays on course in the peace talks. It is widely believed that the Taliban, if it had not been under US military pressure, would prefer to militarily take over the country and turn it into an Islamic Emirate as it had done in 1996.Also Read: Afghan forces, Taliban continue to clash even as peace talks startAt the opening ceremony for the talks on Sunday, Afghan government, and allies including the US, had called for a ceasefire. Abdullah Abdullah, the head of the peace process for the Afghan government, said the Taliban could offer a ceasefire in exchange for the release of more of their jailed fighters. But the Taliban did not mention a truce as they came to the negotiating table.“The first meeting between the contact groups of the two negotiation teams took place today. In this meeting code of conduct between two sides, schedules of upcoming meetings and relevant issues were discussed and progress was made,” Ahmad Nader Naderi, a member of the government’s negotiating team, said on Twitter on Sunday.Apart from the US, Afghanistan, the Taliban and Qatar which is hosting the talks, the discussions over the weekend were also attended by representatives from India, Pakistan, Russia, Germany, Indonesia, Uzbekistan, Norway and the United Nations.People familiar with the matter said this is the first time that India participated in the intra-Afghan talks at the level of external affairs ministry with joint secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) JP Singh leading a delegation to Qatar’s Doha that includes Deepak Mittal, the Indian ambassador to Qatar and a Pakistan-Afghanistan expert.Also Read: ‘Peace process must be led, owned and controlled by Afghanistan’: India According to diplomats in Doha and New Delhi, Zalmay, in his short four-hour-long trip to India, will share details of the Afghan peace process, appreciate India’s constructive role in Kabul for the past 20 years. Pakistan has been deeply concerned about India’s participation in the intra-Afghan talks at Doha but the US, its other allies and the Afghan government have been deeply appreciative of India’s reconstruction effort.The Afghan government’s 21-member negotiating team was led by Masoom Stanekzai, a former intelligence chief. The Taliban was led by Mawlavi Abdul Hakim, the terror group’s chief justice and a close aide of the group’s chief Haibatullah Akhunzada.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who was in Doha for the opening ceremony, said the negotiations would be difficult. “We will undoubtedly encounter many challenges in the talks over the coming days, weeks and months,” Pompeo said, calling for the warring sides to “seize this opportunity” to secure peace.Zalmay Khalilzad told Afghanistan’s TOLO News that there are indeed some people in Afghanistan who prefer the current situation to peace with the Taliban while some are attempting to keep Washington engaged in war so that it could pay the price, “It is not acceptable and there is a solution to every problem, and a solution must be found. We are ready to help if the country’s interests come first and personal interests do not come first. I am confident that a solution will be found and we will not allow personal interests to take precedence. This is the promise of the US to the people of Afghanistan,” Khalilzad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-special-envoy-khalilzad-to-reach-pakistan-today-new-delhi-next-stop/story-Kn3AyU9wOFiDVBzRna25kJ.html
14-09-2020||India||News Updates from Hindustan Times: Row over Question Hour removal on day 1 of monsoon session and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Row ensues over removal of Question Hour on Day 1 of monsoon sessionSeveral opposition parliamentarians questioned the government over the removal of Question Hour on day one of the Parliament’s monsoon session proceedings on Monday. Parliamentarians from Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) said that there are several issues like unemployment, NEET exams and national security should have been discussed. Read morePrashant Bhushan deposits Re 1 fine in contempt case, but says filing review petition against Supreme Court judgementAdvocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday deposited the Re 1 fine imposed on him by the Supreme Court, but said this doesn’t mean that he is accepting the court’s judgement. Bhushan spoke to mediapersons outside the Supreme Court and said that he is going to file a review petition against the top court’s judgement today. Read moreDelhi riots: Filmmakers Saba Dewan, Rahul Roy called for questioningThe Delhi police on Monday summoned documentary filmmakers Rahul Roy and Saba Dewan for questioning in connection with the North-East Delhi riots in February, a day after they arrested former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid on charges of conspiracy in the case. Read moreIPL 2020: Gautam Gambhir highlights ‘the biggest difference’ between MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli’s captaincyThe Indian Premier League title is something that has eluded Royal Challengers Bangalore since its inception in 2008. They have been called favourites due to their power-packed batting department with Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers leading the line. Read moreKangana Ranaut leaves Mumbai after being ‘terrorised all these days’, says her PoK comparison was ‘bang on’On Monday, Kangana Ranaut took to Twitter and wrote, “With a heavy heart leaving Mumbai, the way I was terrorised all these days constant attacks and abuses hurled at me attempts to break my house after my work place, alert security with lethal weapons around me, must say my analogy about POK was bang on.” Read MoreSwan teaches woman how to wear mask correctly, video gets over 25 million viewsA video circulating on the Internet shows a woman sitting in front of a swan. Her mask can be seen hanging below her chin, leaving her nose and mouth exposed. As the woman tries to interact with the swan, the bird seems less than impressed and ensures the mask is worn the correct way. Read moreLG Wing to launch today, here’s what to expect from the T-shaped phoneLG is scheduled to launch its new ‘Wing’ smartphone later today. It’s a dual-screen phone but with a unique T-shaped design. LG has confirmed this although we’ve already seen the phone in leaked videos. The LG Wing launch event will take place later today at 7:30 PM IST. Read moreKia eyes large SUV for select markets to challenge might of Toyota Prado: ReportKia is reportedly looking at bolstering its already strong line-up of SUVs with a product that could become the flagship and take on the heavy-duty candidates in the rival camp. Read moreIs Covid-19 less fatal in India’s villages; Delhi gyms, yoga centres to reopenHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; spread of Covid in rural areas of the country; monsoon session of Parliament; Delhi gyms, Yoga centres to reopen; Donald Trump names PM Modi in speech on Covid. Watch the full video for more. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-row-over-question-hour-removal-on-day-1-of-monsoon-session-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wOFAbfAnM8JHW9lqnxGuBI.html
14-09-2020||India||India has been able to limit Covid-19 deaths to 55 per million population: Dr Harsh Vardhan||Owing to the nationwide efforts the Covid-19 related deaths have been limited to 55 per million population, said Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday.Speaking in the Lok Sabha, the Union Minister also said that the cases per million population in the country have also been limited to 3,328 in the country.“With our endeavour to manage Covid-19, India has been able to limit its cases and deaths to 3,328 cases and 55 deaths per million population respectively, which is one of the lowest in the world as compared to similarly affected countries,” the Minister said.“Maximum cases and deaths primarily reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Bihar, Telangana, Odisha, Assam, Kerala and Gujarat. All these reported more than 1 lakh cases,” he added.The Health Minister also informed Parliament about the Covid-19 situation in the country.“77,512 recoveries registered in the last 24 hours in India taking the total number of recoveries to 37,80,107 and recovery rate to 78 per cent. More than 60 per cent of active cases are concentrated in 5 states- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu,” he said.As per the Ministry today, the number of active cases in the country stands at 9,86,598. The toll due to COVID-19 stands at 79,722 in the country as of today.The Monsoon session 2020 of Parliament commenced today.This will be the first Parliament session being held amid the Covid-19 pandemic. All safety measures have been initiated to conduct the session as per health guidelines amid Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-been-able-to-limit-covid-19-deaths-to-55-per-million-population-dr-harsh-vardhan/story-DWz2WGpW6BZHsWUDHWlUoJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: No data available on migrant deaths during lockdown, says Centre||There is no data available or maintained on the number of migrant workers who lost their lives during the 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions that were enforced from March 25, in a bid to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, the Centre informed Parliament on Monday.The response by the labour ministry was on a question raised in Lok Sabha seeking information on whether the Government was aware that a number of migrant workers lost their lives during their return to their hometowns and if so, the details of the same, state-wise. It further added, “Whether the Government has provided any compensation/economic assistance to the victims’ families.”The labour ministry stated that no such data was maintained and it further added that the question of compensation does not arise in view of no recorded data available.ALSO READ | Parliament monsoon session: MPs should send our message the whole country is with the soldiers, says Narendra ModiIt also said there is no data on the job losses among migrant workers since the pandemic. The labour ministry said “no such data is maintained” to a question seeking a response on whether the government has done any assessment of the job losses among migrant workers due to the Covid-19 crisis.“In order to mitigate the financial crisis of the migrant workers and protect them against the economic disruptions due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown, the Central Government has taken numerous measures to provide them financial assistance, food packages ration and other benefits,” the labour ministry said.On May 30, Hindustan Times had reported there have been almost 80 deaths on board the Shramik Special trains (for stranded migrant workers) between May 9 and May 27, according to data from the Railway Protection Force. The ages of the dead ranged from 4 to 85. The data also mentioned the co-morbidities or accidents that caused the deaths in a few cases.The labour ministry also informed that more than 1.04 crore migrants have returned to their home state with the highest number of migrants returning to Uttar Pradesh (32.4 lakh) Bihar (15 lakh) and Rajasthan (13 lakh), in the first such centralized database record on migrants. It added that the Indian Railways has operated more than 4611 Shramik Special trains for ferrying migrant workers and more than 63.07 lakh have been shifted to various destinations in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and other states.The trains were started from May 1 to ferrying migrant labourers during the lockdown to their home states. The railway ministry had last month said many migrants have begun going back to the places where they worked and added it indicates that economic activity has begun picking up after India began easing lockdown restrictions.“The unplanned lockdown created a humanitarian crisis of epic proportions. The BJP government has shunned its basic responsibility of not even knowing who bore the maximum brunt of the lockdown. Their response indicates their continued callousness towards the poor. What is worse is that there is still no announcement of any cash support or universalisation of rations,” said Rajendran Narayanan, assistant professor at Azim Premji University.“The States/UTs have been advised to take adequate steps to streamline the migration of the workers to mitigate the hardships of migrant workers returning to the destination States/UTs,” the labour ministry told Parliament.“The States/UTs have been advised to implement the advisory guidelines by quickly gearing up their Labour Law enforcement machinery and ensuring statutory compliance by all the stake-holders which could provide migrant workers much needed help to mitigate the financial crisis and empower them to deal with the pandemic. The States/UTs have also been advised to maintain updated data of the migrant workers to facilitate the administration to extend benefits of the welfare schemes of the Government to the migrant workers,” it added.Another question was asked on whether the government failed in its in assessment of problems faced by migrant workers during the lockdown, including in Tamil Nadu.Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (MoS) with independent charge in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, said: “India, as a nation, has responded through the Central and state governments, local bodies, self-help groups (SHGs), Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), medical health professionals, sanitation workers as well as large number of genuine and bona-fide non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in the nation’s fight against the unprecedented humanitarian crisis due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and country-wide lockdown, including in Tamil Nadu.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-no-data-available-on-migrant-deaths-during-lockdown-says-centre/story-9J8jtas3hEaeSFKsPSr0wJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan deposits Re 1 fine in contempt case, says doesn’t mean he accepts Supreme Court judgement||Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday deposited the Re 1 fine imposed on him by the Supreme Court, but said this doesn’t mean that he is accepting the court’s judgement.Bhushan spoke to mediapersons outside the Supreme Court and said that he is going to file a review petition against the top court’s judgement today.“I am going to the Supreme Court registry to deposit Re 1 fine imposed on me in relation to the contempt of court case. That I am depositing the fine does not mean I am accepting the judgment. I will be filing a review petition against it today,” he said.He had filed a fresh petition on Saturday, seeking the right of appeal against the original criminal contempt cases.Bhushan has demanded that his appeal should be heard by a larger and different bench of the Supreme Court.In the plea filed through lawyer Kamini Jaiswal, Bhushan has suggested procedural changes to reduce the chances of “arbitrary, vengeful and high-handed decisions” in criminal contempt cases saying that in such cases the top court is the aggrieved party, the “prosecutor, the witness and the judge” and hence they raise fear of inherent bias.“This would act as a vital safeguard against wrongful conviction and would truly enable the provision of truth as a defense,” Bhushan said in his plea.The Supreme Court recently held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his tweets criticising the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. The court had on August 31 imposed a token fine of Re 1 as a punishment.Bhushan was asked to deposit the amount by with the Supreme Court registry by September 15, failing which he would have to undergo three-month jail term and debarment from law practice for three years.Another contempt case against Bhushan, initiated by the top court in 2009 for his remarks that some past Chief Justices of India were corrupt, is also pending before the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-bhushan-deposits-re-1-fine-in-contempt-case-but-says-filing-review-petition-against-supreme-court-judgement/story-smUjkVT6cG7LKLzmMNN7aK.html
14-09-2020||India||Row ensues over removal of Question Hour on Day 1 of monsoon session||Several opposition parliamentarians questioned the government over the removal of Question Hour on day one of the Parliament’s monsoon session proceedings on Monday. Parliamentarians from Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) said that there are several issues like unemployment, NEET exams and national security should have been discussed. Union defence minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Rajnath Singh appealed to all parliamentarians present on day one of the monsoon session in the Lok Sabha to ensure the proceedings went smoothly.Singh outlined to the parliamentarians that the proceedings are being held under extraordinary circumstances due to the coronavirus pandemic. According to news agency ANI, “Leaders of most parties agreed over no Question Hour & Zero Hour for 30 minutes. We apprised you (Speaker) of it following which decision was taken by you. I appeal to all members of the House to co-operate as Session is being held in an extraordinary situation.”Few MPs including leader of the Indian National Congress in the House Adhir Ranjan Choudhury were concerned about the removal of Question Hour as well as the limiting of Zero Hour to 30 minutes.Choudhury said, “Question Hour is the golden hour but you say that it can’t be held due to the circumstances. You conduct the proceedings but single out Question Hour. You are trying to strangulate democracy.”NCP MP Supriya Sule said that India is not the only country facing the pandemic and discussions on important issues cannot be set aside. She said, “This is a global scenario & we’re not the only country going through it. But it should be the priority of govt. I don’t see this govt at the Centre talking extensively either about the economy or unemployment challenges. We should put it on priority.”The monsoon session is being held keeping in mind that the pandemic continues to affect the nation as it recorded more than a thousand deaths and registered more than 90,000 cases for almost a week in a row.Parliamentarians underwent Covid-19 tests, premises were sanitised on a war footing and the Upper House and Lower House proceedings will be held in two shifts.Opposition party MPs are protesting against the motion to scrap Question Hour and private member bills during the session. The government looks forward to introducing the motion on October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-ensues-over-removal-of-question-hour-on-day-1-of-monsoon-session/story-CbHGmtsSRh7ka2sIuh7wDM.html
14-09-2020||India||Arrest, search without warrant under UP’s new special security force rules||A special force will be set up in Uttar Pradesh that can search and arrest without a warrant, said the government on Sunday. Called the Special Security Force, the government plans to launch it within the next three months. The force will be deployed for the security of strategic and vital installations, high court, district court, state government administrative premises, religious spots, Metro Rail, airports, banks, industrial undertakings and any other establishment notified by the state government.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the SSF has been established in view of an Allahabad high court order to the state government for security and protection of all court premises in the state. The force will have the power to search and make arrests without a warrant, he added.The state legislative assembly passed the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force Bill-2020 in the monsoon session, paving the way for constitution of the specialised force.He added that the director general of police (DGP) had been directed to submit a road map for constitution of SSF within three days, a proposal for various posts in the force within seven days and rules for implementation of the SSF Act within 15 days. The DGP has directed to submit a suggestion for the launch of the first phase of the SSF within three months, Awasthi said.Considered the dream project of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the state government has decided to constitute five battalions of SSF in the first phase with 1,913 personnel. The total strength of the force will be 9,919 personnel. The state government would spend Rs 1,747.06 crore on the constitution of five battalions, he said.In the first phase, the state government will take the assistance of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and use its infrastructure. An IPS officer of additional director general (ADG) rank will head the force, but superintendence of the force will vest in DGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrest-search-without-warrant-under-up-s-new-special-security-force-rules/story-4O9dJ6pAkfikgW2cU5msvJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Masks, plastic shields, maintaining physical distance, LS members attend House amid pandemic||Separated by plastic shields installed in front of their benches, members of Lok Sabha attended the first day of the Monsoon session being held amid the Covid-19 pandemic.While nearly 200 members were present in the Lok Sabha chamber, a little over 30 were seated in the visitors’ gallery located above the main chamber.A giant TV screen in the Lok Sabha chamber showed very few Lok Sabha members were occupying seats in the Rajya Sabha chamber, the other venue where LS MPs have been accommodated  keeping in mind physical distancing norms.Benches which usually accommodate six members had a numbered sitting plan for only three.Glass-like plastic shields of varied sizes were installed in front of benches to protect members from coronavirus. The shield also covered part of the members’ sides. The front seats of the Treasury benches on the right of the Speaker’s podium were occupied by Prime Minister Narendra Modi sitting on a seat marked as number one, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on seat number 2 and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on seat number  3.The front seats of the Opposition benches were occupied by T R Baalu of the DMK and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress.National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah was also present and was seated in the second row of opposition benches.As soon as the prime minister entered the House, he was greeted with claps and “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” slogan.Modi greeted members, including those from the Opposition, with folded hands.All members were wearing masks. Some were also seen wearing face shields, including Trinamool Congress leader Kalyan Banerjee.The House met for neatly 20 minutes in the morning and was adjourned for an hour after paying tributes to former president Pranab Mukherjee, a sitting MP and 13 former members who died in the recent past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/masks-plastic-shields-maintaining-physical-distance-ls-members-attend-house-amid-pandemic/story-3KClBiIyESZ17br0PouZuL.html
14-09-2020||India||Nivesh Mitra: UP’s one-stop redressal window for investors with 98% success rate||The Nivesh Mitra portal of the Uttar Pradesh government, which works as a single window system for application and clearance of projects, has successfully addressed 98 percent of grievances till last week. It was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at investors’ summit in 2018.The portal received 18,386 grievances till September 11. Out of this, the government has addressed 17,982 (98 percent) issues successfully. With an aim to attract investment in Uttar Pradesh and ensure the ease of doing business, the Yogi Adityanath government had conceptualised this portal to address all grievances of investors through this single window system.The Nivesh Mitra portal offers 146 services across 20 departments. Till last week, the portal received 2,33,944 applications out of which 32,106 were rejected due to various issues. Some 7,328 applications were pending at the end of entrepreneurs due to various queries raised by the departments. In addition to this, 8036 applications are under evaluation.“We are getting feedback from all across the state about the Nivesh Mitra portal. It has proved to be of great help in addressing grievances of industrialists and issues of investors,” said Pankaj Kumar, national president, Indian Industries Association (IIA), an industry lobby body of the MSME sector. 186 reforms across 20 departments To fulfil its commitment towards providing a conducive atmosphere to investors, the Uttar Pradesh government has implemented 186 reforms across 20 departments, including labour, environment, land administration and construction permit and inspection, among others. Among key reforms implemented by the state government are elimination of the requirement of renewal under shop and establishment act, single integrated return under various labour laws and online permission of drug manufacturing licences.District level ease of doing business ranking Since May last the state government has started ranking all 75 districts based on three key parameters, including disposal of NOC applications, user feedback and grievance redressal. In August last, 64 out of 75 districts improved their District Level ease of doing business score. Due to district level ease of doing business ranking, user satisfaction has gone up to 73 percent and grievances disposal rate has also increased from 72 percent to 75 percent in August last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nivesh-mitra-up-s-one-stop-redressal-window-for-investors-with-98-success-rate/story-Ox9B6SYi6iohlxWw36QqnL.html
14-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha adjourned for an hour after obituary references||Lok Sabha was adjourned for an hour on Monday after paying tributes to former President Pranab Mukherjee, a sitting MP and 13 ex-parliamentarians who died in the recent past.The first-of-its-kind Monsoon session being held amid the Covid-19 pandemic saw members sporting masks and following social distancing guidelines while attending the proceedings.As soon as the House assembled for the first time since the coronavirus outbreak, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla paid glowing tributes to the departed leaders and security personnel who have laid down their lives while protecting the nation since March.Birla also remembered “Corona warriors” like doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, police personnel and voluntary workers who died while fighting the pandemic.Apart from Mukherjee, the House paid tributes to sitting MP from Tamil Nadu H Vasanthakumar, eminent vocalist Pandit Jasraj, former MPs Gurdas Singh Badal, Nepal Singh, Ajit Jogi, P Namgyal, Paras Nath Yadav, Madhav Rao Patil, Haribhau Madhav Jawale, Saroj Dubey, Lalji Tandon, Kamal Rani, Chetan Chauhan, Surendra Prakash Goel and Raghuvansh Prasad Singh.The speaker then adjourned the House for an hour, after about 20 minutes of business.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, DMK leader T R Baalu, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and NCP leader Supriya Sule were among those who were present in the House.The 18-day session is being held amid unprecedented precautionary measures in view of Covid-19. India witnessed a single day spike of 92,068 Covid-19 cases, and 1,136 fatalities taking the country’s virus caseload to 48,46,424 and death toll to 79,722 on Monday.MPs attending the House had to undergo a Covid test and only those with a negative report were allowed to sit in the House. The security and secretarial staff in Parliament also had to take coronavirus tests before their entry.While on the first day of the session on Monday, Lok Sabha is sitting in the morning from 9 am to 1 pm, Rajya Sabha is sitting in the evening starting at 3 pm.On the rest of the days, Rajya Sabha will sit for four hours in the morning and Lok Sabha in the evening.The chambers of both houses and the galleries are being used for the session and big screens have been installed to enable members to witness proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-adjourned-for-an-hour-after-obituary-references/story-9vpOCxcNwiU9qo3Rm3q53I.html
14-09-2020||India||NSA against 3 for alleged murder of 9-year-old in Agra: Cops||The tough National Security Act (NSA) was slapped against three persons arrested for allegedly kidnapping and killing a nine-year-old boy in their neighbourhood in Dhorra village in Etmadpur tehsil of Agra. A police officer too was suspended in the case. The boy had been missing since Tuesday, after which a case of kidnapping was registered at the Etmadpur police station. The victim’s family raised suspicion against three persons - Ayub, Wahid and Arman - living in the neighbourhood. “The National Security Act (NSA) was slapped on the three accused - Wahid, Ayub and Arman. The charges would be framed against the three. The SHO Salim Khan has been suspended,” informed Babloo Kumar, SSP Agra. However, the boy’s body was found on Thursday. Villagers were angry against “police’s laxity” in the case and tension prevailed in the area as the accused and victim belonged to different communities. Sensing trouble, the police presence was increased in the area.“SHO Salim Khan was called to the police lines and one of the accused Wahid was arrested after an encounter on Saturday. The other two accused involved in the kidnapping and killing of the boy were also arrested on Sunday morning and identified as Arman and Ayub,” informed Babloo Kumar.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath took cognisance of the case, following which the Agra police acted tough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-against-3-for-alleged-murder-of-9-year-old-in-agra-cops/story-uHe0kKy2empe59TtrIe4dP.html
14-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: Azad, Adhir to decide Congress strategy||Congress leaders in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will firm up the party’s strategy in both the Houses of Parliament during the 18-day monsoon session that starts from Monday following the absence of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi during a major part of the proceedings.Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will take a call on the issues to be raised in the two Houses on any day. Before leaving for abroad for a routine health check-up, Sonia Gandhi had chaired a meeting of the Congress’s parliament strategy group to give a final shape to the party’s stand on various issues, including India-China border standoff, coronavirus disease Covid-19 situation and the current state of economy, especially the historic decline in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The speakers on different issues will also be decided by the two leaders. A 10-member committee, five each from the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha, has already been formed for smooth functioning and effective floor coordination in both the Houses. The group for the Rajya Sabha has Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, party’s deputy leader Anand Sharma, Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal and Jairam Ramesh. The group for the Lok Sabha will have Adhir Ranjan Choudhary, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu. For any crisis-like situation, Sonia Gandhi has also formed a special six-member committee to take party-related decisions. This panel comprises AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala. Sonia Gandhi, who is also the Congress Parliament Party (CPP) chairperson, left for the US on Saturday for her routine health check-up. She is accompanied by Rahul Gandhi. Apart from Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, the meeting of the strategy group was also attended by former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, his deputy Anand Sharma, party leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, his deputy Gaurav Gogoi, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Mallikarjun Kharge, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal, Manish Tewari, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu. The party has decided to corner the government on the issue in parliament but in a “nuanced” way given that the Indian forces are standing eyeball-to-eyeball with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The party will also flag the Covid-19 situation across the country, the impact of lockdown, the current state of economy, decline in GDP, GST compensation to states, job losses, agrarian distress, restoration of Question Hour, Facebook’s alleged nexus with the ruling BJP. It will also seek a discussion on the PM CARES Fund. The meeting also decided to firm up joint strategy with other like-minded Opposition parties. Some key Opposition leaders, such as Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren have already stated that they will work closely with each other to take on the government in Parliament. The leaders expressed their views at a recent meeting of non-NDA chief ministers called by Sonia Gandhi on JEE/NEET and GST issues. The Opposition parties have also decided to field Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha as their joint candidate for the post of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson. The election will be held later in the day. The Congress and some other Opposition parties have also decided to oppose four of the 11 bills the government is bringing in to replace ordinances relating to the farm sector and the banking regulation amendments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-ghulam-nabi-azad-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-to-decide-congress-strategy-in-both-houses/story-HwhVnZWslpoD2780vQuPcJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Over 92,000 fresh Covid-19 cases take India’s tally closer to 5 million||India on Monday recorded 92,076 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours which took the overall tally to 48,46,427.According to Union health ministry update, there are 9,86,598 active cases while 37,80,107 patients have been discharged. More than 1,100 (1,136 to be exact) fatalities were recorded in the said perid which pushed the death toll up to 79,722.India has been recording at least 1,000 fatalities everyday due to the coronavirus disease for the last three weeks. Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases, also tops in terms of the death toll.The fatalities count in Maharashtra reached close to 30,000 after 416 patients died due to the infection on Sunday, according to health ministry.Apaert from Maharashtra, the Centre on Sunday urged Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh to ensure adequate oxygen availability in all healthcare facilities and unrestricted intra- and inter-state movement of oxygen cylinders because of the coronavirus pandemic.The health ministry held a virtual meeting where Union health secretary, secretary DPIIT and secretary Pharmaceuticals participated.Union minister Piyush Goyal addressed them. The states were advised to ensure facility wise/hospital wise oxygen inventory management and advance planning for replenishment so that there are no stockout, the health ministry said in a statement.Health minister Harsh Vardhan, meanwhile, said on Sunday that a vaccine for the disease is likely to be available by early next year and the government is considering its emergency authorisation for high-risk people.Vardhan said the government is taking full precautions in human trials of vaccines and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration is drawing up a detailed strategy on how to immunise the majority of the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-92-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-tally-closer-to-5-million/story-S9E2UegPWuTdSMb8eSXJ8L.html
14-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: MPs should send our message the whole country is with the soldiers, says Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said members of Parliament have chosen to abide by their responsibility by turning up for the monsoon session. He also expressed hope that discussions on important issues will be taken up in the session and all MPs will send out a message “in one voice” that the whole country is standing behind the brave soldiers posted at the borders in difficult terrain.Addressing the media ahead of the monsoon session, the Prime Minister said that the pandemic is still around but the MPs chose the path to duty. “I congratulate them and express gratitude to them. This time Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will be held at different times in a day. It will be held on Saturday and Sunday as well. And all the MPs have accepted this,” he said.Also Read: A look at some of the key bills to be introduced on first day of the Parliament’s monsoon sessionAfter the Budget session had to be cut short in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Parliament is reconvening for an 18-day session that will see business during staggered working hours. Watch | ‘Can’t be casual till there’s a Covid vaccine’: PM Modi on Parliament sessionWhile proceedings such as zero hour and question hour have been dropped in view of the shortened hours, the PM expressed hope that the House will raise important issues. “There will be discussion on various issues and we have experience that in Lok Sabha, the whole country tends to benefit from the detailed and extensive discussions that take place. We will continue that great tradition and all MPs will add value to it,” he said.Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: MHA to answer questions on nationwide lockdownAs the issue of Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is expected to dominate the session, the PM said the MPs should send out a message that the country is standing by its soldiers. “This Parliament has a special duty; today our brave soldiers are at the borders with zeal and confidence in a difficult terrain, and soon it will begin to snow. They are there for the protection of the country, all MPs should send a message to the soldiers that the whole country is with them. All MPs in one voice will say they are standing behind the brave soldiers; I hope this message will go out,” he said. The PM also urged the MPs and media personnel to abide by the protocol for social distancing. “In these circumstances, we will abide by the protocols; till there is a vaccine we cannot let down our guard. We are hopeful that our scientists are successful and we get the vaccine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-mps-should-send-our-message-the-whole-country-is-with-the-soldiers-says-narendra-modi/story-HMxYmyNSX0wHGZ0XmjpjSI.html
14-09-2020||India||A look at some of the key bills to be introduced on first day of the Parliament’s monsoon session||The much-awaited monsoon session of the Parliament began on Monday amid the coronavirus pandemic. The Opposition aims to target the government over several issues like the standoff at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), GDP contraction, alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and three ordinances that have angered the farmers in Haryana and Punjab.The government has several bills to be laid on the table during the business hours. Here is a look at some of the key bills that will be tabled by the Centre in Parliament today.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan will introduce The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020 related to surrogacy laws. It is intended to regulate, “ the assisted reproductive technology clinics and the assisted reproductive technology banks, prevention of misuse,safe and ethical practice of assisted reproductive technology services”, according to the List of Business document uploaded by the Lok Sabha website.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will introduce the The Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill, 2020 which will aim to “ensure financial stability and promote competitiveness in Indian financial markets by providing enforceability of bilateral netting of qualified financial contracts.”Union minister for agriculture and farmers welfare and minister for rural development Narendra Singh Tomar will introduce the bills - The Farmers’Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 are aimed to ensure to “provide for the creation of an ecosystem where the farmers and traders enjoy the freedom of choice relating to sale and purchase of farmers’ produce which facilitates remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels to promote efficient, transparent and barrier-free inter-State and intra-State trade and commerce of farmers’ produce outside physical premises of markets or deemed markets notified under various State agricultural produce market legislations; to provide a facilitative framework for electronic trading”He will also introduce the and The Farmers(Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 which aims to “provide for a national framework on farming agreements that protects and empowers farmers to engage with agri-business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for farm services and sale of future farming produce at a mutually agreed remunerative price framework in a fair and transparent manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-look-at-some-of-the-key-bills-to-be-introduced-on-first-day-of-the-parliament-s-monsoon-session/story-saUCujyDLxcZ6U6otR0vkJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Provide ‘green corridor’ for medical oxygen tankers: Centre to states||The states will have to provide a ‘green corridor’ for seamless movement of liquid medical oxygen tankers within the cities in order to ensure adequate availability of its supplies amid the coronavirus pandemic, according to a Union health ministry directive.A ‘green corridor’ allows unrestricted passage for quick delivery and are often created to transport organs from deceased donors for transplant. Apart from ensuring no restriction was imposed on the intra and inter-state movement of oxygen tankers, the states were also directed to create hospital-wise oxygen inventory management and plan in advance for timely replenishment so that there was no stockout.The states will also have to ensure timely payment of the due bills to the manufacturers and suppliers to maintain uninterrupted supply of oxygen, and improve power supply infrastructure to have an uninterrupted supply to oxygen manufacturing units in the country.There is also the need to effectively coordinate with steel plants for oxygen procurement since steel plants provide approximately 550 metric tonnes oxygen per day in addition to oxygen manufacturers who provide 6400 metric tonnes per day, the states were told.In a virtual meeting held on Sunday, apart from the Union health secretary, secretary department of industries and internal trade, secretary pharmaceuticals, and state health secretaries and industries secretaries of seven big manufacturing states of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh also took part.Oxygen therapy is an essential component to save lives of moderate to severe Covid-19 patients.“In moderate to severe Covid-19 cases, the lung cells don’t participate in normal functioning that results in lungs failing to take up oxygen from the blood and also not being able to remove carbon dioxide from the blood. It leads to oxygen levels dropping in the blood for which oxygen support is given externally to compensate for the impaired lung function. The virus attacks the lung cells and leads to extensive pneumonia,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care department, Medanta Hospital, Gurugram.The health ministry had earlier on Friday written a letter to states asking them to make certain there was no interruption in the movement of tankers across borders so that there was no shortage anywhere in the country.Some states do not have oxygen manufacturing units and are dependent on other states. Delhi gets its oxygen supply largely from Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. Punjab gets its supply from Haryana; Madhya Pradesh gets it from Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra; and Andhra Pradesh and Telangana get their supplies mostly from Karnataka.India’s actual oxygen consumption is about 2,000 metric tonnes per day, and the production capacity per day is about 6,400 metric tonnes that is also used by the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-green-corridor-for-medical-oxygen-tankers-centre-to-states/story-YqLx7DoKSMo9rv3GYvGJJJ.html
14-09-2020||India||PM Modi, Amit Shah extend greetings on occasion of Hindi Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday extended greetings on the occasion of Hindi Diwas. He also congratulated the linguists who have contributed to the development of the Hindi language.“Best wishes to everyone on Hindi Diwas. My heartiest congratulations to all the linguists who contributed to the development of Hindi (language) on this occasion,”PM Modi tweeted. हिन्दी दिवस पर आप सभी को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। इस अवसर पर हिन्दी के विकास में योगदान दे रहे सभी भाषाविदों को मेरा हार्दिक अभिनंदन।Union home minister Amit Shah also extended his wishes on the occasion of Hindi Diwas, calling the language as an “unbreakable part of Indian culture”, adding that Hindi has been working to “unify the whole country” for centuries. आज हिंदी दिवस के अवसर पर मैं इसके सशक्तिकरण में योगदान देने वाले सभी महानुभावों को नमन करता हूँ और देशवासियों से यह आवाहन भी करता हूँ कि अपनी मातृभाषा के साथ-साथ हिंदी का अधिक से अधिक प्रयोग कर उनके संरक्षण व संवर्धन में अपना योगदान देने का संकल्प लें।हिंदी दिवस की शुभकामनाएं।“A country is identified by its border and geography, but its biggest identity is its language. The various languages and dialects of India are its strength as well as a symbol of its unity. In India, which is full of cultural and linguistic diversity, ‘Hindi’ has been working to unify the whole country for centuries,” Shah tweeted.“Hindi is an unbreakable part of Indian culture. It has been an effective and powerful medium of national unity and identity since the freedom struggle,” he added. Shah further said that with the recent implementation of the National Education Policy, along with Hindi, other regional languages would also develop at the same level. “With the new education policy of the Modi government, there will be parallel development of Hindi and other Indian languages,” Shah tweeted.The home minister is set to deliver a message to the countrymen on the occasion of Hindi Diwas today.The Hindi language was first adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India as the official language of the Republic of India on September 14, 1949.The decision of using Hindi as an official language of India was legalised by the Constitution of India on January 26, 1950.Hindi is spoken as a native language by 258 million people and is recognised as the fourth most spoken language in the world. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-amit-shah-extend-greetings-on-occasion-of-hindi-diwas/story-TWFDZ1CzuBPGWMWZHNML3H.html
14-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Centre issues SOPs for skill training institutions, higher education institutions||The Union health ministry on Sunday night issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for skill training institutions and higher education institutions conducting technical programs requiring laboratory work.These have been allowed to open by the Centre from September 21, as part of the fourth stage of the nationwide unlock.Here are the guidelines to be followed:• The seating arrangement should be such that it ensures a distance of six feet between desks, chairs.• Classroom activities should be staggered, with separate time slots, to allow adequate physical distancing and disinfection of classroom premises.• Academic scheduling should be have a mix of regular classroom teaching and online teaching/assessments.• Teachers and students should wear masks throughout teaching activities.• Sharing of items like laptops, stationary, notebooks etc. among students should not be allowed.Metro services have already resumed operations as part of Unlock 4, while schools, too, will partially reopen from September 21, though only for classes 9-12 and only for guidance purposes. As of September 13, India’s coronavirus tally stood at over 4.7 million, the second-highest after the United States and ahead of Brazil. India is also the only country to have recorded more than 80,00 and, later, 90,000 cases in a single day, since the outbreak of the pandemic, including 94,372 new infections between Saturday and Sunday.The country started opening up from June 1, after strict nationwide lockdown in four phases from March 25 to May 31. Unlock 4 started on September 1 and will end on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-centre-issues-sops-for-skill-training-institutions-higher-education-institutions/story-UeMYNjlpbxNPMfOcguitUK.html
14-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: MHA to answer questions on nationwide lockdown in Parliament monsoon session and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Parliament monsoon session: MHA to answer questions on nationwide lockdownWhen Parliament meets on Monday for the 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will face questions on various issues. Read moreGalaxy S20 Fan Edition set to launch on Sep 23 as Samsung announces another Galaxy Unpacked eventIt’s official. Samsung will host a new Galaxy Unpacked event on September 23. The event title ‘Galaxy Unpacked for Every Fan’ is an obvious hint at the launch of rumoured Samsung Galaxy S20 Fan Edition. Samsung has earlier held two similar virtual events to launch Galaxy Note 20 and Galaxy Z Fold 2 premium phones. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘MS Dhoni depends a lot on him’ - Ajit Agarkar hopes CSK fast bowler maintains fitness levelsIn the absence of Suresh Raina and Harbhajan Singh, three-time IPL champions Chennai Super Kings are a little depleted in their squad. In such a scenario, the role of the existing players become all the more important for the team. From the time CSK have landed in the UAE, they’ve landed in hot waters. Read moreAudi RS models with plug-in hybrid system is not about if but whenIn a fast changing world, traditional automotive giants are having to change their strategy to not just stay ahead of the curve but to also stay relevant. Read moreTahira Kashyap eats cake off ‘soulmate’ Ayushmann Khurrana’s face in special birthday picture. See hereWriter and filmmaker Tahira Kashyap has shared a special birthday post for husband, actor Ayushmann Khurrana. Ayushmann turned 36 on Monday. Read moreA productive ParliamentParliament convenes today after a long period in what will be a shortened monsoon session which will last till October 1. While the pandemic has prevented the full functioning of many institutions, Parliament is the most important one and it is imperative that its functionaries meet with adequate precautions to discuss the many issues the country faces, and legislate on several pending laws.  Read moreWisconsin school teacher shares back-to-school rendition of FRIENDS theme song, netizens love it“So no one told you life was gonna be this way”- any Friends fan will recognise this line. I’ll Be There For You, by The Rembrandts, is the theme song for the popular sitcom and a fan has probably heard it a million times. However, tweaking the lyrics, a Winconsin school teacher has dropped an amazing version of the song that has grabbed the attention of netizens. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-mha-to-answer-questions-on-nationwide-lockdown-in-parliament-monsoon-session-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZTO9JMTp86ZsVwgdTe6KEJ.html
14-09-2020||India||India’s Covid deaths inch closer to 80k as country reports around 1k new daily deaths for 3 weeks||India, on average, has been reporting at least 1,000 new deaths daily due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the past three weeks now.With 1,138 new Covid-19 deaths reported from across the country on Sunday, the total number of patients having succumbed to the viral infection in the country has reached about 80,000 (79,752) in the past six months.The first death due to Covid-19 in India was reported on March 12, from south India. Maharashtra continues to report maximum number of Covid-19 related deaths in the country, with 416 patients dying on Sunday alone, taking the total number of deaths in the state to 29,531. Also read: ‘Reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid patients,’ Delhi govt tells private hospitalsAnother worst affected state in terms of total number of deaths is Tamil Nadu with 8,381 cumulative deaths so far, and 74 new deaths reported in a single day. Karnataka reported second highest (104) new deaths, taking the Covid-19 death toll in the state to 7,265. India’s case fatality rate (CFR), the proportion of people who have died of the disease among all individuals diagnosed with it, has been improving steadily and currently stands at 1.64%, which is among the lowest in the world. The global CFR currently is nearly the double of Indian CFR at 3.18%. “Our aim is to bring country’s CFR further down to 1% or below. Most deaths and cases are concentrated in about 10 states, which have our special focus as far as containment measures is concerned,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting not to be identified. The Centre has directed states to focus on those districts that are reporting high case fatality rate, and the urgent need for them to refine as well as strengthen approach and strategies relating to testing, contact tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen, treatment protocols, etc. “There are some states that have certain districts that are not performing well, there is a need to look into specific problems of those districts to be able to better contain the disease spread,” the health ministry official added. While measures are being taken by both the Centre and state governments to cut the disease transmission, the total number of new cases being reported each day is inching closer to 100,000. On Sunday, 93,214 new cases were reported from across the country, taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the country to close to 5 million (4,844,977). Maharashtra also has the maximum of Covid-19 positive cases in the country as 22,543 people were on Sunday reported positive from the state, taking its total count to 1,060,308. Andhra Pradesh is a close second with 567,123 cases reported in a single day, followed by Karnataka with 459,445 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/around-1k-new-daily-deaths-for-3-weeks-india-s-covid-death-number-inching-closer-to-80k/story-ivXXD1puFXtmhIDuOI2Q7J.html
14-09-2020||India||‘There’s corona and there’s duty. MPs chose duty’: PM Modi wishes for productive monsoon session of Parliament||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished for a productive monsoon session of Parliament and lauded the parliamentarians to choose duty at the time of the coronavirus pandemic.“Parliament session is beginning in distinct times. There’s corona and there’s duty. MPs chose the path to duty. I congratulate and express gratitude to them. This time Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha will be held at different times in a day. It’ll be held on Saturdays and Sundays too. All MPs accepted this,” PM Modi said as he reached Parliament on Monday.He highlighted that the pandemic has led to changes in schedule and had also led to premature end to Budget Session of Parliament.The Prime Minister said there should not be laxity till the time a Covid-19 vaccine is ready. “We want that a vaccine be developed at the earliest from any corner of the world, our scientists succeed and we succeed in bringing everyone out of this problem,” PM Modi said.Talking about legislative business, he said, “Several important discussions will be held during this session. I believe that more discussions undertaken during the session in Lok Sabha benefits the nation. I believe all of us MPs will add value to these discussions.”PM Modi also spoke about the Line of Actual Control (LAC) standoff in Ladakh. He appealed to parliamentarians across political parties to ensure that the soldiers who are braving the hard climate conditions should be backed by a unified voice. He appealed all countrymen to stand behind soldiers in Ladakh who are trying to thwart Chinese aggression at the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-arrives-in-parliament-for-monsoon-session-wishes-for-a-productive-session/story-aLB4vqM3aEoEA7kquouJ7I.html
14-09-2020||India||Twelve of 13 members of GST Council preferred the Rs 97,000 crore borrowing option||Andhra Pradesh (AP) , Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh (MP), Meghalaya, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh (UP), Uttarakhand and Odisha have opted for the first borrowing option of Rs 97,000 crore to meet the Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue shortfall, while Manipur has preferred the second option of a loan of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, two Union finance ministry officials said.So far, 13 states have communicated their borrowing options and six states have indicated that they would convey their choice next week, they said requesting anonymity. The six states are Goa, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram and Himachal Pradesh (HP).Also Read: Gold cheaper by Rs 4,800, being sold at a discount despite fall in priceAt the 41st GST Council on August 27, the Union government gave two borrowing options to states to meet their revenue shortfall of about Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year. Two days later, it specified that under the first option, states would not have to pay either principle or interest if they borrow only Rs 97,000 crore to meet the GST revenue shortfall because of implementation bottlenecks. However, they would have to bear significant interest costs if they choose the larger borrowing option of Rs 2.35 lakh crore that includes revenue shortfalls due to an “act of God”, which is the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Some states, where opposition parties are in power, such as Delhi, Kerala, Punjab, West Bengal (WB), Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, had initially opposed the Centre’s proposal. Also Read: Andhra govt hikes VAT on natural gas by 10% to offset revenue lossesAddressing a press conference on August 30, WB finance minister Amit Mitra had said a huge debt was being thrust on states in the name of “act of God” — a reference to the phrase used by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to describe the Covid-19 pandemic. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia termed the Centre’s move a “betrayal” of federalism that HT had reported on August 31. Kerala finance minister (FM) Thomas Isaac had tweeted on August 31, “FMs of Punjab, Delhi, WB, Chhattisgarh,Telengana and Kerala agreed to reject the Centre’s options on GST compensation .Our option: the central government to borrow the entire compensation due regardless of the acts of God, humans or nature , to be paid back by extending the period of cess.”“Initially, many states, where opposition parties in power, had some reservation related to borrowing. Now, they are weighing their options after the Centre has clarified its commitment to pay the entire compensation. They will also communicate their choices soon,” one of the officials quoted above said. On September 3, Union expenditure and revenue secretaries had met virtually with state finance secretaries to explain how the options would work.HT on September 9 had reported that following the Centre’s clarification the only option available to states to receive the GST compensation was to borrow. Most states, including some ruled by parties other than the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), were likely to opt for the first of the two options offered on August 27. Isaac had tweeted on September 9, “I welcome the new stance of the Centre that it was never its idea to deny full GST compensation. Glad to be corrected. But deferring half the compensation for better times, ipso facto, is deferring public expenditures to better times. It is the surest way of deferring future good days.”At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime in July 2017, the GST law had assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to 2022) and their revenue shortfall should be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liqour, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and other tobacco products. States and union territories (UTs) require Rs 3 lakh crore GST compensation in the current financial year, an 82% jump from 2019-20 because of a sharp fall in the tax revenue, as the economy has been severely hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions, the officials said.According to an official statement released on July 27, the total amount of compensation paid to states and UTs in 2019-20 was Rs 1,65,302 crore, while the total amount of cess collected in that year was Rs 95,444 crore. The lower revenue collection was primarily due to subdued economic growth. India’s gross domestic product (GDP) had slowed to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, which is the lowest in 11 years. The 41st council meeting had taken place in the backdrop of the opinion of the Attorney General (AG) for India on the compensation cess issue, where he had said there was no obligation on the Centre under the GST laws to compensate for the loss of revenue, the officials said. According to the AG, the GST Council was expected to find ways to meet the shortfall in compensation and not the Central government. “The GST Council offered two options to the states to borrow,” a second official said.“It was discussed in the recent GST Council meeting that in the current economic scenario it may not be possible to increase tax rates or do rate rationalisation to meet the compensation shortfall. However, borrowing could be an option to address this challenge,” he said.Even former FM Arun Jaitley had categorically stated that, if required, market borrowing could be an option to compensate in case of a shortfall and later the same can be repaid through the future collection of cess. “Fulfilling the same commitment, the Central government has, time and again, stated that the entitlement of the states would always be for full compensation and the entire compensation sum on account of shortfall in collections of GST will be paid and honoured,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twelve-of-13-members-of-gst-council-preferred-the-borrowing-option/story-7mPjab6gKzQaTLermjt89I.html
14-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: MHA to answer questions on nationwide lockdown||When Parliament meets on Monday for the 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will face questions on various issues.The ministry has to answer questions on strict restrictions imposed for 68 days during the nationwide lockdown because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, police excesses to enforce the measures, several guidelines related to the viral outbreak issued by it, the investigation in the Kerala gold smuggling case and a rise in crime graph amid the contagion.The MHA has prepared a list of unstarred questions for the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha on the basis of queries received from various members of Parliament (MPs).Also Read: For a meaningful monsoon sessionSeveral questions are expected to be raised on the imposition of nationwide lockdown restrictions from March 25, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) guidelines issued by the ministry periodically, handling of lockdown by police, treatment of migrant labourers, individual restrictions imposed by various states and the stimulus package announced following the Covid-19 outbreak.An interesting question has also been raised for the MHA regarding drug trafficking in Bollywood. The question becomes pertinent following the ongoing separate probes by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput (34). Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai on June 14.Also Read: Monsoon session of Parliament: Over 1k officials being screenedThe NCB had last week arrested actress Rhea Chakraborty, who is at the centre of a raging controversy over Rajput’s death; her brother Showik and several others in connection with the supply of drugs.Some MPs have also asked about the number of deaths in the police and central paramilitary forces due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Several issues raised in previous sessions will also figure during the monsoon session such as the detention of political leaders in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, voting rights to west Pakistan and Bangladesh refugees, caste-based census, infiltration of terrorists via the India-Pakistan border, the impact of the removal of Article 370 from J&K, steps taken to check left-wing extremism (LWE) activities etc.Some MPs are expected to raise other issues for the MHA such as an increase in online fraud, circulation of fake Indian currency notes (FICNs), overcrowding in prisons and foreign funding of non-governmental organisations (NGOs).Most of the queries raised by the MPs will be answered by two junior ministers in the MHA --- G Kishan Reddy and Nityanand Rai -- since home minister Amit Shah hasn’t been keeping well.The two houses of Parliament will sit in two shifts from Monday -- 9 am to 1 am and 3 pm to 7 pm --- because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Only those who have Covid-19 negative reports will be allowed to enter Parliament and wearing masks is mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-mha-to-answer-question-on-nationwide-lockdown/story-7KlnBgd0OLff7NnyFPQMvK.html
14-09-2020||India||25% excess rain recorded in peninsular India, NW India largely dry||A low pressure area has formed over west central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh (AP) coast on Sunday signalling a pickup in monsoon rains after a brief lull in September.Due to the formation of a low-pressure area, rain intensity and distribution will increase over Odisha; coastal Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Yaman in Puducherry to begin with, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its bulletin on Monday.Also read: Low pressure area off Andhra coast to bring heavy rain in peninsular IndiaPeninsular India has recorded 25% excess rain this monsoon since June 1 and 67.1% excess until September 13.IMD in its long-range forecast in June had forecast above normal monsoon rain over northwest India at 107% and normal rains over peninsular India at about 102% of long period average (LPA) --- monsoon average for 50 years --- 103% over central India and 96% of LPA over east and north-east India.But due to several unique features of this monsoon including no low-pressure areas forming in July led to the monsoon trough -- a line of low pressure -- oscillating to the Himalayan foothills frequently bringing rains mainly to the peninsular region and north-east India in July leaving north-west parts of the country dry.Five low-pressure systems had formed in August, which had brought excess rains to the central and western region, but not much to the north-western region. Moving away from IMD’s long range forecast, north-west India has recorded rainfall deficiency of 13% since June 1, while north-east and eastern India has 0% deficiency; central India has 14% and peninsular India has recorded 14% and 25% excess precipitation, respectively.“Long range forecasts have a 9% error margin. They are only indicative,” said Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general (D-G), IMD.“In the first half, particularly up to July, north-west India had very large rain deficiency. Low-pressure areas didn’t form and a couple that formed did not move up to north-west India. We are not expecting any improvement in rain deficiency over north-west India because we are heading towards monsoon withdrawal. The long-range forecast doesn’t capture these peculiar patterns that can develop during the monsoon,” said DS Pai, senior scientist, IMD Pune.The monsoon trough -- the line of low pressure -- lies south of its normal position – from Ganganagar in Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal. The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift further southward due to formation of a low-pressure area over west central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh (AP) coast by Tuesday.“We can expect heavy and widespread and heavy rains in AP, Telangana, Vidarbha, Marathwada and almost all parts of Maharashtra,” added Mohapatra.Heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, coastal AP, Yanam and Telangana on Monday and Gujarat on Wednesday (September 16).An off-shore trough at mean sea level is also running from coastal south Gujarat to north Karnataka coast. It is very likely to persist along the west coast during the next five days.Due to these favourable conditions heavy rain is very likely over coastal AP, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, coastal and north interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe until Thursday (September 17) over southern Odisha and southern Chhattisgarh on Monday. Extremely heavy rain is also very likely over coastal AP and Telangana on Monday .Monsoon rain since June 1 is 7% excess to date. IMD’s long range forecast has predicted it would be a normal monsoon with 2% excess rain (an error margin of +/- 4%)In September, there is 20.3% deficiency over the country, including 44.7% deficiency over northwest India; over east and northeast India (19.4%); and over central India (39.7%).However, the southern peninsula had received 67.1% of excess rainfall.Peninsular India has recorded exceptional rains this monsoon and is likely to record more until October when the northeast monsoon season begins. But this year there is a 60% chance of a weak La Niña event developing between September and November, according to the World Meteorological Organisation’s El Niño/La Niña update. “La Nina is good for south-west monsoon but it doesn’t have a favourable impact on north-east monsoon. Peninsular India may record below normal rain in the northeast monsoon season,” said Dr Mohapatra.Usually, the withdrawal of monsoon begins from September 17 when rains reduce across the country until completely retreating on October 15.But this year IMD’s extended range forecast shows extensive and heavy rains along the west coast between September 11 and 24 and then until October 1 over several parts of central India. “We haven’t got any indication as yet of monsoon withdrawal from north-west India. Another low-pressure area is likely to develop over the Bay of Bengal around August 17 but we need to assess the models further to be certain. Monsoon withdrawal can begin only once anticyclonic flow is established and moisture reduces significantly over the region,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-excess-rain-recorded-in-peninsular-india-nw-india-largely-dry/story-v0N7tBElLiL4qC52gXlpsJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Man throws dog into lake in Bhopal, then smiles for video; case filed||A 29-year-old man in Bhopal was booked by the Shyamla Hills police station on Sunday for throwing a street dog in the upper lake after a video clip of the incident went viral on social media triggering outrage in Bhopal and elsewhere with demands for his arrest.The video clip suggests it was shot during late evening or night hours at any point near the railing erected along upper lake at Boat club in Shyamla Hills area in Bhopal. The man scoops up the dog in his arms and then flings him across the railing into the river. Afterwards, he is seen smiling for the video. It is not known to police as to who shot the video and if the dog was dead or alive. The friends of the accused told police that the video was an old one.The accused was identified as Salman Khan, a resident of Tila Jamalpura area in Bhopal city, is on the run and has a history of violence against animals.An FIR was filed against him on Sunday evening under section 429 (Committing mischief by killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering useless any animal of the value of fifty rupees or upwards) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act on a complaint lodged by Sunita Joshi, a resident of Shyamla Hills. Bhopal deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Irshad Wali said, “In the viral video the man was seen throwing a street dog in the upper lake and smiling. Police identified the man as Salman Khan who works in a photo studio.” The DIG said efforts are on to nab the accused.Shyamla Hills police station in charge Tarun Rathi said, “The date when the accused indulged in the crime is yet to be known. However, when a police team questioned his friends they said it was a very old video as far as they had knowledge about it. However, police couldn’t know immediately if the dog was dead or alive and who shot the act in the video.”While social media was agog with reactions from people who demanded severe action against the accused, a life coach, Manoj Gaur said: “Vicious act, this man threw a dog who was alive into the upper lake of Bhopal. He deserves a penal action as per law.” A student in Bhopal Asma Khan who lodged a complaint with Bhopal district collector Avinash Lavaniya against the accused demanded strict action against him and also the man who shot the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-throws-dog-into-lake-in-bhopal-then-smiles-for-video-case-filed/story-K1E5HnkJha1T9bBhZYwBZI.html
14-09-2020||India||Light rain to occur over isolated places in UP and North-East Delhi: IMD||Light rain would occur over isolated places in North-East Delhi, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday.“Light to moderate rain likely to occur over and adjoining areas of Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur and Deoband. Light rain would occur over isolated places of North-East Delhi (Badli, Model Town, Azadpur, Burari) during the next two hours,” IMD stated. Heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls very likely today at isolated places over Telangana; Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Northwest & East Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha,Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, Odisha, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Konkan and Goa, Rayalaseema, Coastal and North Interior Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and Kerala and Mahe, IMD stated in its weather bulletin issued on Sunday. Moderate thunderstorm accompanied by lightning very likely at isolated places over Bihar and East Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-to-occur-over-isolated-places-in-up-and-north-east-delhi-imd/story-DgadR4gkx7YvvpiJhjSVYN.html
14-09-2020||India||CPI to hold all India protest to highlight state of economy||The Communist Party of India (CPI) will hold an ‘All India Protest Day’ on Monday to highlight the state of the economy, according to a statement issued by the party.The protest ‘is to mobilise people against the disastrous policies of the Modi government which have caused massive unemployment, poverty and loss of livelihood. This is to demand that the finance minister has no moral right to continue for her false claims and lies about the economy’, the statement said.The CPI has called upon the masses to join it to ‘save India for livelihood, equality and justice for all’, it said.The party also said that it will observe October 2, Gandhi Jayanti, as a celebration of secularism and plurality of the Indian democracy.“The party must see all secular democratic forces come together to express our strong resolve to fight communal fascist forces. State units must organise functions and meetings in a suitable manner on October 2, 2020, which is Gandhi’’s birth anniversary,” the CPI said in the statement.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-to-hold-all-india-protest-to-highlight-state-of-economy/story-15Wf5tSlnuXHCLkchooTtJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Govt allows gyms, yoga centres to open||The Delhi government on Sunday allowed gyms and yoga centres, which have stayed shut for more than five months under the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), to reopen. Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev issued the order Sunday night. The trial period of weekly markets has also been extended to September 30. All these activities, including opening of gyms, are not allowed in containment zones, the order said. Delhi had 1,488 containment zones as on Sunday. There are over 6,000 gyms and fitness centres across the national Capital employing over 100,000 people.The Central government under its unlock-3 guidelines issued on July 29 had allowed gymnasiums and yoga centres to open across the country from August 5. But the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) headed by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal did not allow resumption of these services owing to the rising Covid-19 cases in the city. On August 6, the Delhi government had sent a file to open hotels, weekly markets, gyms and yoga centres in the city to L-G office. Following this, the DDMA on August 19 had allowed opening of hotels and weekly markets, but gyms and yoga centres continued to be prohibited.Sunday’s order stated that gyms and yoga centres will be allowed to operate with immediate effect only if they strictly follow the standard operating procedures (SOP) laid down by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. “In case of any violation, owner and manger of the premises shall be liable for persecution under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides sealing of such premises forthwith,” the order, seen by HT, read. It also directed all district disaster management authorities to ensure that gyms and yoga centres comply strictly the SOPs to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The SOPs for gyms issued by the Centre on August 3 restricted yoga and workout sessions to only such activities that do not require trainers to touch members and not more than 10 persons per 1,000 sq feet space.Facilities like sauna, shower, body massage and spas will also not be available until further orders. All other social distancing and preventive measures, like hand hygiene and thermal screening at the entrance, are to be strictly followed by members and gym/yoga organisers.Under the SOPs issued for gyms and yoga centres by the Union health ministry, face masks will be mandatory at all times within centre premises. Gyms and yoga institutes must ensure a minimum distance of 6 feet between individuals and plan floor area based on 4 metre square per person. They should try and utilise outdoor space by relocating or offering online training classes wherever possible. Gym owners will have to ensure specific entry and exit pathways by floor and/or wall markings and precautionary instructions on posters will have to be placed within closed spaces||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-gyms-yoga-centres-to-open/story-f0YRe9fVABLBaZFDiePqhM.html
14-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||This is the 157th instalment of a daily column on the coronavirus disease I started writing on March 19. I started writing it because I pompously thought there needed to be a voice of reason on a disease that I was convinced would change the world. It’s the reason the HT newsroom started focusing on the disease early in January, and has retained that intensity of coverage; so much so that some of my colleagues have become experts, one on the health aspects, another on the science — not just behind the virus and the vaccine, but also such things as masks and lockdowns — and still another on the data side of epidemiology.Six months into the column, I’ll settle for faithful observer — I have got many things wrong about the pandemic, about the impact of various extraneous factors on the disease, and about how we are fighting it, to be the voice of reason.What started as a seven-days-a week column became six days a week after a few weeks, then five days a week, and is now back again to being six. I have no idea how long I will keep writing the column. This could be the last piece — or I may keep writing it till a vaccine is discovered, perhaps even till one has been administered to most Indians. A few fellow columnists and editors have called to comment on my stamina. I often get asked why I keep writing. The simple answer is that I keep writing because the column has become a part of my daily routine. And at times such as the one we are going through, it’s what all of us need — a routine that keeps us healthy, mentally and physically, and engaged. It is the solidity of the ordinary at a time when the world has been taken over by the extraordinary.There are some who naively believe that everything will return to the way it was once a vaccine is discovered and becomes widely available. That is not going to be. Lives and livelihoods have been lost. People, countries and their economies, and institutions and organisations, are going to take at least some time to return to where they were before the pandemic. And even when they do, it will not be the same. Toting up the impact on the economy, health (mental and physical), and many of the social rules and constructs that made up pre-pandemic life, it is clear that none of us, individuals, countries, institutions and organisations, are going to snap back into shape like a still-young spring. A few will, just as a few will break, but most will bend, losing a little bit of give (or springiness, to continue with the same metaphor).Which is why a routine is important. Some people may insist that it always was, even before the pandemic, and that it was the difference between the successful and the not-so. Perhaps it was: a thousand self-help books can’t be wrong; nor can a million people who bought these at airports and highlighted the same passage (before Indian commercial fiction emerged and spectacularly killed the self-help book). But the stakes are altogether different now. A routine, and all the rules (macro and micro) that go into it, could today well mean the difference between life and death, sanity and insanity, or, to be more prosaic, coping well with the pandemic and not coping well.In my case, the column, and preparing for it (which sometimes means reading scientific papers that mostly always exceed my grasp of science) is one component of my daily routine, and one I enjoy. Which is why I’m on Dispatch 157 today and will likely write Dispatch 158 tomorrow.Post script: India will cross the 5 million cases-mark early this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-hvYSr0gUKjlx1Vi9676GmM.html
14-09-2020||India||Health ministry announces guidelines for teaching activities in classrooms from Sept 21||Union Health Ministry has announced guidelines for the conduct of teaching activities in the classrooms.Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, Ashwini Kr. Choubey shared a picture of the guidelines on his Twitter handle on Sunday.The health ministry issued the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for Skill training institutes, Higher Education Institutes conducting courses in technical programs requiring lab work to be permitted from September 21.As per the guidelines, the seating arrangement should be done in an order to ensure a distance of 6 feet between chairs, desks.“The staggering of classroom activities, with separate time slots, to allow adequate physical distancing and disinfection of classroom premises. Academic scheduling to have intermix of regular classroom teaching and online assessment. Teaching faculty to ensure that they and students ear masks throughout teaching activities. Sharing of items like laptops, notebook, stationery amongst students to not to be allowed,” the guidelines said.The Health Ministry had on September 8 issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for a partial reopening of schools for students of classes 9 to 12 for taking guidance from their teachers on a voluntary basis.The SOP follows Unlock 4 guidelines of Home Ministry which came into effect from September 1.The Home Ministry had said that states and Union Territories may permit up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching or tele-counselling and related work from September 21.It said that students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the containment zones only, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers and this will be subject to the written consent of their parents or guardians.Students from Class 9th to 12th will have the option of attending the classes remotely/virtually or physically only on a voluntary basis for guidance from their teachers subject to written permission of parent/guardian.The guidelines said that cleaning and regular disinfection (using 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite) of frequently touched surfaces (doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, chairs, benches, washroom fixtures, etc.) will be made mandatory in all classrooms, laboratories, lockers, parking areas, other common areas before the beginning of classes and at the end of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-announces-guidelines-for-teaching-activities-in-classrooms-from-sept-21/story-TUjTXK8C2nzpqnBtOePzOO.html
14-09-2020||India||Umar Khalid arrested in connection with North-East Delhi riots||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid was arrested in connection with a case related to the conspiracy behind North East Delhi riots.The case is being probed by the Delhi Police special cell, which is looking into a “larger conspiracy angle” behind the riots that took place in February, in which at least 53 persons died and 400 others were injured. Khalid was called for questioning on Sunday, an officer, who did not wish to be named, said. He has been interrogated twice in the last two months for his alleged role. “We arrested Umar Khalid late Sunday night,” said a senior police officer associated with the probe, requesting not to be named. The officer refused to share further details. According to the special cell submissions before the court last month, Khalid along with the other accused persons -- former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and activist Khalid Saifi -- had hatched a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots, just before the visit of US President Donald Trump in February.In at least four charge sheets, police have said Khalid had met suspended and jailed Aam Aadmi Party’s councillor Hussain and Saifi on January 8 at the Shaheen Bagh sit-in protest site to allegedly plan the riots.Khalid was questioned for the first time on July 31 for his alleged role in the riots. “He was questioned regarding the purported provocative speeches he had allegedly delivered at two different places before the visit of US President Donald Trump in February. Khalid had allegedly appealed to the public to come out on streets and block the roads during Trump’s visit,” the officer said.In his earlier statement to the press, Khalid has denied the allegations. More than eight people, including Tahir Hussain, Jamia student Meeran Haider, Jamia Coordination Committee’s media coordinator Safoora Zargar, and Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, have been arrested under the Unlawful Activity Prevention Act (UAPA).The arrested persons have accused Delhi Police of launching a witch hunt against them because they were prominent voices against the government’s Citizenship Amendment Act. Delhi police have said that the riots were planned by some leaders of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests in the national Capital. Khalid was earlier arrested in February 2016 for allegedly shouting anti-India slogans inside the JNU campus along with former student union president Kanhaiya Kumar and others. They were charged with sedition. They had denied the charges and accused the police of using doctored videos to build a case against them. The case is being heard by a city court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/umar-khalid-arrested-in-connection-with-north-east-delhi-riots/story-pPNsHgYSCuFkd8fqf0Xb7J.html
14-09-2020||India||Former JNU student Umar Khalid arrested in connection with North-East Delhi riots||Delhi Police arrested former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for instigating the North-East Delhi riots that broke out in February this year.“Khalid was one of the main conspirators of riots in which 53 persons died and over 400 were injured,” special cell of Delhi Police said after the arrest.The former JNU scholar has been questioned twice by the police over the last two months for speeches he delivered at the Shaheen Bagh protest site. According to the police, Khalid had planned the riots with former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain.Khalid was charged with sedition and arrested in February 2016 too, for allegedly shouting anti-India slogans inside the JNU campus along with former student union president Kanhaiya Kumar and others.“We arrested Umar Khalid late Sunday night,” said a senior police officer associated with the probe, requesting not to be named. On August 3, the suspended AAP councillor had reportedly confessed to his crime and told the police that he was given the task to collect as much glass bottle, petrol, acid, stones as possible during the violence.Communal violence broke out in Delhi between anti-CAA and pro-CAA protesters in February this year. Hundreds of people were detained in connection with the violence and police faced criticism for their slack management of protesters and ineffective handling of the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/umar-khalid-/story-lj2XPxkP50PNZ10oHIlACI.html
14-09-2020||India||Great-grandson of Awadh’s last ruler Nawab Wajid Ali Shah dies||Mirza Kaukub Qadr, the great-grandson of the last ruler of Awadh Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, and the grandson of Mirza Birjis Qadr, passed away in Kolkata on Sunday at 4.25 pm. He was 87. Mirza Kaukub Qadr, former professor with the Aligarh Muslim University, is survived by his wife, Mamlikat Badr from Lucknow’s renowned Shia cleric family, and six children.Qadr will be laid to rest at Metiabruz in Kolkata at the family burial ground, Gulshanabad, said his daughter Manzilat Fatima who lives in Kolkata. Famous film director, Satyajit Ray had consulted Dr Kaukub Qadr on his research work on Wajid Ali Shah and his literary and cultural contributions, said Fatima.He was a research consultant to Satyajit Ray for the film ‘Shatranj ke Khilari’ and gratefully acknowledged by Ray in his subsequent writings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-grandson-of-awadh-s-last-ruler-nawab-wajid-ali-shah-dies/story-nTpbwClqXbyj2IhGjgd8hL.html
14-09-2020||India||5 more Maharashtra policemen die of Covid-19, 669 new cases in 2 days||Maharashtra police force has reported five more Covid-19 fatalities taking the toll to 191. The police department in recent times has seen a rise in Covid-19 cases. Around 669 fresh cases were reported on Friday and Saturday. The total virus caseload in the state police department now stands at 19,074.According to the state police officials, four Covid-19 deaths were reported in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Amravati city police and Nagpur Railway police. Three of the deaths occurred on Friday, September 11, while one fatality occurred on Friday.A 53-year-old police inspector Xavier Rego, who was attached to Vakola police station, succumbed to Covid-19 early on Sunday. Rego, who had been recently hospitalized after meeting a road accident around a fortnight ago, was on leave and was recovering.Also read: Is Covid-19 less fatal in India’s villages?According to police, on Saturday he had high fever. Around 5.30 am on Sunday, Rego suddenly collapsed and went unconscious. The family rushed him to the hospital where he was declared dead. He died of heart attack and later his Covid-19 test report turned out positive, said a police officer.Mumbai police’s toll has now reached to 75 while state police death toll is 191 now.On Friday, a 57-year-old police sub-inspector attached to the East region control room succumbed to the virus. Officer Madhukar Gherde had comorbidities such as high sugar, blood pressure, liver and kidney ailments. He was on medical leave for almost five months.“Gherde was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 after testing positive few weeks ago. On Friday he lost battle with the contagious disease. He was highly professional and disciplined. His brother is a doctor and was closely monitoring his treatment. The police department had also arranged for injections and medicines for his effective treatment but he lost his battle with the virus. He was slated to retire from service early next year,” said inspector Sanjay Pujari who holds charge as assistant commissioner (East Region control room). Gherde is survived by his wife and two children.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine possible by 2021 first quarter, says Harsh VardhanAnother fatality was reported at Amravati city police where a 53-year-old head constable died of the infection. “Vijay Agrawal was posted at the police control room. He was undergoing treatment at the Dayasagar hospital, Amravati, since September 6. On Friday he succumbed to the death,” said assistant commissioner (administration) Laxman Bhogan.Another policeman who died of Covid-19 was from Navi Mumbai police. Raju Kudale, 48, was attached to the Wireless Control unit. After testing positing for Covid-19 Kudale was undergoing treatment at DY Patil hospital in Nerul since September 4. He breathed his last on Friday.The fifth cop who succumbed to the disease was attached to the Nagpur Government Railway Police (GRP). Head constable Kishore Dabhade of Vardha GRP had been unwell since his mother passed away last month. He had even collapsed two weeks ago. After this, he realised that something is not well with his health and he underwent the testing for Covid-19 and tested positive. He had comorbidities such as high sugar and blood pressure. He was taking treatment at the Kasturba Hospital in Vardha where he passed away on September 4, said control room officer at the Nagpur GRP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-more-maharashtra-policemen-die-of-covid-19-669-new-cases-in-2-days/story-5M5fKDzLG2QpcOL3GfPjVK.html
14-09-2020||India||GDP, LAC buzzwords as Covid-era session begins today||Parliament’s most extraordinary session will start on Monday, with a slew of health protocols in place amid a raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, and with several potential flashpoints between the government and the Opposition.The Centre has listed 38 bills — including 11 ordinances — for passage in the curtailed session during which opposition parties have demanded a debate on the India-China border conflict, an economic slowdown that caused a GDP contraction of 23.9% in the quarter ended June, job losses, delay in Goods and Services Tax (GST) payments to the states, and management of the pandemic.Amid severe restrictions put in place and a logistical overhaul in the functioning of both Houses of Parliament, the stage is also set for the first direct political confrontation between the National Democratic Alliance government and the opposition parties in six months, after the budget session ended abruptly on March 23 because of the spread of Covid-19. The virus continues to pose a threat to the session. At least five lawmakers may have tested positive in the last two days during the pre-session screening using the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, considered the most accurate for diagnosis of the coronavirus disease, and many senior MPs, cutting across political lines, have decided against attending the proceedings. The session will be held in two shifts — Rajya Sabha in the morning and Lok Sabha in the afternoon — with members of both House spread across the two chambers and galleries. On the opening day, however, the Lok Sabha will be held in the morning shift, and the Rajya Sabha in the afternoon.In recent months, several issues have rocked the country’s polity. The ongoing India-China border conflict, the economic slump, massive job losses and the plight of migrant workers who fled the cities for the countryside, and allegations of a pro-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bias in Facebook’s Indian management team, have triggered political protests and attacks on the government. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will place a statement on the Covid-19 situation in Rajya Sabha, which may elect a deputy chairman on Monday. NDA’s Harivansh, who belongs to the Janata Dal (United), is pitted against opposition candidate Manoj Jha of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in the election to the post. In light of this, the BJP has issued a whip in the Upper House. Sparks may still fly on the first day of the session, which ends on October 1. The government will bring a motion in both Houses to approve its decision to scrap Question Hour and private members’ bills during the session. The move has already sparked protests by the Opposition that may spill over in both Houses as well.The government will introduce the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, to replace related ordinances. The Congress, the Left, and some other parties, are vehemently opposed to the ordinances. Major farmers’ groups have also vowed to resist the Narendra Modi government’s agenda to free up the country’s antiquated agriculture sector with liberalising ordinances, calling for coordinated protests on Monday, when the government will table them in Lok Sabha for passage as Acts. Opposition parties, including the Congress, have lent support to the farmers’ groups, saying they planned to stall the ordinances in Parliament by attempting to have them sent to parliamentary select committees. “There are no ifs and buts. We are 100% opposed to the three farm-related ordinances and the banking ordinance. Our chief ministers have written letters to the PM expressing their concern. We are absolutely clear that these ordinances are not in favour of Indian farmers,” the Congress chief whip for the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, said on Sunday. Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla held two meetings with leaders of different political parties on Sunday to lay the ground for the session. While the political leaders appreciated the elaborate preparations made for the session, Opposition members also placed before Naidu and BIrla their demands for a debate on key issues. The Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha will take up a record number of 20 and 16 obituary references—including the ones on former President Pranab Mukherjee and former rural development minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh before kickstarting their legislative agenda. A heavy legislative agenda awaits the first day of the session. While the Lok Sabha is set to pass the National Commission for Homoeopathy Bill and The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine Bill without much discussion on Monday, a total of seven other bills will be introduced in the Lower House. In the Rajya Sabha, four bills will be introduced and two — The Aircraft (Amendment) Bill and The Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill — will be passed. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said the government was ready for a debate on all issues which will be decided in the business advisory committee meetings this week. When asked if the government is ready for a discussion on the military standoff between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector, Joshi said it will be decided while keeping in mind national security and the country’s strategic interests.Former parliamentary affairs secretary Afzal Amanullah said:“The authorities have taken humongous efforts to arrange this session which will be historic in many ways given the fact that Indian Parliament has dared to meet amid Covid. But it is up to the political parties to make it an effective one. Already, the scrapping of Question Hour has dampened the mood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gdp-lac-buzzwords-as-covid-era-session-begins/story-zviwdNVj6bYW2gXdwMilSO.html
14-09-2020||India||Ex-defence secy played key role in AgustaWestland deal: CBI||Former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma was party to several key discussions that led to the February 2010 award of a controversial Rs 3,727 crore contract to AgustaWestland for 12 VVIP helicopters, according to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths handling the case, and investigation documents that will form the basis of a supplementary charge sheet in the case.Sharma was part of contract process in different capacities from March 2005, when the Indian Air Force (IAF) agreed to reduce the flying altitude of the helicopters from 6,000 metres to 4,500 metres, until the eventual decision to award the contract to AugustaWestland five years later, according to documents prepared by CBI.The agency has contended that Sharma, as Joint Secretary (Air) in the defence ministry at the time, attended a crucial meeting on March 7, 2005 chaired by then deputy chief of air staff JS Gujral and attended by senior officials from the ministry and IAF including (now retired) wing commander SA Kunte, who was project officer for procuring the choppers for VVIPs such as the President, vice-president, Prime Minister and the other dignitaries.CBI last week sought sanction to prosecute Sharma, Kunte and three other IAF officers, while Gujral was named an accused in its first charge sheet in the case in September 2017.According to investigators, it was in the March 2005 meeting that the previous operational requirement (OR) of 6,000 metres flying altitude was reduced to 4,500 metres, and the cabin height of the helicopter was fixed at 180cm. It has been alleged that these changes in the OR made the AgustaWestland AW-101 helicopters eligible for the contract.Sharma later served as defence secretary between 2011 and 2013 and as Comptroller and Auditor General of India between 2013 and 2017.Sharma has denied all the allegations against him. “I had a long unblemished service record of over forty years and nobody can blame me for any malafide action or decision. I strongly and firmly deny any such frivolous allegation,” he told HT last week.According to CBI, when the defence procurement procedure (DPP) 2005 – a process that governs any defence purchase including helicopters for VVIPs – came into effect from July 2005, Sharma sought the Special Protection Group’s comments on the latest ORs.He was also part of the meeting in October 2005 in which SPG raised the requirement of helicopters from an original eight to 12 choppers, a demand endorsed by the IAF instantly, the investigation documents contend.By October 2005, the entire procurement cost of 12 VVIP choppers was assessed to be Rs 792.82 crores, CBI adds. The agency’s case documents suggest that after the defence ministry approved the proposal on February 22, 2006, a request for proposal (RFP) was drafted, which was examined by air force officers over the next few months, and later approved by Sharma, who had become director general (acquisition) in the ministry by then, on September 21, 2006.The documents show Sharma played a role in approving the technical evaluation committee (TEC) report in which deviations from the original proposal were factored in, and then in countering a finance ministry observation in 2009 that the cost for the choppers – negotiated at Rs 3,727 crore – was “abnormally high”.After getting the finance ministry approval, the final contract was signed with AgustaWestland in February 2010.“All this shows that SK Sharma played a key role in the whole deal from its initiation till it was signed,” said a CBI officer on condition of anonymity.The contract – alleged violations and kickbacks in the deal became one of the biggest controversies during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime – was eventually cancelled on January 1, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-defence-secy-played-key-role-in-agustawestland-deal-cbi/story-Zp4hn8f1Is82pCJaRvFGmN.html
14-09-2020||India||Ayush focus in Centre’s post-Covid protocol||In its first detailed guidelines on managing post-recovery symptoms exhibited by coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients such as fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat and breathing difficulty, the Union health ministry has relied heavily on the “immunity promoting” Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) products.From starting the mornings with one teaspoonful of Chyawanprash and warm turmeric milk, to mulethi (liquorice root) powder, and Giloy (Tinospora cordifolia) powder, many Ayurvedic medicines have found mention in the health ministry’s post Covid-19 management protocol.“These medicines are not just to build immunity and treat common post Covid-19 symptoms but also to improve lung health,” said Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, secretary in the ministry of Ayush.Manoj Nesri, advisor to the ministry, said the management protocol was based on evidence and the All India Institute of Ayurveda had proof of the immunity-promoting qualities of,medicines based on Ayush. All the medicines, whether based on allopathic or Ayush systems, need to be taken under strict medical supervision.Doctors of modern medicine say that Ayush medicines can be used as supplementary therapy, but shouldn’t be the mainstay of treating post Covid-19 symptoms.“We have our own set protocol, and as allopathic doctors we cannot prescribe Ayurvedic, homoeopathic or any other form of alternative medicines. We treat post Covid-19 complications symptomatically based on scientific evidence. Medicines from other systems can be used as a supplement to boost immunity etc. but treatment has to be done after a thorough examination and understanding of the complications experienced,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, senior respiratory specialist at Fortis Hospital. The health ministry guidelines also direct people to watch out for high-grade fever, breathlessness, oxygen saturation levels dropping below 95%, unexplained chest pain, new onset of confusion, focal weakness etc. and seek medical advice.Some recovered patients have complained of experiencing certain symptoms for an extended period post-recovery.Some people, especially those having suffered acute illness, complain of symptoms such as fatigue, bodyache, cough, sore throat, and breathing difficulty.However, the guidelines are not meant to be used as preventive or curative therapy, warned the health ministry.At the individual level Discharged patients should observe appropriate behaviour such as use of masks, maintaining hand and respiratory hygiene, and physical distancing, and should drink adequate amounts of warm water. “Take immunity promoting Ayush medicine… to be practiced and prescribed by a qualified practitioner of Ayush. If health permits, regular household work to be done. Professional work to be resumed in graded manner. Depending on the physical condition, mild to moderate exercise daily such as yogasana, pranayama and meditation… breathing exercises as prescribed by treating physician and daily morning or evening walk at a comfortable pace as tolerated,” the ministry advises. The guidelines also say that people should go for a balanced nutritious diet that is easy to digest ,freshly cooked soft diet; and have adequate sleep and rest. Smoking and consumption of alcohol should be avoided. Taking regular medications as advised for Covid-19 and also for managing comorbidities is important.Patients are advised to keep their doctor in the loop on all medicines that individuals are taking (allopathic and Ayush) so as to avoid prescription interaction. They are also counselled to monitor parameters such as temperature, blood pressure, blood sugar (for diabetics), pulse oximetry and so on. For persistent dry cough or sore throat, saline gargles and steam inhalation helps. Cough medication should be taken only on the advice of a medical doctor or a qualified practitioner of Ayush.At healthcare facilities The first follow-up, whether physical or on telephone, should be within seven days of discharge, preferably at the hospital where the treatment took place. Subsequent treatment or follow-up visits may be with the nearest qualified practitioner of modern or Ayush medicine. “Poly-therapy is to be avoided due to potential for unknown drug-drug interaction, which may lead to Serious Adverse Events or Adverse Effects,” the guidelines say. Those under home isolation should visit the nearest hospital if the symptoms persist.According to experts, people who suffered severe illness or had some pre-existing illness are the ones who largely complain of long-term side-effects.“My experience has found while symptoms such as fever and breathlessness go away, what they keep experiencing for a longer duration is lethargy, disturbed sleep, body ache, loss of appetite, feeling feverish,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the pulmonary medicine department at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-focus-in-centre-s-post-covid-protocol/story-JKaS0IUQhtauea3eTOC3HJ.html
14-09-2020||India||At least five MPs may have Covid-19||At least five parliamentarians may have contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, officials involved in the process said on Sunday. A second round of confirmatory tests is likely to be carried out shortly, they added.All MPs, and officers and journalists linked to the Parliament session were undergoing mandatory RT-PCR tests over the last three days as part of the Covid-19 guidelines to conduct the proceedings. The news of some MPs possibly testing positive came a day after at least 50 Parliament employees were said to have contracted the disease, the officials said.The results of the Covid-19 tests have not been made public but officials indicated that apart from a Delhi MP, an MP from Maharashtra may also need a second confirmatory test. “The Maharashtra MP had got his tests done in Mumbai but informed the secretariat about the results,” an official said on condition of anonymity.An MP from Uttar Pradesh, too, may have tested positive, the official added.“Some MPs would be tested again and a clearer picture will emerge in next few days,” a senior official involved in the process said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-five-mps-may-have-covid/story-dIkMP3Bmrqa430JgNvSEcJ.html
14-09-2020||India||Delhi HC to hear PIL on same-sex marriage||New Delhi: The Delhi high court is likely to hear on Monday a public interest litigation (PIL) that seeks a direction that homosexual couples have the right to get married under the 1955 Hindu Marriage Act, arguing that barring such unions was a violation of their constitutional rights. The PIL, filed on September 8 by four members of the LGBTI (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex) community and listed before a bench of chief justice of the Delhi HC DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan, said that nothing in the Hindu Marriage Act mandated that a marriage take place only between a Hindu man and a Hindu woman. The petition pointed out that in 2018, the Supreme Court read down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalized homosexuality. “The non-recognition of the rights of gay couples, especially when their sexuality has been recognised as such as valid by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India is violative of various provisions of the Constitution of India as well as various conventions that India as a sovereign state is signatory to,” the petition stated. This is the second petition to be filed on the issue of same-sex marriage rights. In January, a couple in Kerala – Nikesh Pushkaran and Sonu MS – filed a petition in the Kerala high court challenging the Special Marriage Act. The Delhi HC petition was filed by four people – Abhijit Iyer Mitra, Gopi Shankar, Giti Thadani and G Oorvasi. “In the 21st century, there is no reason that same-sex couples should not enjoy the same rights as others,” said Raghav Awasthi, advocate for the petitioners.“Equality is important. We have people from the diverse LGBTI communities who are refused by registrars to accept or register their marriage ceremonies. I want to marry my partner, too, and register our relationship,” said Gopi Shankar, one of the petitioners. Shankar pointed to a 2019 Madras high court judgment that upheld the marriage between a man and a transwoman, saying that the word ‘bride’ in the Hindu Marriage Act also included a transwoman. “The text of the law does not, on a plain reading, exclude same-sex marriages. However, in practice the law has been understood to exclude them. The court, however, should recognise same-sex marriages not merely as a legislative lapse, but as a positive fact,” said Saurabh Kirpal, a Supreme Court advocate who appeared for the petitioners in the Navtej Johar case, which led to decriminalisation of homosexuality in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-pil-on-same-sex-marriage/story-xvrG4MazpZZ3I0JsfcMViM.html
14-09-2020||India||Farmers protest agri reforms, fear exploitation, monopolies||Major farmers’ groups have vowed to resist the Modi government’s plan to free up the country’s antiquated agriculture sector with three liberalising ordinances, calling for coordinated protests when the government will table them in Lok Sabha on Monday for passage as Acts.Though the new measures -- aimed at freeing up farm trade from restrictions, at guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices, and at laying down a new architecture for contract farming -- were hailed by economists, farmer groups fear that they will lead to exploitation by big food-trading monopolies.Also read: Farmers protest in Haryana and Punjab: What has happened so farOpposition parties, including the Congress, have lent support to these ’ groups, saying they plan to stall the ordinances in Parliament by attempting to have them sent to parliamentary select committees. An ordinance is a provision to enforce a law when Parliament is not in session.Farmers are already protesting these ordinances in food bowl states, such as Haryana and Punjab, and influential farmers’ unions are also preparing to square off with the government on the demand of making profitable sales in the form of minimum support prices, or MSPs, a legal right. The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a front for nearly 200 farmers’ groups, will take out a protest march in the Capital on Monday. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh is also unhappy with the ordinances. It has demanded safeguards for the farming community. The leftwing All India Kisan Sabha has slammed the ordinances as “pro-corporations, anti-farmer”. The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) is mobilising farmers from western UP, Haryana, Rajasthan to gather at Jantar Mantar Monday, according to farm leader Rakesh Tikait. Also read: BJP MPs meet farmers protesting in Haryana“The Modi government has used the corona crisis as an excuse to repress farmers’ protests against its anti-farmer and pro-corporate agenda which has manifested itself in the form of the three ordinances,” said VM Singh, convenor of the AIKSCC. The Union Cabinet on June 4 announced far-reaching steps to unshackle the country’s farm sector, approving amendments to six-decades-old Essential Commodities Act, and two more ordinances. These measures, which bring the full force of liberalisation to the farm economy, were first announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 15 during the second of her series of briefings on the government Atmanirbhar (self-reliance) campaign, along with a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package. Many economists welcomed the farm reforms, arguing that archaic restrictions have long choked the agriculture sector, which supports half of all Indians. While India’s overall GDP growth rates have ranged between 7-8% over past decade, agriculture has limped with growth rates between 2-3%. The opposition to the ordinances comes at a time when agriculture has emerged as the only bright spot of the economy, registering positive growth, while the broader economy contracted 25% in the first quarter. The new changes say that the government can invoke the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) ,1955, only if retail prices rise 50% in case of non-perishables and 100% in the case of perishable items from the average retail prices in the preceding 12 months or last five years, either case. “This is such a wide range for a price trigger to invoke the ECA. Many things are left vague. Price triggers or price levels should have a reference to a locality. Suppose that a big food exporter says it has an export order from Ethiopia of, say, 1 lakh tonne? How will the government verify if that is a fake indent or a genuine one?” asked Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture (ASHA). Farmer groups said they feared the new changes would lead to big monopolies. This would be just as bad as current cartelisation in mandis known as agricultural produce market committees (APMCs). “We want the ordinances to be signed into law with appropriate safeguards, such as a national portal of farm trade corporations,” said Mohini Mohan Mishra, all-India secretary of the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh. To reform these APMCs, the government had passed the The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020. The ordinance effectively brings the curtains down on the decades-old APMC system that regulates buying and selling of farm produce. Kuruganti said while the APMC system was notorious, bypassing the system altogether without any oversight will make farmers vulnerable to exploitation. “The farmer is the weakest part of the supply chain, and the government has abdicated the data systems required to gather price and stocks intelligence.” The ordinances don’t consider the realities of interlocked markets, its opposers said. In India, farmers typically are “locked” in with middlemen because middlemen often loan money to poor farmers for cultivation. A key flaw of the contract farming ordinance is that it leaves dispute resolution to the bureaucracy, which can be very difficult for poor farmers to access. Economists say some of the farmers’ concerns of farmers were valid. “But if the assumption is that the current system is efficient, then there can be no discussion,” said NR Bhanumurthy of the Bengaluru Dr. BR Ambedkar School of Economics.“Ultimately, when we open up the market, we need to open it up in a big. What we need is a market clearing mechanism. The issue is to have effective regulation. The consultative process will I believe address this issue,” Bhanumurthy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-agri-reforms-fear-exploitation-monopolies/story-pQR46DJrD8r4sK2OGYMNKI.html
14-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine possible by 2021 first quarter, says Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said no date for launching the Covid-19 vaccine has been fixed yet. “It may be ready by the first quarter of next year,” the minister said as he addressed the first episode of his Sunday Samvaad — a social media interaction programme. Grateful to thousands of you who wrote to me for #SundaySamvaad !Great to have started a 2-way communication with social media friends. Learning a lot from the conversations. Hope we can keep up & further strengthen the dialogue👍https://t.co/su977PnzxkHis comments come a day after pharma giant Astrazeneca announced the resumption of its Covid-19 vaccine trial after it got a go-ahead from British regulators. Its India partner Serum Institute of India has paused the trials after it was issued a show-cause notice by the Drug Controller of India, following the red flags raised in the UK.Also Read | Serum Institute to resume Covid-19 vaccine trial after DGCI gives nodThe minister assured the government is taking full precautions in conducting the human trials of the vaccine. “Issues like vaccine security, cost, equity, cold-chain requirements, production timelines, etc., are also being discussed intensely,” he said.The vaccine, once ready, will be made available to those who need it the most. But the minister said he will be happy to receive the first dose of the vaccine. In his one-hour interaction, the minister discussed several issues related to Covid-19 as he replied to several questions posed by social media users.On which trial is most promising: “Several vaccine trials are going on in India. At present, we can’t predict which one will emerge as the most effective. But by the first quarter of 2021, we will definitely know the results,” the minister said.On availability: A vaccine expert group has been set up, which is overseeing the entire process. While the trial results get assessed, the manufacturers will be advised to begin mass-production so that no time is wasted, the minister said.On first dose: “Work has already started on prioritising vulnerable groups who will be administered the vaccine first. But if I need to take the vaccine to test the efficacy of it, I will happily take the first dose,” the minister said.On Covid-19 vaccine price: “It is premature to comment on the price of the vaccine which is still under trial. But the government of India will assure that the vaccine will be made available to those who need it the most, irrespective of their paying capacity,” Harsh Vardhan said.On emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccine: “The government is thinking about this. If there is consensus, we may grant emergency authorisation of the vaccine for senior citizens, frontline workers. Normally, the third trial takes about six to nine months. But if the government decides, this period can be cut short by giving an emergency authorisation. Any emergency authorisation is always done by adopting reinforced safeguard so that people don’t worry about the safety. A high-level group has been formed to monitor the pace of the vaccine development under the direct guidance of PM Modi. There will be no shortcut on safety. Emergency authorisation will be given only if it meets the standards.”On what could have been done better: “We have put in our heart and soul. We have done our best. Now as I look back and think of the events that unfolded after I held the fist meeting on Covid-19 on January 8, it is difficult for me to think what could have been done better,” Vardhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-possible-by-2021-first-quarter-says-harsh-vardhan/story-jxZjWleOO5xiBwCezeahrN.html
14-09-2020||India||Kirori Singh Bainsla seeks 9th schedule cover for Gujjar quota, threatens fresh stir||Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla has threatened to revive the quota agitation in a month’s time if the central government did not offer constitutional protection to 5% reservation given to five more backward classes (MBCs) including Gujjars in Rajasthan by including the relevant legislation in the ninth schedule of the constitution.“I urge the government of India to include 5% reservation for Gujjars and four others in the ninth schedule of the constitution. The Rajasthan government has already sent the recommendation. I am hopeful that the prime minister will consider our request and provide justice,” said Bainsla. He said if the demand is not met then the Gujjar reservation agitation will be revived with a protest march towards Delhi in 30 days time. Member, Gujjar arakshan sangarsh samiti, Vijay Bainsla said the state government had made the recommendation to the Union government last year on February 22—a few days after amending the Rajasthan Backward Classes Act, 2017 to extend the quota provided to four backward classes to 5% from 1%-- to place the act in the ninth schedule of the constitution.“The PM and the Union cabinet is requested to kindly put the reservation act in the ninth schedule in the interest of Gujjars of Rajasthan and of India. The trust and faith in leadership should remain intact,” Vijay Bainsla said. He added that a delegation from the community had met central minister Prakash Javadekar in January with the above request and handed over a memorandum along with a copy of the recommendation letter sent by the state government.Also Read: Sachin Pilot writes to Ashok Gehlot raising Gujjar issues in RajasthanIn February 2019, the Rajasthan assembly amended the Rajasthan Backward Classes Act, 2017 to extend the reservation given to four more backward classes including the Gujjars to 5%, from the previous 1% provisioned by Vasundhra Raje government of the BJP.Also Read: At Rajasthan Congress feedback meet, slogans against minister, posters tornThe assembly also passed an administrative resolution to request the centre to include the Gujjar quota law in the ninth schedule of the Constitution that provides a protective umbrella to laws placed in it. However, the Supreme Court had ruled in 2007 that laws placed under the ninth schedule after the Kesavananda Bharati judgement in April 1973 are open to judicial scrutiny.Bainsla’s move comes close on the heels of former Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot shooting off a letter to CM Ashok Gehlot alleging the MBCs were not being provided 5% reservation in several government jobs as against the promise made in the party manifesto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kirori-singh-bainsla-seeks-9th-schedule-cover-for-gujjar-quota-threatens-fresh-stir/story-3XzhSbLzmJE80TyaI3YAhK.html
14-09-2020||India||Raghuvansh babu, the architect of MGNREGA and India’s most influential rural development minister||Whenever former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh would stop his car to chat with journalists on his way out of the Parliament complex, it would be an anxious moment for his officials. No, India’s most influential rural development minister would not belt out any state secret. But his marathon encounters with journalists would inevitably lead to delays in important meetings in his office. And at least on three occasions, he missed his flight to Patna.Raghuvansh babu, as he was known, loved to talk. But he worked more. The 74-year-old socialist leader died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Sunday, triggering an outpouring of grief across the political spectrum. He was admitted to the hospital due to post-Covid-19 complications and was suffering from breathlessness. His body will be taken to Patna for last rites.Singh was the unsung architect of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). India’s biggest welfare programme that came as its result has survived change of regime at the Centre, attracted a record fund allocation of Rs 1 lakh crore this year and emerged as a lifeline for millions of migrant workers in an economy battered by Covid-19. While Sonia Gandhi-led National Advisory Council (NAC) had drafted the rural job guarantee scheme, Singh gave a critical push at a time when the scheme was facing a delay because at least three Congress heavyweights were not fully convinced of its utility and saw the programme as a leaky cauldron of public funds. One afternoon, as United Progressive Alliance (UPA) chairperson Gandhi was passing through the Central Hall of Parliament, a desperate Singh walked up to her and briefed her about the inordinate delay. Within a few minutes, Gandhi summoned the then defence minister, Pranab Mukherjee, who headed the Group of Ministers on MGNREGA, and told him to expedite the project. The files started moving and India’s first job guarantee scheme was rolled out in 200 districts in February 2006, two years after the UPA came to power at the Centre. A man of unquestionable integrity, Singh was entrusted with the key social sector ministry amid a flurry of welfare activities that would soon transform welfare models for poor Indians and were hailed later as hallmarks of the UPA era. The rural welfare was also politically critical as the all-powerful NAC was sharply focused on the sector. Singh, a low-key politician who carved a niche in Bihar as well as national politics, once shot off a letter to then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, accusing a top cabinet minister of being “garib virodhi” (anti-poor). The then Planning Commission chairperson, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, tried to mediate. He met Singh to tell him the senior minister was pained about his letter and that he would want to accompany him to some of the villages to oversee progress in rural programmes. “No,” Singh replied, “he should come with me in the peak of summer in north Bihar and stay in an unelectrified village for at least three nights. Only then he would understand what it means to live in an Indian village.” At a cabinet meeting, Singh verbally made complex calculations for fund requirements for the rural job scheme, leaving nearly his colleagues gobsmacked. A minister, unaware that Singh held a doctorate in mathematics and taught the subject before joining politics, asked him, “When did you learn such good math?” Singh quipped, “I learnt it before you were born!” Raghuvansh babu was also instrumental in launching the pension scheme for the disabled and widows, and expanded the National Social Assistance Programme (rechristened as Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme) of 1985 to include all individuals below poverty line for the old age pension. This too, proved to be a key intervention for the rural poor who are no more able to work, and it continues till date. And it was during his tenure that the government initiated the process of amending India’s archaic land acquisition law to make it more farmer-friendly. The controversial new law, however, took final shape during the UPA’s second term. A five-term parliamentarian from Bihar’s Vaishali constituency, he was a prized upper caste asset of a party that survives on backward caste politics. He had been a loyal lieutenant of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad since the late 1980s till he resigned from the party on September 11 via a handwritten letter sent from his hospital bed at AIIMS. His political journey started as a secretary of the Samyukta Socialist Party (SSP) in Sitamarhi district of Bihar. He entered the Bihar assembly in 1977 and rose through the ranks as a minister and the deputy speaker before winning Vaishali in the 1996 Lok Sabha elections. Between 1996 and 1998, he was the Union minister of state (independent charge), animal husbandry and dairying, and food and consumer affairs in the United Front government. The party’s intellectual powerhouse, he rejected open offers from the Congress and others for a long time. In 2009, the Congress was keen to make him the rural development minister again, even though the RJD had ceased to be a UPA ally. But Prasad did not agree. Singh’s association with Prasad goes back over three decades. And, he is also perhaps the only leader who could openly criticise Prasad and get away unscathed. Once he was asked in an interview how he would rate Prasad’s achievements. Singh replied that in political management, his boss would score a perfect 10 out of 10 but as an administrator, he deserved nothing more than a zero. Singh’s baiters within the RJD pounced on the opportunity to paint him in poor light. They brought the paper clippings to Prasad, demanding action against the former mathematics professor. The RJD chief, however, disappointed them. “Yes, he should not have said such a thing publicly, but whatever he has said is also not incorrect,” Prasad said. The Rajput leader could win Vaishali one last time in 2009 but caste equations went against him in the next two general elections, leaving him confined to the party organisation as a vice president and an occasional visitor to Delhi for health check-ups. For many, he was the face of development in the RJD for his stellar work as the Union rural development minister between 2004 and 2009, but he would almost always get overshadowed by the more charismatic Prasad. But they bonded well. Prasad, after Singh’s his resignation, urged him not to join another party. “A letter written by you is circulating in the media. I cannot believe it. I, my family and the RJD family want to see you recover soon. We will talk after you recover. You are not going anywhere. Just mind it,” Prasad told him.A simple man (his brother saw Delhi for the first time after Raghuvansh babu became a Union minister), Singh once gave five pieces of advice, written on a paper napkin, on how to run the Bihar government to chief minister Nitish Kumar on a flight. He used to throw his only annual party in Delhi on Makar Sankantri, didn’t carry a cellphone for a long time and could amaze visitors at his office by reciting entire Trilokinath-katha—a religious hymn. This correspondent met him for the first time in 2002. At his office, Raghuvansh babu was having khichdi for lunch. I gave him my business card. He took it and started using it as a toothpick. Then, for the next one hour, the former mathematics teacher taught me intricate details of cultural and social similarities between Bengal and Bihar. He knew my state better than me.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raghuvansh-babu-the-architect-of-mgnrega-and-india-s-most-infulential-rural-development-minister/story-5fVSrl0jP44hBkbWCtJOqN.html
