15-09-2020||India||J-K Police bust terror module in Ganderbal, Hizbul terrorists arrested||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Tuesday claimed to have busted terror module in Ganderbal region and arrested five people along with incriminating materials, cash and hand grenades.Police spokesman said that in a series of actions in Ganderbal and Awantipora, forces have arrested five associates linked to proscribed terror outfits Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) and Al-Badr.On reliable tip about a terror module, a joint operation was launched by Ganderbal Police and 5 Rashtriya Rifles. Three terrorist associates linked to proscribed terror outfit HM have been arrested, the spokesman added.The arrested have been identified as Arshid Ahmad Khan of Wayil Wuder Gutlibagh, Majid Rasool Rather of Beehama Ganderbal and Mohd Asif Najar of Beehama Ganderbal.“Three hand grenades besides, incriminating materials including electronic gadgets, have been recovered from their possession,” he said, adding that preliminary investigation revealed that the trio had come in contact with a Pak-based militant Fayaz Khan of Chanhar Gutlibagh presently in Pakistan. Khan had tasked them to join terrorist ranks and undertake terrorist activities/attacks on security forces in the area.Also read: Ajit Doval walks out of SCO meet of NSAs over ‘fictitious’ Pak map that violates norms“A case FIR No. 199/2020 under relevant sections has been registered at Police Station Ganderbal. Further investigation is in progress,” the spokesman stated.Meanwhile in Awantipora, on a specific information, the police along with security forces arrested two terrorist associates at Ladhoo crossing while travelling from Shopian to Khrew. The duo was on a scooty bearing registration number JK01AC-4035.The police identified the arrested terrorists as Rayees-ul-Hassan of Gadikhal and Mushtaq Ahmad Mir of Dadasara.“Incriminating material of proscribed terror outfit Al-Badr and cash amount of Rs 600,000 meant for terror funding of Al-Badr terror outfit have been recovered from their possession. The Scooty used in the commission of crime has also been seized,” the spokesman said, adding that case has been registered at Khrew Police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-bust-terror-module-in-ganderbal-hizbul-terrorists-arrested/story-MGM7U7O4vhAA6dxrMQB6CN.html
15-09-2020||India||Kolkata cabbie who harassed, stalked TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty arrested:Cops||A taxi driver was arrested in Kolkata on Tuesday on charges of obscene behaviour and sexual harassment alleged by Mimi Chakraborty, a popular actor of Bengali cinema and Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha member from Jadavpur, the night before. Deba Yadav, 32, the taxi driver was arrested from the Anandapur area in south Kolkata and charged under Sections 354 (outrage of modesty), 354 A (sexual harassment) 354 D (stalking) and 509 (use of obscene word or gesture) of the Indian Penal Code, said an officer of the Gariahat police station where the complaint was registered. Chakraborty alleged that when she was travelling in her car near Ballygunge Phari in south Kolkata, the driver of a taxi which was moving alongside made obscene remarks and gestures towards her. “The driver had been drinking as well,” she told the media.The taxi driver followed her car, Chakraborty alleged, and she asked her driver to block the path of the vehicle but it got away. “I immediately called up the Gariahat police station and the police promptly registered an FIR. I had to take action because this man poses danger for women who feel that travelling in a taxi at night is safe,” Chakraborty said. Yadav was produced in court and remanded to police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-cabbie-who-harassed-stalked-tmc-mp-mimi-chakraborty-arrested-cops/story-oIgsWVK9NUTqhHNYcbvQ4L.html
15-09-2020||India||‘Decide cases against tainted legislators in one year’: Amicus report to SC||A one-year deadline to try criminal cases against sitting and former legislators, special courts for each district are part of key recommendations made to the Supreme Court in a report tabled by senior advocate Vijay Hansaria. Hasaria is assisting as amicus curiae in a PIL demanding steps to fast-track trial against tainted politicians. The list of recommendations also includes a presiding judicial officer with a minimum fixed tenure of two years and a dedicated top cop in every district to be the nodal prosecuting officer.Making radical suggestions, based on statistics on criminal cases pending against former and serving politicians received from various High Courts, Hansaria’s report said, “The High Courts may be directed to prepare a blueprint for expeditious disposal of the cases not later than one year for the conclusion of a trial. Chief Justice of each High Court may be personally requested to look into the matter and submit an action plan within such time as this Court may deem fit.”The recommendation comes in a PIL filed by BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay who has demanded fast-tracking of criminal trials against tainted politicians and a life ban for those convicted in such crimes.Also read: ‘May alert others, destroy evidence’: Why Rhea Chakraborty didn’t get bailHansaria further demanded a special court in each district to exclusively try criminal cases against legislators. At present, twelve such courts exist in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi and three special courts at magisterial level in Maharashtra, Kerala and Delhi. A total of 4,442 criminal cases are pending against sitting and former legislators in various courts across the country. Of this, 2,556 cases relate to sitting members of Parliament (MPs) and members of legislative assemblies (MLAs) where trial is pending at various stages.The report makes a state-wise analysis to arrive at the recommendations. For instance, a big state like Madhya Pradesh has one special court hearing 184 cases. He further cited the instance of Tamil Nadu special court hearing only 78 cases even as the bulk of cases (246 cases) involving legislators remain pending in various trial courts across 31 districts.There are some states bursting at its seams. For instance, the special court at Uttar Pradesh’s Allahabad district has 256 cases. There are 62 special courts in the state shouldering the burden of 1,217 cases - the highest for any state. Jharkhand and Odisha do not have a special court. As many as 142 cases against MPs/MLAs are pending in Jharkhand and 331 cases in Odisha. The amicus highlighted some districts like Trivandrum where at the Magisterial level there are 100 cases pending against legislators.Hansaria goes on to state that a special court in each district is the need of the hour for expediting trial against tainted politicians. He recommended that the judicial officers heading these special courts should have a minimum fixed tenure of two years with priority to be given to cases against sitting legislators. The court is to accord top priority to list cases involving death or life sentence, followed by cases under Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act and Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, cases involving punishment of seven years or more jail term and finally other offences, he stated.To ensure production of accused and witnesses during trial, a nodal prosecution officer, not below the rank of Additional Superintendent of Police, is to be appointed in each district. Forensic labs will also give top priority to cases involving legislators and two special public prosecutors will be dedicated to try such cases by each state/union territory, the report said.In cases where a trial is stayed, Hansaria recommended the top court to direct Chief Justices of High Courts to list the appeals in two weeks with no request for adjournment.Advocate Sneha Kalita, who assisted in the preparation of the report, told HT, “The report has accorded top priority to witness protection as these cases involve high and mighty. The Karnataka High Court has framed rules for video conferencing facilities in each court which all HCs must adopt. This will provide safe and secure examination rooms for witnesses to depose freely through video conferencing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decide-cases-against-tainted-legislators-in-one-year-amicus-report-to-sc/story-OdBUeLT9N3neklcL3oEmwN.html
15-09-2020||India||Ganga’s water quality improved between 2014 and 2019, experts say pace is slow||The Central government’s ambitious project to clean River Ganga, under its Namami Gange Project (NGP), has borne some fruit with river water from Rudraprayag in Uttarakhand to Uluberia in West Bengal improving between 2014 and 2019, latest data of the Jal Shakti ministry showed.The dissolved oxygen level has improved at 27 locations while biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and faecal coliform (FC) has improved at 42 and 21 locations, respectively, the information provided by the ministry to Kochi-based Right to Information applicant, K Govindan Nampoothiry, stated.The ministry has provided an annual average of Ganga water quality on these three parameters, thereby discounting the season variations.These parameters help in understanding the water quality of an aquatic system. Higher dissolved oxygen (national standard is 5 milligram per litre or more) shows whether water can sustain aquatic life. Lower BOD (national standard is 3 milligram per litre or less) shows there is less amount of bacteria and other microorganisms in water. Faecal coliform (national standard less is than 2,500 coliform in 100 ml of water) indicates the amount of sewage in water. Also read: ‘To vilify Muslims’ - Supreme Court stops Sudarshan TV show on UPSC examThe data shows that in the past six years the water quality of the river on these three parameters has improved marginally at most locations. Experts say by this pace, the authorities would take decades to make water fit for human consumption. “The progress so far has been slow. In six years, if Ganga’s water quality has improved by just 10-15 percent, it would take decades to clean Ganga,” said BD Joshi, founder of the Indian Academy of Environmental Sciences, who has worked on the river for more than four decades.The Central government had initially fixed 2019 as the deadline to clean the national river but extended it to 2022 as the Namami Gange Project (NGP) took off slowly. As on August 1, only 29 percent of the 154 sewage projects taken up have been completed. For these projects, the ministry has allotted Rs 23,120 crore, as per government documents.Till now, the ministry has approved 310 projects costing Rs 28,790 crore, as per the information provided by the ministry to Rajya Sabha on September 14, 2020. Most of these projects are at an advanced stage of implementation, the ministry said.A ministry official privy to the information about the project said the sewerage infrastructure projects are coming up in eight states — Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Haryana Delhi and Himachal Pradesh — through which the 2,525-km river flows. Currently, the 97 towns located on the main stem of the Ganga generate 2,953 million litres a day (MLD) of sewage. However, the available treatment capacity is only 1,794 MLD.The RTI reply showed the maximum improvement in Ganga water quality has happened in the hills of Uttarakhand, primarily due to effort been made to contain the flow of human and animal sewage. Another reason for this could be that unlike the plains, the flow of industrial waste in the hill is much less.“We have minimized flow of human sewage by building sewage treatment plants in towns and toilets for all those living close to river Ganga. Work is on for zero sewage into river Ganga in the state,” said Uttarakhand environment minister Harak Singh Rawat. The reply showed that as the river flows into the pilgrimage city of Haridwar in Uttarakhand, the water quality deteriorates and further falls downstream at the industrial town of Kanpur where industrial waste still flows into the river. The water quality between Haridwar and Kanpur improved between 2014 and 2019 by 8-10 percent.The water quality was slightly better in Chapra and Patna because of fresh flow of water from tributaries in Bihar such as Kosi and Gandak. But, thereafter, it again fell as the river entered West Bengal. The water quality in Bihar and West Bengal has almost improved by almost 30 percent between 2014 and 2019.So, the river which has DO of almost 9 and faecal coliform of 200 at Rudraprayag in 2019 turned dirty at Uluberia in Howrah district of West Bengal with DO of almost six and coliform count of 22,000. In fact, the coliform count at Uluberia has not changed between 2014 and 2019, according to the data provided. Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator of South Asia Network of Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP) and water expert, said that the bigger issue than improvement in water quality is the flow of the river.“If the flow of the river improves in all seasons, the water quality will improve significantly. But, the reality is that the flow is decreasing and it will have huge implications for people living in the Ganga river basin even if water quality improves,” he said.Thakkar acknowledged that work has happened in building sewage and industrial treatment plans but the real challenge was its monitoring and efficiency. “The state pollution control boards (who are responsible for water quality management) need to ensure that plants don’t give false reports and work at their maximum capacity,” he said. “This (improvement in water quality) is nothing compared to what we have spent on Ganga,” waterman Rajendra Singh said.To revive river Ganga, he said, the government should cancel all proposed dams, re-design existing dams to ensure maximum water flow, push for zero sewage flow in Ganga and relocate all polluting industries away from the Ganga basin area. “We have sent a white paper enumerating these demands to the Central government. Let’s see what they do,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-s-water-quality-improved-between-2014-and-2019-experts-say-pace-is-slow/story-8iMaaaOhQ0Z8OzkiiYpF5O.html
15-09-2020||India||Odisha to amend GST Act to make fraud in input tax credit non-bailable||Faced with rising cases of fraud in input tax credit, the Naveen Patnaik government plans to amend the Odisha Goods and Services Tax making fraudulent input tax credit and retaining benefit as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.The Cabinet which met on Tuesday decided to amend the Odisha Goods and Services Tax Act 2017 by bringing Odisha Goods and Services Tax(Amendment) Bill 2020 in its place so that people who do fraudulent GST transactions or passing and availing fraudulent input tax credit would be liable for penalty. The amendment would also make such offences cognizable and non-bailable.The Cabinet also decided to insert a new section 168A in the Odisha GST Act to extend due dates for various compliances during war, epidemic, flood, drought, fire, cyclone and natural calamities.The proposed amendment has come in the backdrop of a series of cases involving fraudulent input tax credit by dishonest businessmen of the state. In August, officials in Odisha had busted a racket of fake GST invoice involving Rs 712 crore and arrested a businessman for carrying out fake transaction. Businessman Kashmira Kumar Agrawal had hired middlemen who collected documents like PAN card, Aadhaar Card, photographs from people seeking gainful employment such as housewives, drivers, and plumbers from Sundargarh and Sambalpur districts in exchange for money. He, however, misused the documents and created fictitious and dummy firms in the name of these persons. He had transferred huge amounts of money to different firms without having any business transactions with them.In January this year, the state’s GST enforcement authorities arrested two persons for GST frauds worth Rs 212 crore through 28 fictitious and dummy firms in the name of daily wage labourers, private tutors, unemployed youths and housewives. In March, the enforcement officials of GST busted a major fraud in which fake invoices to the tune of Rs 294 were generated by 11 dealers in Bhubaneswar.The GST frauds have been a major source of concern for Odisha has come at a time when its collection in the first five months of 2020-21 fiscal went down by 21 per cent compared to the corresponding period of last fiscal. The total collection till August-end was Rs 4362.95 crore as against Rs 5529.33 crore collected during the corresponding period of 2019-20 fiscal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-amend-gst-act-to-make-fraud-in-input-tax-credit-non-bailable/story-UMnYA1f00HiajqPqIBvNAK.html
15-09-2020||India||Questions on BJP win, PM Modi, quota in MP varsity paper irk Congress||Questions about reservations, the victory of the BJP in consecutive general elections and people’s “trust” in Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the postgraduate journalism course exam of Madhya Pradesh’s Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV) has irked the opposition Congress while the BJP said the objections were a non-issue.These questions were asked in the annual Master of Journalism open-book exams in a paper titled “Analysis of Diverse National and International Issues” which was uploaded on the DAVV website on September 14.The examinees were asked “is the BJP victory in 2019 general elections an endorsement of the common man’s trust in the Narendra Modi government? Explain”.Another question was “what may be the three reasons that the Congress could not get an expected victory in the 2014 and 2019 general elections? Explain in detail with examples”.“Can a one-party system be implemented in the country? Explain in the backdrop of the present situation” and “how useful is reservation after seven decades of Independence and what will be the impact on increasing demand for reservation in society after 10 percent reservation to the poor of the general class” were some of the other questions in the paper.Questions on “nationalism versus development”, the military surgical strikes, Pakistan’s Hafiz Saeed being declared an international terrorist, demonetisation and GST and their effects on the economy, triple talaq were some of the other topics that students had to tackle.Demanding cancellation of the paper, MP Congress spokesperson Neelabh Shukla in a statement said, “It is highly objectionable that DAVV coloured the examination of important faculty like journalism in BJP’s hues. The students of this subject should be taught party neutrality in a higher education institute.” Shukla demanded intervention of Governor Anandiben Patel, who is also university chancellor, in the matter.However, state BJP spokesperson Umesh Sharma said the “questions asked to journalism students are related to current and relevant topics” and the Congress was “making an issue out of nothing”.Meanwhile, DAVV Examination Controller Ashesh Tiwari said anyone having objections to any question in the concerned paper can approach university authorities with a complain and an inquiry committee would probe it.The paper was uploaded on September 14 and students have to submit written answers by September 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/questions-on-bjp-win-pm-modi-quota-in-mp-varsity-paper-irk-congress/story-0UHiAt7GAHQyqkJOPs9XZJ.html
15-09-2020||India||Charges framed against Kolkata actor 2 years after car crash that killed model Sonika Chauhan||Charges were framed against actor Vikram Chatterjee at Alipore court in Kolkata on Tuesday, two years after he was involved in a car crash in the city, killing his co-passenger model Sonika Chauhan. Chatterjee has been charged under the Indian Penal Code with culpable homicide not amounting to murder, causing grievous hurt by act that endangers life and personal safety of others and damaging property. He has also been charged under several sections of the Motor Vehicles Act for rash driving and driving under the influence of alcohol. The trial is scheduled to start in October. Chatterjee was arrested on July 6, 2017. His car had hit a pavement at high speed in south Kolkata in the early hours of April 29, killing Sonika who was sitting in the front passenger seat. The Kolkata police filed a chargesheet on July 19. Chatterjee, who was in court, did not want to comment on Tuesday. His lawyer Anirban Guha Thakurta said the court did not accept the prosecution’s argument for charging Chatterjee with murder (Section 302 of the IPC). The section was dropped while the rest were kept. It was alleged that Chatterjee consumed alcohol at a party and also while he was driving the car. Forensic reports indicated that the car was moving at a speed well over 100 kmph. Sonika’s friends gave confidential statements to a magistrate. After his arrest, Chatterjee was remanded in judicial custody before being released on bail. The death created divisions in Kolkata’s modelling and acting circles. Many of Sonika’s friends accused Vikram Chatterjee of suppressing the truth. The model’s friends organised a candlelight walk on May 8, 2017, demanding justice for Sonika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charges-framed-against-kolkata-actor-2-years-after-car-crash-that-killed-model-sonika-chauhan/story-Ov4tdqAbAmUwcYiCF4YPjO.html
15-09-2020||India||Row over Agra’s Mughal Museum’s link with Shivaji, project in need of funds||The under-construction Mughal Museum, which is now likely to be named after the great Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, stands about 1,300 metres east of the Taj Mahal, awaiting funds for its completion. According to historians, Shivaji once visited Agra during the reign of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. There are various theories around what took place during that visit. The most popular one is that Shivaji was arrested and kept in a jail within the Agra Fort but managed to hide himself in a basket of fruits and escaped. The ASI had also attempted to identify the jail where Shivaji was kept. There is also a statue of Shivaji at the gate of Agra Fort to mark this incident. Retired head of the department of history at St John’s College, Dr RC Mishra, however, had a different view but admitted that Shivaji came to Agra during the reign of Aurangzeb and camped away from Agra Fort at a location near present Gwalior Road. “Aurangzeb had taken Shivaji as hostage in his camp. It is said that Shivaji bribed the guards on duty and escaped,” said Dr Sharma. He said Mughal Museum was the appropriate name. There was no sense in naming the museum after Chhatrapati Shivaji. Also read: ‘Rename Agra’s Mughal Museum after Shivaji’ - Yogi AdityanathOn April 17, 2017, the Agra airport was named as Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Airport. Another demand that has been raised time and again is to name Agra as ‘Agravan’ after Maharaja Agrasen. BJP MLA from Agra (North) late Jagan Prasad Garg had moved this proposal and the history department of Dr BR Ambedkar University was working to trace the links between Agra and Maharaja Agrasen who is much revered by the Agarwal community. However, there was no demand to name the museum after Shivaji and so the announcement about name change took many by surprise. “It was a long pending demand of the tourism sector to have a grand museum in the Taj city. The existing museum on the Taj Mahal premises has failed to serve the purpose and is not visited by tourists,” said Rajeev Saxena, vice president of the Tourism Guild of Agra. “The tourists coming to Agra and visiting Mughal period monuments were unable to connect with the chronology of the Mughal dynasty. Hence this museum was visualized to make them aware of Mughal hierarchy, architecture, art, craft, weaponry, manuscripts and coins through the Mughal Museum,” said Saxena. “This Mughal Museum was also aimed at increasing night stay of tourists as an added attraction. The idea of the then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav was to give a global recognition to this museum. Provision was made for performing arts at the museum’s art gallery and a fashion corridor. It was designed by David Chipperfield and even foreign tourists visiting Agra used to ask when this Mughal Museum would be open for tourists,” he said. “In recent years, it was also decided to incorporate Braj art and culture in it. Now, the museum’s name is to be changed and since this the government’s decision, we cannot do much. However, what is important is that it gets completed and serves the purpose,” said Saxena. Shamshuddin, president of Approved Tourist Guide Association, dubbed the name change as a ‘political move’. “Chhatrapati Shivaji had a connect with Agra Fort where his statue is placed. There is no connect of the Maratha king with Agra beyond that. So changing the name is not the right decision,” he said. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee member Dr Madhurima Sharma too smelt politics behind the name change. “The state government is not releasing funds needed but is indulging in name change for political gain,” she said. However, BJP state secretary Vijay Shivhare said the decision was justified. “The Mughals came and ruled us so there is no logic calling it ‘Mughal Museum’,” he said. The museum, being constructed by the UP tourism department, was visualized by former Samajwadi Party chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in 2015. He laid the foundation stone in 2016 with the target to get it completed by 2017 with the project cost of Rs 141 crore. Initially, the work went on at a steady pace but later both funding and work were hit, more so due to Covid-19-induced lockdown. Many in the city had forgotten about it till they were reminded of it on Monday when chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced to rename it after Shivaji.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-agra-s-mughal-museum-s-link-with-shivaji-project-in-need-of-funds/story-c41dMHL49Emuj2A8ufbV4I.html
15-09-2020||India||Bangalore drug racket: Resort of another accused raided, two more actors served notice||In the ongoing investigations into the Bangalore drug racket case, which allegedly involves several Kannada actors and other well-known people, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on Tuesday raided the resort of Aditya Alva, one of the 15 who have been named in an FIR.Aditya is the son of late Jeevaraj Alva, a prominent Janata Party politician who was also a minister in Karnataka. Aditya is also the brother-in-law of Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi. Aditya’s mother Nandini also unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls on a JD(S) ticket from Bangalore Central.The CCB police on Tuesday raided Aditya Alva’s ‘House of Life’ resort-cum-residence which is spread over four acres in Hebbal, Bangalore. Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil said that the raids had been carried out after obtaining a search warrant from the court. Aditya is accused No.6 in the FIR filed in the Cottonpet police station regarding drug procurement, usage and peddling under various sections of CrPC and NDPS acts.Two popular Kannada actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, along with seven others, have already been arrested in this case. Ragini is currently in judicial custody and lodged in Parpanna Agrahara prison while Galrani is in police custody. Police have said that Aditya was not available and is believed to be currently out of the country. His lawyers have approached courts for anticipatory bail.Also read: ‘May alert others, destroy evidence’ - Why Rhea Chakraborty didn’t get bailA senior police officer, who did not want to be named as he is not authorised to speak to media, said, “The raids were conducted as we had specific information following the interrogation of some of the arrested, that rave parties where drugs were freely consumed were conducted at the resort. We will eventually question Aditya also”.Meanwhile, two other ‘Sandalwood’ actors, Diganth Manchale and Aindrita Ray, who are married to each other, were asked to appear before CCB for questioning in the drug racket. Sandeep Patil, the Joint Commissioner, confirmed that notices have been issued to the couple to appear before the CCB. Actor Aindrita tweeted saying that they had received a notice and they would make themselves available for questioning tomorrow at 11 am. “We will be present and fully cooperate with CCB,” the tweet read.In an unrelated incident, but as a part of the larger sweep against drug peddling across the state, the police in Molkalmuru taluk of Chitradurga district have arrested Rudresh who is said to be the main accused in plantation of Ganja plants which are said to be grown in 4.2 acres of land. The plants have been seized and the accused has been arrested according to Challakere Dy SP K V Sridhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangalore-drug-racket-resort-of-another-accused-raided-two-more-actors-served-notice/story-UgzloWuBflfVAnOzDGCXSN.html
15-09-2020||India||India responds to UN human rights chief’s criticism of situation in Kashmir||India on Tuesday responded to the UN human rights chief’s criticism of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir by saying it had revived grassroots democracy and pushed economic development in the region despite Pakistan’s efforts to derail this process. In her global human rights update on Monday, UN high commissioner for human rights Michelle Bachelet had said that both “incidents of military and police violence against civilians” and incidents related to militancy were continuing in Kashmir, while legal changes to the Constitution and domicile rules were “generating deep anxiety”. Giving India’s response during the debate on Bachelet’s update on Tuesday, India’s permanent representative Indra Mani Pandey said since changes were made in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir in August last year, people in the region have been “enjoying the same fundamental rights as people in other parts of India”. “We have been able to revive grass root democracy and provide a new momentum to social and economic development, despite the challenge posed by [the] Covid-19 pandemic and persistent attempts by one country to infiltrate terrorists to derail this process by all possible means,” Pandey said. Though the envoy didn’t name the country, it was obvious he was referring to Pakistan, which India has blamed for supporting cross-border terrorism, especially in Jammu and Kashmir. Pandey also said the government’s efforts aimed at socio-economic development and ensuring better governance in Kashmir over the past year have “yielded unprecedented results”. He added, “By extending coverage of positive and affirmative federal legislations and repealing discriminatory or outdated local laws, the government has reaffirmed its commitment to delivering socio-economic justice to disadvantaged people in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, including women, children, minorities and refugees.” Bachelet had also said in her update that the “space for political debate and public participation continues to be severely restricted” in Jammu and Kashmir, particularly since new media rules prohibited vaguely defined “anti-national” reporting. She welcomed the release of some political and community leaders, but noted that “hundreds of people remain in arbitrary detention, with many habeas corpus petitions still pending – including those of many of Jammu and Kashmir’s political leaders”. She also welcome initiatives to extend services to remote areas and the conditional restoration of full internet connectivity in two districts, and said these measures “should be applied promptly to the rest of Jammu and Kashmir”. Bachelet noted that people in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir have “limited internet access, creating difficulties in accessing education and other vital services”. She said she was also concerned about restrictions on the rights to freedom of expression and association on the Pakistani side. “My office is committed to continuing its engagement with both India and Pakistan, to uphold the rights of the Kashmiri people – which is the best way to prevent further tensions and conflict,” she said. Bachelet had also criticised the situation in Kashmir in her global update in 2019, when she had also spoken out against the National Register of Citizens verification process in Assam, saying it had caused “great uncertainty and anxiety”. Pandey also said in his intervention that India remains committed to upholding all human rights and is of the view that the human rights agenda and discourse “must be pursued in a transparent and impartial manner with respect for national sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in internal affairs of states”. India also exercised its right of reply to respond to statements by Pakistan, Turkey and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) during the debate on the UN high commissioner’s update. It said it has become “habitual” for Pakistan to malign India with false and fabricated narratives for “self-serving malicious purposes”, and that India and other countries don’t deserve an “unsolicited lecture on human rights from a country that has consistently persecuted its ethnic and religious minorities, is an epicentre of terrorism, has the distinction of providing pensions to individuals on UN sanctions list and has a prime minister who proudly admits training tens of thousands of terrorists to fight in Jammu and Kashmir”. “It’s not surprising that other relevant multilateral institutions have been raising serious concerns on its failure to stop terror financing and lack of effective actions against all terror entities in Pakistan,” the Indian representative said in the reply. Pakistan’s “nefarious designs” also continue in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and its “zeal to reassert its theocratic ideology” has ensured that “ethnic and religious minorities have no future through systematic persecution, blasphemy laws, forced conversions, targeted killings, sectarian violence and faith-based discrimination”, The Indian representative said. India also pointed out that “thousands of Sikh, Hindu and Christian minority women and girls have been subjected to abductions, forced marriages and conversions in Pakistan”. India also noted that Pakistan has been “abusing” various UN human rights mechanisms and platforms to raise issues that are “extraneous to the mandate” of the Human Rights Council and relate to the internal affairs of India. New Delhi also rejected the OIC’s reference to Jammu and Kashmir and said the organisation has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal affairs. The OIC has also allowed itself to be “misused by Pakistan”, India said in its reply. India also advised Turkey to “refrain from commenting on the internal affairs of India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-responds-to-un-human-rights-chief-s-criticism-of-situation-in-kashmir/story-O1tCJTrhsH3qHAcmSYTsnI.html
15-09-2020||India||‘To vilify Muslims’: Supreme Court stops Sudarshan TV show on UPSC exam||A controversial television show slated to be aired by TV channel Sudarshan News on the entry of Muslims in the civil services is aimed at vilifying the Muslim community, the Supreme Court observed on Tuesday as it barred the channel from going ahead with the telecast of the remaining six episodes of the programme “Bindas Bol”.The court will hear the case on Thursday as well. The channel had earlier aired four episodes.The top court took strong exception to the contents of the show, noting that the claims made by the channel seemed to be “insidious”, painted an entire community with the same brush and cast aspersions on the credibility of the exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission.“Prima facie, it does appear to the Court that the intent, object and purpose of the episodes which have been telecast is to vilify the Muslim community. An insidious attempt has been made to insinuate that the community is involved in a conspiracy to infiltrate the civil services. The drift, tenor and content of the episodes is to bring the community into public hatred and disrepute…Any attempt to vilify a community must be viewed with disfavour by this court as a custodian of Constitutional values,” the bench comprising justices DY Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and KM Joseph said.At an earlier hearing, the court had declined to impose a pre-broadcast ban on the controversial programme citing freedom of speech and expression.On Tuesday, the judges said there has been a change in circumstances because of the tone, tenor of the programme that emerged after 4 episodes were telecast from September 11 to 14.“We are of the view that there has been a change of circumstances at least prima facie on the basis of the record which has emerged before this court. We order and direct that pending further orders of this court, Sudarshan News shall stand injuncted from airing any further broadcasts in continuation of or similar to the broadcast which have taken place on September 11, 12, 13 and 14 either under the same or any other title or caption,” the bench ordered.Senior counsel Shyam Divan, who appeared for Sudarshan News, told the judges that such an order would amount to prior restraint on publication of news and would violate free speech.“I reserve my right to fair criticism of the order after the hearing of the matter is over. As of now, I feel that the entire telecast of 4 episodes must have been referred to by the petitioners/intervenors. Their arguments were contrary to facts and records. My client has never said anything about Muslim community. We are concerned with the issue of national security,” advocate Vishnu Jain who represented Sudarshan News told HT.The court was hearing a petition by advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan who submitted that the programme contained statements that were derogatory about the entry of Muslims in the civil services. In the programme’s trailer, which was widely shared on social media platforms, the anchor and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan news, Suresh Chavhanke was seen questioning what he called was a sudden increase in the number of Muslims succeeding in IAS and IPS exams.Chavhanke had asked about what the consequences would be if “Jihadis from Jamia (university)” would hold positions of authority and power like that of Collector and Secretary.Khan submitted that expression of views were derogatory to a particular community, has a divisive potential and was in violation of programme code enumerated under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act of 1995.Simultaneously, another petition on the same subject matter was heard by the Delhi high court ,which on August 28, stayed the telecast and asked the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to take a call on the matter. The ministry cleared the programme on September 10 while directing the channel to ensure that the show does not violate any programme code. Action would be taken as per the law if any violation was found, it said.Subsequently, a fresh petition was filed before the high court which issued notice on the plea on September 11 but declined stay. Sudarshan News had then proceeded to telecast four episode of the showSenior counsel Anoop Choudhari and advocate Shadan Farasat appearing on behalf of petitioners and intervenors submitted before the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the telecast violated the programme code and amounted to hate speech.Farasat pointed out that the programme made false statements regarding relaxation being afforded to Muslim candidates with respect to upper age-limit and number of attempts available to take the exam.The bench was critical of the episodes aired by the channel stating that the insinuations made in the programme did not befit the democratic traditions of the country and that several statements which were brought to the attention of the court are “palpably erroneous”.“You are doing a great disservice to the nation. What has been happening does not do credit to our democratic system. We are a melting pot of cultures, civilizations, religions and languages,” said justice DY Chandrachud.Justice Chandrachud also stated that every single person who applies for the UPSC goes through the same selection process and the insinuation that one community is trying to infiltrate civil services does great disservice to the nation.“In the UPSC exam, all are subjected to the same tests, interviews and are assessed by the same persons. But the insinuation is that one community is trying to infiltrate the UPSC. What you are doing does not do credit to our democratic system. Your client is doing great disservice to the nation. We are a melting pot of cultures,” Chandrachud told Divan.Divan submitted that the programme raises an issue concerning national security and it is in public interest to bring out the story.“The programme is in adherence to programme code,” Divan claimed while also underscoring that the matter involves foreign funding from sources which are inimical to India’s interests.Justice KM Joseph, who was also on the bench, said freedom granted to the media is not absolute and the manner in which certain television channels conduct news debates today left a lot to be desired.He asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for central government, to explore options on disclosing the shareholding pattern and revenue model of media houses on public domain.“Certain channels mute panelists when they express views which go against the anchor’s views. This is unfair. No freedom is absolute, not even journalistic freedom,” justice Joseph said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarshan-tv-show-on-upsc-exam-aimed-at-vilifying-muslims-says-supreme-court/story-qNK61goy13c5GbOwVsE0ML.html
15-09-2020||India||‘Removal of Article 370 brought socio-economic development in J-K, Ladakh’: MHA||More than a year after article 370 – which gave somewhat special status to Jammu and Kashmir – was abolished, and the state was bifurcated into two Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the decision has “brought about socio-economic development” in the region, Union home ministry said on Tuesday. Responding to a query from AIMIM leader Asadudin Owaisi, wherein he asked about the impact of August 5, 2019 decision, Union minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy informed the Lok Sabha that the decision has “fully integrated J&K and Ladakh into the mainstream of the nation”. As a result, all the rights enshrined in the Constitution of India and benefits of all the central Laws that were being enjoyed by other citizens of the country are now available to the people of Jammu and Kashmir, Reddy said.Also read: Ajit Doval walks out of SCO meet of NSAs over ‘fictitious’ Pak map that violates norms The minister added that, “the change has brought about socio-economic development in both the new UT’s of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Empowerment of people, removal of unjust laws, bringing in equity and fairness to those discriminated since ages who are now getting their due along with comprehensive development are some of the important changes that are ushering both the new UTs towards the path of peace and progress.” Giving a detailed account of funds infused in the region, the home ministry said that besides the regular flow of funds under various schemes by different central ministries, an amount of Rs 30,757 crore has been allocated in the Financial Year (FY) 2020-21.“Under the Prime Minister’s development package announced in 2015 for the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Rs 80,068 crores continue to be spent for 63 major development projects (54 in J&K and 9 in Ladakh) across sectors such as road, power, health, tourism, agriculture, horticulture, skill development, etc.,” Reddy said.Also read: In response to China’s actions, Indian troops ready for long haul in Ladakh The minister said 15,142 candidates have been imparted job oriented training in sales and customer service, hospitality, among others, while till July 31 this year, 6,763 youth were undergoing training and 6,556 youths have got employment. “Further, all the flagship schemes of the Centre, including various centrally sponsored schemes and the individual beneficiary centric schemes, are also being proactively implemented in both J&K and Ladakh,” he added. Replying to another query in Lok Sabha, the home ministry said that there were 111 successful cross-border infiltration incidents in Jammu and Kashmir between August 2019 and July this year. Between March and August this year, 138 terrorists have been killed while 50 security personnel have also laid down their lives, the MHA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/removal-of-article-370-has-brought-socio-economic-development-in-j-k-ladakh-mha/story-0ioxNZ6veZsgL5Xlby9ViM.html
15-09-2020||India||‘May alert others, destroy evidence’: Why court dismissed Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea||A special court that denied bail to Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty in connection with the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) probe into the drug-related angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case held that if she was released on bail she might alert others and they might destroy evidence.Additional sessions judge GB Gurao of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) court observed on September 11 that as the investigation is still in the initial phase, if the accused is granted bail she may tamper with the prosecution evidence, news agency ANI reported.“In addition, according to the prosecution, the accused has taken the names of other persons. The investigation in respect of those persons is in process. If the accused is released on bail then she will alert those persons and they will destroy the evidence. There is a possibility of tampering of evidence,” the order said.Also read: NCB probing link between Bollywood and drugs traffickers, says MHA in ParliamentIt added that Chakraborty’s statements were recorded by NCB on September 6,7 and 8 and the actor was also provided police protection on her request. “The prosecution revealed the role of the accused on the basis of said statement and thereafter, she was arrested in the crime. Therefore, at this stage, when the investigation is at a preliminary stage, it cannot be said that the statement is forcefully recorded and inadmissible in evidence,” according to the order.The court also noted that Chakraborty was arrested under charges that were non-bailable. “Section 27-A of the NDPS Act as discussed above is in respect of the illicit trafficking of drugs, considering the punishment prescribed for the offence punishable under this section offence is non-bailable,” it said.The court cited electronic evidence and WhatsApp chats that NCB has recovered. It also observed that some amount of money was transferred via credit card of the accused and that a commercial quantity of LSD was recovered from one of the accused Anuj Keshwani.Also read: Two more arrests by NCB in Sushant Singh Rajput caseThe 28-year-old actor, in her bail application, stated that NCB has not disclosed any connection between her and any of the drug peddlers. She also claimed that during her custody, she was coerced into making incriminatory confessions and that the statement was retracted on September 8 itself.Chakraborty and her brother Showik have been remanded to the central agency’s custody till September 22. The bail pleas of Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, his domestic help Dipesh Sawant, alleged drug peddlers Abdul Basit and Zaid Vilatra apart from Rhea and Showik have also been rejected by the court.NCB has, so far, arrested 18 people in connection with the case.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-alert-others-destroy-evidence-why-court-dismissed-rhea-chakraborty-s-bail-plea/story-Mu6mlYzIWqiwOrN0dIT3vK.html
15-09-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee’s stipend for Hindu priests a move to woo voters, says Opposition||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s decision to give a monthly stipend and houses to Brahmin priests has triggered a debate with the Congress, Left Front and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) calling it a desperate move to secure Hindu votes before the crucial assembly polls next year. Banerjee announced on Monday that the government will give a monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 to 8,000 Brahmin priests facing financial crisis and also provide houses to those who need one. The announcement instantly brought under focus Banerjee’s 2012 decision to give a monthly stipend of Rs 2,500 to the Imams of all mosques. The government started the scheme a year after Banerjee ousted the 34-year-old Left Front government in West Bengal. “She thought she could buy Muslim votes with the stipend for Imams and now she thinks Hindu votes can be secured this way. This cannot be a government’s mode of functioning,” said Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Arguing that Banerjee was no different from the BJP government at the Centre, Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member Md Salim said, “Both ask people to be economically independent but make them dependent on the government. When Hindu and Mughal emperors ruled India they didn’t have to offer monthly stipends to priests and Imams. They ensured a strong economy.” “Rs 1,000 is a paltry sum for running a home but big enough to appear as an act of benevolence,” quipped Salim. Chairman of West Bengal Imams Association Md Yahiya reacted to the political comments saying Banerjee started the stipend for Imams a year after coming to power in 2011 and it was not her electoral promise. “This is simply a welfare scheme because not all Hindus are priests. But even if one accepts for argument’s sake that she wants to secure Hindu votes then one should ask if the BJP and Congress have exclusive rights to Hindu votes. Can’t Hindus vote for the TMC?” said Md Yahiya. “I feel that Rs 1,000 is a small amount. The stipend for priests and Imams should be equal and substantial,” he added. BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha accused Banerjee of being partial. “If all Imams in West Bengal are getting the stipend then why is the government selectively helping only 8,000 priests? There are thousands more. Why not help all?” he said. Amitabha Chakraborty, a priest from the northern outskirts of Kolkata, said, “Most people do not know how low a priest’s income can be. I have seen many suffering miserably in their old age when they couldn’t work anymore. This is a good initiative by the government. Some help is better than nothing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-stipend-for-hindu-priests-a-move-to-woo-voters-says-opposition/story-KFAnPyXNwpE4bx9xFkXBGM.html
15-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate surges past 78%, one of the highest globally and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.India’s Covid-19 recovery rate surges past 78%, one of the highest globally: GovtThe government on Tuesday hailed India’s Covid-19 recovery rate, which stands at 78.28%, and said it was one of the highest in the world citing data from the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus disease tracker. Read more Ajit Doval walks out of SCO meet of NSAs over ‘fictitious’ Pak map that violates normsIndia on Tuesday walked out of a virtual meeting of national security advisers of member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) after the Pakistani representative projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries. Read more ‘Unwanted references’: Pak rejects US-India statement asking it to act on terrorIn response to a strong India-US joint statement asking it to stop allowing its territory to be used for launching terror attacks, Pakistan says ‘partner countries’, a reference to US, should refrain from one-sided positions. Read more‘PM misled country on Chinese intrusions’: Rahul reacts to Rajnath’s LAC statementThe Congress on Tuesday questioned the absence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Lok Sabha when defence minister Rajnath Singh made a statement on the India-China border standoff and asked the government why is it shying away from a discussion in Parliament on the issue. Read more Nikhil Dwivedi questions Kangana Ranaut’s attack on Bollywood, asks ‘why did you join the industry, stay on despite so many troubles’Producer Nikhil Dwivedi and actor Kangana Ranaut exchanged words as she trained her guns at the film industry once again. He asked if Bollywood is so evil, why did the actor join it and stay on. Read more ‘Have heard Gilchrist say really good things’: AB de Villiers names batsman who has ‘a lot of similarities’ with himDe Villiers recently talked about the upcoming IPL 2020. The South African named a batsman who has a lot of similarities with him. Read more Kartik Aaryan sweats it out during ‘midnight workout session’Kartik Aaryan’s social media profiles are full of his post-workout pictures, which makes it hard not to be a fan of his lean body and taut muscles. Read more Oppo Watch review: More than an Apple Watch cloneOppo’s first smartwatch looks exactly like the Apple Watch but if you can get over the cringe, then you’ll notice that it actually looks really good. The Oppo Watch also comes with Wear OS and not ColorOS like the one launched in China. Read more Bear sneaks up on man sleeping beside pool. Watch what happensA man’s relaxing time by the pool turned into quite a scary experience. A shocking video shows a bear sneaking up on the man sleeping next to the pool. The video has grabbed the attention of netizens. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-surges-past-78-one-of-the-highest-globally-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cuopoVYPNm3C0z2JH4MIdL.html
15-09-2020||India||Arunachal Pradesh CM Pema Khandu tests positive for Covid-19, in self isolation||Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday and has placed himself in self isolation. “I had undergone the Covid-19 test RT-PCR and have tested positive for Covid-19. I am asymptomatic and feeling healthy,” the CM tweeted. “However as per SOP and safety of others, I am self isolating myself and requesting everyone who came in contact with me to adhere to the SOP,” the 41-year-old added. Khandu tested positive two days after state’s health minister Alo Libang tested positive for Covid-19. Last week, the CM had trekked 24 km for 11 hours to meet residents of a remote village located at a height of 14,500 feet above sea level. Accompanied by just one security officer and some villagers, he trekked through passes, difficult mountain terrain to reach Luguthang in his constituency Mukto in Tawang district. Arunachal Pradesh has witnessed a rise in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks. Till Monday, the state had recorded 6,298 Covid-19 positive cases with 4,531 recoveries and 10 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-cm-pema-khandu-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-self-isolation/story-2v6tqsfYIU7aoMuH77E9qK.html
15-09-2020||India||Sasikala may walk out of prison in January, likely to impact TN political landscape||Tamil Nadu, which will face assembly polls in the first quarter of next year, may see some changes in its political landscape as VK Sasikala Natarajan, once a close confidant of former AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa is likely to walk out of prison in January.According to an RTI reply by the office of the Chief Superintendent of Prison, Parapanna Agrahara, where Sasikala is currently serving a four-year prison term after being convicted by the Supreme Court, the probable date of her release is January 27, 2021, if she pays the ordered fine of Rs 10 crore. In case she fails to pay the fine, she is likely to be released on February 27, 2022.However, what is interesting is that in the RTI response by R Latha, Public Information Officer, Sasikala could be released earlier than January 27, 2021, if she utilises her parole facility. Sasikala had entered prison on February 15, 2015, but had served 35 days in prison earlier in 1997 and 2004.Also read: India walks out of SCO meet of NSAs over fictitious Pak map, says it violates normsAccording to Sasikala’s lawyer Raja Sendur Pandian, she is eligible to be released as early as the end of this month, though this could not be independently confirmed by HT with the prison authorities. Pandian claims that Sasikala is entitled to ‘ordinary remission’ given to all prisoners which would enable her to walk out of prison as early as the end of this month. He also said that arrangements have already been made to pay the Rs 10 crore fine to facilitate her smooth and quick release.Sasikala’s reentry into Tamil Nadu’s political landscape is likely to have a significant impact. Before surrendering, she had been elected as general secretary of the party and leader of the AIADMK legislature party and was all set to be sworn in as the chief minister.However, the then Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao waited for the Supreme Court judgement in the disproportionate case against Jayalalithaa and Sasikala. Both of them, along with Sasikala’s nephew Sudhakaran and confidante J Ilavarsi, were found guilty, thus quashing her hopes of becoming the CM. The sentence against Jayalalithaa was infructuous because she had died two months earlier.After Sasikala’s arrest, Edappadi Palanswami - then seen as her proxy and key lieutenant - was elected as the leader of the legislature party and took charge as the chief minister. Later, after falling out with Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dhinakaran, she was expelled from the AIADMK and removed from the post general secretary. Dhinakaran formed an alternate party AMMK which has not had much electoral success.Now with Sasikala’s imminent release, the political scene could see a churn in the state. Political Analysts L Manjunath says, “If she can project herself as the wronged woman who had to go to jail to defend the honour of Thalivi Jayalalithaa, then she might still emerge as a significant force. Especially, as the Palanswami and the Paneerselvam (Deputy CM) factions are yet to fully reconcile with each other. Also, she belongs to the powerful Thevar community which could also be a factor in her favour.”Also read: Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe after Rajnath Singh’s LAC statementWhile the AIADMK is yet to react officially on the likely imminent release of Sasikala, fisheries minister D Jayakumar had dismissed the possibility of readmitting her or any likely impact on party fortunes because of her reentry into the state politics.However, Sasikala might still face some challenges as the IT department is looking to auction some of the properties seized in the disproportionate assets case. “While the DMK-led alliance swept the Lok Sabha polls, assembly elections are a different challenge. If Sasikala can reunite all the erstwhile AIADMK factions, they can mount a serious challenge and it will not be a walkover like the parliamentary polls,” says Manjunath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-may-walk-out-of-prison-in-january-likely-to-impact-tn-political-landscape/story-wGXL3JlGr2AIeKXm2Clu6O.html
15-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate surges past 78%, one of the highest globally: Govt||The government on Tuesday hailed India’s Covid-19 recovery rate, which stands at 78.28%, and said it was one of the highest in the world citing data from the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus disease tracker.Balram Bhargava, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) director general, credited the “very effective” lockdown for the surging number of recoveries in the country. Bhargava said during a press briefing that India learnt from the experience of nations that suffered high fatalities from the viral disease. He said the country was able to “distribute the curve” of the infection as well as avoid the “huge peak” those countries had in terms of deaths.Also Watch | Covid: 1 crore tests jump; 38.5 lakh recoveries; active vs total cases in India As of Tuesday, 3,859,399 people had recovered from Covid-19 and the country’s recovery tally exceeded the active cases by 2,869,338.Also read: 3 vaccines at clinical trial stage in India, SII to begin Phase 3 trial soon, says ICMROn observing the Covid-19 situation in European countries and then acting accordingly, Bhargava said, “Fortunately, we took learnings from that in India and we were able to, what we call, ‘distribute the curve’. We distributed the curve in such a way that we did not have those large number of deaths and that was attributable scientifically because of a very effective lockdown that was imposed in late March, April and May. So, we did not really have a huge peak from that perspective.”He also said that the chances of reinfection are “very, very rare” but it may happen as it did in Hong Kong. However, he dismissed the matter as not a very serious concern.Also read: Only 4 states have more than 50,000 Covid-19 case, says health ministryDuring the briefing, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there are 14 states and Union territories (UTs) in the country where the number of active Covid-19 cases are less than 5,000. He also said that India’s cases per million population are amongst the lowest in the world, which stands at 3,573 while the global average is 3,704 while deaths per million population at 58 is also amongst the lowest in the world and the global average is 118.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-surges-past-78-one-of-the-highest-globally-govt/story-wU8YaDW6qG6WEBieTzoD7J.html
15-09-2020||India||In response to China’s actions, Indian troops ready for long haul in Ladakh||India is making vigorous attempts to provide logistics support to its forward deployed soldiers in the eastern Ladakh sector, where more than 50,000 Indian troops are likely to remain stationed through the winter months to deal with any provocation by the Chinese forces, with no end in sight to the tense border standoff, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. From specialised winter clothing to rations and arctic tents to portable heaters, military planes and helicopters have been flying to Ladakh almost daily with their cargo holds filled with crucial supplies and gear that soldiers would require to slug it out in the inhospitable mountain terrain, the officials said, requesting anonymity. Fresh images coming out of Ladakh on Tuesday provided glimpses of the extraordinary effort being made by the military to support its high-altitude deployments in the sensitive sector. Necessary steps have also been taken for equipment sustenance, the officials said.ALSO READ | Any serious situation along LAC will impact India-China bilateral ties: Rajnath Singh In a statement made in Lok Sabha on the situation in the Ladakh sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “I can assure you that the morale and motivation of our armed forces is very high…They are being provisioned with suitable clothing, habitat and the required defence wherewithal.” Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane visited forward locations in Ladakh on September 3 to review the army’s operational preparedness and the logistics arrangements for sustenance of forces through the winter. China has deployed sizeable military assets in the eastern Ladakh theatre, including 50,000 troops, 150 aircraft, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems, with India matching every military move made by the neighbour. “The determination of our troops is praise worthy. They are capable of serving at forbidding altitudes with scarce oxygen and in extremely cold temperatures, something that they have effortlessly done over the last many years on Siachen and in Kargil,” Singh said in Lok Sabha. ALSO READ | Indian, Chinese top military commanders likely to meet this weekHe said the lower house should pass a resolution in support of the armed forces that have been defending the country at towering heights, braving inclement weather in Ladakh. Top Indian and Chinese military commanders are likely to hold a meeting along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) this week to reduce military tensions in eastern Ladakh where the situation remains tense after a series of recent maneuvers by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area. Corps commander-ranked officers have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock. They will now be meeting for the first time after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the most significant heights being held by India on Rezang La and Reqin pass where the PLA made some desperate attempts to regain lost ground earlier this week. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other. The Chinese side has mobilised a large number of troops and weapon systems along the LAC as well as in the eastern Ladakh theatre where the current friction areas include Gogra, Kongka La and the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso, Singh said. “In response to China’s actions, our armed forces have also made appropriate counter deployments in these areas to ensure that India’s security interests are fully protected,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-response-to-china-s-actions-indian-troops-ready-for-long-haul-in-ladakh/story-I0eapRNEzAajwV5by9m86K.html
15-09-2020||India||‘PM misled country on Chinese intrusions’: Rahul reacts to Rajnath’s LAC statement||The Congress on Tuesday questioned the absence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Lok Sabha when defence minister Rajnath Singh made a statement on the India-China border standoff and asked the government why is it shying away from a discussion in Parliament on the issue.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who is in the United States accompanying his mother Sonia Gandhi for a health check-up, attacked the Prime Minister for “misleading” the country over Chinese transgressions. “The country has always stood by its armed forces and will continue to do so in future. But Modiji, when will you stand against China? When will we take back the land of our country from China? Don’t be scared of taking China’s name,” he tweeted in Hindi.Also read: What Rajnath Singh said in Lok Sabha रक्षामंत्री के बयान से साफ़ है कि मोदी जी ने देश को चीनी अतिक्रमण पर गुमराह किया।हमारा देश हमेशा से भारतीय सेना के साथ खड़ा था, है और रहेगा।लेकिन मोदी जी,आप कब चीन के ख़िलाफ़ खड़े होंगे?चीन से हमारे देश की ज़मीन कब वापस लेंगे?चीन का नाम लेने से डरो मत।Earlier, Congress members staged a walk-out from the House soon after the defence minister’s statement, alleging they were not allowed to raise certain issues related to the India-China border row. They later protested in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in the Parliament House complex.In his statement in the Lok Sabha, the defence minister said India is committed to a peaceful resolution of the current border standoff with China but any attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo by the neighbouring country was unacceptable.Singh also said the Indian troops had inflicted heavy costs, including casualties, on the Chinese side during a violent clash with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Galwan valley on June 15. The clash left 20 Indian soldiers, including Colonel B Santosh Babu, dead.Later, addressing reporters outside Parliament, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the Prime Minister’s absence from Parliament when the defence minister made a statement in the Lower House on the India-China situation showed that the government was afraid of a discussion on the face-off.“For the Congress party, the country is the most important. We are proud of our armed forces. This government did not allow us to speak in Parliament. They are afraid of Congress asking questions that they will not be able to answer,” he said. “It is our entitlement to put forward our views. When the defence minister made a statement on the India-China situation in the Lok Sabha, the Prime Minister was not present. He is afraid of conducting a discussion on the issue in Parliament,” Chowdhury alleged. In 1962, when India-China war took place, he said then opposition leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee sought to know about the situation at the border. The then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru agreed to his demand and there was a discussion for two days in Parliament on the war and border situation, he added.Chowdhury said the Congress members staged a walk-out from the Lok Sabha because they were not allowed to send their message to the country and the armed forces.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala also said the government should give an answer on whether China has encroached Indian territory at specific positions across the border.“The entire country is proud of the armed forces and that is why we are talking here. But why is the Prime Minister shying away from a discussion?” he asked. “Our questions are very straight forward. Has China occupied Indian territory? Have the Chinese encroached on Depsang Plains, Gogra, Pangong-Tso Lake till Finger 8, Y-junction in Bhutan, Lipulekh Pass in Uttarakhand and in Arunachal Pradesh. The government should answer these questions,” asked Surjewala.He said the Prime Minister should apologise to the nation if the answers to the questions asked by the Congress are affirmative as he had told an all-party meeting on June 19 that the Chinese have not entered and occupied Indian territory. Congress’ deputy leader in the Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi told reporters that Chowdhury and his other party colleagues wanted to send a message of solidarity with the armed forces and also issue a stern warning to China that they should not test India’s patience. “Unfortunately, the government feels as if only they can speak in support of the army,” he added.“The Defence Minister excoriated China for transgressing the LAC, could the Govt explain why the Prime Minister had issued an extraordinary statement claiming that China had not entered our territory? Presumably, the Government has changed the PM’s stand?” Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted.“Another question: since the defence minister says that both countries have now agreed in talks to respect the LAC, but separately says the two countries have differing perceptions of where LAC lies, isn’t that a recipe for another clash? Shouldn’t we just insist on status quo ante?” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-misled-the-country-on-chinese-intrusions-rahul-gandhi-after-defence-minister-s-statement-in-lok-sabha/story-eDcQJVKw8lNKuyAv8ubR9H.html
15-09-2020||India||Lucknow plays a character in this OTT series, says Saurabh Tewari||With recommencing of shooting in the state capital, once again, it’s time for lights, camera and action! A 45-day schedule for OTT series ‘Jackson’ helmed by Lucknowite Saurabh Tewari, started at Purana Quila locality on Tuesday. “The entire series is based in Lucknow with the city being a pivotal part of the show. The story-line has administration playing a special role along with flavours of the nawabi city in the backdrop,” said the maker of shows like ‘Madhubala,’ ‘Rangrasiya,’ and ‘Zindagi Ek Mehek.’ From the current location they will move to Clock Tower, Ravindralaya, Lucknow University and other sites. Anud Singh Dhaka, who was last seen as Angad in ‘Taj Mahal 1989,’ plays Jackson in the series. Paired opposite him is ‘Beyhadh-2’ actor Kangan Baruah Nangia. The ensemble cast includes Neeraj Sood, Alka Amin, Anil Dhawan, Deep Raj Rana, Daya Shankar Pandey and Flora Saini, shared Saurabh. This is his third venture as a director after web-series ‘Chinese Bhasad’ (also shot in Lucknow) and daily soap ‘Krishna Chali London.’ “It’s a romantic thriller for a prominent platform. As of now, we are not allowed to talk much about the story line that I have conceptualised and written along with my team of writers. The series is being produced by my company where as I’m directing it too,” said Saurabh. The mahurat shot was done with Anud, Neeraj Sood and Alka Amin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow-plays-a-character-in-this-ott-series-says-saurabh-tewari/story-Nr1FroQVllA63CCvsGoUNM.html
15-09-2020||India||‘Sholay style’: Uttarakhand councillor climbs overhead tank, demands waiver of school fee amid pandemic||A councillor in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani, who had been protesting for over 40 days demanding a complete waiver of school fee during the pandemic, climbed an overhead tank on Tuesday while intensifying his protest. The councillor climbed an overhead tank at Jal Sansthan in Haldwani, Nainital district. When the news spread, local MLA and Uttarakhand leader of the Opposition Indira Hridayesh reached the spot, urging the councillor to climb down. After he was assured by Hridayesh that the matter will be raised with the state government, the councillor climbed down but was stung by a swarm of bees. Rohit Kumar, the protesting councillor said, “We have been protesting for over a month now and no one from the state government has come to speak to us. Today, I climbed the overhead tank, risking my life demanding a complete waiver of fee collected by schools during the lockdown period, we did not hear anything from the government.” “The leader of Opposition has assured me that she will raise the issue in the upcoming assembly session, which is why we are temporarily cancelling the protest but will continue again if the government takes no action,” added Kumar. Also read: India sheds reluctance in engaging Taliban at the Doha intra-Afghan talksSpeaking on the protest, Savin Bansal, district magistrate, Nainital, said, “As per the state government’s norms, only tuition fee is to be charged by schools. This is no policy decision to waive off fee. It is difficult to do something like this as the private schools also need some money to function.” Meanwhile, investigating the matter of extra fee being collected by some private schools following complaints from parents, the Nainital district education department has sent notices to twelve of forty schools that were being probed in the matter. “We have now sent notices to these schools after listening to the complaints lodged by parents with the district administration. The schools have been asked to inform why they have charged extra fee apart from the collection of only tuition fee as per the norms of the state government. After the schools give us a reply, we will accordingly decide whether the schools should be penalised or stricter action should be taken,” added Bansal. On June 23, the state government had ordered that private schools imparting education through online classes or other communication modes during the lockdown period will be allowed to charge only the tuition fee. The schools cannot charge any other fee from parents. “However, if a school is teaching extra subjects through online mode of teaching, then a fee for such courses, based on a previously set fee, can be charged above the tuition fee,” the order stated. The order further stated, “If certain parents despite taking the benefit of online education are not able to pay the fee then they shall write to the school principal or the school’s managing committee, explaining why they are unable to pay the fee and seek extension for paying the fee. In such a situation, the school management will allow the parent to pay the fee in the extended time period, but in any condition whatsoever, the student will not be removed from the school.” (With inputs from Ankur Sharma in Haldwani)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sholay-style-uttarakhand-councillor-climbs-overhead-tank-demands-waiver-of-school-fee-amid-pandemic/story-8OOmX3Aqh50m63zNa3dXwM.html
15-09-2020||India||‘$1 trillion economy, herculean task’: UP govt tells to-be-consultant in revised RFP||The Uttar Pradesh government has come out with a revised Request for Proposal (RFP) for selection of a consultant to accomplish the ‘Herculean task’ of boosting the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to $1 trillion in the next five years. “The task demands some giant steps. It needs some well-thought-out and long-term strategies on a sustained basis. This would also require organisational restructuring, focused policies and rules for more effective governance, faster decision-making process and improved accountability,” read the RFP document while spelling out the task to the to-be-consultant. A new timeline, given along with the revised RFP, asks bidders to submit their e-bids by October 9. The e-bids will be opened by October 12 and the selected consultant will, thereafter, be required to submit a report in 90 days, outlining a roadmap to make UP a trillion-dollar economy. “Changes have been made in the revised RFP. Some changes have been made in evaluation criteria, while 30-day time, instead of 21 days, has been allowed for submission of bids. Earnest money deposit can be made by RTGS now,” said a functionary of the state planning department. Also read: Any serious situation along LAC will impact India-China bilateral ties - Rajnath SinghGiving the background about the state’s economy, the RFP stated, “The state has already embarked upon the journey of growth and prosperity. Resultantly, in 2018-19, the GSDP has already touched Rs 15.80 lakh crore ($230 billion) with a rich growth rate of 7 percent over the previous year. However, it would be a challenging task to boost the size of the GSDP by nearly five times to reach the target of $1 trillion in five years (2020-2025), discounting for dollar fluctuations and global trends. It enhances the challenge and would require sustained and aggressive efforts at the state level.” As the state has not been able to witness a double-digit growth despite consistent attempts, making the state a trillion-dollar economy would prove to be a major challenge. “The state government has set an ambitious target of making UP a trillion-dollar economy. The RFP itself calls the move a herculean task. So, the government will have to make ‘Bhagirath’ (gigantic) efforts as the Covid-19 is bound to lead to contraction of the GSDP in 2020-2021. The government will effectively have four-and-a-half years to complete the task. Advance estimates for 2019-2020 indicate the GSDP of about Rs 17.94 lakh crore. After contracting of the GSDP in 2020-2021, the state will need a growth rate of about 45 percent per annum at current prices in the next four years,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor, economics department, Lucknow University. “UP’s ability to attract investment proposals worth Rs 4.68 lakh crore in the Investors Summit in 2018 and recent jump to second position in the ‘ease of doing business’ gives hope that even the ‘Herculean task’ can be accomplished substantially, if not wholly,” added Tyagi. Last year, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had given a call to accept the challenge of making the state a trillion-dollar economy in the next five years. But there was no Covid-19 when Yogi made the statement.“If we keep on moving at the present pace, it will take 12 to 15 years to make the state a trillion-dollar economy. We will have to move faster,” said Yogi while speaking on his government’s first supplementary budget for 2019-2020 in the state assembly on July 24, 2019.” “To make UP a trillion-dollar economy the state will have to make progress in every sector and set a target to attract investment of Rs 70 lakh crore to 100 lakh crore. This may be a big target. But it is not impossible,” he had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-trillion-economy-herculean-task-up-govt-tells-to-be-consultant-in-revised-rfp/story-A4MV4noDkAgTkR4Nk8OYHM.html
15-09-2020||India||‘Don’t be afraid to name China’: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe after Rajnath Singh’s LAC statement||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday reiterated his questions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the border standoff with China soon after defence minister Rajnath Singh’s statement in Parliament on the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“It is clear from the statement of the defence minister that Modi ji misled the country on Chinese encroachment. Our country has always stood with and will remain with the Indian Army,” Gandhi tweeted.“But Modiji, when will you stand against China? When will we take back our country’s land from China? Do not be afraid to name China,” the former Congress president added. रक्षामंत्री के बयान से साफ़ है कि मोदी जी ने देश को चीनी अतिक्रमण पर गुमराह किया।हमारा देश हमेशा से भारतीय सेना के साथ खड़ा था, है और रहेगा।लेकिन मोदी जी,आप कब चीन के ख़िलाफ़ खड़े होंगे?चीन से हमारे देश की ज़मीन कब वापस लेंगे?चीन का नाम लेने से डरो मत।Singh had said in the Lok Sabha that India is committed to a peaceful resolution to the border stand-off with China and India and China have not arrived at a mutually acceptable solution until now. He said Indian forces are determined to protect the country’s security and sovereignty and inflicted heavy casualties on Chinese forces when they clashed with them in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15.The defence minister said the violent conduct by the Chinese along the LAC have been in violation of all bilateral agreements including those signed in 1993 and 1996. “China is not honouring the customary alignment of the boundary with India. The alignment has not only been defined by treaties but has been maintained historically.”Also read | What Rajnath Singh said in Lok SabhaMembers of the Congress party were not allowed to speak on the issue as Lok Sabha chairperson Om Birla referred to House rules. Congress’ Adhir Ranjan Chaudhary and Gaurav Gogoi said that they too have the right to speak. Congress members then walked out of the House in protest after being denied permission to speak.The Congress leader has repeatedly targeted Modi and his government over Chinese transgressions and said Prime Minister Modi isn’t being transparent on the issue. His party has been demanding that status quo ante should be restored at the LAC and Chinese troops be pushed to their side.Before Tuesday, Gandhi had questioned the government on the issue of Chinese aggression on September 11. “The Chinese have taken our land. When exactly is GOI planning to get it back? Or is that also going to be left to an Act of God?” the former Congress president had asked on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-be-afraid-to-name-china-rahul-gandhi-s-jibe-after-rajnath-singh-s-lac-statement/story-sEhiUNEMP0pQxHauAblG0O.html
15-09-2020||India||3 vaccines at clinical trial stage in India, SII to begin Phase 3 trial soon: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday three vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are in the clinical stage of trials in India and one of them will soon begin Phase 3 trials after getting clearances. Covid-19 vaccine candidates being manufactured by Cadila Healthcare and Bharat Biotech have completed the first phase of the trial while the Serum Institute of India (SII) will begin with Phase 3 trial after getting the nod, Balram Bhargava, ICMR’s director general, said during the health ministry’s briefing.Watch | Covid: 3 vaccines at clinical trial stage in India; SII’s phase 3 trial soon The Pune-based Serum Institute will conduct the Phase 3 trial on 1,500 volunteers across 14 locations, Bhargava added.Also read: Scientists predict that Covid-19 will become a seasonal virus, but not yetICMR’s statement comes a day after SII said that there won’t be enough vaccines to immunize everyone in the world by 2024. “It’s going to take four to five years until everyone gets the vaccine on this planet,” Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of Serum Institute of India, had told the Financial Times.Earlier in the day, minister of state for health Ashwini Choubey had informed the Lok Sabha that Phase II clinical trials of Bharat Biotech and Cadila Healthcare are underway. He also informed the House that discussions on collaborations on the recombinant vaccine developed by Russia are ongoing. However, no formal studies have been initiated.On SII and ICMR’s partnership for the clinical development of two global vaccine candidates, Choubey said, the first is ChAdOx1-S, a non-replicating viral vector vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca. This vaccine is undergoing Phase 3 clinical trials in Brazil. He added that Phase 2/3 bridging studies have been initiated by ICMR at 14 clinical trial sites. The ICMR-National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai is the lead institution.Also read: Only 4 states have more than 50,000 Covid-19 case, says health ministryHe also told the lower house of Parliament that the trial of the second vaccine candidate being clinically developed by ICMR and SII will begin in the second half of October after the vaccine by Novavax from the US is manufactured by the Pune-based company. The trial is led by ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), Pune, he said.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had last week said that a vaccine might be ready by the first quarter of 2021. India’s Covid-19 tally is set to approach the grim milestone of five million cases while the toll from the viral disease has surged past 80,000.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-vaccines-at-clinical-trial-stage-in-india-sii-to-begin-phase-3-trial-soon-icmr/story-IKlwBPvnWYivP5GIZvQOmL.html
15-09-2020||India||Jheeram Ghati attack: Chhattisgarh HC stays investigation into fresh FIR by state police||The Chhattisgarh High Court has stayed investigation into a fresh case lodged in May this year by the state police in connection with the 2013 Jheeram Ghati Maoists attack. As many as 27 people, including senior Congress leaders, were killed in the attack. The HC also sought answers from the state government within four weeks, as per the NIA’s counsel B Gopa Kumar. A division bench of Justice Prashant Mishra and Justice Gautam Chourdiya gave the interim order on Monday after virtually hearing a criminal appeal filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Kumar told Hindustan Times Chhattisgarh’s Deputy Advocate General Chandresh Shrivastav represented the state government. Also read: ‘Disservice to nation’ - Supreme Court on Sudarshan TV’s ‘UPSC Jihad’ show“The whole investigation was conducted by the NIA but a fresh FIR was registered by the state government in May which cannot be done as per the law. Hence, the NIA first went to local session court in Jagdapur which was rejected the a and a week ago we appealed before the HC,” said Kumar. The counsel further said that the NIA argued the matter and then the court stayed the FIR and other proceedings. “Now, the state government cannot act upon the FIR. After staying the FIR, the court sought a reply from the state government within four weeks and final arguments will be after the reply,” Kumar added. Notably, in 2013, twenty-seven people, including senior Congress leaders Nand Kumar Patel, Mahendra Karma, Dinesh Patel and VC Shukla, were killed in an attack allegedly carried out by a group of 150 Maoists. On May 26, 2013, the NIA registered a case on this attack and started investigating the case. Recently, on May 25, 2020, Jitendra Mudaliyar, son of Congress leader Uday Mudaliyar, who was also killed in Darbha Valley attack (also referred to as the Jheeram Valley attack), registered an FIR in Bastar district concerning the attack on the Congress convoy. The NIA moved an application on June 16 in Jagdalpur NIA court seeking handing over of the case registered by Mudaliyar to the NIA for further investigation but it was rejected in August. The NIA then moved to the HC, appealing that the FIR should either be transferred to them or be quashed as two FIRs cannot be registered on the same crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jheeram-ghati-attack-chhattisgarh-hc-stays-investigation-into-fresh-fir-by-state-police/story-6pqNP7dQpVPgccJc5k0V8J.html
15-09-2020||India||NCB probing link between Bollywood and drugs traffickers: MHA in Parliament||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in Parliament on Tuesday that it hasn’t come across any actionable intelligence which suggests that there is a nexus between Bollywood celebrities and drug traffickers.However, it said, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is investigating a case in this regard.The anti-drugs investigation agency had on August 28 registered a second case, an offshoot of the probe against actor Rhea Chakraborty, to investigate a link between various persons in Mumbai in the supply of drugs.The agency has already arrested 10 people in this particular case, mainly drug suppliers and conduits. Based on a reference from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), NCB had filed a case against Rhea and her family members on August 26. She was arrested on September 8 and is currently in judicial custody.“During the period of Covid-19 lockdown, no such actionable inputs were received by NCB revealing the nexus between people in the film industry and drug traffickers. However, a case in this regard has been registered by NCB Mumbai Zonal unit on 28.08.2020,” said Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy in a written reply in the Lok Sabha.“Drugs such as Ganja, Hashish, Tetra Hydro Cannabinol and Lysergic acid De-ethylamide have been seized in the operation,” MHA said. The ministry was responding to a query from Kumbakudi Sudhakaran, a Congress lawmaker from Kerala, who asked if the government had conducted a detailed enquiry in the nexus between people in the film industry and those involved in drug trade during Covid-19.The NCB comes under the Union home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-probing-link-between-bollywood-and-drugs-traffickers-mha-in-parliament/story-iRqSMdgJG7AjcpzDB5wYWL.html
15-09-2020||India||Aurobindo Pharma ties up with BIRAC to develop Covid-19 vaccine||Aurobindo Pharma on Tuesday announced collaboration with the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), set up by the Department of Biotechnology for the development of COVID-19 vaccine.BIRAC has facilitated the establishment of ‘the r-VSV vaccine’ manufacturing platform for the first time in India by supporting Aurobindo Pharma’s COVID-19 vaccine development, the company said in a regulatory filing.Aurobindo Pharma said it is developing a vaccine for COVID-19 through its wholly-owned US subsidiary, Auro Vaccines. The vaccine candidate is based on a proprietary vaccine delivery platform of the company.“Aurobindo is in the process of setting up a state-of-art manufacturing facility for viral vaccines which will be used to produce the COVID-19 vaccine and other viral vaccines. The plant will comply with global standards. The company’s COVID-19 vaccine development is going as per plan,” the filing added.Commenting on the collaboration, Aurobindo Pharma Managing Director N Govindarajan said, ”It is a matter of immense pride that BIRAC has placed its trust on our vaccine capabilities. The senior leadership of Aurobindo and Auro Vaccines has extensive experience in development, production and commercialization of several vaccines.” Department of Biotechnology Secretary and BIRAC Chairperson Renu Swarup said the partnership with Aurobindo is to serve the country’s need for a vaccine to fight this pandemic. “The government is focussed on creating an ecosystem that nurtures and encourages new product innovation to address the most relevant issues to our society,” Swarup added.Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute, Zydus Cadila, Panacea Biotec, Indian Immunologicals, Mynvax and Biological E are among the pharma firms in India working on the coronavirus vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aurobindo-pharma-ties-up-with-birac-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine/story-pd9IvoeagYVLGR8xdjOFbM.html
15-09-2020||India||India, UK working on roadmap to strengthen strategic partnership, says foreign secretary Shringla||As India and the UK work on a comprehensive roadmap to strengthen their strategic partnership in the next decade, the development of Covid-19 vaccines is a crucial area with potential, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Tuesday. Besides partnering India for improving and augmenting healthcare systems, the UK can take advantage of the country’s economic reforms and Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative to forge new supply and value chains, Shringla said in his address to the inaugural session of the annual UK conference organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). “Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Boris Johnson are committed to further strengthen our strategic partnership in the next decade, and a comprehensive roadmap for this is being formulated. While we undertake this exercise...both our countries are in a unique position to forge a truly global partnership and should not miss this opportunity,” he said. Referring to work being done by the Serum Institute of India with Oxford University and AstraZeneca on a Covid-19 vaccine, he described the development of vaccines as a “crucial area where there is potential for collaboration”. Just as India’s pharmaceutical sector played a key role in meeting global demand for medicines during the pandemic, the companies of the two countries can work on developing an affordable and accessible vaccine for Covid-19, he added. “The issue of secure and reliable supply chains has also gained increased salience in the current global context. It is important to design supply chains which have greater resilience to major disruptions like the current pandemic,” Shringla said. By increasing its domestic capacities, India can contribute to making global supply chains more resilient by mitigating disruptions, he said. The Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative for self-reliance needs to be seen in this context as it is “not about seeking self-centred arrangements or economic isolationism”, he said. “It aims to ensure India’s position as a key participant in global supply chains,” Shringla added. The pandemic led to the acceleration of reforms with the launch of the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, whereby India rolled out a stimulus package of $270 billion, or close to 10% of the GDP. This ensured that India received more than $20 billion of foreign direct investment (FDI) in 2020, he said. “While the global FDI declined by 1% in 2019, FDI into India rose by 20% in the same period. Several global technology majors have announced major investments in India. Google is investing $10 billion, Facebook $5 billion and Mubadala, the UAE Sovereign Wealth Fund, $1.2 billion,” he said. Pointing to the complementary nature of the Indian and British economies, Shringla said the UK is strong in research and innovation while India offers scale and affordability. “I would invite British companies to take advantage of the economic opportunities opened up by the reforms currently underway in India,” he added. India emerged the second largest source of FDI for the UK in 2019. Around 850 Indian companies in the UK employ more than 100,000 people and bilateral trade touched £24 billion last year. The UK is the sixth largest investor in India, with investments totalling $28.21 billion till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-working-on-roadmap-to-strengthen-strategic-partnership-says-foreign-secretary-shringla/story-E26BKv3tIKp2JhzznOfO0O.html
15-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: Aircraft (Amendment) Bill passed by Rajya Sabha||The Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020, that seeks to impose a penalty of up to Rs 1 crore for lapses and violation of airline rules and regulations, was passed by the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The Bill seeks to amend the Aircraft Act, 1934 that regulates the manufacture, possession, use, operation, sale, import and export of civil aircraft, and licensing of aerodromes. It also seeks to converts three existing bodies—the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), and the Aircraft Accidents Investigation Bureau (AAIB), under the Ministry of Civil Aviation into statutory bodies. As per the provisions on the Bill, a violation can be punished with up to two years in jail or a fine of up to Rs 10 lakh, or both. Carrying arms, ammunition, and explosives or other banned goods on board, and illegal construction around airports will attract fines up to Rs 10 lakh to Rs 1 crore. Also Read: Air tickets booked before Covid-19 lockdown may be refundedSpeaking in the House, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said India is the third largest market globally after the United States and China, and is growing rapidly in the aviation sector. At present, there are around 661 aircraft in the sky and the next five years, there will be 1,200. He said airports in the country had handled nearly 300,000 passengers a day before the pandemic and the numbers are steadily inching towards the half-way mark. He also pointed out that by 2024, nearly 100 new airports will be added to the existing number. During discussion on the Bill, several MPs appreciated the role of Air India in bringing back Indians stranded abroad during the nationwide lockdown and expressed concerns over the Union government’s bid to sell the public carrier. Also Read: ‘Soaring higher’: Aviation minister says domestic flight operations picking upCongress’ KC Venugopal raised the issue of privatisation of airports and alleged that several norms were violated in giving airports to a single private entity, the Adani Group. The Congress MP said there is a clear shortage of air traffic controllers, raising the issue of near-misses. His charge was later denied by Puri, who asserted that the vacancies have nearly been filled and the recruitment process had been delayed due to the pandemic. The minister said privatisation of Delhi and Mumbai airports, that together account for 33% of the air traffic, has resulted in the airports authority receiving about Rs 29,000 crore, which is now being used for the development of other airports. On the issue of privatisation of Air India, the minister said the carrier is saddled with heavy losses. “…If we could help it, we would keep it with us, but with a Rs 60,000 crore debt, the choice is not between privatisation and non-privatisation. Some of my colleagues must realise that the choice is between privatisation and closing down. We are confident that the airline, in running condition, doing extremely well, will be given to its new owner in order for Air India and its flag to be kept flying,” Puri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-aircraft-amendment-bill-passed-by-rajya-sabha/story-xPoUarX7ZjxMkIGv0mBOCL.html
15-09-2020||India||BJP MLA rape case: Uttarakhand child rights body summons woman on ‘illegal DNA test of daughter’||In a fresh development in the ongoing probe of the rape and extortion case involving Uttarakhand BJP MLA Mahesh Singh Negi, the Uttarakhand Commission for Protection of Child Rights (UCPCR) has summoned the complainant woman for allegedly undertaking an illegal DNA test of her 3-month-old daughter who she claims is the biological daughter of MLA Negi. The summon was served by the UCPCR on Monday in which it asked the woman and her husband to appear before it to present her side on the allegations of illegally undertaking the DNA test of the child, i.e. without any directions of the court. The summon was served on an application given by former chairman of Bar Council of Uttarakhand Hari Singh Negi to the body alleging the woman and her husband on the same. HT has a copy of the summon served. In the summon, the UCPCR stated that in the aforementioned matter, “the Commission is summoning you in pursuance of its powers under the provision of section 14(i) of the Commission for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005. The Commission has the powers to monitor the implementation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, RTE Act and POCSO Act”. “Now therefore in the above matter, you are hereby required (personally) to appear before this Commission at 2.30 pm on September 19 at Commission headquarters. If you fail to comply with this order without lawful excuse, you will be subject to the consequences of disobedience under Code of Civil Procedure, 1908,” stated the summon. Also read: AAP propped by BJP-RSS to bring down UPA government - Rahul GandhiThe development comes days after the Commission wrote to the investigation officer of the extortion and blackmailing case against the woman, for probing the claims of the woman on undertaking the DNA test of her daughter and husband at a hospital in Uttar Pradesh where she had delivered the child. In that matter, the Commission, while citing the police’s reply, stated that “no such DNA test was held in that hospital as per the woman’s claims”. The woman had then refuted the claims of the Commission and said that she had got the DNA test done at a laboratory in Delhi. The woman’s counsel SP Singh, meanwhile, said that “The summon is yet to be received by them. Once we get it and study it, then only we can comment on it,” said Singh. Meanwhile, the Dehradun police’s Special Investigation Squad (SIS) conducted the medical examination of the woman on Monday in the investigation of the rape case registered against MLA Negi. Arun Mohan Joshi, Senior Superintendent of Police, Dehradun, said “The medical examination was conducted as per the legal procedure. She would also soon record her statements before the court in the investigation.” Many developments have taken place since August when the matter first came to light. Negi’s wife and one of the accused in the rape case, Rita Negi, had lodged a complaint against the woman accusing her of blackmailing and trying to extort Rs 5 crore. Based on the complaint, the police booked the woman along with her husband, mother and sister-in-law. A few days later, the woman lodged a complaint against MLA Negi, accusing him of raping her for the last two years and fathering her child. She also demanded a DNA test of her child and Negi to prove her claims. A case was registered later on the directions of a local court in Dehradun where she had filed a petition, demanding the case to be registered against Negi. The police had refused to do so saying “the complaint will be included in the ongoing probe of the extortion case as it pertains to the same matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-rape-case-uttarakhand-child-rights-body-summons-woman-on-illegal-dna-test-of-daughter/story-ah40cfmBp2ZcMHOjFqO3EM.html
15-09-2020||India||Only 4 states have more than 50,000 Covid-19 case, says health ministry||Fourteen states and Union territories have less than 5,000 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and there are only four states which have more than 50,000 infections, the government said on Tuesday as the country’s tally went past 4.9 million.India’s Covid-19 tally surged to 4,930,236 on Tuesday after 83,809 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. The country also recorded 1,054 new fatalities due to the viral disease during the same period, taking its death toll to 80,776.There are 990,061 active cases and 38,59,399 patients have been discharged, the health ministry data showed.“There are 14 states and Union territories in India where the total number of active cases are less than 5,000. There are 18 states and Union territories where total active cases are between 5,000-50,000,” Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary, said during a press conference.Also read | ‘Herd immunity can’t end the pandemic…a vaccine is critical’: Bill GatesThe senior official added there are only four states, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, in the country where the total number of active cases is more than 50,000.Bhushan also said the country’s average positivity rate is 8.4% and that Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, has 21.4%. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, he said account for 60% of total active cases in the country.Also read | How different masks stop the virusHe also said that Maharashtra leads with daily average deaths in top five states adding to India’s caseload. In India, cases per million population are 3,573 as compared to the world average of 3,704 cases per million population, he added.Bhushan said India’s cases per million population is amongst the lowest in the world, which stands at 3,573 for India and 3,704 for the world. More than 3.85 million Covid-19 patients have recovered, which Bhushan said is one of the highest number of recoveries in the world. Deaths per million population in India are 58 against the global average of 118, amongst the lowest in the world, the Union health secretary said.India is the second worst affected country by the coronavirus disease in the world after the United States and is followed by Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-4-states-have-more-than-50-000-covid-19-case-says-health-ministry/story-D0uCrhumBDJtBOfklVcuNL.html
15-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre may release 500 MT onions in select cities to check price and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Centre may release 500 MT onions in select cities to check priceThe government plans to release 500 metric tonnes (MT) of onions from its buffer stock to select cities that are facing up to 50% increase in the commodity’s rates and also planning more measures to tame its price during the upcoming festive months of October and November, three officials familiar of the matter said. Read more Any serious situation along LAC will impact India-China bilateral ties: Rajnath SinghDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday warned that any serious situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is bound to impact the bilateral relations between India and China. Read moreBiting hands that feed: Jaya Bachchan hits out at Kangana, Ravi KishanRajya Sabha member and veteran actor Jaya Bachchan on Tuesday slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ravi Kishan and Kangana Ranaut for what she said were attempts to defame the film industry. Read more AAP propped by BJP-RSS to bring down UPA government: Rahul GandhiFormer Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the India Against Corruption (IAC) movement and blamed them as a proxy for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ideological mentor, Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), in their bid to “subvert democracy” and bring down the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government. Read more Gautam Gambhir explains why Mumbai Indians have ‘upper hand’ against Chennai Super Kings Former India cricketer Gautam Gambhir believes that it will be Mumbai Indians who may have the upper hand going into the first game against CSK. Read more Sonam Kapoor, Anurag Kashyap, Zoya Akhtar sign open letter blasting media’s ‘witch hunt’ of Rhea ChakrabortyOver 2500 people, including Bollywood celebrities such as Sonam Kapoor, Anurag Kashyap and Zoya Akhtar, have signed an open letter condemning the media’s ‘witch hunt’ of actor Rhea Chakraborty in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Read more We are committed to Indian market: Toyota after plans to halt India expansionToyota Kirloskar Motor has blamed high taxes in India for its plans to stop expansion in the country but has also underlined that it remains committed to the market here and that India remains an ‘integral part’ of its global strategy. Read more Redmi 9i with 4GB RAM launched in India, price starts at ₹8,299Xiaomi on Tuesday announced the launch of a new budget smartphone in India. With price starting at Rs8,299, the new Redmi 9i will be available on September 18 via Flipkart, mi.com, Mi Home, and offline retail partners. Read more IPS officer asks if you can identify this ‘Wonder Woman of India’. Can you guess?IPS officer Dipanshu Kabra shared two black and white images on his official Twitter account on September 15. Check out the post to see if you can identify the person shown in snapshots. Read more Watch: INS Talwar undertakes refueling with US Navy tanker in Arabian SeaIndian warship INS Talwar undertook refueling with US Navy tanker USNS Yukon in Northern Arabian Sea. It was done under the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA). Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-may-release-500-mt-onions-in-select-cities-to-check-price-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mNLwIsKrArFM6ffEOdAtSP.html
15-09-2020||India||Pak parliament extends ordinance enabling Kulbhushan Jadhav to appeal conviction||Pakistan’s parliament has extended by four months an ordinance that enables Indian death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav to appeal his conviction in a high court, in accordance with a ruling of the International Court of Justice.The International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance, issued in May, was set to expire on September 17. It allows Jadhav, sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court over alleged espionage, to file an appeal against his conviction in the Islamabad high court.In August, the court had directed the government to inform India to appoint a lawyer for the former Indian Navy officer in order to file a review petition. The court on September 3 heard the case for the second time, and directed the government to give India “another opportunity” to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav. The case will now be heard in October.The direction came after the Attorney General for Pakistan Khalid Javed Khan informed the high court’s larger bench comprising Chief Justice Athar Minallah, justices Aamer Farooq and Miangul Hassan Aurangzaib, that the Pakistan government had not yet received a reply from India on the matter.He said Jadhav had maintained that he does not want to take the benefit of the ordinance for an effective review of the case, and requested that his mercy plea, already pending before the Pakistan Army chief, be considered instead.He added that despite the passage of a month since the high court directed the government to offer another chance of legal representation to New Delhi, no reply had been received.On August 6, the court formed a three-member larger bench at the government’s request to appoint a lawyer for Jadhav for his appeal against the death penalty.A special bench headed by Chief Justice Athar Minallah and Justice Miangul Hassan Aurangzeb had directed the Registrar’s Office to form a larger bench in a written order. The court had also directed the government to make another offer to India and Jadhav through the foreign office to hire a lawyer.The court said in its order that it was refraining from appointing a lawyer for Jadhav. It added that the government of Pakistan should inform Jadhav about his rights under Article 36 of the Vienna Convention.The court further observed that Jadhav be informed about the decision of the ICJ, adding that he be made aware of his rights under the ordinance. Pakistan should also inform India of this court order, it added.Jadhav was arrested on March 3, 2016 in Balochistan on charges of espionage, and condemned to death by a military court the following year.On July 16, Pakistan provided consular access to Jadhav, but the Indian government said the access was “neither meaningful nor credible” and he appeared visibly under stress. The Ministry of External Affairs said Pakistan is not only in violation of the judgment of ICJ, which called for an effective review and reconsideration of the conviction and sentencing of Jadhav, but also of its own ordinance.Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said that Pakistan systematically blocked all of India’s attempts to seek remedies for Jadhav. India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence.The Hague-based court ruled last July that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-parliament-extends-ordinance-enabling-kulbhushan-jadhav-to-appeal-conviction/story-s4Z1q7MJJpiXVbEcCbUocP.html
15-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM to write to Gadkari highlighting importance of wider Char Dham roads||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will soon write to Union minister for road and transport Nitin Gadkari explaining the importance of wider roads in the Char Dham road project from a strategic point of view and better connectivity to border areas, informed officials. Char Dham highway project, or the all-weather road, aims to connect the four shrines of the state - Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri - through an 826 kilometre-long road. Darshan Singh Rawat, media coordinator for chief minister Rawat said, “The chief minister will be personally writing to the Centre on the matter of Char Dham road. At present, we have sought documents presented to the Supreme Court last week. The order copy of the apex court will also be studied and then the chief minister will write to the Union minister for road and transport on this matter.” Also read: Facebook objects to Delhi assembly notice on alleged inaction in hate speech cases“In the letter, the chief minister will share with the Union minister details of why the Char Dham road is important from a strategic point of view and improving connectivity to border areas,” added the CM’s media coordinator. Last Tuesday, the Supreme Court had ordered that the ministry of road transport and highway’s (MoRTH) circular of 2018 has to be followed. The MoRTH circular says that the road in the hilly and mountain terrains are to be built with 5.5 m width (18 ft) with two-lane structures (23 ft). This is for a passenger car unit for up to 8000 cars. A MoRTH circular issued on March 23, 2018, with the subject “Standards for Lane width of national highways and roads developed under Central Sector Schemes in Hilly and Mountainous terrains”, mentions that a 2012 letter of the ministry states that the width of the carriageway shall be at least two-lane with paved shoulders irrespective of the traffic thereon in new projects undertaken for widening of carriageway/ bypasses/ realignments. Also read: ‘Disservice to nation’: Supreme Court on Sudarshan TV’s ‘UPSC Jihad’ show“However, challenges have come to the fore in adhering to these standards in the context of National Highways and roads in hilly and mountainous terrains. These challenges arise on account of destabilisation of hill slopes and progressive damaging effects on road alignments and structures in higher contours on hills due to excavation works, the requirement for large-scale felling of precious trees, associated environmental damages…” states the March 2018 circular. The circular further states that the ministry’s 2012 order has been reviewed and with the approval of the competent authority, and the following provisions would be applicable until further orders. The provisions included, “The carriageway width shall be of intermediate lane configurations, i.e. of 5.5 m width with two-lane structures. The passing places may have widths of 2.5 m and 12 m length and these may be provided on alternate sides of the road. The length of the tapered section maybe 6 m on either side of their approaches. Accordingly, the length of the passing places maybe 24 m inclusive of the tapered length…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-to-write-to-gadkari-highlighting-importance-of-wider-char-dham-roads/story-6n7smr0QDaAI15PqdCeBdM.html
15-09-2020||India||China’s attempt to unilaterally alter status quo not acceptable: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said India is committed to a peaceful resolution of the current border stand-off with China in Ladakh but any attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo by the neighbouring country is unacceptable. Making a statement in Lok Sabha, Singh also said the Indian Army has inflicted heavy costs including casualties on the Chinese side during the clash with the PLA at the Galwan valley on June 15.The defence minister said since April, buildup of troops and armaments by the Chinese side has been witnessed in the border areas adjacent to eastern Ladakh.He said in early May, the Chinese side had taken action to hinder the normal, traditional patrolling pattern of Indian troops in the Galwan Valley area, which resulted in a face-off.Singh said even as this situation was being addressed by the ground commanders as per the provisions of the bilateral agreements and protocol, in mid-May the Chinese side made several attempts to transgress the LAC in other parts of the Western Sector. “This included Kongka La, Gogra and North Bank of Pangong Lake. These attempts were detected early and consequently responded to appropriately by our armed forces. “We made it clear to the Chinese side both through diplomatic and military channels that China was, by such actions, attempting to unilaterally alter the status quo. It was categorically conveyed that this was unacceptable,” he said. After Singh’s statement, the Congress wanted to raise certain issues which was not allowed by Speaker Om Birla. Unhappy with this, Congress walked out of the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-attempt-to-unilaterally-alter-status-quo-not-acceptable-rajnath-singh/story-AwIBOlCf18mwlSnfLyWseO.html
15-09-2020||India||Centre may release 500 MT onions in select cities to check price||The government plans to release 500 metric tonnes (MT) of onions from its buffer stock to select cities that are facing up to 50% increase in the commodity’s rates and also planning more measures to tame its price during the upcoming festive months of October and November, three officials familiar of the matter said.The proposal is under consideration by the competent authority, the officials said requesting anonymity. The identified select places are located in the north-east region and Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) along with cities such as Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Pune and Indore, they said.The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) on Monday banned export of onions by putting the commodity under the “prohibited” list with immediate effect, which HT has reported. One of the officials said: “An inter-ministerial group has proposed to release 500 MT of buffer stocks of onion, which are approaching their end of shelf life. The supply will be meant for select cities that are experiencing the highest prices of the commodity.”However, the officials said the price rise is not uniform across the country. The retail price of the commodity jumped 33% to Rs 40 a kilogram (kg) in Delhi this week.“One of the reasons for a spike in onion prices is a surge in exports. In August, there had been steep increase in the export quantity. About 3 lakh MT of onion was exported in August, as compared to 1.26 lakh MT during the same period last year,” a second official. The price rise could be steeper in October and November, he added .“The move is to signal to the market about the government’s intervention to keep onion prices in check,” the official said. Onion prices in mandis have reported up to a 200% jump in September, as compared to 154% in August, the official added.The government is also concerned about the shortage of onion seeds in the rabi season, a third person said. “Among the five major onion-producing states, Maharashtra is experiencing a shortage of onion seeds to the tune of 505 MT,” he said.“There could be an overall 10% shortage of onion seeds for the ensuing rabi season in the country. However, in Maharashtra alone, the shortage is 30%. Nashik is facing the maximum shortfall of onion seeds,” he added.Plans are afoot to procure 200 MT of onion seeds from Gujarat and other parts of Maharashtra for supply to Nashik. Onion seeds could be imported from those countries that grow the commodity in abundance, he added. The sowing of onion will start from the last week of October.The export of onion was also banned last September due to supply constraints. The commodity’s price had soared to Rs 80 a kg last December in the national capital. However, the government had lifted the export ban on March 15 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-release-500-mt-onions-in-select-cities-to-check-price/story-tBAtTTsRYoTuYRYaXYqjCP.html
15-09-2020||India||Any serious situation along LAC will impact India-China bilateral ties: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday warned that any serious situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is bound to impact the bilateral relations between India and China. Speaking in the Lok Sabha, Singh said that during a meeting with his Chinese counterpart, he has conveyed that Indian troops have always taken a responsible approach towards border management, but at the same time “there should be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”The defence minister further said that the Chinese military had started increasing its presence in the region since April and was creating obstructions in the Indian forces’ patrolling. China’s People’ Liberation Army (PLA) made attempts to transgress LAC in May, their attempts were spotted and foiled in time by the Indian army, Singh said in the lower house of the Parliament. He added that during the Galwan clash on June 15 in which 20 soldiers sacrificed their lives, the army inflicted heavy casualties on Chinese forces. India and China have decided to resolve the issue peacefully as it is a “complex one” with both countries having different perceptions about the LAC, the minister said. “There are many agreements and protocols between both the countries to maintain peace and tranquillity on the border,” he added. Singh, however, said that violent conduct of Chinese troops is a violation of all past agreements and our troops have done counter deployments in the area to safeguard borders. “China continues to be in illegal occupation of approximately 38,000 sq kms in Ladakh. In addition, under the so-called Sino-Pakistan ‘Boundary Agreement’ of 1963, Pakistan illegally ceded 5,180 sq km of Indian territory in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir to China,” the defence minister told the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/any-serious-situation-along-lac-will-impact-india-china-bilateral-ties-rajnath-singh/story-UolONAH3fqP7zpXNZAVYEJ.html
15-09-2020||India||China’s transgression attempts foiled in Ladakh: What Rajnath Singh said in Lok Sabha||Defence minister Rajnath Singh addressed Parliament on Tuesday on India’s ongoing border row with China and said that Beijing does not “recognise the current boundary”.Singh said that India’s armed forces have foiled the transgression attempts by China in Ladakh amid the standoff between the two countries at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). He was speaking in the Lok Sabha on the second day Monsoon Session of Parliament. He added that Indian soldiers have laid down their lives to ensure that Chinese designs are foiled pointing to the violent standoff at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in June this year, when 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed.Here are the highlights from his speech in the Lok Sabha:India and China agree that it is essential for the further development of bilateral relations to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area.India and China border issue remains unresolved and there has been no mutually acceptable solution till. China disagrees on border.China does not recognise the traditional and customary alignment of the boundary. We consider that this alignment is based on well established geographical principals.We have told China through diplomatic channels that the attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo were in violation of the bilateral agreements.China has mobilised a huge number of army battalions and armaments along LAC and inner areas. There’re many friction points in eastern Ladakh, Gogra, Kongka La, Pangong Lake’s north and south banks. The Indian Army has made counter deployments in these areas.I want to assure you that we are ready to deal with any situation.In meeting with Chinese defence minister, I clearly stated that while our troops had always taken a responsible approach towards border management, but at same time there should be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.Violent conduct of Chinese troops is a violation of all past agreements. Our troops have done counter deployments in the area to safeguard our borders.I want to assure that the morale of our armed forces is high. No one should doubt it. The Prime Minister’s visit to Ladakh has sent a message that people of India stand behind Indian armed forces.I request this house to pass a resolution that we stand shoulder to shoulder with our armed forces who are guarding our borders to safeguard India’s sovereignty and integrity.The Chinese side created a violent face-off on June 15 at Galwan. Our brave soldiers laid down their lives and also inflicted costs including casualties on the Chinese side.We have faced situations of prolonged stand-offs in border areas with China in the past as well, which were resolved peacefully. Even though the situation this year is very different both in terms of scale of troops involved and number of friction points, we remain committed to a peaceful resolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-transgression-attempts-foiled-in-ladakh-what-rajnath-singh-said-in-lok-sabha/story-nM7LXQPp9z4vnA9QsbFBYJ.html
15-09-2020||India||3, including a woman, lynched in Jharkhand; 2nd incident in 24 hours||Three people, including a woman, were lynched by villagers with sticks and sharp weapons after the trio allegedly strangled a man, who had opposed the illicit relationship of his wife, in Jharkhand’s Gumla district, around 100-km from capital Ranchi, police said on Tuesday.The incident took place in the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday at Deragdih village under Sikoi Panchayat. This was the second incident of mob lynching within 24 hours in Gumla district. On Monday morning, a former member of the ultra outfit People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), was lynched by a mob of more than 80 villagers, including women with sticks, at Tesera village under Sadar police station in Gumla district.Police reached the village on Tuesday morning and sent all four bodies for post-mortem. The man, who was strangulated, was identified as Marianus Kujur, 42, while his wife was identified as Nilam Kujur, 35. The two other persons, who were allegedly in an illicit relationship with Marianus’ wife, could not be identified.The Gumla superintendent of police (SP) Hrudeep P Janardhanan said, “As per the villagers’ statement, the two youths who had come from other places had illicit relationship with Marianus’ wife. When they were killing Marianus, he screamed. Hearing his voice, his family members, relatives and villagers came and they killed the two youths and his wife.”Janardhanan said the two youths have not been identified yet. “We have recovered a moped bike on which they had come. The registration number of the bike is of Simdega district.”He said two FIRs would be lodged in the case-one for murdering Marianus, while another for killing three other persons by villagers. “We are identifying the villagers involved in the crime and arrests would be made soon,” he said. Marianus’ family members at the village said he was a migrant worker and returned from Pune just before the announcement of lockdown in March. They said his wife had developed an illicit relationship when her husband was not in the village. Marianus and his wife often had a dispute over her illicit relationship after he returned from Pune. The wife had called the youths to kill her husband, they alleged. Marianus’ younger brother’s wife Sarita Kujur said, “The two youths had come on a moped bike in late evening on Monday. When they were strangulating Marianus, he screamed loudly. Then, we all including the villagers ran to his house. But, by then Marianus had died. The youths tried to escape but villagers caught them and killed them along with Marianus’ wife with sticks and sharp weapons.” The mob lynching incidents in the state have hit the headlines nationally on several occasions. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM) has claimed that a total of 24 people were lynched in Jharkhand from March 2016 to June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-including-a-woman-lynched-in-jharkhand-2nd-incident-in-24-hours/story-IIifbU2Gj9oZplLQA0VShL.html
15-09-2020||India||Supreme Court roasts Sudarshan TV for ‘insidious’ show on UPSC exam||The Supreme Court on Tuesday took strong exception to the television programme titled ‘Bindas Bol’ aired by news channel Sudarshan news relating to Muslims entering civil services which the channel had likened to “infiltration” and “Jihad”. A three-judge bench, headed by justice DY Chandrachud, said that the claims made by the channel were “insidious” and it also cast aspersions on the credibility of the UPSC exams and was a great disservice to the nation.“Here is one anchor who says one particular community is trying to infiltrate UPSC. Can anything be more insidious (than such claims). Such allegations affect the stability of the country and also cast aspersions on the credibility of the UPSC exam,” justice Chandrachud remarked.He said that every single person who applies for the UPSC goes through the same selection process and the insinuation that one community is trying to infiltrate civil services does great disservice to the nation.“In the UPSC exam, all are subjected to the same tests, interviews and are assessed by the same persons. But the insinuation is that one community is trying to infiltrate the UPSC. What you are doing does not do credit to our democratic system. Your client is doing great disservice to the nation. We are a melting pot of cultures,” Chandrachud told senior counsel Shyam Divan, who was appearing on behalf of Sudarshan news.Sudarshan news submitted that the programme raises an issue concerning national security and it is in public interest to bring out the story. “The programme is in adherence to programme code,” senior counsel Shyam Divan on behalf of Sudarshan news maintained. Divan also submitted that he was willing to supply copies of all episodes of the programme to the court so that the bench can decide whether or not the programme is in violation of law.The court was hearing a plea by advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan who claimed that the programme contains derogatory statements about Muslim community and was divisive in nature. Justice KM Joseph, who was also on the bench, said that freedom granted to the media is not absolute and the manner in which certain television channels conduct news debates today left a lot to be desired.He asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for Central government, to explore options on disclosing the shareholding pattern and revenue model of media houses on public domain. “Certain channels mute panellists when they express views which go against the anchor’s views. This is unfair. No freedom is absolute, not even journalistic freedom,” justice Joseph said. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said that freedom of a journalist is supreme and any regulation of the same would need extensive debates. The bench acknowledged that regulation of media outlets is a very difficult proposition. He however asked Sudarshan news to exercise freedom of speech with responsibility.Last week, the Centre allowed Sudarshan News to broadcast the show which claimed a ‘big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service’.Earlier, the top court on August 28 declined to impose a pre-broadcast ban on the news channel, saying it has to be cautious in imposing a prior restraint on publication or the airing of views and cannot prevent airing of a programme based on an unverified transcript of a 49-second clip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disservice-to-nation-supreme-court-on-sudarshan-tv-s-upsc-jihad-show/story-aB6PvweUHXCHxHQ5NndsPJ.html
15-09-2020||India||India inflicted heavy casualties on Chinese forces in June: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said India is committed to a peaceful resolution to the border stand-off with China even as it has conveyed to Beijing that attempts to forcibly alter the border between the two countries is unacceptable. He told Lok Sabha that until now, the two countries have not arrived at a mutually acceptable solution. Singh said Indian forces are determined to protect the country’s security and sovereignty and inflicted heavy casualties on Chinese forces when they clashed with them in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15.Singh said the violent conduct by the Chinese along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de facto border between India and China, in violation of all bilateral agreements including those signed in 1993 and 1996.“China is not honouring the customary alignment of the boundary with India. The alignment has not only been defined by treaties but has been maintained historically.”He added China believes that the border is not defined and the issues between the two countries remain unresolved. Singh warned that any serious situation along the LAC is bound to impact bilateral ties.He said Indian forces will forcefully counter all Chinese aggressive action along the border and added there has been an increase in troops and weapons deployment along LAC in Ladakh since April. Singh added the Chinese side hindered the normal, traditional patrolling pattern of Indian troops in the Galwan Valley area. Singh said the Chinese made several attempts in mid-May to transgress the LAC into other parts of the Western Sector even as the ground commanders were addressing the situation as per the provisions of the bilateral agreements and protocol.“This included Kongka La, Gogra and North Bank of Pangong Lake. These attempts were detected early and consequently responded to appropriately by our armed forces,” he said. “We made it clear to the Chinese side both through diplomatic and military channels that China was, by such actions, attempting to unilaterally alter the status quo. It was categorically conveyed that this was unacceptable.”The Congress and other Opposition parties have been critical of the government’s handling of the situation since 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in June and sought a debate on the issue. Congress lawmakers staged a walkout from the House after speaker Om Birla did not allow them to speak on the issue following Singh’s statement. They later protested in front of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the Parliament complex. Also Read: ‘Xi Jinping has risked his future with LAC incursions’: Report on China border rowSingh, who paid tributes to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley, said the border issue is complex. He added the two countries have agreed to resolve it peacefully. “I want to assure you that we are ready to deal with any situation. I request this House to pass a resolution affirming that we stand shoulder to shoulder with our armed forces guarding our borders to safeguard India’s sovereignty and integrity.”He said India has conveyed to China through diplomatic channels that any “attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo were in violation” of the bilateral agreements. “Violent conduct of Chinese troops is a violation of all past agreements. Our troops have done counter deployments in the area to safeguard our borders.” There has been a spike in tensions along the LAC after both countries amassed more troops in the Ladakh sector. There have been face-offs on the south bank of Pangong Lake after provocative Chinese movements to change the status quo during August 29-30. India said during the latest face-off on September 7, Chinese soldiers fired in the air after being prevented from closing in on an Indian forward position. This is the first time that guns have been used along the LAC since 1975.Both sides have strengthened their military presence along the LAC by moving in additional troops, tanks, and other weaponry. India has positioned its troops on several strategic heights to prevent further land grabs on the south bank of the Pangong Lake.India and China last week finalised a five-point road map to address the standoff that includes disengagement of troops and easing of tensions. The consensus on the five points was reached during talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meet in Moscow on Thursday last.Also Read: Indian, Chinese top military commanders likely to meet this weekA joint statement issued on Friday said the ministers agreed that both sides should be guided by the consensus of the top leadership on developing India-China relations, “including not allowing differences to become disputes”. They agreed the situation on the LAC is not in the interest of either country. And “therefore...the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”. The two countries agreed that both sides would abide by all existing agreements and protocols on boundary affairs, maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas and “avoid any action that could escalate matters”.The two sides will continue communicating through the Special Representatives mechanism, and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on border affairs. The ministers also agreed that “as the situation eases, the two sides should expedite work to conclude new confidence-building measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquillity”.HT last week reported the Indian side highlighted its concern at the massing of Chinese troops and equipment along the LAC without any credible explanation, saying this violated the 1993 and 1996 agreements and created flashpoints.The five-point roadmap is a broad template for disengagement though differences remain on crucial issues such as how far the troops should be pulled back from the LAC. The Indian side has made it clear the ultimate goal should be to move forces back to their permanent posts, at least 20 km or more from the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-inflicted-heavy-casualties-on-chinese-forces-in-june-rajnath-singh/story-d337K2k0ifFgYFy5zXhW0H.html
15-09-2020||India||India inflicted heavy casualties on Chinese forces at Galwan: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday India’s armed forces have foiled the transgression attempts by China in Ladakh amid the standoff between the two countries at the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Singh said, while speaking in the Lok Sabha on the second day Monsoon Session of Parliament, that India is ready to handle any situation. He added that Indian soldiers have laid down their lives to ensure that Chinese designs are foiled pointing to the violent standoff at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh earlier this year.“They also sent a very strong message by imposing heavy casualties on the Chinese PLA,” Singh said.China, the defence minister said, has not been honouring the customary alignment of its boundary with India and that New Delhi and Beijing have different perceptions about the border amid the standoff between the two countries at the LAC.Singh said India and China border issue remains unresolved and that there has been no mutually acceptable solution.“Both India and China agree that to maintain peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas, it is essential for the further development of bilateral relations... There are many agreements and protocols between both the countries to maintain peace and tranquillity on the border,” Singh said.“We have told China through diplomatic channels that the attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo were in violation of the bilateral agreements,” Singh said.India and China have been engaged in a standoff since April-May over the transgressions by the Chinese army in multiple areas including the Finger area, Galwan Valley, Hot springs and Kongrung Nala. On September 11, both countries agreed on five points to guide their approach to the situation on the LAC.They included disengagement of troops and easing of tensions, following talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meet in Moscow on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-inflicted-heavy-casualties-on-chinese-forces-during-galwan-clash-rajnath-singh-in-lok-sabha/story-LCN5YDRaKWCzYgXLYcMBmN.html
15-09-2020||India||Biting hands that feed: Jaya Bachchan hits out at Kangana, Ravi Kishan||Rajya Sabha member and veteran actor Jaya Bachchan on Tuesday slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ravi Kishan and Kangana Ranaut for what she said were attempts to defame the film industry.The Samajwadi Party leader, while speaking in the Upper House, did not name anyone.Jaya Bachchan’s remarks come a day after Ravi Kishan, the BJP’s Lok Sabha MP and popular Bhojpuri actor, said there was a problem of drug addiction in the film industry. They also came after actor Kangana Ranaut’s recent remarks calling Bollywood a “gutter”.Also read: Kangana Ranaut hits back, asks if Jaya Bachchan’s stance would change if her children were targeted Bachchan said during Zero Hour that the entertainment industry was being flogged by social media and asked the government to protect and support it.Here is what she said:* The Samajwadi Party MP said she completely disagrees with those who called the entertainment industry a “gutter”. “People who have made a name in this industry have called it a gutter. I completely disagree and I really disassociate,” she said.* Bachchan said she was “really embarrassed and ashamed” in a reference to Kishan’s statement in the Lok Sabha on the alleged Bollywood drug cartel. “Jis thali mein khate hai usme chhed karte hai. Galat baat hai,” she said referring to a popular Hindi proverb that means to bite the hands that feed you.* She said the entertainment industry in the country provides direct employment to 500,000 people every day and indirect employment to 5 million people. “At a time when the financial situation is in a depressing state and employment rate at the worst levels, in order to divert the attention of people, we are being flogged by social media” and there is no support from the government, she said.* Bachchan said the government should come forward and support the entertainment industry. “I hope the government tells these people who have made their earning, name and fame in this industry to stop using such language,” she said. “There are people in the entertainment industry who are some of the highest taxpayers (in the country). They are still being harassed,” she said.* “I think the government must stand by the entertainment industry because it always comes forward to help the government in whatever good work it takes up. They come and speak for them, they support them. If there is a national calamity, they come forward, they give money and their services,” she said.* “I think it is very, very important that the government must support this industry and not kill it. Just because there are few people, you cannot tarnish the image of the entire industry,” she said, adding the industry brings international name and recognition besides a base for political ambitions.* “Sir, I get very worked up and very emotional. I have too many things to say but you are not giving me enough time and opportunity,” she told Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu. “I need protection, the industry needs the protection and support of the government,” she also said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biting-hands-that-feed-jaya-bachchan-hits-out-at-kangana-ravi-kishan/story-dHLHBSbIDsKqrlLlVjscsI.html
15-09-2020||India||AAP propped by BJP-RSS to bring down UPA government: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the India Against Corruption (IAC) movement and blamed them as a proxy for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ideological mentor, Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), in their bid to “subvert democracy” and bring down the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government. Gandhi endorsed the remarks of AAP founder-member and civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan, who in an interview to a private TV news channel, has claimed that the IAC movement was “propped up” by the BJP and the RSS to bring down the Congress-led UPA government, whose rule had come to an end following the victory of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) dispensation in 2014 parliamentary elections. “What was known to us has been confirmed by a founding AAP member. The IAC movement and the AAP were propped up by the BJP and the RSS to subvert democracy and bring down the UPA government,” Gandhi tweeted. Gandhi is in the United States of America (USA), where his mother Sonia Gandhi is undergoing her medical check-up. Bhushan was expelled from the AAP in 2015 following his differences with Arvind Kejriwal, who became the chief minister of Delhi five years ago and now in his second term as the CM. The AAP had won a landslide victory in Delhi assembly polls in 2015 after it had bagged 67 out of 70 seats.The BJP had won the remaining three seats. While the Congress had drawn a blank. Five years on, the AAP retained its supremacy, as it won 62 seats in Delhi assembly polls held in February this year. The BJP wrested the remaining eight seats. Bhushan has cited two specific regrets in the interview. “In hindsight, there are two things that I do regret. One is not seeing that the movement (IAC), to a large extent, was supported and propped up by the BJP and the RSS for their own political purposes to bring down the UPA government and get themselves in power.” He added: “I have no doubt about their (RSS and BJP) role today. He (Anna Hazare) was also probably not aware of it. But Kejriwal was aware of it and I have little doubt about it. The second regret is that I had failed to understand Kejriwal’s character. I understood it too late by which time we had created another Frankenstein-like monster.” Besides Bhushan, another founder-member of the AAP and pollster Yogendra Yadav was also expelled allegedly over anti-party activities. The IAC movement was dominated by strong anti-corruption protests against the UPA government in 2011 and 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-with-bhushan-s-remarks-rahul-gandhi-says-aap-propped-by-bjp-rss-to-bring-down-upa-government/story-7A830BDAPMS62G9lp6iPdM.html
15-09-2020||India||On PM Modi’s 70th birthday, Surat civic body to plant 70,000 saplings||The Surat civic body, several associations and business groups are planting 70,000 saplings across the city to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 70th birthday that falls on September 17.Nirav Shah, Deputy Mayor, Surat City told ANI, “We started this initiative 15 days ago. I think we will be able to plant 70,000 saplings by September 16.”“The Prime Minister always urges everyone to celebrate his birthday by doing an activity which will be beneficial to the people. So this time we have come up with the idea to plant 70,000 saplings across the city which will increase the oxygen and will be beneficial for the future generation,” he added. The textile city of Surat has come up with the idea to turn the city greener and pollution-free by planting saplings. This initiative started 15 days ago, according to the Deputy Mayor. On September 16 they will achieve their target of planting 70,000 saplings. Later on September 17, they will plant more saplings than the target set which in turn is going to be beneficial for the residents of the city.Various associations and business groups have joined this initiative and on Monday 500 employees of KP Sanghvi and Sons planted saplings and pledged to water and protect them.Speaking to ANI, Jitendra Madhiya, manager, KP Sanghvi and Sons said, “We have planted thousands of saplings and have urged other people to join this initiative on the occasion of PM Modi’s 70th birthday.” (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pm-modi-s-70th-birthday-surat-civic-body-to-plant-70-000-saplings/story-aTftTgWDmrolyR19U5iAKO.html
15-09-2020||India||Arabian Sea saw five cyclones in 2019 against average of one per year: Govt||There were five cyclones over the Arabian Sea in 2019 against the average of one per year, the ministry of earth sciences said on Tuesday.Also, 2019 witnessed the development of more intense cyclones over the Arabian Sea, the ministry said in response to a question in Rajya Sabha.“Based on the statistics during 1891-2017, on an average five cyclones develop over North Indian Ocean in a year with four developing over Bay of Bengal and one over Arabian Sea,” the ministry stated.In the recent past, an increase in frequency has been observed in formation of cyclones in the North Indian Ocean, it noted.“The occurrence of five cyclones over Arabian Sea in 2019 against the normal of one per year equals the previous record of 1902 for the highest annual cyclone frequency over Arabian Sea,” it added.There were one, three and five cyclones over the Arabian Sea in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively, the ministry said.There were two, four and three cyclones over the Bay of Bengal in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arabian-sea-saw-five-cyclones-in-2019-against-average-of-one-per-year-govt/story-G5798DNP1aMvdaNWaPwZ7J.html
15-09-2020||India||India likely to play key role in manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccine: Bill Gates||Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates on Tuesday said India is likely to play a key role in manufacturing of the coronavirus vaccine. “India is a leading vaccine producer; we need cooperation from India on manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine,” Bill Gates told PTI.“All of us want to get a vaccine out in India as fast as we can, once we know that it’s very effective and very safe,” Gates added.Bill Gates also hopes that Covid vaccine will be rolled out from India next year. “It’s very likely that roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine will take place in fairly big volume (in India) sometime next year. I’m quite optimistic that by first quarter of next year, several of Covid-19 vaccines will have final stage,” said Gates.“India’s willingness to play big role in manufacturing vaccines, send some of these to developing countries will be critical,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-play-key-role-in-manufacturing-of-covid-19-vaccine-bill-gates/story-mtLcGeZkfgn3yBIL5wpPLM.html
15-09-2020||India||Facebook objects to Delhi assembly notice on alleged inaction in hate speech cases||Facebook on Tuesday asked Delhi assembly to withdraw a summon notice on alleged inaction in hate speech cases. The social media giant said that matter falls within Centre’s purview.“The regulation of intermediaries like Facebook fall within exclusive authority of the Union of India. Given that the matters are under consideration by Parliament, we object to the Notice and request you recall it,” Facebook India said in its reply to Delhi assembly.A Delhi Assembly committee on peace and harmony has issued a notice to Facebook India vice president and managing director Ajit Mohan asking him to appear before it on September 15 in connection with complaints about the social media platform’s alleged deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content in the country.The panel is headed by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator from Rajendra Nagar, Raghav Chadha.“Facebook’s letter is in disregard of committee’s privilege. Facebook’s refusal to appear before the committee is an attempt to conceal crucial facts in relation to its role in Delhi riots. Fresh summons will be issued to it in line with principles of natural justice,” said Chadha.The notice was issued after the committee said that prima facie, it has found that Facebook was allegedly complicit in aggravating the February riots in north-east Delhi that left 53 dead and at least 400 injured. These primarily have to do with posts on its platform ahead of and during the rites.Meanwhile, former employee of Facebook said that a “politically-sophisticated” attempt to influence the Delhi elections in February played out on the social media platform before it was taken down silently. Former Facebook data scientist Sophie Zhang also cited examples in the memo of how the company has failed to act on time or with transparency in tackling attempts to undermine democratic processes around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-objects-to-delhi-assembly-notice-on-alleged-inaction-in-hate-speech-cases/story-RhD5IoGm3mPIV2qMelmqtK.html
15-09-2020||India||Covid-19: How different masks stop the virus||An experiment conducted by researchers from Duke University has found well-fitted valve-less N95 masks, triple-layer surgical masks and double-layer pleated cotton masks (that can be tied tightly) are the most effective in stopping the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19). The researchers analysed 13 kinds of popularly used face masks to determine the best to stop the spread of the virus.The study was based on an experiment in which a person wore each of these face masks and spoke in the direction of an expanded laser beam inside a dark enclosure for 10 seconds. The speech was recorded on video, as well as the 20 seconds after the person stopped speaking.The researchers looked for microscopic droplets that are usual when someone speaks. As they went toward the laser beam, they scattered light, and these were recorded with a cell phone camera before a computer algorithm was used to count the droplets in the video. If this were a person infected with Covid-19, these droplets would likely be infectious.Also read: Battle against Covid-19 far from over, says Harsh Vardhan in ParliamentThe experiment showed well-fitted valve-less N95 masks, triple-layer surgical masks and double-layer pleated cotton masks let less than 15% of the droplets escape, when compared to the number of droplets generated when someone spoke without a face cover.Double-layer cotton masks were among masks that were a little less effective – though, at 20% transmission, they were still fairly effective.A bandana failed to stop half the droplets, while a fleece – thanks to the usual material they are made of – actually made droplets worse. This was because this sort of material split droplets into smaller particles, which can linger on in the air for longer.The experiment also confirmed the suspicion that N95 masks with exhalation valve transmitted more droplets since they are meant to allow outwards airflow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unmasked-how-different-masks-stop-the-virus/story-lVOousxpsAefpEIdHgYn5J.html
15-09-2020||India||India sheds reluctance in engaging Taliban at the Doha intra-Afghan talks||By participating in the intra-Afghan inaugural dialogue in Doha, India has shown its willingness to engage with all Afghan parties including the Taliban for peace in Kabul and to ensure no anti-India activity is allowed from Afghan soil.“There is no ambiguity on the Indian position vis-à-vis engagement with Afghan parties as Indian delegation sat on the same table as the Afghan government as well as the Taliban. The host nation Qatar could have only made this possible after talking to all principal stake-holders in the Afghan dialogue, ” said a senior official.Pakistan is understood to have conveyed its concern over an Indian role at Doha to the parties concerned as Indian participation is now not restricted to only Kabul, instead New Delhi is a legitimate stake-holder in Afghan peace and reconciliation process.Over the past decade, New Delhi was reluctant to engage with the Taliban but with external affairs minister S Jaishankar himself addressing the inaugural session, this ambiguity has been removed with India ready to talk to both sides. An ultra-conservative Sunni movement, the Taliban leadership is based in Quetta across the Bolan Pass, and its deputy leader Sirajuddin Haqqani leads the proscribed Haqqani Network. Taliban leader Mullah Haibatullah Akhundzada is a cleric and Haqqani is the sword arm of the insurgent group.Zalmay Khalilzad, the US Representative for Afghan Reconciliation, is meeting external affairs minister Jaishankar around 3.30 pm today to brief the Modi government about the way forward to the Afghan peace, elections and the expectations from India. A Pashtun himself, Khalilzad will be arriving from Islamabad.Addressing the inaugural session, EAM Jaishankar had advocated for a ceasefire between warring parties in Afghanistan and sought commitment from both Afghan government and the Taliban representative that Afghan soil would not be used for anti-India activities. The second part referred to the presence of Pakistan based Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Tayyeba terrorist training camps across both Khyber and Bolan pass.Also Read: Seize the opportunity, says UK on Afghan-Taliban peace talksWhile India understands the US desire to get out of Afghanistan after 19 long years of counter-insurgency and policing, it is concerned about the rise in violence once the Americans exit out of Kabul with only a representative force of 4,700 available after elections.However, the positive sign in Doha was the presence of both Afghan Government and the Taliban on the same table and the willingness to talk with each other. This raises hopes that Taliban may take the election route this time and not go for military take-over of Kabul once the US exits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sheds-reluctance-in-engaging-taliban-at-the-doha-intra-afghan-talks/story-JjalNUPrIRqqnZLo5bcbAO.html
15-09-2020||India||Bengal govt moves green court NGT to allow Chhath puja at Kolkata lake||The Kolkata Municipal Development Authority (KMDA) has appealed to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to relax its order banning Chhath puja rituals to be held at the famous Rabindra Sarobar Lakes in south Kolkata. The NGT will hear the review petition on September 17.The word Chhath means six. The festival is dedicated to Lord Surya (Sun God) and Chhathi Maiya, who is known to be the sister of Lord Surya. This festival is unique to the states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Eastern Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Delhi. Devotees express their gratitude towards Lord Surya and perform important rituals over a for a span of four days. While the opposition sees this as another move by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) to woo Hindi-speaking voters prior to the 2021 assembly polls, environment activists and conservation experts said they are extremely worried. The NGT passed an order in 2018, banning Chhath puja at Rabindra Sarobar, after environment activists and wildlife lovers started a movement. The petition was moved by noted environment activist Subhas Dutta. The green activists had earlier moved the Calcutta high court as well to stop the old practice.Covering 192 acres of artificial lakes and with 7,000 trees, some of which were badly damaged by cyclone Amphan in May, Rabindra Sarobar is a birders’ paradise. At least 200 species of resident and migratory birds have been sighted here by the city’s birders. It is also home to numerous types of fish and animals. Despite the ban, hundreds of devotees broke open the gates of Rabindra Sarobar in November 2019 to perform Chhath puja. They even used crackers and played drums at the Sarobar although the government has earmarked alternative waterbodies in the city. The incident made headlines and triggered a huge controversy. “It is very difficult to control the religious sentiments of people. The police could not take any harsh measure because the rituals are performed by women. We have appealed to the NGT to relax the ban this year. The puja will be held on November 20,” a senior KMDA official said on condition of anonymity. “This is shocking. How can the government allow nature to be destroyed?” said veteran environment activist Banani Kakkar whose organization, PUBLIC, has been crusading for a greener city for more than three decades. “There is very little time to move the NGT against the KMDA’s review petition,” she added. Declared as a site of national importance Rabindra Sarobar was developed by the British in the 1920s as one of the twin lungs of Kolkata, the other being the Maidans. Bird species sighted here include cotton pygmy goose, large-billed leaf warbler, Tickell’s leaf warbler, black-headed cuckooshrike and slaty-blue flycatcher, among others. No TMC leader was willing to comment on the development on record. Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bengal unit vice-president Ritesh Tiwari took a dig at chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “It has taken her nine years to understand the sentiments of Hindi-speaking people. But it is too late now. Why didn’t the government take action when some outfits were making insulting remarks against Hindi-speaking people in public in recent years?” said Tiwari. Incidentally, on Monday, the TMC launched an all-new three-tier Hindi cell while India observed Hindi Diwas. The cell will have separate committees at state, district and community block levels. The BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. The TMC’s tally came down from 34 seats to 22. The BJP poses a challenge to Banerjee in the upcoming assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-moves-green-court-ngt-to-allow-chhath-puja-at-kolkata-lake/story-QeXxVOaaAKeSsrRKv4lzaN.html
15-09-2020||India||‘Out of control’: Kangana Ranaut, slammed by Jaya Bachchan, gets it from Sena again||The back-and-forth between Kangana Ranaut and the Shiv Sena doesn’t show any signs of dying out. A day after the actor took a parting shot at the Shiv Sena as she headed back to Manali in Himachal Pradesh, the Shiv Sena responded with a veiled dig at the actor in an editorial of its mouthpiece Saamana, saying people on social media appeared to be ‘out of control’. The Saamana editorial asked if those “seemingly out of control on social media” will show some maturity, a veiled reference to the outspoken actor. Social media is being used in a systematic fashion to show Mumbai and Maharashtra in poor light, the editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana said, adding that no field is left untouched by “gossiping on social media”.Also Watch | Jaya Bachchan slams Kangana Ranaut’s ‘gutter’ remark in Rajya Sabha“Most of the people active on social media aren’t responsible. Will those who seemingly are out of control on social media show some maturity?” It said.The Sena jab at Kangana Ranaut comes a day after the actor tweeted that she is “leaving” Mumbai and repeated her remark likening Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).“With a heavy heart leaving Mumbai, the way I was terrorised all these days constant attacks and abuses hurled at me attempts to break my house after my work place, alert security with lethal weapons around me, must say my analogy about POK was bang on,” she tweeted on Monday.The Sena editorial added that social media is being used in a systematic fashion to bring Mumbai and Maharashtra in poor light and just someone takes exception to these comments, people allege that their freedom of expression is being curbed.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut to be BJP’s star campaigner for Bihar elections? Devendra Fadnavis replies“Today there is no field that’s untouched from gossiping on social media. Neither is there any restriction on the field nor any restriction on responsibility...Many in government positions have restrictions to react to the wrong accusations but those who create chaos through social media, shouldn’t take undue advantage,” it said.The 33-year-old actor has been involved in a bitter war of words with Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena over her PoK remarks that stemmed from the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The Sena-led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation discovered unauthorised construction in Ranaut’s office in Mumbai and demolished most of them. Ranaut did get a stay from the Bombay high court but the municipal body had pulled down portions that it claimed were unauthorised.Actor and Rajya Sabha member Jaya Bachchan had waded into the continuing row around actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and the drugs-related investigation in the case. “People in the entertainment industry are being flogged by social media. People who made their names in the industry have called it a gutter. I completely disagree. I hope that the government tells such people not to use this kind of language,” Jaya told the Rajya Sabha during Zero Hour.Actor Kangana Ranaut had earlier called the film industry a ‘gutter’ and alleged that 99% of the people who work in it have been exposed to drugs. Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend and her brother Showik are among those arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau in the drugs-related case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-control-kangana-ranaut-slammed-by-jaya-bachchan-gets-it-from-sena-again/story-vwhwYsSa8Xb98SROypKWMJ.html
15-09-2020||India||Battle against Covid-19 far from over: Harsh Vardhan in Parliament||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that the battle against the coronavirus disease is far from over.Speaking in the Rajya Sabha, Vardhan said that government is taking all necessary measures to prevent the spread of the disease.“I want to remind the members that battle against Covid-19 is far from over. I wish to inform the house that government is taking all necessary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in India,” said Vardhan.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe also said that India has been able to limit its cases and deaths per million to 3,320 and 55 respectively, which is one of the lowest in the world.“Covid-19 testing is about 1 million tests per day which translates to 720 tests per million population per day, much higher than that stipulated by WHO which 140 tests per million per day. A total of 5,51,89,226 samples were tested as of September 11,” the health minister said.His remarks come on a day when India’s Covid-19 tally inched closer to the five million-mark. However, the daily case count fell below 90,000.Vardhan had said on Monday that the central government undertook the Covid-19 challenge with the highest level of political commitment. “It has been estimated that its decisions prevented approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37-78 thousand deaths,” he had said.The health ministry has said that the recovery rate in the country is now very close to 78 per cent, and that 60 per cent of the active cases are concentrated in five states: Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-against-covid-19-far-from-over-harsh-vardhan-in-parliament/story-x93SVk5ypRGJGINUv8qYNN.html
15-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress gives adjournment notice over Chinese surveillance and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Congress MP gives adjournment notice in Parliament over ‘Chinese surveillance’The Congress on Tuesday gave an adjournment motion notice in Parliament over a media report that claimed China is monitoring over 10,000 Indians including several political leaders. The notice was moved by Congress MP Manickam Tagore. Read moreRahul Gandhi attacks Modi govt over deaths of migrant workersFormer Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday attacked the government for stating in Parliament on Monday -- the first day of the 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session -- that it did not know how many migrant workers had died during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown while returning to their native places. Read moreCBI raids former J&K minister Lal Singh’s premises in Rajbagh, KathuaThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday morning raided the residential premises of the former Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) minister and the founder of Dogra Swabhimaan Sanghthan (DSS), Choudhary Lal Singh, in Rajbagh and Kathua in Jammu, officials said. Read moreKangana Ranaut hits back at Jaya Bachchan, asks if her stance would change if Shweta, Abhishek were targeted Actor Kangana Ranaut has responded to Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan’s recent remarks against her and BJP MP Ravi Kishan, made during Tuesday’s parliament session. Jaya had condemned comments made by Kangana, where she’d compared the film industry to a ‘gutter’. Read moreToyota Urban Cruiser SUV to be launched on September 23Toyota Motor has confirmed the launch date of its upcoming ‘youngest urban SUV’ - the Urban Cruiser. Toyota’s spin off on Maruti Vitara Brezza will be officially launched next week, on September 23. Read moreApple’s ‘Time Flies’ event is today: No iPhones, brace yourselves for new iPads, Apple WatchAfter a tremendous amount of back and forth, and leaks and speculations, Apple’s Event is scheduled for later today. Apple had announced through a rather cryptic press release - “Time Flies. Please join us for a special Apple Event from Apple Park. Watch it online at apple.com.” This was followed by the time and date - September 15 and 10AM PDT (which converts to 10:30PM IST). Read morePune Police’s ‘I can make it!’ post conveys an important message about road safety. Seen it yet?Some may recall the nursery rhyme on traffic lights that’s taught to children. The classic, “Green means go; yellow means slow; and red means stop!” song is not just highly fun to sing, but also conveys a vital road safety message that is important in ensuring citizens’ safety. Now, the Pune Police has given a twist to this message with their ‘haste makes waste’ post to remind adults how to correctly follow the traffic lights. Read moreCovid-19: India at 80k deaths, cases move closer to 5 millionHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; 1000 daily deaths; Covid cloud on monsoon session as 29 MPs test positive; Manish Sisodia tests positive; Delhi govt’s special assembly ends in scare. Watch the full video for more details. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-gives-adjournment-notice-over-chinese-surveillance-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ceIDbrFKUoBat66gKQ0B2K.html
15-09-2020||India||Parliament passes bill to give statutory status to aviation regulators||Parliament on Tuesday passed a bill which seeks to improve India’s aviation safety ratings and provide statutory status to regulatory institutions, including the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).The Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020 also provides for keeping aircraft belonging to the country’s armed forces outside the purview of the Aircraft Act, 1934.The Bill also proposes to increase the fine amount for violations of new rules from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 1 crore.The bill was passed by voice vote in Rajya Sabha. It had got approval of Lok Sabha in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-bill-to-give-statutory-status-to-aviation-regulators/story-xPqbTytZ5PE2DzNWV4TTGP.html
15-09-2020||India||Congress gives adjournment notice in Parliament over ‘Chinese surveillance’||The Congress on Tuesday gave an adjournment motion notice in Parliament over a media report that claimed China is monitoring over 10,000 Indians including several political leaders.The notice was moved by two Congress MPs Manickam Tagore and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury demanding discussion over the issue. Tagore cited a news report published in a leading Indian daily which stated that the Chinese government and military are watching over thousands of Indians which include politicians, bureaucrats, journalists, and people belonging to fields of academics in its global database of “foreign targets”.Click here to follow Parliament live coverageCalling it a “deep mining operation”, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also spoke about the issue yesterday. “Chinese authorities looking at the details of 10,000 Indians is no small thing,” he said. The Congress also urged the Centre to step up its efforts on cyber security for confronting China’s intentions.The monsoon session of the Parliament began on Monday and is slated to conclude on October 1 without any day off.Both the Houses of Parliament will sit for four hours daily adhering to precautionary measures against Covid-19.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-gives-adjournment-notice-in-parliament-over-chinese-surveillance/story-XMvH1MAIsADdL6Cj4899cI.html
15-09-2020||India||UP to organise ‘one district one product’ international exhibition||In a first, the Uttar Pradesh government will organise a five-day international virtual exhibition of ‘One District One Product’ (ODOP) next month in which around 25,000 stalls will be available for buyers. The government is also planning to connect buyers from 50 countries with this exhibition. Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME and khadi, said the event will be organised with the assistance of FICCI and Handicraft Export Promotion Council. It will also help artisans display their products online and reach out to national and international buyers. Through this exhibition, Indian and foreign buyers will be able to directly connect with artisans to do business. Apart from wholesale purchase, retailers and other customers will also be able to purchase articles of their choice here. A wide-ranging ODOP articles, including footwear of Agra and Kanpur, chikan clothes of Lucknow, scent of Kannauj, terracotta of Gorakhpur, silk of Varanasi, carpet of Bhadohi and brassware of Moradabad will be displayed at the exhibition. Moreover, the state government is all set to promote products selected under its ODOP scheme across the country through retail stores. The government will also provide financial assistance to the artisans whose products will be selected.Products selected under ODOP scheme will be displayed in retail stores across the state. However outside Uttar Pradesh, display of these products will be confined to stores in airports and railway stations only. The Yogi government had launched the ODOP scheme in January 2018. It has identified 75 products, one each from every UP district that have made the respective districts famous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-organise-one-district-one-product-international-exhibition/story-mv2DdvKbBRzSbDODH51OrK.html
15-09-2020||India||Girl, 16, raped and blackmailed for 2 years. Cops say she was his 7th victim||A 40-year-old businessman has been arrested in Madhya Pradesh’s Satna district on a charge of raping and blackmailing a 16-year-old girl. Police said the accused had been blackmailing six more women.The girl had come forward to file a police complaint on Friday last (September 11). Satna superintendent of police Riyaz Iqbal said the 16-year-old told the Kolgawan police in the district that a man, who had introduced himself as Sameer to her, had been raping her for the past two years. He had threatened her if she reported the crime and blackmailed her.Sameer alias Ateek - he had passports in both names - was arrested on Sunday after raids at his house, gym and cyber café. Satna district is 500 km from state capital Bhopal.“The accused had married a woman by converting to another faith but later divorced her in 2017. He used to establish a relationship with women and later blackmailed them. He minted a large amount of money from the women through blackmailing. These women shared their ordeal with police during investigation but they didn’t want to lodge a FIR,” the Satna district police chief said.In raids at his premises, Riyaz Iqbal said the police teams also found fake letterheads in the name of Members of Parliament and MLAs of Satna and Rewa.“He used these letterheads to get out-of-turn reservations in trains under VIP quota. The man was also involved in illegal money lending.A special investigation team has been set up to investigate the crimes committed by the accused, according to the SP.(With input from Amit Singh in Satna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-yr-old-mp-man-befriended-women-then-blackmailed-them-arrested/story-Vvp7zVikgtXLLjcoOJlScL.html
15-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Demand made in RS for using term physical distancing instead of social distancing||A demand was made in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday for using the term ‘physical distancing’ for fighting COVID-19 on the grounds that the use of the term ‘social distancing’ was promoting social stigma of coronavirus patients and their families.   Agreeing to the suggestion, Chairman Venkaiah Naidu said an appropriate term should be used and suggested ‘safe distancing’ .  In a special mention made in the Upper House, Trinamool Congress leader Shantanu Sen said the term ‘social distancing’ is regularly used to avoid the spread of coronavirus.    “Actually, it is physical distancing of nearly six feet between two persons. On the contrary, the use of the term social distancing has promoted social stigma which has led to nearly an attitude of boycotting of COVID patients socially,” he said.  As a consequence of this, Covid-19 patients and their families are facing several “inhuman situations”, he said.Sen further said, “To stop social discrimination   and social stigma, the term social distancing should not be used any more to fight Covid-19. Instead the term physical distancing should be used.” Many members associated with this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-demand-made-in-rs-for-using-term-physical-distancing-instead-of-social-distancing/story-hrI3YJiRVYYIpNvubUweGK.html
15-09-2020||India||‘Return land given on lease’: Mahendra Pratap’s kin to AMU||Descendants of the late Jat king Mahendra Pratap Singh have demanded the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) to return the land given to the university by the late freedom fighter, as the 90 year lease for it has now expired.The university’s academic council has set up a committee under vice-chancellor, professor Tariq Mansoor, to look into the issue. The committee will present its report in the next meeting of the council.In a letter to AMU, the descendants of the late king have said the university’s ‘Tikonia Park’ and city school have been built on the land given on lease. With the duration of the lease now over, they argue, the land should be handed back to them.They have also demanded that the city school built on the land be named after Mahendra Pratap Singh. In 2018 as well, demands were made to rename AMU after him as a row erupted over a portrait of Mohammad Ali Jinnah in the university.Mahendra Pratap Singh was an alumnus of the Mohammedan Anglo Oriental College, which later became the AMU. In 1929, he donated 3.04 acres of land to the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/return-land-given-on-lease-mahendra-pratap-s-kin-to-amu/story-YWvkltnr0hvSWxZu5RIjRN.html
15-09-2020||India||Left MPs protest against Centre’s ‘anti-farmers policies’||Members of Parliament (MPs) of the Left parties protested in front of Mahatma Gandhi statue in the Parliament House premises, over their demand for withdrawal of ‘anti-farmers policies’.“Government in the name of Covid is unleashing an attack on democracy, Parliament and institutions under the Constitution. So Left parties, CPI, CPI-M we came here to register our protest,” CPI MP Binoy Viswam told ANI.CPI-M’s MP KK Ragesh said, “All the three ordinances are against the interest of the farmers and they are promulgated to save the interest of corporates. That is why we are opposed to it,”Yesterday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had termed the agriculture ordinances rolled out by the centre as “black” ordinances and said that these are a fatal attack on farming community.Farmers in Punjab, Haryana are protesting against the recent agriculture ordinances passed by the Union Cabinet.On June 5, President Ram Nath Kovind had promulgated three ordinances to usher in agricultural reforms for raising the income of the farmers and giving them more freedom to sell their produce.The President promulgated Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-mps-protest-against-centre-s-anti-farmers-policies/story-j6rrLHwSzf6fJEGZGhxlUI.html
15-09-2020||India||NIA arrests key accused in Naval spy ring case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested Giteli Imran, a key accused in the Visakhapatnam naval spy ring case, on charges of depositing money in the accounts of a few personnel of the Indian Navy in lieu of sensitive and classified data provided by them that are of use to Pakistan, officials said. Imran (37), a resident of Godhra in Gujarat, was arrested on Monday under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPAA), 2019 and the Official Secrets Act (OSA), 1923. The case pertains to an international espionage racket in which Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding locations and movements of Indian naval ships and submarines and other defence establishments. Also Read: Elgar Parishad case: Special NIA court erred in allowing 90-day extension of custody: Teltumbde to Bombay HC“An investigation revealed that a few navy personnel came in contact with Pakistani agents through social media platforms such as Facebook, WhatsApp etc. They shared classified information in lieu of money deposited into their bank accounts through Indian associates of the Inter Service Intelligence (ISI), the Pakistani intelligence agency. The Indian associates have business interests in Pakistan,” said Sonia Narang, spokesperson, NIA. The racket was unearthed last December on the basis of specific intelligence information that naval officers, who mostly belonged to lower ranks, were being paid off by Pakistani agents. Also Read: Elgar Parishad case: Custody of 3 Kabir Kala Manch members extended till September 19NIA has filed a charge sheet against 14 persons, including 11 naval officers, in the case on June 15. Imran is the 15th arrest made in the case. “The investigation has revealed that the arrested accused Giteli Imran was associated with Pakistani spies and agents under the guise of cross-border cloth trade. As per the directions of Pakistan-based spies, he deposited money into the bank accounts of Indian Navy personnel at regular intervals in lieu of sensitive and classified data provided by them,” said Narang.The spokesperson said that some digital devices and incriminating documents have been seized from the arrested accused’s house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-key-accused-in-naval-spy-ring-case/story-DEueHPqDv27FIEYv9NzcqL.html
15-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: Jaya Bachchan asks govt to support film industry||Actor Jaya Bachchan, who is also a Rajya Sabha (RS) member of the Samajwadi Party (SP), on Tuesday said in Parliament that the government must stand by the entertainment industry at a time when it is being unfairly targeted because of the actions of a few people. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in the RS, she said the government must offer protection to the film industry and not kill it. “Just because there are few people, you cannot tarnish the image of the industry,” she said. Catch LIVE Updates of Day 2 of Parliament’s monsoon session hereShe added: “The entertainment industry always stepped forward to support the government and whatever good work it takes up. They support the country. If there is a natural calamity, they donate money and also offer their services. The industry brings international fame.” She made the comments at a time when the film industry is under the spotlight over the alleged death by suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14.Rajput’s death followed a tug of war among the Maharashtra and Bihar governments and Central investigative agencies over the probe into the high-profile case.Ravi Kishan, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament (MP) from Gorakhpur and an actor, said she had expected Bachchan to support his views..“I expected Jayaji to support what I had said. Not everyone in the industry consumes drugs. But those who do are part of a plan to finish the world’s largest film industry. When Jayaji and I had joined the industry, the situation was not like this. Now, we need to protect the industry,” said the actor-turned-politician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-jaya-bachchan-asks-govt-to-support-film-industry/story-1VILEMgb2roXAjsgP1GwSL.html
15-09-2020||India||Odisha govt tells officials not to rush Covid cases to Bhubaneswar||With Covid hospitals in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack groaning under growing cases, the Odisha government has asked districts to not rush their Covid patients to hospitals in these cities.“The Covid hospitals of Bhubaneswar are being used by all other districts as referral hospitals. The facility available in the cluster district will be exhausted first before deciding to shift it to Bhubaneswar. The medical officer of the district will inform the medical officer of the Covid hospitals of Bhubaneswar and obtain confirmation about the availability of the requisite facility needed before sending the patient to Bhubaneswar,” development commissioner Suresh Mohapatra noted in a letter to senior officials in charge of Covid management in the state.Mohapatra, who last week chaired a meeting of top health officials to analyse the situation, told the officials that the available Covid-care facilities at district level must be utilised to the fullest extent before referring the patient to the Covid hospitals of Bhubaneswar.With 4613 active cases in Bhubaneswar and 2213 cases in Cuttack city till Monday, the twin cities have now become Covid hotspots while the hospitals in the two cities are struggling to admit new patients. With just six ICU beds left in Covid hospitals of Bhubaneswar, it remains a challenge.What has made the Covid situation in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack difficult is the rush of patients to the Covid hospitals there from other hotspot districts such as Puri, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Kendrapara and Jajpur due to perceived better care and management.In Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, just about 20 per cent of the beds are occupied by patients from both the cities while the rest have been taken over by people from other districts.Mohapatra has now instructed the officials that Covid hospitals should only be for moderately severe symptomatic patients and those who are asymptomatic and very mild to mild symptomatic cases should be in home isolation.“The facility of home isolation needs to be promoted further and asymptomatic and very mild to mild symptomatic cases should invariably be allowed for home isolation. The Covid hospitals should only house moderate to severe symptomatic cases,” the letter from Mohapatra said.To lessen the Covid load on the capital city, the government asked KIMS hospital that has set up Covid hospitals at Bolangir, Mayurbhanj and Kandhamal districts to make functional lCUs available.The government has also asked the Covid hospitals in Bhubaneswar to convert some of the general beds to high dependency unit (HDU) beds for shifting stable patients from ICU to HDU thus increasing availability of ICU beds for deserving critical patients.The government has also decided on a new discharge protocol under which a Covid patient would be clinically discharged after 10 days from the date of sample collection provided he has no symptoms for the last three days. Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has been asked to prepare the list of such patients on 9th day district wise and post the same in the Collectors’ WhatsApp group. The respective district collectors would have to pick those cured cases on the 10th day from the respective Covid Hospitals of Bhubaneswar.To deal with allegations of negligence of doctors and paramedics in treatment of Covid patients, the government also asked the authorities at Covid hospitals to install CCTVs in their ICU and general wards for close monitoring of doctors and paramedics. It also asked the laboratories doing RT-PCR tests to mention the CT (Cycle Threshold) value in each of the positive samples so that the viral load in each case can be tested. As the CT value determines the viral load of the positive cases, those patients with lower CT value (meaning higher viral load) can be prioritised for admission in Covid hospitals.Meanwhile, health secretary PK Mohapatra, asked all district collectors and Municipal Commissioners to shut down the temporary medical centres, Covid care homes and Covid care centres in the districts where the occupancy has dramatically fallen. The state government also asked all private hospitals in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Sambalpur, Berhampur and Rourkela Municipal to keep a minimum 50% of their general beds and 80% of ICUs for treatment of Covid positive patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-tells-officials-not-to-rush-covid-cases-to-bhubaneswar/story-GXa7l2YRlFCR828dQf72KO.html
15-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: What to expect today||Fireworks are expected in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, the second day of Parliament’s monsoon session as the government wants to push two contentious legislation to replace ordinances. Also, defence minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement on the “developments on our borders in Ladakh”, a key area of concern for the Opposition.It was not immediately clear if Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla would allow a debate on the issue after Singh makes the statement. The Congress and other Opposition parties have been critical of the government’s stand on the border conflict that escalated after the clash in the Galwan Valley in June that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. Also Read: DMK MP raises NEET exam issue in Rajya SabhaSingh will make the statement as top Indian and Chinese military commanders are likely to meet along the contested Line of Actual Control this week to reduce tensions in Ladakh, where the situation remains tense after a series of recent manoeuvres by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area.Corps commander-ranked officers have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock. The expected meeting this week will be their first after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi attacks Modi govt over deaths of migrant workersThe legislative business is likely to trigger protests over the two bills that have been brought to replace ordinances. The Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill seeks to replace an ordinance issued to reduce the salaries of lawmakers by 30% in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme fund, too, has been cancelled for two years (2020-2022).The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill to be introduced on Tuesday in the Lok Sabha is another bone of contention between the Opposition and the ruling side. The Congress has raised five major objections to the proposed law. It has said cooperative banks are part of the structure of cooperatives and ought to be regulated by the state governments, not by the Centre. “If the ordinance becomes law, all key financial intermediaries will come under the control of the Central government, there will be more centralisation. Congress Party stands for decentralisation and for empowering states,” the party said in a statement.Food minister Ram Vilas Paswan will introduce the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.In Rajya Sabha, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will introduce a bill to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.In Rajya Sabha, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan will introduce a Bill to provide for regulation and maintenance of standards of education and services by allied and healthcare professionals, assessment of institutions, maintenance of a Central Register and State Register, and creation of a system to improve access, research and development and adoption of latest scientific advancement.The Aircraft (Amendment) Bill and the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill are also expected to be passed in the Upper House on Tuesday along with the Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-what-to-expect-today/story-3y2JdzOLCh21WgIecGIsFM.html
15-09-2020||India||IT ministry to launch AI challenges for domestic entrepreneurs||The Union Ministry of Communication and Information Technology (MeitY) aims to launch a raft of artificial intelligence (AI) challenges in a bid to empower domestic entrepreneurs amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The ministry will hold AI challenges for sectors like healthcare, education, agriculture, natural language processing and smart mobility and transportation. Applications will be invited on MyGov, a citizen-engagement platform, and will also be promoted on MeitY Start-up Hub in partnership with Atal Innovation Mission, NITI Aayog. A jury, comprising experts from industry, academia and the government, will select 16 best AI start-ups on October 6.In each category, the best AI start-up will receive a cash prize of 20 lakh. “This event is being planned in partnership with industry stakeholders. It will give a platform to the best AI start-ups to showcase their innovations to the world and also to venture capitalists (VCs),” the ministry said. The last date of submission of the applications is September 24. “The importance of digital transformation has accelerated manifold in the last few months, as Covid-19 has brought to the fore the importance of digital technologies, including AI in addressing the healthcare crisis, restarting supply chains, enabling online education and almost every aspect of the economy,” stated the ministry’s website, where registration for the upcoming AI challenges is in progress. The ministry will also organise RAISE 2020 – Responsible AI for Social Empowerment 2020 -- a global summit on AI that will be held virtually between October 5 and 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-ministry-to-launch-ai-challenges-for-domestic-entrepreneurs/story-3e0TqsgPbdVoJxviH9wWxL.html
15-09-2020||India||‘Politically-sophisticated’ attempt to influence Delhi elections on Facebook before it was taken down: Ex employee||A “politically-sophisticated” attempt to influence the Delhi elections in February played out on Facebook before it was taken down silently, a recently fired employee of the social media company has said in a memo. Former Facebook data scientist Sophie Zhang has also cited examples in the memo of how the company has failed to act on time or with transparency in tackling attempts to undermine democratic processes around the world.American digital media outlet BuzzFeed News accessed the memo and reported about it late on Monday. The memo cites instances of alleged influence operations by political parties in Azerbaijan and Honduras, and similar but unattributed campaigns in Ukraine, Spain, Brazil, Bolivia, and Ecuador, in addition to India.Also Read: Hate speech complaints: Delhi Assembly panel summons Facebook official“I worked through sickness to take down a politically-sophisticated network of more than a thousand actors working to influence the election,” Zhang wrote in the 6,600-word memo, according to the BuzzFeed report. It added Facebook did not report the takedown officially.Zhang, who did not specify who was behind the attempt, was with Facebook’s Site Integrity fake engagement team. “In the three years I’ve spent at Facebook, I’ve found multiple blatant attempts by foreign national governments to abuse our platform on vast scales to mislead their own citizenry, and caused international news on multiple occasions,” she wrote in the memo.Also Read: Plea in Supreme Court over data protection in UPI platformsThe disclosure adds to questions of transparency in how the social media company acts on problematic content, which includes hate speech and fake information that has been proven to succeed in influencing elections. It also spotlights the problem of who takes these calls, which in Zhang’s case appeared to be a mid-level employee.“There was so much violating behaviour worldwide that it was left to my personal assessment of which cases to further investigate, to file tasks, and escalate for prioritization afterwards,” she wrote in the memo.The BuzzFeed News report is the third since the August 14 story by the Wall Street Journal that first detailed how Facebook struggles to manage content on its website, especially those involving politicians.Facebook India’s policy team members personally intervened to halt action against a Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party leader, citing a potential risk to the company’s commercial interests in the country, the first report said.Facebook has since banned the politician and denied that it acted in a biased manner. The company is being investigated by a parliamentary and Delhi legislative assembly committees.Zhang suggested Facebook has a pattern of prioritising such problems only when they turn into a publicity issue for the company. “It’s why I’ve seen priorities of escalations shoot up when others start threatening to go to the press, and why I was informed by a leader in my organization that my civic work was not impactful under the rationale that if the problems were meaningful they would have attracted attention, became a press fire, and convinced the company to devote more attention to space.”It was not clear why Zhang was fired, but the report noted that she had turned down a $64,000 severance to avoid a no-disparagement deal.The Buzzfeed News report did not carry a reaction from the company.The misinformation campaigns in Honduras and Azerbaijan appeared to be the most serious Zhang was involved in responding to. Facebook took nine months to act on the Honduras attempt, and responded close to a year after the Azerbaijan campaign was flagged, the report added.A Facebook company spokesperson said they have built specialised teams, working with leading experts, to stop bad actors from abusing their systems. “[The teams have resulted] in the removal of more than 100 networks for coordinated inauthentic behaviour.” The spokesperson said it is a highly involved work that these teams do as their full-time remit. “Working against coordinated inauthentic behaviour is our priority, but we are also addressing the problems of spam and fake engagement. We investigate each issue carefully, including those that Ms Zhang raises, before we take action or go out and make claims publicly as a company.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politically-sophisticated-attempt-to-influence-delhi-elections-on-facebook-before-it-was-taken-down-ex-employee/story-xb85vKHU3hT4HUs5GHhisN.html
15-09-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Modi govt over deaths of migrant workers||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday attacked the government for stating in Parliament on Monday -- the first day of the 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session -- that it did not know how many migrant workers had died during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown while returning to their native places. “Modi government does not know how many migrant workers died or how many people lost their jobs during the lockdown,” he tweeted in Hindi. “You didn’t count so what, nobody died? Yes, but it is unfortunate that there was no impact on the government. The world saw them dying but the Modi government remained clueless,” Gandhi added. मोदी सरकार नहीं जानती कि लॉकडाउन में कितने प्रवासी मज़दूर मरे और कितनी नौकरियाँ गयीं।तुमने ना गिना तो क्या मौत ना हुई?हाँ मगर दुख है सरकार पे असर ना हुई,उनका मरना देखा ज़माने ने,एक मोदी सरकार है जिसे ख़बर ना हुई।In reply to a written question in the Lok Sabha, minister of state (MoS) for labour and employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar had said on Monday that the government did not have any record of deaths of migrant workers during the Covid-19 pandemic. “No such data was maintained,” the minister had said in the written reply. In reply to another question, Gangwar had said the government did not have any assessment of job losses of migrant labourers during the viral outbreak. When asked “whether the government has provided any compensation/economic assistance to victims’ families,” the government had said, “the question does not arise”, since it had no records in the first place. However, on the total number of migrants who had returned to their home states, the minister presented state-wise data and said, “More than 630,7000 migrants shifted to various destinations during the Covid-19 pandemic. While 4611 Shramik Special Trains were run to ferry the migrant returnees.” According to an estimate, 122 million people have lost their jobs because of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Around 75% of these were small traders and daily-wage labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-attacks-modi-govt-over-deaths-of-migrant-workers/story-lXnsInhRqiEkzF2DQVnk9H.html
15-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally closer to 5 million, but daily case count drops to 83,809||The surge of new coronavirus disease cases continued in India on Tuesday when the country recorded 83,809 new cases. This pushed the overall tally to 49,30,236, according to Union health ministry data.The number of active cases in the country stand at 9,90,061, while 38,59,399 patients have been discharged, the health ministry data showed.The country also recorded 1,054 new fatalities due to the disease and the death toll has now reached 80,776.But as a silver lining, India also has the highest number of recovered patients in the world, according to Johns Hopkins University. India has seen 37,80,107 patients recover from the disease so far, which is more than Brazil’s count of 37,23,206 recoveries.After the United States, India is the worst affected country by the coronavirus disease, followed by Brazil.The health ministry had said on Monday that more than 60 per cent of the active Covid-19 cases are concentrated in five states: Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. It also said that the recovery rate in the country has reached 78 per cent.“India’s journey of a fast-growing recovery rate has crossed a milestone on Monday. On a continuous upward trajectory, the recovery rate has touched 78 per cent, reflecting the increasing number of high recoveries per day,” it said in a statement.Speaking in Parliament on Monday, health minister Harsh Vardhan said that a portfolio of therapeutic options for Covid-19 patients is being built by undertaking 13 clinical trials of repurposed drugs and harnessing traditional knowledge using the modern medicine approach.In a statement in the Lok Sabha on the Covid-19 pandemic and steps taken by the central government, Vardhan said that a major focus has been on facilitating the development of vaccine and more than 30 candidates have been supported which are in different stages of development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-closer-to-5-million-but-daily-case-count-drops-to-83-809/story-KfJ1VlW2QEScrlOLGIj1eN.html
15-09-2020||India||Monitor realtime movement of oxygen tankers, Centre directs states||The Union health ministry held a second meeting with states on Monday on the issue of streamlining medical oxygen supply across the country, asking them to press more tankers into action, re-purpose similar vehicles to carry oxygen, and take steps to reduce their turnaround time so that Covid-19 patients have access to adequate oxygen.The states were also asked to begin realtime monitoring of all tankers that transport medical oxygen supplies; undertake an oxygen consumption audit, ensure only cases requiring medical oxygenation are administered oxygen, prevent leakage due to negligence, and improve oxygen storage capacity in hospitals.Also Read: Covid-19 has set global health progress back decades: Gates FoundationClose to 6% of active Covid-19 cases, who experience moderate to severe symptoms, require oxygen support.The supply gap has largely been noticed in northeastern states where a total of 11 tankers in the state of Assam supply oxygen to most of the eight states.“There are other states which don’t have a manufacturing unit and are dependent on other states for the supply. All states have been asked to assess the need and draft a plan so that there is no shortage at any point,” said a senior health ministry official, did not wish to be identified.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe states were specifically asked to monitor cryogenic tankers used to supply oxygen in realtime; re-purpose argon and nitrogen tankers to increase the number; and to not impose restrictions on the free movement of oxygen.The health ministry reiterated guidelines from its Sunday advisory, asking states to ensure facility- and hospital-wise oxygen inventory management and advance planning for timely replenishment , and to provide a green corridor for liquid medical oxygen tankers within cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitor-realtime-movement-of-oxygen-tankers-centre-directs-states/story-PqoxWNtiHDR9tqfXk70mhN.html
15-09-2020||India||TV9 former CEO Ravi Prakash moves tribunal to buy majority stake in company||V Ravi Prakash, former chief executive officer of popular multilingual television channel TV9, on Monday moved the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in Hyderabad seeking to take over the channel management – Associated Broadcasting Company Private Limited (ABCL) by buying majority stake in it.Ravi Prakash, who was founder-director of ABCL was sacked as director and CEO on May 10 last year for allegedly cheating the company promoters.The company, which was originally promoted by Srini Raju of iLabs, was acquired by Alanda Media and Entertainment Limited, jointly promoted by real estate major My Home Group and construction giant Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) which bought 90.54% of shares.Ravi Prakash, however, still owns a minor stake of 8.82 per cent in the company, though he was sacked from the board. On October 5 last, he was later arrested by the Banjara Hills police in Hyderabad in connection with alleged siphoning off Rs 18.31 crore from the company and was released on bail on October 26.In his latest petition in the NCLT, Ravi Prakash said the TV9 channel had run into losses ever since the new management took over the company. The company’s valuation report prepared in August 2020 stated that the present share value of the company in the market is Rs 78.32 per share, as against Rs 252 per share when it was taken over by the new management, he said.“The profit after taxes of the company which was Rs 16.78 crore for 2018-19 went down to a loss of Rs 56.09 crore at the end of 2019-20 financial year. For 2020-21, the company projected a loss of Rs 58.78 crore,” Ravi Prakash pointed out, adding that the projections indicate that the company does not foresee any positive results for the next four years.In an attempt to have an amicable settlement with the new management, the former CEO said he had proposed to sell his minor stake of 20 lakh shares in the company at the original rate of Rs 252 per share, but the management offered to buy the same only at Rs 78.32 per share as per the market value.“What is worse, the management claimed that I was holding only 5 lakh fully paid-up equity shares and the remaining 15 lakh shares were only partly paid-up shares. In fact, the previous board of management on May 6, 2019, had resolved to convert these 15 lakh shares into fully paid-up shares and I had even paid Rs 1.35 crore for the same. The board resolutions and payment details were sent to the Registrar of Companies and Union ministry of corporate affairs,” Ravi Prakash said.He said now that the company itself had projected in its valuation report that the share value had come down to Rs 78.32, he requested the NCLT to allow him to take over the majority stake in the company at this price, since the present management had pushed the profit-making company into losses.When contacted, a top executive of the ABCL, who preferred not to be quoted, said there was absolutely no merit in the petition filed by Ravi Prakash before the NCLT. “When nobody in the company is willing to sell his stakes, where is the question of Ravi Prakash buying them, let alone taking over the management?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tv9-former-ceo-ravi-prakash-moves-tribunal-to-buy-majority-stake-in-company/story-UUnmUnpiSZxfAZAch1oQSP.html
15-09-2020||India||UP BJP workers donate blood, plasma to mark ‘service week’ for PM’s birthday||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders claimed its cadres in Uttar Pradesh, including Covid survivors, donated 6,000 units of blood and 63 units of plasma on Monday on the launch of ‘seva saptah’ (service week) that the party is holding to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. The party’s state secretary Subhash Yaduvansh, who also is the chief of UP BJP youth wing, said the donation drive was aimed at ensuring that the poor and needy got blood and plasma.“This was done through blood donation camps organised by the party across the state,” he added. BJP co-media in-charge Himanshu Dubey confirmed that 63 Covid survivors donated plasma. The party would hold camps on Tuesday to donate spectacles to the poor. PM Modi would turn 70 on Thursday. The BJP service week theme is ‘70’ as part of which the party would hold 70 virtual rallies in each district and the party cadres would add 70 people in each district to the cause of serving the masses.BJP chief JP Nadda launched the service week from Chaprauli village in Gautam Buddha Nagar on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bjp-workers-donate-blood-plasma-to-mark-service-week-for-pm-s-birthday/story-eFP9HpokqmisZPdiWyXiGM.html
15-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries highest in the world, data shows||Even as India continues to have the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the world, it has also become the country with the highest number of recovered cases. On Monday, India went past Brazil to have the highest number of Covid-19 recoveries globally, data from the US-based John Hopkins University showed.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia, as per the data, has seen 3,780,107 patients recover from the disease thus far. Brazil, meanwhile, has 3,723,206 recoveries, followed by the United States at 2,451,406.  Also read: What you need to know about Covid-19 todayIncidentally, these are also the three worst-hit countries in the world, with the United States followed by India and Brazil.According to the university, which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world, the global coronavirus tally currently stands at 29,006,003 . Of these, over 19 million people have recovered from the disease.India, meanwhile, has thus far reported 4,846,427 cases of coronavirus. With 3,780,107 recoveries, its recovery rate stands at 77.99%. There have also been 79,722 fatalities.“Around 77,512 patients have been discharged in the last 24 hours. The total recovered cases are 37,80,107. The gap between recovered cases and active cases is consistently increasing. This has touched nearly 28 lakh today (27,93,509),” the Union health ministry had said in a statement on Monday.India is currently in fourth stage of unlock, which began on September 1 and will end on September 30. A number of relaxations have been given for this phase, including reopening of Metro services, and partial reopening of schools, albeit only for guidance purposes. The country started reopening in phases from June 1, after four stages of strict nationwide lockdown from March 25-May 31.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-highest-in-the-world-john-hopkins-university-data-shows/story-84BFHnfkkYKuTIUPGKP12N.html
15-09-2020||India||Netflix argues for free speech in court spat with Indian tycoons over ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’||An Indian court’s decision to stall the release of a Netflix Inc series on four Indian tycoons facing fraud allegations “freezes free speech” and hurts the company financially, the U.S. streaming giant has argued in a court filing seen by Reuters.“Bad Boy Billionaires” is a documentary series about liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya, Sahara group’s Subrata Roy, Indian IT executive Ramalinga Raju and jeweller Nirav Modi. Netflix put the show on hold this month on order of a state court where Sahara alleged violation of Roy’s privacy rights.Roy is currently on bail in a case where he was ordered by court to repay billions of dollars to investors in a scheme which was found to be illegal. Roy denied wrongdoing in the case and has already repaid investors, his counsel said.Arguing for free speech in an appeal at the High Court of eastern Bihar state, Netflix said the docuseries was an assimilation of information available in public domain. The filing has not previously been reported.The pre-publication injunction granted by the court “freezes free speech,” Netflix said in the filing earlier this month, which was reviewed by Reuters. It argued it has a right to free speech “on a matter of public interest.”Some Netflix shows in India have faced court challenges and police complaints for obscenity or for hurting sentiments. The ongoing legal spat is among the most high-profile ones Netflix has faced in India, one of its key growth markets.The court in Bihar that gave the injunction earlier had said the series “would certainly damage the reputation” of Roy. Sahara and Netflix declined to comment. Roy could not be reached for comment.The U.S. streaming giant has argued it had invested large sums and done worldwide publicity on the series. The injunction, Netflix argued, resulted in irreparable monetary loss, as well as affected its goodwill and reputation.Netflix describes “Bad Boy Billionaires” as an “investigative docuseries (which) explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up - and ultimately brought down - India’s most infamous tycoons.”Netflix is locked in a legal spat not just with Sahara, but also another businessman Raju whose story was to appear in the series.Raju, accused of a $1-billion accounting fraud more than a decade ago, had secured a separate state court order against the show’s release, but Netflix has challenged it in a higher court, said A. Venkatesh, a lawyer representing Raju.Raju will continue to argue against the show’s release, said Venkatesh.Both Netflix’s appeals are likely to be heard in coming days. It was not clear if the other two tycoons - Modi and Mallya - have filed petitions against the release of the series.Modi is facing extradition attempts by India after his arrest in London last year over his alleged involvement in a $2 billion bank fraud. Mallya, too, is in Britain fighting India’s extradition bid for alleged fraud at his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.Modi and Mallya have denied any wrongdoing.Zulfiquar Memon of Indian law firm MZM Legal, who is part of team representing Modi in his extradition case, said they hadn’t filed any case to halt the release of the series, but were “sitting on the fence” tracking the ongoing proceedings.A lawyer for Mallya could not immediately be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netflix-argues-for-free-speech-in-court-spat-with-indian-tycoons-over-bad-boy-billionaires/story-3IfwF5eXG3Pnx0JJsffHzH.html
15-09-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh: Patient’s kin forcibly take away oxygen cylinder from govt hospital||A patient’s relatives forcibly took away an oxygen cylinder from eastern Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Ballia district government hospital after the critically ill patient was referred to a hospital in Varanasi on September 13 evening, police said.Ramesh Prasad Gupta, chief pharmacist at the healthcare facility, said Ankit Singh, a resident of Kharauni village in Ballia, was admitted to the district hospital on September 12. Dr Anurag Singh, pharmacist Pankaj Upadhyaya and ward boy Sanjay Kumar were on duty and Singh received proper treatment, Gupta said. However, he was referred to a hospital in Varanasi the following day (September 13) because of his critical condition.Gupta alleged Singh’s relatives forcibly took away the oxygen cylinder. Dr BP Singh, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, was informed about the incident. Later, Dr Singh apprised the district police authorities about the patient’s relatives’ alleged indiscretion. An official at Kotwali police station said a probe is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-patient-s-kin-forcibly-take-away-oxygen-cylinder-from-govt-hospital/story-R3eDzhg16M5Jtnn5hVwfdI.html
15-09-2020||India||EOW arrests HDIL promoter Sarang Wadhwan in Rs 1,034-crore scam||Mumbai Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) arrested Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) promoter Sarang Wadhawan late Monday evening in connection with the Rs 1,034-crore scam involving the Goregaon Patra Chawl redevelopment project. A first information report (FIR) was filed against Guruashish Constructions Private (Pvt) Limited (Ltd), a subsidiary of HDIL, in March 2018 on the basis of a complaint by Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA). Also read: PMC Bank fraud case: Shift HDIL’s Rakesh Wadhawan to govt hospital, says PMLA courtWadhawan was lodged in Arthur Road Jail after he was arrested in October 2019 along with his father and others by the EOW in connection with the Rs 6,337-crore fraud at the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank.“We have arrested Sarang Wadhwan to investigate the Patra Chawl redevelopment fraud case. He will be produced in court on Tuesday,” said an EOW official.Wadhawan is one of the directors of Guruashish Constructions. He was booked along with other directors of the firm, under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in March, 2018 on the basis of the complaint by MHADA.In February Pravin Raut, also a director in the company, was arrested by EOW. EOW suspects that MHADA officials, who had held key posts in 2011, were hand-in-glove with the accused and their role will also be probed. The redevelopment of Patra Chawl in Siddharth Nagar has been mired in controversy since the beginning. In 2007, MHADA had allowed Guruashish Constructions to redevelop the chawl spread over 47 acres and rehabilitate its 672 tenants. However, later, MHADA received complaints that Guruashish Constructions had sold the project to another developer. The charge was denied by the firm’s directors.In lieu of the development rights of the property, Guruashish Constructions was to give 767 square (sq) feet (ft) built-up area flats to each of the 672 tenants and 2,28,961 sq ft constructed area to MHADA. The accused developer also stopped paying transit rent to the displaced tenants after two years.“The developer disposed of various parcels of MHADA land for construction of free sale component buildings to various third party developers without obtaining consent from the authorty and received substantial amounts of money, running into thousands of crores of rupees. The third party developers have sold flats in the free sale component to various purchasers and have also received substantial amounts of money,” Nitin Gadkari, executive engineer, MHADA, had alleged in the complaint.“Guruashish Constructions allegedly breached the trust and sub-contracted the redevelopment to two-three other developers. The accused not only sublet the contract, but also mortgaged the property to take loan, while keeping MHADA in the dark,” said another official.In January, 2018 Guruashish Constructions was given the last opportunity to clarify its alleged irregularities by February 15. An FIR was filed because it had failed to respond to the notice before the deadline expired, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eow-arrests-hdil-promoter-sarang-wadhwan-in-rs-1-034-crore-scam/story-Ft0zh7eal5BOwRisZM5uOI.html
15-09-2020||India||IMD issues heavy rain warning for peninsular India||India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall over coastal Andhra Pradesh (AP), Telangana, Maharashtra, parts of Gujarat, coastal and northern interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe during the next four-five days.A well-marked low pressure area is lying over west-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining northern AP coast. It is very likely to move west and north-westwards across Telangana during the next two-three days.The monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position – from Ganganagar in western Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal. Its eastern end is likely to remain to the south of its normal position until Thursday (September 17).Also Read: 70% rise in Mumbai’s pollution levels during first week of SeptemberAn offshore trough at mean sea level is running from southern Gujarat coast to northern Karnataka coast. It is likely to persist along the west coast during the next five days.IMD is expecting widespread and heavy rains in the peninsular region because of these favourable conditions.There are no indications of monsoon withdrawal from north-west parts of the country yet. “We haven’t got any indication as yet of monsoon withdrawal from north-west India. Another low-pressure area is likely to develop over the Bay of Bengal around September 17, but we need to assess the models further to be certain. Monsoon withdrawal can begin only once anticyclonic flow is established and moisture reduces significantly over the region,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-heavy-rain-warning-for-peninsular-india/story-lTrLYKoAy2nQAEvXZsABQM.html
15-09-2020||India||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh likely to address Parliament today on India-China border issue||Defence minister Rajnath Singh is expected to make a statement in Parliament on Tuesday on standoff between Indian and Chinese soldiers at the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The address is expected to take place at around 3 pm in the Lok Sabha.Also read | ‘Xi Jinping has risked his future with LAC incursions’: Report on China border rowSingh’s address comes amid the rising demands by the Opposition leaders for a debate on the matter.Parliament convened again on Monday after almost six months amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The tension between India and China escalated manifold along the LAC in eastern Ladakh after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.Also read: China invokes 1962 war to put India on a defensive. It won’t work | AnalysisOn September 11, both countries agreed on five points to guide their approach to the situation on the LAC, including the disengagement of troops and easing of tensions, following talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meet in Moscow on Thursday.The two sides will continue communications through the Special Representatives mechanism, and meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs will continue.The ministers agreed that “as the situation eases, the two sides should expedite work to conclude new confidence-building measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquillity in the border areas”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-likely-to-address-parliament-today-on-india-china-border-issue/story-8IRNRvOhlyrxkx9fQugxWM.html
15-09-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh to set up transgender welfare board||After granting rights to the transgender people to enable them to inherit ancestral agriculture land, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to set up a transgender welfare board under the state’s social welfare department. “The Board would work for the welfare and uplift of the transgender community. Along with the state government officers, the board would also include transgender representatives and the members of the social organisations working for the welfare of the transgenders,” a state government official said. He said the transgender welfare board will identify transgenders across UP, enlist them, issue identity cards, get them enrolled in educational institutions, provide them accommodation under various hostel and housing schemes of the state government and launch welfare schemes for the community. The UP Kinnar Akhada Parishad had demanded for the constitution of the transgender welfare board after the Supreme Court in its order in 2014 recognised transgender as the third gender. The Central government’s expert committee had directed the UP government to constitute a welfare board for transgenders, he said. In March 2019, the State Law Commission, in a proposal submitted to the government, had raised the demand for a law acknowledging the inheritance rights of the ‘third gender’. The commission’s chairman justice AN Mittal had drawn attention of the government towards the inheritance laws that missed the transgenders. During the monsoon session, the legislative assembly passed the UP Revenue Code Bill, 2020 to allow the transgender people in the state to inherit ancestral agriculture land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-to-set-up-transgender-welfare-board/story-EqGsbBU3BnlBIeT6hWJ1lK.html
15-09-2020||India||Encounter underway between security forces, terrorists in J-K’s Pulwama||An encounter broke out between security forces and terrorists in Marwal area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district early on Tuesday, the police said.An operation was launched jointly by police, Army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) late last night on a specific information.The security forces launched a cordon and search operation there, a police official said.He said during the search, militants fired on the forces, who retaliated, leading to an encounter. The exchange of firing was going on and details were awaited, the official said.(With inputs from agencies).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-underway-between-security-forces-terrorists-in-j-k-s-pulwama/story-JbG9NE3jdO3XgIAwhzzEaI.html
15-09-2020||India||15-yr-old UP teen gang-raped by 5 men who filmed crime, shared it online: Cop||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by five men in Sitapur last week and the incident came to light on Monday after an accused shared a video of the crime on a social media platform, the police said.Superintendent of police, Sitapur, Rakesh Prakash Singh said, “The incident occurred on September 7 in Imalia Sultanpur area. The accused reportedly threatened the girl of consequences if she informed anyone. Apparently, this is why the girl did not inform her family members about it.”The local police acted after the video went viral and an FIR was filed in the matter. Teams from four police stations were deployed on the case. The police detained one of the accused.“We have detained one of the accused and our teams are raiding possible hideouts of the remaining accused. All the accused are adults and are of the same area. Efforts are also being made to prevent further circulation of the video online,” the police officer said.According to locals, five men surrounded the girl when she was on her way back from a market. They took her to a secluded spot near the village and gang-raped her. They also shot a video of the act and threatened the girl that they would make it go viral if she told anyone about the incident. The girl will be taken for a medical examination on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-year-old-gang-raped-in-up-case-filed-after-clip-is-shared-online/story-6hgynB4nD0hT1NCJyzt72O.html
15-09-2020||India||‘Xi Jinping has risked his future with LAC incursions’: Report on China border row||China’s failure to push around the Indian troops in the Line of Actual Control (LAC) means that the ability of Chinese President Xi Jinping to intimidate anyone has reduced.In an opinion article for Newsweek written by Gordon G Chang, a lawyer and commentator, the Chinese President has risked his future with the failed high-profile incursions of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) into more areas of the LAC, the border between India and China.The writer says that Xi is the “architect” of these aggressive moves into India and the Chinese troops have unexpectedly flopped. Also Watch | China defends Pakistan after India & US call for action against terrorThe failures of the Chinese Army at the LAC will have consequences and will give Xi an excuse to pick up the pace of replacing adversaries in the armed forces with loyal elements.Also read: China invokes 1962 war to put India on a defensive. It won’t work | AnalysisHowever, these failures motivate Xi, who as chairman of the Chinese Communist Party’s Central Military Commission, is the leader of the PLA, to renew his bid to launch another offensive against Indian positions.In early May, Chinese troops advanced south of the LAC in three separate areas in Ladakh. With the boundary poorly demarcated, Chinese forces have trespassed into Indian positions for years, especially after Xi was appointed the party’s general secretary in 2012.Cleo Paskal of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies told Newsweek that large-scale manoeuvres in Tibet were not preparations for such a move.In June, China and India were engaged in a violent face-off in Galwan Valley. Chinese troops killed 20 Indian soldiers in a premeditated move and the clash was the first deadly confrontation between the two countries in 45 years.While the Chinese side is thought to have suffered 43 casualties in the Galwan face-off, the number could exceed 60, according to Paskal.Late last month, for the first time in a half-century, India launched an offensive against China, taking back strategic points the Chinese recently grabbed. The offensive took the Chinese forces aback and they retreated.Chang, the writer, says that China’s subsequent efforts to counter India has proved ineffective. For now, Indian troops, in the southernmost of the three areas of Ladakh, are under its control, which was once in Chinese hands.“India is not giving the invaders the opportunity to improve. Both sides have just accused the other of violating decades-old rules of engagement by firing warning shots. It appears, however, the Chinese are the ones closer to the truth: India’s troops are displaying newfound boldness,” the author says.“The game has changed. You can say the Indians are more aggressive or more aggressively defensive, but they are in fact bolder and better,” Paskal told Newsweek.According to Jayadeva Ranade, a former senior Indian intelligence official and now head of the New Delhi-based Centre for China Analysis and Strategy, Xi who has now faced a setback, now needs a “victory” and could force further conflict in Ladakh.Richard Fisher of the Virginia-based International Assessment and Strategy Center told Newsweek that the Chinese, in that conflict, could roll out “joint mechanised warfare for which they have been preparing for 30 years.”With the rapid buildup of Indian forces and their high-state of readiness, Xi is not assured of the success he needs, especially as India has brought its own mechanised vehicles to Ladakh, according to Ranade.“PLA leaders begin to see little choice but to undertake offensive military actions to avoid becoming a victim of Xi’s internal terror,” Fisher says.“What we are learning in 2020 is that Xi wants victories, and as the PLA is judged to have reached requisite levels of strength by rearming and reorganization, Xi is increasingly willing to use the military,” Fisher adds.Xi has shown that he is good at the political mobilisation of the army and can spend huge amount on military equipment. He has also perfected the art of intimidating other countries. However, the Chinese President has yet to show his military in a fight and is worth a damn.“Unfortunately, it looks like China’s leader, who had looked invincible, now has something to prove. As a result, he appears absolutely determined to make his point by launching another attempt to break India apart,” Chang says adding that other countries will take cognisance that Chinese military is deficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/xi-jinping-has-risked-his-future-with-lac-incursions-report-on-china-border-row/story-exbuosBi7PhN6HWQWYi8hP.html
15-09-2020||India||India beats China, becomes member of UN’s ECOSOC body||India has been elected as a member of the United Nation’s Commission on Status of Women, a body of the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), said TS Tirumurti, permanent representative of India to the United Nations, on Monday (local time).Taking to Twitter, Tirumurti said, “India wins seat in prestigious ECOSOC body! India elected member of Commission on Status of Women (CSW). It’s a ringing endorsement of our commitment to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in all our endeavours. We thank member states for their support.” #BREAKING: India wins seat in prestigious #ECOSOC body by defeating China at @UN. India, Afghanistan, China contested elections. India & Afghanistan won, China couldn't get enough votes. India elected Member of Commission on Status of Women #CSW. Congrats, @ambtstirumurti! 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/YyDx0HleALIndia, Afghanistan and China had contested the elections to the Commission on Status of Women. Even as India and Afghanistan won the ballot among the 54 members, China could not cross the half-way mark. This year is the 25th anniversary of the famous Beijing World Conference on Women (1995). India will be a member of United Nation’s Commission on Status of Women for four years, 2021 to ‘25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-beats-china-becomes-member-of-un-s-ecosoc-body/story-GNr4q8CxzxFpZ0o3ReAvwM.html
15-09-2020||India||Maharashtra’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign to tackle Covid-19 rolls out from today||Starting Tuesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will roll out the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign, as part of the government’s statewide outreach programme to check the health status of over 26 lakh families in Mumbai to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).On the eve of the launch of the campaign, state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday asked officials to ensure its success.The CM interacted with all the divisional commissioners and district collectors via video conferencing. Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope, Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar and others also attended the meeting, an official statement said.The chief minister said the government machinery has been working round-the-clock over the past five-six months to tackle the disease, but the challenge is not yet over, it said.Thackeray said the government was unlocking the state in a staggered manner and that living with the novel coronavirus is reality now.“Ensuring that no one gets infected by the disease is the key mantra and our squads will reach out to households to inform people on this,” the statement quoted Thackeray as saying.In the first phase of the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative, the government has set a target of reaching 2.25 crore families twice a month, for which help of NGOs and elected representatives will be taken.Volunteers will be appointed by the health department for undertaking a door-to-door survey and test temperature and oxygen levels of people.The teams will trace suspected Covid-19 patients and those suffering from other ailments, as per the government.The first phase of the campaign will end on October 10 and the second phase will take place between October 12 to 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-my-family-my-responsibility-campaign-to-tackle-covid-19-rolls-out-from-today/story-ljb1BFm8dAIYsIRx43CTQK.html
15-09-2020||India||Umar Khalid in 10-day custody, police to show him 1.1mn pages of data||A Delhi court on Monday sent former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid to 10 days in police custody,a day after his arrest under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA, for his alleged role in a conspiracy behind the February riots in the national capital’s north-east district.Khalid’s counsel Trideep Pais told the court that his client was not in Delhi between February 23 and 26, when the riots took place; that he was opposed to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, and not ashamed of his stand; and that the police were yet to produce evidence that Khalid had incited the protests.The court accepted the police’s remand application on the grounds that the 33-year-old has to be confronted with a huge volume of technical data, and that he should be sent to custody so that an effective investigation can be carried out.Several activists and civil society members have opposed Khalid’s arrest on allegedly flimsy grounds, and have demanded to know why the police have taken no action against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra, who was seen giving an inflammatory speech in north-east Delhi a day before the violence broke out on February 24.They also asked why other BJP leaders were not booked for speeches delivered during the run up to the Delhi elections just weeks before the riots.Nine retired IPS officers on Monday wrote to Delhi’s police commissioner SN Srivastava saying they were “pained” at police implicating anti-CAA protesters while “letting off the hook all those who instigated violence and are associated by the ruling party”. Though the letter did not mention any names, BJP leaders Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma were criticised at the time for speeches and slogans ahead of the Delhi elections. Mishra, who denies all charges, on Monday released a video congratulating the police for arresting Khalid and “people like him”, and likened the riots with the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.Delhi Police produced Khalid before additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat in a virtual hearing of the Karkardooma court on Monday afternoon. Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad said Khalid had to be confronted with documents that run into nearly 1.1 million pages and “huge technical data”. The judge allowed Khalid’s counsel to interact with his client for half-an-hour every day, while asking police officers to remain outside the audible range during the meetings. He also directed a deputy commissioner of police (DCP) to make arrangements for ensuring Khalid’s safety and security during the police remand after Pais raised concern over the safety of his client in case he is taken out of the police station.Fifty-three people were killed and around 400 injured in the north-east Delhi riots, which started as clashes between pro- and anti-CAA and protestors before acquiring a communal colour. The police contended that an examination of witnesses revealed that Khalid was coordinating between protest sites in Delhi in connivance with other radical groups. “Further interrogation is needed in order to unearth deep-rooted conspiracy and to collect clinching evidence to nab/arrest the remaining conspirators behind these riots During the course of investigation, names of some more suspects have also cropped up and above named accused are required to be questioned at length about those suspects to obtain their exact particulars for further investigation,” the police remand application said.Khalid was arrested at around 11pm on Sunday after 10 hours of questioning. He was arrested in a case registered by the special cell of Delhi Police that is probing a suspected larger conspiracy behind the Delhi riots. The case has been registered under stringent Sections, including 13, 16, 17 and 18 of the UAPA that pertain to unlawful activities, terrorist acts, raising funds for terrorist acts and conspiracy.‘Planned riots’In the same case, police have arrested at least 11 others, including former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor former Tahir Hussain, activists Khalid Saifi, Safoora Zargar and Gufisha Khatoon, who are students of Jamia Millia Islamia, and Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, both JNU students and members of the women’s collective Pinjra Tod. The police also alleged: “The riots were planned to be happened during or prior to the visit of US President Donald Trump in February 2020.” “My son was targeted for participating in the protests held against the CAA and National Register of Citizens across the country,” Khalid’s father, Sayed Qasim Rasool Ilyas said.Khalid has been named in multiple first information reports (FIRs) and charge sheets filed by police in the riots cases. Police have alleged that Khalid orchestrated the riots along with AAP councillor Hussain and activist Khalid Saifi, a member of the United Against Hate group. In least four charge sheets filed in city courts, the police have said that Khalid met the two men at the Shaheen Bagh protest site on January 8, during which they discussed a plan to orchestrate the riots. In a twitter post, advocate Prashant Bhushan criticised Delhi Police for arresting Khalid but not acting against Kapil Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/umar-khalid-in-10-day-custody-police-to-show-him-1-1mn-pages-of-data/story-AswCCMo8FIzyA65C6SOsFI.html
15-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The much-delayed release last week of detailed data from an antibody prevalence study conducted in May by the Indian Council of Medical Research has resulted in a flurry of projections on the actual number of coronavirus disease cases in India. The study, whose headline results were reported in June (by the HT newsroom and a few others) showed a prevalence of 0.73% among adults, translating into around 6.5 million infections.This number isn’t cause for alarm as some suggest.Similar surveys conducted since have shown that the prevalence in large urban centres could be as high as 20%. Antibody prevalence surveys for some parts of rural India are available, but the sample sizes are far too small for the results to be taken seriously. Still, based on the 20% number, it can be safely assumed that around 15% of the urban population, and 5%-7.5% of the rural population (a third to half the urban proportion) has been exposed to the virus.Also read: Delhi Metro now puts floor stickers to ensure social distancingAssuming a rural population of 850 million and an urban one of 450 million, this translates into 67.5 million cases in urban India, and between 42.5 and 63.75 million cases in rural India — a total of between 110 million and 131.25 million cases.This number, too, isn’t cause for alarm.It is now widely accepted that around 40% of the people infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 do not show any symptoms. And that many of the others show mild symptoms.Let’s make a third assumption — that the infection fatality rate in urban and rural areas is around the same, the 0.1% calculated in a previous installment of this column (Dispatch 152 on September 8). What urban India gains because of its better health care facilities, it loses on account of the lifestyle of its residents.At a 0.1% infection fatality rate, the number of people who have died thus far from the disease in India should be 110,000 to 131,500. India has seen around 80,000 coronavirus deaths from Covid-19 till Sunday night. That would mean 30,000 to 51,500 deaths may have been missed — not an implausible number even if this isn’t immediately clear in records of deaths (although record-keeping, even in the best of times, isn’t infallible when it comes to deaths and is likely to have been affected because of the pandemic). Even at the higher bound, this death number only translates into a 2.7% case fatality rate (on the basis of reported cases), which is lower than the 3.2% case fatality rate for the world.Also read: Covid-19 cloud on monsoon session as 29 MPs test positiveSome of the gap can be explained. Demographics; the protection granted by the BCG vaccine (widely, near universally administered in India); previous exposure to other coronaviruses resulting in, at the least, a better ability to fight the virus because it is recognisable; and the lower prevalence of lifestyle diseases in rural India, have all been recognised as factors that lower the mortality rate. (Some, such as the BCG factor, have been established by several studies, including a very credible one by JNU scientists).What does the prevalence rate of 10% (assuming a prevalence of 7.5% in rural India) across India mean from the perspective of the country’s fight against the pandemic?It’s still a long distance from the 65% or even 40% required for herd immunity according to widely accepted norms and mathematical models created by scientists at the University of Stockholm and University of Nottingham respectively. But universal masking can help boost this number, according to a study published last week in the New England Journal of Medicine by researchers from the University of California, San Francisco. The researchers argue that “universal masking could become a form of variolation” (the term means exposing an individual to a small or milder form of the virus in the belief that this would result in a mild infection and, ergo, immunity) in a study that has generated a lot of discussion.Their hypothesis is that a mask reduces the quantum of the virus-carrying exhalations inhaled by a wearer, reducing the intensity of infections, even making it asymptomatic. They further add that the proportion of asymptomatic cases is at least 80% in regions that mandate universal masking compared to the widely accepted proportion of 40%. If true, strictly enforcing the wearing of masks could be a safe way to move towards herd immunity while we wait for a vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-VrPL1zUmceC1TyEMPzqZGN.html
15-09-2020||India||Bengal CM Mamata announces stipend, houses for Hindu priests, academies for Dalits||With the West Bengal assembly polls in 2021 becoming crucial for her party, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday made a series of announcements for the state’s Hindi-speaking, backward classes and tribal population as well as different religious groups. Banerjee also announced a monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 and houses for Hindu priests facing poverty. “Many of them (priests) are very poor. They met me several times to seek help. We have given the priests a plot of land at Kolaghat for setting up a place for pilgrims. Priests who do not have houses will be given the same under the state’s rural housing scheme,” Banerjee said at a press conference in the state secretariat. “Please do not think we are doing this only for Hindu priests. We are ready to help clerics from other religions as well. The state Wakf board already gives a stipend to Imams of the mosques. We thought of doing something for the others. The state has already given a 700-acre land to the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) at Nabadwip (Nadia district),” said Banerjee. “The government will prepare a map of places of worship of all religions. The places of worship in poor state will be renovated and preserved. Those with no definite owner or trustee will be taken over by the government,” she said. Describing the moves as a part of the state’s welfare measures for “people from all class, creed and religions,” Banerjee announced that a Hindi language academy will be set up. It will be run by prominent members of the Hindi-speaking population. She announced a series of names as well. Former TMC Rajya Sabha member and newspaper editor Vivek Gupta will head the committee. Making another announcement, Banerjee said, “Similar academies for tribal people and members of the Dalit communities will be set up to help them preserve and spread their culture and heritage.” Banerjee said an academy for Dalit literature will be headed by prominent writer from the community, Manoranjan Byapari, who won the Bangla Akademi award, amongst several others. While referring to the Dalits, the chief minister specifically mentioned the Matua community who comprise a sizeable chunk of voters as well as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Lok Sabha member. Also, BJP won all the three seats in the state’s western districts where the tribal population is significantly big. The culturally important Baishnupur town, which incidentally is in Bankura where the BJP won the Lok Sabha seat in 2019, figures prominently in the chief minister’s new plans. “Bishnupur was a seat of learning centuries ago and the local museum has an archive of more than 3000 handwritten scrolls on various subjects including Vaishnav literature. The state government will digitize these for preservation and research,” she said. The Bengal BJP leadership said Banerjee was making desperate attempts to please Hindi-speaking people, Dalits, tribals and Hindu priests after doing nothing for them for 10 years. “All these years she never thought of these people. Rather she used to target those who chanted the Jai Sri Ram slogan in front of her. She gave stipend to the Imams and attended all Muslim festivals. Her regime will be over in six months. People will not be fooled by these promises,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. Significantly, on Monday morning Banerjee launched an all-new three-tier Hindi cell of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) while India observed Hindi Diwas. The cell will have separate committees at state, district and community block levels. The decision, senior TMC leaders said, was based on recommendations made by election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in by Banerjee after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. The TMC’s tally came down from 34 seats to 22. The BJP poses a challenge to Banerjee in the run-up to the 2021 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-announces-stipend-houses-for-hindu-priests-academies-for-dalits/story-B3uTAtuADpDanfJRLK15OK.html
15-09-2020||India||Karnataka govt permits CBI to prosecute two senior IPS officers in IMA scam||The Karnataka government on Monday permitted the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to prosecute two senior IPS officers Hemant M Nimbalkar and Ajay Hilori in the I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) ponzi scam in which several thousand investors have lost at least Rs 5000 crore.IMA was an investment banking company run by Mahommed Mansoor Khan who claimed it was a sharia-compliant operation run on Islamic principles and which took huge deposits primarily from members of the Muslim community. When IMA stopped paying dividends in March 2019, investors lodged complaints with the police and in June 2019, the Karnataka government set up a SIT to investigate the more than 51,500 complaints which had been filed by investors.On 30 August 2019, the investigation had been transferred to CBI which after a probe sought permission of the state government to prosecute Hemant Nimbalkar who was then IGP, CID and Ajay Hilor who was Deputy Commissioner East under section 197 of CPC and section 170 of the Karnataka Police Act 1963, for extending favours and protecting interests of the IMA promoters.The CBI has said Nimbalkar favoured Mansoor Khan and IMA by preventing a proper enquiry into its affairs. Ajay Hilori has been accused of accepting illegal gratification for extending favours to Khan and IMA. The permission by the state government has been given to CBI vide a letter dated September 11, which was made public today. Incidentally, Nimbalkar’s wife Anjali is the sitting Congress MLA from Khanpur assembly segment of Belgavi. Neither Hemant Nimbalkar nor Ajay Hilori were available to comment on the government’s decision to allow CBI to prosecute them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-permits-cbi-to-prosecute-two-senior-ips-officers-in-ima-scam/story-z0qaLYuZuisYirhVEgEu9J.html
15-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh to set up specialised police unit to counter Maoists in Bastar||The Chhattisgarh government has decided to set up a specialised police unit called the ‘Bastar Special Force’ in which only local young men of the Bastar region will be recruited to counter Maoists.The decision was taken in a review meeting chaired by chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday in which senior police officials and home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu were also present.The government has asked the police headquarters to send a proposal in this regard.“In the meeting, the chief minister said youths from remote villages of Maoist-affected Bastar division will be recruited in this force which will also create employment opportunities for them. Difficult geographical conditions and local dialects pose a huge challenge for police deployment in Bastar region, hence if local young men are recruited they will be of great advantage for the police,” said a senior police official.Director General of Police, Chhattisgarh, DM Awasthi told HT that the attempt is to employ the young men in the police force from Maoist affected villages of the region.“The recruitment will start in the next few months. We will send a proposal of recruiting around 1,000 personnel from all seven districts of Bastar division,” said Awasthi.The DGP further said that district-wise recruitment has been planned in the force.“They will be engaged in all police activities including anti-Naxal operations. Since they are well aware of the terrain they can be useful for us,” he added.Earlier in 2016, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) raised the Bastariya Battalion, to counter insurgency in which local tribals were recruited.Recently, Baghel wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah seeking deployment of seven battalions of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).As per an estimate of the Chhattisgarh police department, around 60,000 police personnel of state and paramilitary forces are deployed in seven districts of Bastar division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-set-up-specialised-police-unit-to-counter-maoists-in-bastar/story-fkXep4KGhYuZ5IooWUiwwO.html
15-09-2020||India||Manish Sisodia Covid-19 positive but rapid tests miss 2 MLAs||New Delhi: Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday that he is going into isolation after contracting the coronavirus disease, even as a special session of the state assembly concluded in a scare with three Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs, who came to attend the House proceedings, testing positive for Covid-19 by evening. Sisodia did not attend the session because he was down with fever since morning. “After suffering from mild fever, I took a coronavirus test and it turned out to be positive. I have isolated myself. I don’t have a fever or any other problem as of now. I am absolutely fine. With your prayers, I am sure I will return to work after regaining my health,” Sisodia tweeted in Hindi.While Sisodia was tested through the gold-standard Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method, two of the MLAs mentioned above were cleared to attend the session after their rapid antigen tests were negative. The third MLA, Girish Soni (Madipur), was found positive during a rapid antigen test conducted on the assembly premises before entering the House. Soni left the area immediately after that. Under the guidelines of the Delhi assembly, all MLAs have to undergo RT-PCR tests to attend the session. But the results of at least seven MLAs had not arrived until the Hose convened. Hence, the assembly secretariat made those without an RT-PCR report to undergo rapid antigen tests. Pramila Tokas (RK Puram) and Vishesh Ravi (Karol Bagh) tested negative during this drive but were found to have contracted the infection in their RT-PCR reports hours later. Their reports came when the session was underway and when they were in the House. The incident highlights the pitfalls in the Delhi government’s reliance on rapid antigen tests, which can throw up “false negatives” — or give a negative result for an infected person — in as many as 50% of positive cases, researchers have said. Delhi has been conducting about 80% antigen tests over the past two weeks as it has scaled up testing. “A total of 49 MLAs attended the Assembly session on Monday. While most of the legislators were allowed entry based on their latest RT-PCR negative test report of the past 48 hours, there were a few whose reports were yet to come. So, we arranged rapid antigen tests before the session for such MLAs,” a senior official in the Delhi assembly secretariat said, explaining what happened. “The reports of the three concerned MLAs in the rapid antigen test had come negative and they were asymptomatic. But, when RT-PCR test reports came by evening, the reports of Tokas, Soni and Ravi came positive,” he added. There was no response from the Delhi government till the time of going to the press. A second official in the assembly secretariat said about two dozen people, including a few MLAs, who came in contact with Tokas, Soni and Ravi, have been asked to go under self-isolation. In addition, three staff members of the assembly were also found positive. They, too, were present on the assembly premises during various session-related work. “The assembly is now being fully sanitised. Contact tracing is still on to ensure whoever came in contact with them are put under self-isolation. The three MLAs who tested positive are under home quarantine,” the official said. On Saturday, four legislators -- BJP MLA from Ghonda Ajay Mahawar, and AAP MLAs Rajesh Gupta (Wazirpur), Rituraj Jha (Kirari) and Surendra Kumar (Gokalpuri) had told the assembly that they were infected with Covid. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the Delhi government’s testing strategy needs a review. “Just increasing testing is not the point. Which form of testing is being increased is also significant. Ideally, rapid antigen tests should be conducted only in hospitals, containment zones and on special surveillance groups and high-risk groups such as senior citizens. The primary form of testing ideally should be RT-PCR in the city. Even the high court has noted this point,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sisodia-covid-positive-but-rapid-tests-miss-2-mlas/story-T0kNWxPNDKFYDhwII5AUZP.html
15-09-2020||India||No action on slums for four weeks, SC told||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday that discussions were underway to implement the court’s August 31 order to remove 48,000 slums located alongside railway tracks in the Capital, and ruled out the immediate evictions of their residents, offering them a semblance of relief at a time when the city is battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The court recorded the Centre’s submission that no coercive action will be taken against the slum-dwellers until a decision is taken and posted the matter for hearing after four weeks.“The ministry of railways, the ministry of housing and urban affairs, and the government of Delhi are going to take a decision on the issue raised in the instant petitions and till a decision is taken, there is no question of removing them,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the central government, said. The apex court was hearing an application filed by Congress leader Ajay Maken, who was represented by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, and a separate petition by slum dwellers challenging the demolition notices issued by Indian Railways.The petitioners said the notices had been issued in total disregard for the policy of rehabilitating the slum-dwellers, adding that they had ought to force them out of their homes during the Covid-19 pandemic.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, “It is a fair suggestion made by solicitor general. We will record his statement and the matter can be heard after four weeks.”Eleven slum dwellers represented by senior advocate Salman Khurshid were also allowed to join the proceedings on the next date of hearing. The biggest grievance of the slum dwellers was that an order removing slums was passed without them being heard. The August 31 order also restrained any courts from granting a stay on the eviction.The court recorded Mehta’s statement, which said: “Till then (until a decision is taken on the issue) the Union of India will not take any coercive action against the slum dwellers.” Singhvi understood the order to be as good as a “status quo on demolition”. But the bench clarified, “We have not given any status quo. The solicitor general has said that they will maintain status quo, which we recorded.”But Monday’s order provided much-needed relief to nearly 240,000 affected slum dwellers.“We were all tense after we heard about eviction notices being issued to several slums along rail tracks in neighbouring areas. We knew that we too would receive a notice very soon. Now that the government has said that our houses will not be demolished immediately, it has brought us big relief,” Ghanshyam Vishwakarma a 32-year-old resident of a slum along the railway tracks in Kirti Nagar, said.Puran Mehto, a 45-year-old resident of a slum along the railway tracks in Mayapuri, has other concerns.“We have learnt that the government and the Court are talking about rehabilitation. Now the problem is that if we are relocated to far-off locations, we shall lose our livelihood. And that would take a heavy toll on us under the present circumstances, especially in the light of the loss of work because of the pandemic,” he said.Both Vishwakarma and Mahato were factory workers who lost their jobs in April during the lockdown.Advocate Vrinda Grover, who appeared for four Nangloi slum dwellers, told HT: “The August 31 order of the top court never sought demolition of slums. The notice of demolition issued by the Indian Railway is totally illegal and contrary to two decisions passed by the Delhi high court which recognises right to shelter of slum dwellers and entitles them for in-situ rehabilitation under the Delhi Slum & Jhuggi Jhopri (JJ) Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015.”Singhvi claimed that demolitions had taken place in some areas on Friday (September 11) and Monday (September 14), but Mehta denied this, stating: “My instruction is that under this order (of August 31), no demolition has taken place.”Presenting a short note of his submissions, Singhvi pointed out that India is currently president of UN-Habitat, which issued guidelines on March 14, urging member-states and governments to stop all relocations and evictions during the pandemic. Singhvi said, “India is globally the second worst affected country in the world due to the coronavirus pandemic. In the said circumstances, it would be highly risky to demolish the jhuggis (slums) of approximately 2.5 lakh persons without prior rehabilitation… Even a small percentage of the displaced population, if affected by Covid-19, the same will prove to be a recipe for disaster in the current pandemic.”Most of the slum dwellers work in markets and industrial areas near their residence. In their application, the slum dwellers stated that if removed, earning a livelihood in these difficult and unprecedented times of the pandemic will be the biggest challenge.The court passed its order of August 31 when considering the issue of garbage and solid waste piling up near the railway tracks in pending matters related to air pollution in Delhi.The court asked the authorities to put their mind together on the issue. Pursuant to discussions, the Railways filed an affidavit which acted as an immediate trigger. The Railways stated that the predominant presence of slums along the 140-kilometre route length of track in the national capital territory of Delhi “are not only adding to the present menace of accumulation of garbage, municipal solid waste, human waste along the railway line but are a safety threat to the day-to-day operation of the Railways.”The transporter informed the court that despite a special task force having been constituted to remove encroachments, political interference was coming in the way of getting the slums removed.On Monday, the ministry of railways said it will not dismantle any encroachments along the city’s railway tracks, without a “proper decision” taken in consultation with the urban development ministry and the Delhi state government. Railway officials are holding regular meetings with stakeholders, including the Delhi government, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board and the urban development ministry, a statement by northern railways said. “Further, Railway will not dismantle any encroachment without proper decision...The same stand has been taken by ministry of railways in hearing of Ajay Maken’s petition in Hon’ble Supreme Court listed today,” the statement said. Railways has removed 5-6% of garbage lying along train tracks. “The garbage cleaning will be completed within three months as given in the order by Hon’ble Supreme Court,” it added.Indu Prakash, a member of Supreme Court-appointed committee on monitoring of homeless shelters in Delhi, said, “It is a good sign that the court has agreed to put the matter on hold for a month and the Centre and the Delhi government will sit together and discuss it. We are writing to the railways and the Delhi government to include the residents in this discussion too, as it is a matter of their lives. We will be submitting a memorandum in this regard to the two governments soon. These people should be actively involved in the decision-making process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-action-on-slums-for-four-weeks-sc-told/story-aj1UHCyDKWNK7vo9qGYgoM.html
15-09-2020||India||Covid-19 cloud on monsoon session as 29 MPs test positive||At least 29 members of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the run-up to Parliament’s first session in almost six months, according to officials aware of the matter, casting a shadow over the opening day of the monsoon session of the country’s highest legislative body.Twenty-one of the MPs belong to the Lower House and the remaining eight belong to the Upper House, the people said, requesting anonymity. Most of them tested positive on September 13, the eve of the start of the session which will convene on all days until October 1. According to officials, at least 17 of the lawmakers belong to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and three to the Congress. The list includes minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi and two BJP MPs from Delhi, Meenakshi Lekhi and Pravesh Verma. All three posted tweets confirming that they tested positive. The monsoon session started on Monday, spread over different shifts in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, with staggered seating arrangements and strict health rules in place in the wake of the pandemic. Three-hundred-and-fifty-nine Lok Sabha MPs attended the first day of the session and around 180 MPs were present in the Upper House on Monday, according to official figures. Ministers are not required to mark their attendance.Apart from the Covid results, it was a busy day for both Houses. The Lok Sabha passed two bills (National Commission for Homoeopathy Bill and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine Bill ); introduced eight more, and tabled the supplementary demand for grants.The Rajya Sabha saw the introduction of five bills. The Upper House also re-elected Harivansh of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) as the deputy chairman. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who spoke to the media before the session began, noted that Parliament’s monsoon session is being held in an extraordinary manner, with social distancing measures and with the two Houses conducting business in shifts. He also urged MPs to “send a message to the soldiers that the whole country is with them”, remarks that came against the backdrop of tensions at the border in eastern Ladakh, where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) are locked in a stand-off.Defence minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement on the India-China conflict in Parliament on Tuesday.With a total of 770 seats across the two Houses, India has the world’s fourth-largest Parliament by number of lawmakers after the UK, Italy and France. As a part of the massive preparations to keep the Parliament estate free of Covid-19, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla announced two weeks ago that all MPs, officials and journalists covering Parliament would have to test for the disease before coming to the House. The Rajya Sabha also declared a similar policy. At least 2,000 people were tested in the run-up to the session, officials said. Besides the 29 MPs, around 70 officials tested positive, increasing the burden on the Parliament secretariat in running the session. The positive results came as a temporary setback for the session that has been delayed by at least two months because of the sweeping pandemic. While these 29 MPs are almost ruled out for the session, many senior MPs have already decided to skip it due to the pandemic. Union home minister Amit Shah, who has recovered from the viral infection, is currently in All India Institute of Medical Sciences for routine check-up. New Delhi Municipal Council officials were involved in conducting the tests along with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The apex medical research body tweeted on Monday, “ICMR is honoured to have carried out testing of 2500+ samples of Hon’ble Members of Parliament and other officials on war footing over the weekend in service of the nation.” Minister of state for railways Angadi announced that he had tested Covid19-positive and that he was doing fine. “Taking the advice of doctors. Requesting all those who have come in close contact with me in the last few days to monitor their health and get tested in case of any symptoms,” he tweeted. BJP’s Rita Bahuguna Joshi; another Uttar Pradesh MP of the BJP, Kaushal Kishore; and Congress lawmaker A Chellakumar have informed the Parliament secretariat that they tested positive. On August 28, the sitting MP of Kanyakumari, Congressman H Vasanthakumar, succumbed to Covid-19. On September 6, Congress’ s Rajya Sabha MP, Deepender Singh Hooda, declared that he tested positive for the infection. Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha member, Shanta Chhetri, and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Rajya Sabha floor leader, A Navaneethakrishnan, informed the Rajya Sabha secretariat about their  positive status. Apart from these leaders, a Shiv Sena MP, one lawmaker each from the Aam Aadmi Party and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and two YSR Congress MPs too tested positive.“It is a constitutional requirement that the House has to meet. This is an unusual situation and no one can blame the secretariat for not doing enough. Of course, the absence of active members is always a loss, but we can’t apply general logic as things are really not in anybody’s control,” P Sreedharan, a former secretary general of the Lok Sabha, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cloud-on-monsoon-session-as-29-mps-test-ve/story-IQsw6g6M6tejNf94RIrdCI.html
15-09-2020||India||In a first, MPs use ‘Attendance Register’ app to mark attendance in Parliament||In a first of its kind initiative, the members of Parliament marked their attendance through an app on Monday, according to the Lok Sabha secretariat.The Lok Sabha MPs used the ‘Attendance Register’ App on the first day of the Monsoon session which commenced today.The app is designed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to curtail the risk of Covid-19 spread as MPs will not have to use or touch the attendance register. They have to be present inside the Parliament to register themselves using the coordinates provided by the app.Speaker Om Birla today welcomed the MPs and said that it was an extraordinary occasion and urged them to follow all arrangements and guidelines for safety during the Covid-19 pandemic phase.“The session is being held in extraordinary circumstances this time. While we always try to decrease the distances between the members, but this time arrangements have been made to keep them apart. I am aware of the discomfort caused to some members due to this but it is important to do so for safety,” Birla said.The Lok Sabha Speaker also hailed the unity of the country in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and the contribution of the MPs in extending the benefits to the last man.He also expressed the hope that the pandemic phase would soon be over and stressed upon the need for positive and constructive discussions on the important issues facing the country.“We have limited time in this session, therefore, it is our responsibility to put forth our points in a concise manner,” he said.He also congratulated the country on behalf of the Parliament on the occasion of Hindi Diwas.Meanwhile, National Conference (NC) leader Farooq Abdullah also attended the Lok Sabha session today.Abdullah was put under detention after the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year and was released on March 13, 2020.The monsoon session of Parliament commenced today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-mps-use-attendance-register-app-to-mark-attendance-in-parliament/story-hruucyinTLN0K9dQ9NtnCM.html
15-09-2020||India||About 10 tribals in Odisha’s Malkangiri district die of unknown ailments||Three months after about a dozen tribals in the Maoist-affected Malkangiri district of Odisha died of unknown ailments, at least 10 people in a village of the district have fallen victim to some unknown waterborne disease in last 3 months.Reports of deaths of at least 10 tribals in Sodiguda village under Mathili block of the district surfaced. Malkangiri district collector Manish Agrawal said a medical team had visited the village and taken blood sample of the people in the area. “We have also taken a sample of the drinking water available in the area. Our medical team is making regular visits to the village to conduct tests. But the exact cause of deaths is yet to be known,” said Agrawal.Local villagers said the disease reportedly starts with swelling of the body following which the patients lose appetite. Those who died had become weaker by the day and succumbed, said a villager.Also read: BSP MP Ritesh Pandey to marry UK-based psychology student KatharinaMalkangiri chief district medical officer Dr PK Nanda said the administration has admitted 14 villagers in hospital and conducted tests on them. “While some were found to be anaemic others had a malaria attack. A few others may have consumed a local brew laced with urea for more intoxication,” he said.In June, similar deaths were reported from another village of the district. In Kenduguda village of Malkangiri block, 15 people had died with many of them complaining of swollen legs and stomach.Nutrition expert Basanta Kumar Kar said most of the deaths in tribal families of Malkangiri could be attributed to lack of proper nutrition. “As per the National Family Health Survey 4, malnutrition is as high as 51.8 percent, way below the state average. While essential micronutrients such as vitamins and minerals are necessary to prevent mortality, the availability of nutritious foods may have worsened during the lockdown. Besides, malaria too plays a role in undermining the immunity of the tribals,” said Kar, who received the Global Nutrition Leadership Award last year.In September 2016, over 100 children, most of them malnourished, in Malkangiri had succumbed to Acute Encephalitis Syndrome and Japanese Encephalitis. According to the 2014 Annual Health Survey report, seven out of ten children in Malkangiri are underweight while district ranked third in the country among 100 districts that have the highest prevalence of underweight children under the age of five.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-10-tribals-in-odisha-s-malkangiri-district-die-of-unknown-ailments/story-xfc6CrRWbaIG6i3zuNFUTM.html
15-09-2020||India||BJP worker’s death triggers protests in Hooghly, Kolkata||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders led protests in Kolkata and Hooghly district on Monday demanding an inquiry into the death of party worker Ganesh Roy whose body was found hanging from a tree at Goghat in Bengal’s Hooghly district on Sunday morning. Relatives of Roy alleged that he was murdered by local Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers. BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu, the party’s state youth front president Saumitra Khan and others leaders led a peaceful dharna outside the office of the sub-divisional police officer of Arambagh in Hooghly on Monday. “Our protests will continue. Roy is not the first BJP worker who was killed and hanged. This started during the panchayat polls in 2018,” said Basu. In Kolkata, BJP youth front workers led a road block on Central Avenue and 10 of them were arrested for violating law. The victim’s body was handed to his family on Monday evening and cremation was carried out. “Today, Roy’s home was found locked and his family is missing. The police must have taken them somewhere since we wanted to meet them,” alleged Khan. Officers at the Goghat police station said they had no idea where the family had gone. Nirmal Das, the sub-divisional police officer, told reporters on Sunday that no external injury was found on Roy’s body except the ligature mark on his neck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-s-death-triggers-protests-in-hooghly-kolkata/story-H0Zy8zCw1y5QJcaUjaFqkK.html
15-09-2020||India||‘Away from limelight’: Meerut doctor works non-stop without leave to save lives amid Covid-19 crisis||Far away from the limelight, there exist many corona warriors working quietly to help fight the virus and save people’s lives. Dr Amit Garg, microbiologist and in-charge of Covid-19 lab in Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College, Meerut, is one such warrior who has been part of the battle against Covid-19 for the past about six months. The medical college lab was set up on March 23 to perform RT-PCR tests and Garg was made its in-charge with twelve staffers. He has not taken a single day’s leave in these 176 days.His mother Gunmala Garg got infected with Covid-19 but he returned to his lab after admitting her in a private hospital in Noida. “My friends and wife took care of my mother because I was engrossed in testing of samples in the lab,” said Garg who leaves home every day at 8 am for his lab but there is no fixed time of returning home.Also read: Won’t be enough Covid-19 vaccines till 2024: Serum Institute’s Adar PoonawallaGarg’s wife, Charu, is a pathologist. The couple’s son is pursuing B Tech from Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Varanasi, and daughter Nandini is a student of class 9. Charu said both their children were pursuing their studies from home these days due to the pandemic but in the past six months met their father only on few occasions. “He (Garg) remains occupied on the phone even after returning from his lab and also before leaving for the lab in the morning. All his phone conversations concern people’s Covid-19 reports,” Charu said.Recalling their pre-Covid days, she said the whole family used to meet over tea and enjoy the weekends with friends and relatives. “Now, everything has come to a halt with his busy schedule. But I am satisfied and feel proud that he has been working dedicatedly and doing his best to save the lives of people,” said Charu.Garg pursued his MBBS from GSVM Medical College, Kanpur, and thereafter pursued MD from KGMU, Lucknow in 2003. He then completed a one-year course on infectious diseases from SGPGI, Lucknow and worked there as a senior resident doctor in 2004-2005 before joining LLRM Medical College in 2006. Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereSpeaking about his colleagues, Garg mentioned about lab technician Manoj who also had not taken a single day’s leave during the pandemic and was supporting the team with utmost dedication. He, however, made no bones about admitting that they have been facing staff shortage for testing because in beginning they were testing 100 samples a day which has now increased to almost 3,000 samples per day. “I request for more staff and the college administration has assured me that my request would be fulfilled soon,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/away-from-limelight-meerut-doctor-works-non-stop-without-leave-to-save-lives-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-5vSiQGz9MLrzFPfbfTtVnL.html
15-09-2020||India||MPs must come together, stand behind soldiers: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday noted that Parliament’s monsoon session is being held in an extraordinary manner, with social distancing and with the two Houses conducting business in shifts, and urged MPs to send out a message that they were standing with soldiers at a time when they were bravely doing their duty in a difficult border terrain.The PM’s allusion was to the standoff at the border in eastern Ladakh, where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) are within a few hundred metres of each other amid tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“This Parliament has a special duty; today our brave soldiers are at the borders with zeal and confidence in difficult terrain and soon it will begin to snow. They are there for the protection of the country, all MPs should together send a message to the soldiers that the whole country is with them. All MPs in one voice will say they are standing behind the brave soldiers,” he said in a customary address to the media before House proceedings began.Modi also thanked MPs for choosing the path to duty in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic.“I congratulate them and expressed gratitude to them. This time, the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will be held at different times in a day. It will be held on Saturday and Sunday as well. And all the MPs have accepted this,” he said.After the budget session was cut short in March owing to the pandemic, Parliament reconvened on Monday for an 18-day session. While Zero Hour has been reduced and Question Hour dropped in view of the curtailed business hours, the PM expressed hope that Parliament will raise important issues. “There will be discussion on various issues and we have experience that in Lok Sabha that the whole country tends to benefit from the detailed and extensive discussions that take place. We will continue that great tradition and all MPs will add value to it.” The PM also urged MPs and the media to abide by social distancing protocols. “In these circumstances, we will abide by the protocols; till there is a vaccine we cannot let down our guard.”Later, in the Rajya Sabha, speaking after the election of Janata Dal (United) leader Harivansh as deputy speaker, the Prime Minister commented on the productivity of the House last year, and said that several bills that changed the direction of the country were passed. “This House made a new record for being the most productive even when it was an election year. This is a great matter of pride that apart from productivity, positivity also grew in the house,” he said.Reacting to the PM’s statement on soldiers, Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut, said: “The entire country has stood by the Army irrespective of whose government is at the Centre.”“On matters of National Security, Parliament as well as the Nation has always spoken in one voice. It is the PM himself who stood out by dismissing the incursion by PLA on our land in order to change the LAC unilaterally. It was PM who struck a discordant note by giving a clean chit to the Chinese. Our valiant soldiers have retaliated in full might and we are grateful for their supreme sacrifices...We must teach the aggressor a lesson...,” said Congress spokesperson Pranav Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-must-come-together-stand-behind-soldiers-pm/story-apevTuk7APdBA5FFrL6LpK.html
15-09-2020||India||Govt imposes ban on export of onions||The Union government on Monday banned export of all varieties of onions, anticipating a supply crunch in the coming weeks, as exports surged. In the April-July period, export of onions rose an unusual 30%, causing prices to show signs of firming up. A notification by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) on Monday said that exports of onions, which were so far “free”, now stood “prohibited with immediate effect”. A key kitchen staple, onions tend to suffer frequent price and supply volatility. The government had last banned onion exports on September 29, 2019, after a bad crop crimped output. In December 2019, prices soared to Rs 80 per kg in the national capital. The government had lifted the ban on March 15, 2020. Retail prices this week rose to Rs 40 a kg from Rs 30 a kg in several cities. According to official trade data, the country exported US $328 million worth of fresh onions and US$ 112 million worth of dried onions in 2019-20. Between April and July 2020, exports of onions to neighbouring Bangladesh soared 157.7%. Since the bulb is a common base ingredient of most Indian dishes and widely consumed, consumers are quite sensitive to a rise in onion prices, relative to many other commodities. The country’s consumer or retail inflation in August rose 6.69%, slightly lower than 6.73% recorded in the previous month, according to government data released on Monday. According to the consumer price index data, food inflation in August fell marginally to 9.05%. Yet, overall food & beverages inflation rose to a high of 8.3% in August, Monday’s data showed. “Retail inflation in last five months have been in excess of 6%. Unless retail inflation in September 2020 declines sharply to around 4.5%, the retail inflation in three consecutive quarters will exceed 6% and monetary policy committee (of the Reserve Bank) will have to respond to the government on the steps taken to keep inflation in 2-6% range,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings and Research in a statement. High inflation shrinks the scope of Reserve Bank of India to lower lending rates to boost sagging growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-imposes-ban-on-export-of-onions/story-XqKn0RiTl1DmRGYQLmCBPM.html
15-09-2020||India||Govt seeks additional spending of Rs 2.35 lakh crore||The central government, as of now, plans to spend an additional Rs 2.35 lakh crore this financial year. It has sought Parliament’s approval for this amount through a supplementary demand for grants, which was tabled on the first day of the monsoon session on September 14. Out of the gross additional expenditure of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, Rs 1.67 lakh crore is the net cash outgo and Rs 68868 crore is matched by savings of the Ministries/Departments or by enhanced receipts/recoveries, the document said. The proposed additional expenditure suggests that the exercise is a post-facto approval for the announcements which were made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the month of May. A research note by Pranjul Bhandari, chief economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets India Pvt. Ltd calculated the additional fiscal impact of the government’s package at Rs 2.1 lakh crore. Also read: Retail inflation at 6.69% in August, marginally down from 6.73% in July“As can be seen, most of these expenditures are part of the announcements made by the government as part of Covid relief and hence these demands are formalization of the process of incurring these expenses. However, the state deficit grant appears to be outside these announcements and hence becomes additional expenditure”, said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings, adding that his firm now estimates the fiscal deficit at around 8-8.5% of GDP, assuming a marginal fall in nominal GDP from last year. The net change in central government spending will only be known when the next union budget is presented in February 2020. This is because the government can move more supplementary demands for grants during the course of the year. It is also not bound to declare the details of expenditure rationalisation, or cuts in budgetary spending during the year, until the publication of revised estimates for 2020-21 in next year’s Union Budget. In an interview with Bloomberg Quint on September 8, T V Somanathan, the expenditure secretary in the ministry of finance, said that the government has reduced spending for some ministries, given the resource crunch due to the pandemic. Among the major heads listed in the supplementary demand for grants, Rs 44,340 is for states as additional allocation under Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant, Rs 30957 crore, Grants-in-aid General for Direct Benefit Transfer to Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna Women Accounts Holders, Rs 40,000 crore is for the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, and Rs 20,000 crore is for infusion in state-owned banks. Also read: Inflation rises, food prices ease: DataThe document also shows that some of the big-ticket spending in the government’s Covid-19 response may be financed from extra-budgetary resources. For example, the government extended the provision of subsidised food up to November; this was initially announced for a period of three months beginning April, in June. This was expected to create an additional subsidy burden of Rs 1.5 lakh crore. However,the supplementary demand for grant has allocated only Rs 10000 crore for the department of food and public distribution. This means that additional subsidy burden will have to be financed from borrowings by the Food Corporation of India. DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at consultancy firm EY India said: “A limited fiscal stimulus is being injected into the economy through supplementary demands for grants for 2020-21 by the Ministry of Finance. The total amount is Rs 2.36 lakh crore, that is, about 1.16% of FY20 GDP. The genuine additionality amounts to INR1.67 lakh crore which is 0.82% of GDP. The balance amount pertains to re-allocation of budgeted expenditures.” “The main items where additional expenditures are involved pertain to grants-in-aid for the states, direct benefit transfers to women account holders under the Jan Dhan Yojana, MNREGA, and for recapitalization of PSUs. Nearly 68.5% of this supplementary demand pertains to revenue expenditure. There is hardly any increase in capital expenditure. Furthermore, the additional provision for grants-in-aid to the states only makes up for the under-provision in the Budget with respect to the Fifteenth Finance Commission’s recommendations for 2020-21,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-seeks-additional-spending-of-2-35l-cr/story-CNeDRHQzSStcMyxLd8K1tO.html
15-09-2020||India||Indian, Chinese top military commanders likely to meet this week||Top Indian and Chinese military commanders are likely to meet along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) this week to reduce military tensions in eastern Ladakh where the situation remains tense after a series of recent maneuvers by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area, people familiar with the developments said on Monday. Corps commander-ranked officers have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock. This will be their first meeting after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the most significant heights being held by India on Rezang La and Reqin pass where the PLA made some desperate attempts to regain lost ground earlier this month, the officials said. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other, as reported by Hindustan Times on Thursday. The Indian Army rushed its front-line tanks and infantry combat vehicles (ICVs) to strategic heights held by its soldiers on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh in response to intimidating military moves by the PLA in the theatre earlier this month, the officials said. Conflict in the eastern Ladakh theatre is below the threshold of a shooting war but could take any trajectory, top officials told HT last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-top-military-commanders-likely-to-meet-this-week/story-V9WEO7LImc4Rgid1jSPFIN.html
15-09-2020||India||Won’t be enough Covid-19 vaccines till 2024: Serum Institute’s Adar Poonawalla||Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of Serum Institute of India (SII), has warned there won’t be enough vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for everyone in the world till the end of 2024, according to a report on Monday.The CEO of the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer has estimated that the world will need around 15 billion doses of the Covid-19 shot if it is a two-dose vaccine. “It’s going to take four to five years until everyone gets the vaccine on this planet,” Poonawalla told the Financial Times.The Pune-based pharma firm has partnered with five international pharmaceutical firms, including AstraZeneca and Novavax, to develop a Covid-19 vaccine and committed to producing one billion doses, of which it has pledged half to India. Also Watch | Covid-19: India at 80k deaths, cases move closer to 5 millionFollow latest updates on coronavirus here Poonawalla’s remarks came a day after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said a vaccine against the coronavirus disease would be ready by early next year. “It may be ready by the first quarter of next year,” he had said.On SII’s word to produce a billion doses, he said that the commitment far exceeded the capacity of other vaccine producers. “I know the world wants to be optimistic on it... [but] I have not heard of anyone coming even close to that [level] right now,” he told the business daily in a video call from London. The Financial Times reported that as part of SII’s agreement with AstraZeneca, the firm will aim to produce vaccine doses that cost around $3 for 68 countries and under its agreement with Novavax, for 92 countries.The company may also partner with Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute to manufacture the Sputnik vaccine, according to the newspaper.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Last week, human trials of the Oxford vaccine candidate by AstraZeneca were halted after a volunteer fell sick in the UK following which the Serum Institute of India also paused the trials as it was issued a show-cause notice by the Drug Controller of India. The trials, however, have resumed in Britain.After the human trials of the Oxford vaccine resumed in the UK late last week, Poonawala had tweeted, “As I’d mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events are a clear example why we should not bias the process and should respect the process till the end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-of-india-s-adar-poonawalla-says-there-won-t-be-enough-covid-19-vaccines-till-2024/story-nwdl0qvTOY9BCTLddiOCgO.html
